, IsoMetrics, and learn how to incorporate them into your routine. For more on me, come to PrayFit.com and for more great information on training and nutrition, go to bodymilit.com.

What's up guys my name is Julian Greio with the Team BS10. You may know my face and my body from different covers. I've been on the fitness rx, muscle fitness, man's hair, man's fitness, many more. I've been training since I'm like 15 years old. So almost like 20 years of age. But doing it, you know. Every pro athletes, they train every day. Like look at that football player. They run every day, they lift weights every day. And they're still writing a good size, you know. So I don't believe much in the other training. But if you don't want to relax, heat and more functional, I think you can train your body every day. What are you going to do? I'm going to explain how do I train for the week. I do a lot of the first circuit training. Monday would do like a total body circuit training. Tuesday also, different circuit. Wednesday would take a day off. I will give you some tips for your diet. Thirds and Friday another circuit training. So wow, what are you going to do? We're going to mix with the barber, dumbbells, with your own body weight, flat and matricinal heavy light, and being shocked. Originally I saw Julian self-help because I was actually hospitalized for four months with major illness. Julian's experience, I knew it had been basically a core type of training, functional type of movement where I had only been in bodybuilding. So the first guy of Julian to help me, was more of a rehabilitation program. Never thinking I would continue it. Just to give myself back and shape and get into the gym. Was that surprised? The first day couldn't even go to the workout one time. It was much harder than it looked. I think people are thinking the dieting is like very complex. And it's very simple. You all watch it. It's very clean food and it's pretty much shit. You know, good suits of carbs, some fat, some good protein, some vegetables, like for fibers. And that's it. There's no secret. It's very like state to do basic. It was going to keep you lean. It's going to work all your muscles. It's one group, not really stress-time. I want particular areas to get much more intense workout in a shorter period of time. And then in turn, it's like same leaner. I think more like for the average person is much better. You're more like a functional workout. That's more like than the bodybuilding workouts. I keep that very basic movements. You want to try a little fancy moves. Some guys are inventing movements. You know? Stay good at basic. You know, you want to build mass, bench, squat, deadly. Very simple, you know? The thing about this is a very high intensity working. Not only are you using weight on a lot of these movements, but you're doing higher repetitions. No rest time except maybe in between one series, have a drink of water. So not only is the train your aerobic and anaerobic, you're going to stay much leaner you're around. You're still going to get good definition with the muscles. And on the heavier workouts you can train with more weight. Give me more size on those days too. So if you stick with this program, I'm guaranteed you 12 weeks. We'll get the results you want. Much better looking for Z, much more functional. It's very simple. If you know what you want, that's it. And it's simple.

Hey guys, Kai Green here and I'm excited to announce to you that my company DynamicMuscle is coming to Bodybuilding.com So grateful and appreciative to be able to tell you that DynamicMuscle is coming to Bodybuilding.com

Coming soon to bodybuilding.com. The long awaited sequel to the groundbreaking bodybuilding documentary Kai Green Overkill will be serialized on bodybuilding.com once a week beginning the first week of August. Taped over a six-month period in 2009 and 2010. Kai Green Redemption follows the most controversial bodybuilder in the sport today from his disappointing Olympia placing to his triumph at the Arnold Classic. Along the way we get new insights into Kai's philosophy and work ethic, including a demonstration of a specialized opposing workout and a hardcore leg training session. The exam end is growing popularity and talk to his fans about the public perception of Kai. In redemption, Kai instructs Kai explains, Kai inspires. Born as the drama of Las Vegas, in its place's determination, positive thinking and lots of hard work. Redemption takes us inside the mind of Kai Green, takes us backstage and on stage at the Arnold Classic to watch firsthand as bodybuilding history is made. No other bodybuilding documentary brings you the depth and insight of the Kai Green series. And bodybuilding.com is proud to be the first and only place to host these inspirational and informative videos. Bookmark for bodybuilding.com video page now so that you don't miss a single episode. Kai Green Redemption is brought to you by Muslim Meds Performance Technologies. Muslim Meds has been nominated for three bodybuilding.com supplement awards, including New Brand of the Year. Fat loss supplement for metal burn extreme and pre workout supplement for code red. Please visit bodybuilding.com to cast your votes for Muslim Meds.

Hi, I'm Crana Bamelar, teambodybuilding.com athlete and Celia Grazli. Today I'm going to be taking you through my high rep plyo leg workout. This is one of two leg workouts that I do each week. It's made up of three supersets. I generally do my heavier leg workout earlier in the week and my plyo leg workout later in the week, just make sure that you leave one to two days in between. So let's get into our first superset, which is going to be front squats and backstumps. For this superset, we are going to be doing four sets of 15 front squats followed by four sets of 25 backstumps. So because we're going to start out with a barbell, warm up for the front squats of about 10 to 15 reps. So for front squats, you want to make sure that your elbows are high and I like to go a little bit below parallel so that I incorporate my glutes and hamstrings as well because generally front squats are known to focus on your quads, but I like to do my entire leg so a little bit below parallel. So if you're a beginner, you want to start with a box that's maybe 20 inches. If you are more advanced, you've been doing this for a while, you can do a 24 or even higher. I'm using a 24 today. So now we're going to move on to our second superset of reverse lunges and flile lunges. For this second superset, you're going to be doing reverse lunges followed by a plial lunges. We're going to do four sets of 15 to 18 reps per leg for the reverse lunges. Followed by 50 jumps total for the plial lunges. Sometimes it can be harder to gauge the weight that you need to use for higher reps. So I like to use the first set as my tester set so I can see if I need to go higher or lower as far as we go for my second set to stay in that 15 to 18 rep range. So I never climbed my rice period. I judge how I feel. I'm just putting on the day. Depending on the exercise, this could be anywhere between 30 seconds, a minute and a half. So you want to keep your heart right high enough, but you don't want to put yourself too hard so that you're able to keep your level of performance up. Okay. For this 30-per-set, we're going to be doing step-up followed by a plial lunges. We're going to do four sets of each. For step-ups, we're going to do 15 to 18 reps per leg. And for squat jumps, we're going to be doing 20 to 30 jumps. For your step-ups, you want to find a box or a bench that when you step onto it, your knee forms a 90-degree angle. Because this is a lighter of my two workout days, this is it so much about how much weight I can left, but more about focusing on form and functional movement athletic movements. And then also because they don't do much cardio, this is a good cardio-bastula workout as well. So that's it for my higher-up plial leg workout. My heavier leg workout is provided on the page below. If you have any more questions about either one of these workouts, you can find me on body space. My username is Kay Baymiller. For more videos and content like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So this just looks absolutely amazing. It looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. Hello and welcome to thebodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushman, athletic edge athlete. And today we're going to be making my garlic and herb gluten free shrimp. The shrimp that we're going to be using today is raw peeled tail on shrimp. But about a pound to make the marinade we're going to start with one teaspoon of basil, one teaspoon of Italian seasoning, one teaspoon of paprika, one tablespoon of stevia, one tablespoon of olive oil, one tablespoon of lime juice, and a tablespoon and a half of minced garlic. So once you have all your ingredients in the bowl, you just snap the lid on nice and securely. And then you shake it really well until everything's coated. And since there's paprika in there, generally when everything's well coated, all the shrimp kind of have an even red color to them, just a real slight red. It looks pretty good. Put it in the refrigerator here for about two hours just to let the marinade set. So before I open up, I'm going to give it just a few more quick shakes. To get all the juice from the bottom over the shrimp again. Everything looks good, nicely colored. I'm going to take this baking sheet and just lightly spray it with some non-stick spray. We're going to take the shrimp, lay them out one layer on the pan. We're ready to place them in the oven and bake them at 350 degrees, depending on the size of your shrimp, the time can vary, so you're going to want to keep an eye on them. I really love to incorporate shrimp into my diet because it's a lean protein, just like chicken or turkey, but as a completely different flavor, it makes you feel like you're eating a really fancy, delicious meal, even though it's relatively inexpensive and very quick and easy to make. So this just looks absolutely amazing. I'm excited to try one. Sweet. It's perfect. I love it. I really do. I really do. I want all the details for this recipe, including the macronutrient breakdown, are on the page directly below this video. For more of my recipes and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

So this just looks absolutely amazing. Looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. I'm your food and my team. Hello and welcome to the bodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushment Athletic Edge Athlete and today we're going to be making my gluten free mustard-crusted pork tenderloin. This recipe calls for a pound and a half or 24 ounces of pork tenderloin. We're going to begin by checking a half cup of our balsamic vinegar and covering our pork with it in a large bowl or dish. Roll it over a few times, make sure it's well coated and we'll allow the pork to marinate in that while we prepare the mustard crust. For our crust we'll be mixing the remaining ingredients in a large bowl. Starting with a half teaspoon of dill. Two tablespoons of rosemary. Two tablespoons of thyme. Two tablespoons of black pepper. A fourth of the cup of dried minced onion. A fourth of the cup of minced garlic. And a quarter cup of brown mustard. So we'll mix all these ingredients together. And it's going to form a thick paste. We'll place our tenderloin, smack dab in the middle. And then any balsamic that's still left in your marinating dish or bowl will just pour on top. Once your tenderloins in the dish we could take the crust we made and we'll press it on top of the tenderloin. Just right there with your hands. So as a person with silly act disease, I obviously love this recipe because it is gluten free. But in addition to that, it has tons of flavor. It's something to really mix up your lean protein, give you something different in your diet. And it smells and tastes incredible. Perfect. Really, it's really good. So that's it for my mustard-crusted pork tenderloin, the full recipe and the full macronutrient breakdown are on the page directly below this video. For more of my articles and recipes like this one, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So this just looks absolutely amazing. It looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. I'm gonna put it in my teeth. Hello and welcome to thebodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushmet, athletic ed jathlete, and today we're going to be making my Thai turkey satay skewers. Today we're using about 40 ounces of turkey breast tenderloin. We're going to start with a nice empty bowl and mix the liquid ingredients for our marinade. They have cup of rice vinegar. 3 tablespoons of gluten free soy sauce or liquid amino's which taste just as amazing. And 3 tablespoons of lime juice. And we'll add the dry ingredients. Table spoon and a half of minced garlic. 2 tablespoons of curry. 1 teaspoon of ginger powder. 1 half teaspoon of wasabi. 1 half teaspoon of ground turmeric. And a half teaspoon of cayenne pepper. And I'll just give it a few more stirs to make sure everything's mixed together really well. Okay, so now that our marinade's done, we'll take our cube turkey and we'll place it in a large bag. With a really good seal on it. Take the marinade, pour it into the bag with the turkey. Seal up the bag and then massage the marinade into the turkey. You can tell everything's coated when all the turkey has that same rich color to it. So if you've never worked with curry or tamarik before, I'll give you a little warning that it is very colorful. And if you're like myself and you have acrylic nails, it can potentially leave them a nice colorful orange ish yellow for quite a while after you skewer. Your turkey is so I'm going to go ahead and slip on some latex gloves. All you have to do is take your skewer and of course fill it up with meat. And then rest the ends on the side of the pan. So both of our trays are done now. We cooked them separate to make sure that each tray got the same type of exposure from the broiler flame. We'll slide off a chunk from my first skewer. I'm going to do forever to eat a part. So these turned out great. This is one of my favorite ways to eat my turkey. It's a nice way to mix it up if you're getting real sick and eating turkey and chicken breast. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. All the details for this recipe including the macronutrient breakdown are on the page directly below this video. For more recipes and videos like this for me, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Hold a kettlebell by the handle in one hand. Stand on one leg on the same side that you hold the kettlebell. Keeping that knee slightly bent, perform a stiff leg at deadlift by bending at the hip, extending your free leg behind you for balance. Continue lowering the kettlebell until your parallel to the ground and then return to the upright position.

Hey, bodybuilding.com. This is because you know EGM, aka kids MVP on bodyspace.com and these are a whole lot for me to be on the shoot because when I started at bodybuilding I was coming to see all the inspirational people where they started and where they ended up and my goal for bodyspace was to inspire me with that achievement like a little I was doing fitness modeling so when I got that call from a first of got to even from a group married they did so much and they crystal also helped me out and I put my name in there. I was so excited so excited so excited I'm so happy to be here so excited I'm making sure that I do the best I can not just for myself but for everyone out there that I try to inspire every single day so you have a goal in life we have to do is make sure that you set a plan for it make your actions in life and then you'll achieve okay bodyspace.com Kiss MVP up

I train every day to look great and perform better. But fitness isn't always a serious business. I also train for fun. I'm Kazeato Ejam, muscle up. Hey guys, Kazeato Ejam here, bodybuilding.com athlete. Today I'm going to take you through my muscle up full body workout. Now this workout is in consist of two circuits. You start to have four exercises and the whole workout should take you about 30 minutes to do. Now the entire goal of this workout is to help you achieve a muscle up. Now what is a muscle up? Muscle up is one of those litmus tests to see how great your physical fitness level is. Let me show you a muscle up and then we'll get the workout started. Make it sure again, muscle up with the mic on. Pay close to attention to what we're going to do this once. All day! Easy! muscle up. muscle up. Oh man, better than pressing people at the public pool. Okay, now before we get into it, like I said, we're going to break down the components of the first circuit exercise and the first part of this circuit is designed to help you build that explosiveness that you saw on the muscle up. So now we're going to get into the first circuit. Now the first circuit is in consist of four exercises. First exercise, we're going to start with ten pull ups. They're going to go over to lap pull down. You're going to do six lap pull down to heavy and we're targeting to shoe for over our body weight. So if you weigh 180 pounds, you have to shoe for at least 190 to 200 pounds on lap pull. They're going to go over back to pull ups explosive five of them. And then we're going to finish with bent over barbell rolls for ten reps. This entire circuit should take you about ten minutes and you rest at least one or two minutes in between rounds for four rounds total. All right, exercise one pull ups. So when it comes to circuit one, the reason I put a lot of these exercise together is because those are the first areas that are targeted when you're doing the muscle. For example pull up obviously you need to do how to pull up. It's now we're going to go into the wide bit lap pull down and I'm going to shoe for around two 35 to the weight 25 pounds. So we're going to shoe for more than your body weight. And this exercise is very important in where wrist wraps, but she when you're going heavier because you don't want your forearms to fail before your back muscles do. So the wrist wraps helps to port that. They alleviate the pressure off your wrist and it put all the strength on your back only. The lap pull down is what we do in heavier. What that does is it gives your body that low capacity, that ability to lift more weight. Because you can lift more than your body weight. The pull up should be easy. Because it's a more. All right, back over the pull up. We're going to be doing explosive pull ups. Five reps. The explosive pull ups means you pull with all your force almost trying to pull your body above the bar. Okay. We're trying to do them fast after we lifted heavy. Your body should be acclimated to heavy weight. So that those explosive pull ups feel almost effortless. You should be able to pump out as many explosive pull ups as you can. Last part. Bend over barbell rows. Still using the straps. Like I said, you want to take the pressure off your wrist and your forearms. So you can actually target your back a little bit more. And at the beginning of muscle ups. Some people tend to kick. It means you swing. When you swing you tend to pull more. Or your middle up and back. So that's what the bent over barbell rows helps to target. Swing that area. So when you get up to the next part. What the next round of the circuits. Which helps with the other aspects of your muscle. So doing them in this order is going to help the first portion of your muscle. Now one thing you noticed on the. The bent of a barbell row. They did them a little bit differently. I tried to do it more explosive because like I said. The muscle up is an explosive exercise. So when you're doing it bent over barbell rows. You let it hang and try to pull. While we have explosive. Get used to that whole word explosive. Muscle up explosive explosive explosive. Exercise. So when you get used to that whole by frame and everything else. Exercise that you do. Okay. Let's take one to two minutes rest before we start. Round two. So let's get right into it. Finish is not just about looking good. You know it's about performing good. That's always in my model. When you do it exercise like this or work like this. You're just going to help you perform a lot better. That's going to put you ahead of everybody else. Because if you keep doing what you would do in the forward. You're going to have the same results. But you want to be ahead of everybody else. I always push in yourself to the next level. So this workout is designed to push you to that level. Okay. Now it's your own. Round three. Third round is a little way different from the first two obviously. You're exhausted. You can see it sets in a lot more. Your back starts to spas out a little bit. Your forms. But this is these are the two rounds that actually make sense. These are the rounds you're shooting for. These are the rounds that you're. That's going to set you apart from everyone else. So when you get to this point, this is a true test. You can just stop now. You can give up. But if you give up now, you're actually going to be reaching. You're ultimately going. What is your ultimate goal to prove yourself? Test your physical fitness level. You can't do that by giving up early. So round three and four. Get around the shooting for. Then round three. Woo. Oh. Shit. Sorry, cut. Don't say shit. Alright guys, back completes the fourth round of circuit one. And doing this circuit. If you notice, well, once you complete it, we'll show you which areas. I actually can help you improve your muscle. How's going to help you improve your muscle? You're supposed to do your stamina. You muscle capacity. You're exposed to this. Which in turn. It gives you that ability to achieve a great muscle up. Rest between two to five minutes. And then we'll jump right away into the next circuit. Alright guys, now we're going to get into the second part of this workout. We're going to go into circuit two. And circuit two differentiates a little bit from. The one because for circuit one, we focus a lot on our pulling our exposed to this. And circuit two, we're going to be targeting more the core aspect of the muscle up. Alright, same thing for exercises. We're going to complete four rounds. Rest in at least one to two minutes in between each round. circuit two we won't need wrist straps. Come on a bitch. But we will need weight. A weight belt. Because the first exercise we're going to start with is weight pull-ups for three reps. Get we're going to go right away into body weight dips for ten reps. Going back over to the bar for hanging knee raises for ten reps. And then we're going to finish with pull-ups with knee-tucks for five reps. It's the hardest part to slide in the weight. Alright, I'll choose two. Because last time I did three in the weight belt broke on me midway. So. Okay, now when it comes to slide in the weight for weight pull-ups. Like I said, we're shooting for three reps. You want to choose weight that you can get. Really get three reps with. She can't do one plate just to put your own body weight. And then get three reps later on you can add weight to it. Alright. Seriously. Because this is what we're doing weight pull-ups. I'll give you the option to choose whichever style you want. If you want to do underhand grip, close grip, wide grip, whatever you want. So for this exercise I think I'm going to go with the neutral grip. Like I said. We go over to our dips. That's what helps you press at the top of the muscle. Which is the finishing move of the muscle up. So remember that focus on that. When we get to the dips you want to try to press over where we get over to the bar. Alright, after we just finished the dips we're going to go to the direct exercise. Hanging leg raises. We need to talk to whichever wave is comfortable for you. 10. As it actually really important when it comes to the muscle up, people think it's not. We have to have a good strong core to help you lift. And it actually makes it look a lot easier. That's because I've been training so hard on core strength and core building it up. That makes it a lot easier for me to do muscle up. Alright. For the exercise, we're going to do pull-ups with knee-tucks. That's what's going to give you that extra lift. Expose it over the bar. So, each after the very important, you put them all together. That's going to give you the great foundation for a perfect muscle up. Ooh. First round. One minute rest. Then over to the second one. Move. Oh. Two more rounds to victory. I don't look at how this workout in the beginning. You see the exercises and it's four exercises, third to one, fourth, side, third to two. Three reps here. Six reps here. Ten reps here. Do you think that's easy? So, like I said before, once you get to the third round, you start to see the challenge. You know? But that's what's important. It's always about doing extra. Because what separates the ordinary from the extra ordinary is that little bit extra. So, doing a little bit extra reps, next for round, is going to make you extra ordinary. That's what we want to be. A pull-up is basically, let's test the ordinary. I've sized with a muscle up. It's extra in the ordinary, okay? Let's get to the ordinary. My abs hurt. Just my abs. Okay. This is the fourth round. Find a round of this circuit. Find a round of the entire workout. So, put it in the effort. Power through it. All right. So, in my normal workout regime, what I do is I'm elastic and basic. I exercise. I'll do one muscle group a day. Chest one day, back one day, legs one day. Things like that. But then every once in a while, I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. One muscle group a day. Chest one day, back one day, legs one day. Things like that. But then, every once in a while, I like to take an exercise like this. We're working like this and challenge myself to see how much I've progressed. So, for the full breakdown of this workout is the detail below here on bodybuilding.com. So, if you have any questions on this workout, you can find me on body space at Kids MVP, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, same thing, Kids MVP, and also check out my YouTube channel where I put more workouts just like this for you to do as well. So, check me out there, have any questions? Follow the end of those sites. So, more free videos and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So we just finished our workout with James. He's going to turn the tables now. He's got a great set of abs. So I wanted him to put me through an abs session. So I'm excited and willing to give it a go. So let's see what he's got in store. I'm going to start off with a decline bench overhead bar down. Okay. It's not often an unloaded bar just for a warm-up. So just wearing the shoulder width grip. Yeah. Sit up. Flex is our main board thim sweat but it is also cool. On the way down. It's going to negative crunch. Right okay. Bar is that shooting up and dead straight. Nine. Yeah. So what is the advantage of having a bar? There just as accurate resistance and as extra resistance. It's extra resistance. I need more costability to support it right. Because normally you'd have a weight into your direct. Direct. Yeah. It's not much more bling around. You'll take the weight away from your body. Yeah. I'll believe it. It looks a little bit harder. Okay. Okay. Right. Want me to go straight into the air? Go straight into the war up. That tends to be a few reps and then we'll stick it up and it'll be a bit slow. I'm not going to sit right up and rotate the shoulders. Right well I was the last of the three to be put through our workouts and on behalf of the grenade team and the boys who had just been slaughtered. Tables returned and I was able to put Chris through an abs workout. We started with decline overhead barbell bench sit-ups. I want a decline bench with a barbell. Sitting up allowing the shoulders to go through rotation to the bars directly above the head and then controlling the negative phase. We start off with a warm-up set, empty bar and then put a few plates on for two more sets. Okay, for all the steps we're going to do on a working rest. We're going to sit straight into the right. I'm going to sit in a little warm-up setting, a little white on it. Look at that. For all the steps today we'll do it working rest. Are you rest? I'm working right. Okay right. I'm going to sit in the middle of the barbell. Man, it's just a bit easy to do. Oh no, it's got brakes from abs. Oh yeah, I struggled without any weight. I said, it's off his feet. Oh that's okay. I find it really hard to hold. I've been the legs down since we were in the country. I've got a record that's been down. I've made it to feet. It's a cool level. Yeah, yeah. We're going to think when you're legs are up. Give it a down. How many reps? Well, same as the 12 but I lost count. We're going to have to 12. Okay. That's good. That's good. I said keep that good rotation through the shoulders. That's just enough. It's like that bar around. It's good, you got it. I lost you now, I'm sorry. Oh. That's good. Red. I made that. Boy. That's good. Last set, just a little bit more weight on. That's good. It's good. Yeah, it's good too. Oh. So you're getting the impression you can just keep going. I can't even tell you. All right, the finals were great. Okay. You're way something you reach value before you were able to rest for us? Yes, definitely. That's good, nice and strong. Oh, your head's set up, so it was a completely inaccessible press. When most of us do that to work out, you'll feel the pump isolating in your apples muscles. It's all of your dominoes around the sides, but with the overhead sits up, because it's massive core strength work out as well. You don't get the lactic acid buildup, you just reach muscle failure. And on the last set that we were doing, as you're controlling the negative phase down, which is the hardest part of it. Second to last set, Chris just slump down. And then that point you know you've reached failure. Try control the lowering a little bit more. Excellent. Is that so? Any new exercise is going to shop the system, and you are going to struggle and fight it, you know, really, really tough going. And he did really well. Yeah, it's funny because like I said, I could feel it with course, you know, really stretchers of course, I could practice and but the strength is just getting the politic from the hands. Yeah, it isn't so much of a pump that it is just, just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, yeah. So, we're going to fail. Now because for me, if you do higher reps, they're just brewing, brewing, brewing, brewing, here, and just the belly. Okay, next exercise we're going to do is win-mills. Nice, like good. Licks have come up. All right, I'm down. I'm down. Okay, okay, just make it harder, more challenging, and to push you past, want him to get up. Now I see the standing front of me. So, for the danger of me giving up, and a bit, you know, all right, you've been not going to get up. Take your one of you down, so, you can push me. Second exercise we did was on the pull-up bar. Win-mills made it a little bit more challenging by getting Chris to stand in front of me for my reps. The end of the game is just to keep my legs good up. The nice circulation around over his head. Once I reach failure, I would have taken his head off. So, I stopped just before failure, which was good. We were working on a working rest system. So, as soon as I came off the bar, Chris was up there working, while he was working that was my rest. And we just kept stopping that through throughout the whole workout. I'm down a rest. It's a failure. I know that I would be kicking you in the head. I'd say, have a rest now. Okay, you know what I'm saying? I know, so I'd see, you know, that I was stepping into the head. Like, the pain that the brakes are normally doing. If I ever do, it's normally on the swings. Like, that was our fine grip just to keep doing it. Eventually, it dripples. Straighten for now. I'm also behind as well, you're working more. You're bleeding that. It's going to go off. So, legs straight. Like, straight as straight as possible. I'm saying straight as possible as high as possible. But again, it was a brand new exercise to him. He's not used to putting his body through that emotion. So, it was good and challenging. Ask him. You grip goes before your abs come off. Shake it and get that out. He's a lot more heavier, he's carrying a lot more muscle, mass than me. So, power to weight ratio, I might have a slight advantage over him. But again, it's just the fact that I've done these exercises before. But for the bigger guys to get your legs up and around in a controlled manner, they may can be quite challenging for that first. Still working on the working rest, though. Okay, when we stand there again, we go. Yeah, good. Okay. Okay, okay, yeah. Okay, contouring up. Amazing Excitiveness This one Beautiful More Pretty nice Oh, shit. That was three times. No, my bike's. Everything else. My bike sets, and I find that I probably don't have the flexibility in my legs. I don't like it. Yeah, yeah. To get them up, you know. So, definitely something I need to work on, and I'm so used to grabbing all of everybody's straps. So, you know, it's just put in a lot of strain on my forearms, which obviously this is my weakest link that I need to work on. So, these are two this, and the exercise before things are definitely going to work off, because it's exposing weakness in that, which is good. Okay, next exercise we've got is back on the foot of bar again, toes to bar. Yeah, okay. In the grab of wide grip, and you should look before, or narrow grip, doesn't really matter. Or you're doing as lifting your feet up. So, it's touching the bar. Yeah. It's easier. It's obviously bringing you these in nice and tight. Okay, okay. If you've got more strength, keep your legs straight. Okay. Okay. Okay. Again, two sets to play there. So, the exercise we did was toes to bar, grabbing onto a pull-up bar, just raising your feet up, til your toes touch the bar, and then lowering your feet in a controlled manner. It started off keeping our legs quite close to the body, to make it sort of that much more easier. But as the sets went on, challenged him a little bit further, asked him straightness legs a bit more. That just increased the lever length, the made it extra bit of weight, challenges core, which he definitely felt. We did two sets to failure of that. And again, new exercise for him, but he did really well. Okay. Now, let's go for a lot of strength. He just relax your foot and trust on the weight to hold you. Okay. So, here we go. Okay. Last exercise on the bar. You're hanging it upside down, using some ground-tribs. You're looking, you're looking for some boots or ankle hooks. You're going to pull the bar, you're going to effectively do a touch to bar. And pull the feet in. Okay. That one's in. Hang. Okay. Yeah. Does that your ankles will act, step on the, try to flex it up. And for that, you're just going to do very slow crunches. Okay. Yeah. If you start cheating yourself up, you'll start swinging legs. Okay. So try to control it. Move the bar if you need to. Okay. The full factor size being introduced to some equipment, called gravity boots. A little ankle clips, a clip around your feet. They've got a metal hook on them and it allows you to hang upside down off the bar. From that, we did upside down crunches for the first set. Slightly more challenging than on the floor or on a decline bench just because you've got to control your body from swinging. Maybe you're also working fully against gravity. Yeah. This is an average. Yeah. This is an average. We're going to flex with our sulking coming up. We're going to hold it with our sulking. Okay. So to get up there, we've got two to wrap up. I'll get my self first and look what I do. Yeah. To get you off, press, actually, we just get your hands in back to the bar. And then we'll put the back to the bar and then we'll put the back to the bar. I'll see how I do it. I'll see how I do it. Okay. So it's going. You need to get it. It's too hot. No. No. Come on. Come on. No. No. Come on. Uh. What's up? Okay. It does. Two left. Two left. Two left. We're going to relax. It's three left, so three left. Yeah. We'll take it. That's how it's done. Okay. Do the core in. And then just crunch. So a nice and steady crunch, just he don't swing. It's hard left to swing. It is. If I stop seeing you swinging three bucks, just stick your arm out and grab hold of the frame. Oh, Chris got up here. Oh, that's a piece of love. Oh. Let's get it out. Get it out. Oh. You be a piece. Oh. You be a piece. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Okay. Yeah. Good crunch. Boom. Three. Okay. Yeah. Good. Nice. Whoa. Whoa. Let's go. Let's go. Oh. Let's go. Let's go. Yeah. Because of the rushes for the head, we wouldn't do this for more than a minute. Yeah. Keep it 30 seconds for a minute, though. Yeah. And if it's squeezing out, say 10 reps. Yeah. Two second up, two second down. It will say that time rough, then. Okay. One more second. Let's do it. Slay changing things, not. I think I'll wait there for a second to it. I needed that. Okay. It's hard for you to do that. It's just crunching. What we're going to do is we're reaching. It's nice to have front and then the other side. We're going to be going side crunches in as well as an orange. Okay. Stop swinging. Crunch. That second set was we picked up a five kilogram plate. And we were alternating between a front crunch and a side crunch. Just to work a bit more, if you're a bleaks. And then as we reached failure on crunching, we can go on a crunch. We just did a static ice-smeter at hold. We held the weight out. Arms length. Nice right angle position, hanging it upside down. Hold your own air. Nice strong back. And it really, really does challenge the whole of your core. Hold it. Just like that. And you feel like in your abs, do you know? I have already keep it up at the shoulder as well. To the lower your core for the abs, on it. Oh, like. You want it to feel adventurous. It's an imitation of twist. You can actually add a rotational twist in as well. Just challenges as stability, core muscles, so that little bit further. I think we managed about two or three reps each. That's very stretching. That's it. So if the bars went there, I was hanging the other way. I would have walked with some more. Okay, quite a little bit. Just relax the feet. It's kind of weird. Well, you do this with all of that weight plate. So, we're going to stretch the front side. Back to the front. And to the other side. If you want to keep on doing this, a not going to stretch the head. Just drop the weight. Perfectly to do it. Go on. Oh, excuse me. You're going to see the cart crunching. Safety issue to be considered with the gravity boots. You will be hanging upside down for possibly up towards the net. So, all the blood will be rushing towards your head. If you have high blood pressure, probably recommend this exercise. I'll also recommend always having a spotter or a training partner or someone to hand. So, once you reach failure on the crunches, they can actually give you a hand up to hang back onto the bars. You can unhook your feet. You don't very slightly lower the weight. Awesome. That's tough. The thorn of twisty. Yeah. There's a little bit scary as well. You can't just constantly pick it up. The weight goes into one foot and the other one unhooking. In one. Now, I know when it plays mind trick to the other. But I like ice. For a crisp, final exercise today. I always finish with these as planks. You can have a front plank and then side plank. And both sides. Great for courseability for this course strength. Okay, okay. So, you know, adopt the session as such. I'll be honest. I'm sure you know this, but you can go through it the camera. Alright, all those. Draw the abs in. Good night and straight. All the way from head to toe. And hold. Okay, the 30 seconds. Okay. So, don't forget to keep breathing nice and steady. Variations for this. If you are fighting it too easy, everything is slightly rocked forwards and backwards. Okay. Deep up and down. We will shoulders. And move forward leg off the floor. Move forward leg on one arm. Okay. If you don't have a bench that you're feeling, how strong you are. Let your bridge gain more. Okay, 30 seconds. Walk to the side. Strucks one elbow. Push your hips. Push your hips. Nice and forward. And then lift. That's good. The tendency of the sides is people tend to dip forward. You can keep your body nice and straight. Okay. All the way. Bring through that top shoulder. If the hips up, it's like you know, it's just going to go. I've checked it. Okay, all the time. We'll swap around. And we'll shoulder. Okay. So, switch. You don't have to get push your hips forward. And then raise your hips up. You can do that call, Jordan. 20 seconds. 10 seconds. That deep, deep. Just got to go and do this. Maybe we'll show you when they get down. All the exercises today. Um, and cool, stretching. The whole core. The core as a whole is the place of isolating certain parts. Of the muscle group. Uh, full crest being a body builder. Um, very, very important. I've had perfect set of defined abs. And that comes with lifting masses of weights. The more core strength you have, the more weight you will be able to lift. And all these exercises today, we're incorporating core strength as well as, you know, the standard crunch move, standard twists. Um, so hopefully it all increases core strength, which will enable him to lift heavy weights. Push them tough further when he goes back to what he's used to do. All right, cool, all right, 10. To me, there's harder guys. If you want to add some dips in some it, go either weight plate, rest on your head. Do dips with the weight plate. You can add some rotational twists in to it. Okay, switch. And switch, last 30 seconds. To make a higher stilt, go one foot and then add rotation twists. That's how it's going to go. Okay. 5, 6, good. Yeah, good. Okay. With hips forward and hip-sup. Take it last five. Okay, good. Alright, then training has finished. All our grenade athletes, despite I'm in training for a while, I've definitely learnt something off Chris and hopefully being put through one of our workouts. Here's something from us as well.

My name is Chris Gettin and I am here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. I lost about 35 pounds during the whole transformation. He's kind of like I said, no nonsense, no frills, you have a goal, you stick to it and that's pretty much it, you don't mind I'm complain. You see, I know what it's like to be trapped inside an unhealthy body. My severely injured my back, I was depressed, my asthma, my back was getting worse and I sunk to a personal low. It was this low point, was my transformation trigger to change my habits for good. But I didn't do it overnight and I didn't do it alone and you don't have to either. Workout plans, nutrition advice, motivation and supplementation, you'll get it all right here. If you have somebody like Chris behind you and knows what he's talking about, or just lose weight, look better, feel better, you're just going to change your life. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. I'm going to be there with you every step of the day in the gym and on the non training days and you order info that you need to have a successful transformation and be a winner at the end.

I want to talk to you about how to be a mentor and how to be a role model again. So remember when you complete this trial week transformation a lot of people are going to be looking to they'll have questions you're going to be their role models. So given the advice let them know that anyone can complete its well-retransformation you just need the determination and the focus to follow through. Doesn't matter about genetics we can all do it we just have to control our environment. You'd be amazed at how many people have got it you know they've been out of shape then they've got in shape and then they've become a personal trainer. But you that person to help other people have a responsibility to you know give them the knowledge and you know the set short of dollars and one-term goals. Find out how you can pay it forward with what you've learned how it can go by or

This is being my life for the MassFit psychologically.We are 50 years. And this is what I know best. And you're next. So let's f*** go.

Dirty, the bear in me I'm still alive I've missed me the pain gets me hurt Since when my life left him am I Dirty I've been in this industry for a long time I've trained, learned from and taught the best And all through the sweat, pain, blood I've created the largest legwork that you will ever do Uncriscat in, bring your balls, aren't a f*** up and let's go This legwork came from years of training Like I've been training for 14 years now So I have to keep on thinking outside of the box To make sure that each body part evolves And legs be in a hard body part to continue to involve I've had to kind of extract pieces from myself And people that I've trained with such as Douriniates Branch Warren, Gary Strider, Neil Hill, Flex Lewis and a tighter, you know, Attach each part into my own sort of method And every now and again, like every eight weeks ago I'll do a workout such as this It's high volume, but it isn't endurance workout We only train for like 45 minutes So I just throw that in there and just shop the system Every now and again and it works It's the world's toughest workout for me for sure And for anybody else who tries to push themselves Beyond the realms of what seems natural This is unnatural what we're doing in the gym And you know, it isn't an endurance workout by any means But what makes it really really hard Is the intensity of it Like we're only taking like 45 seconds rest In between the sets So you're going to be sucking a lot of oxygen Especially if you've got more muscle Which requires more oxygen And you're going to be dragging ass in there And we're leaving no stone unturned We're hitting our Type 1 muscle fibers Our Type 2A's Type 2B's We're really knocking the central nervous system At a whack And you know it's going to knock your head about It's going to knock your body about And if it seems easy You're just pushing it hard enough with the intensity All the way We're going to be using a various techniques Tunis workout We've got our straight sets We're going to have drop sets Throne in there We're going to have partial reps Throne in there We're also going to have super sets Throne in there as well So you know we're going to be hitting the muscles From all types of angles Just to make sure that we're shocking the system And we're not allowing the muscles Specifically the legs Now get adapted to its environment We're going to start off with leg extensions We're going to get nasty, grimy and dirty in this We're going to get work up to 100 reps And you may think it's going to be a lightweight But it's not going to be a very heavyweight We're going to be doing a drop set In order to get out 100 reps But before we do that We're just going to do a couple of warm upsets Just to make sure that we get the side No real fluid in our knees And the blood within our muscles and the cycle head up All right, and then between the sets Just stretch out the quad quickly Pull the stretch for about 10 seconds Because it takes about 10 seconds At least for the muscle to stretch out And then we're going to increase the weight a little bit And just do another warm up Of around 10 to 15 repetitions Again just activate the muscles Get them firing and get the brain activated So for this workout we're going to start off with 100 reps on leg extensions Now this is going to be a drop set What you should be doing is starting off with the heaviest weight That you can possibly push on leg extensions After you've done a couple of warm upsets Obviously I'm going to put the stack on it And probably probably go through about 20 or 30 repetitions Before dropping it down Every time I drop it I want to get out at least 10 reps So I may do 20 or 30 now I'll drop it, grind out another 10 Drop it, grind out another 10 And keep following that theme and pattern until I get to 100 repetitions Once I get to that 100 repetitions I'm going to put it down on the stack again And just knock out some passports I'm going to be aiming for anywhere between 15 to 20 reps Before dropping it, 15 to 20 reps So I'll do that three times then Stray at the end of this 100 reps drop set So I don't 100 reps now I'm going to put the weights all the way back to the bottom of the stack For my passports I'm going to pass the weight back to the bottom of the stack From my passports I'm going to do a little bit of that I'm going to put the weight back to the bottom of the stack From my passports Make sure that you lean forward on this now Don't lean back To choose a weight for your passports for instance It's going to be trial and error I don't know how fast you fatigue, how much you have How to cast it, that you have how many type 1 muscle fibers you have over type 2 So you'll have to trial and error If you're doing a lot less than 10 reps before reaching failure Then you need to lighten it a little bit next time Again, if you're doing more than 20 reps Then you need to make it a little bit heavier So just trial and error Make sure that you chart down what weight that you used Until you find the right weight we're year Which is very round 50 to 20 on those passports Okay, so we did 20, 40, 60 Repetitions there on the passports As you can see it was only like a 2 to 3-inch movement Very little movement What you'll find is that it really targets the quads Right here right around the knee Right on the rectus from our us there If I lean back on the seat I'll find that it works a little bit too much of the flexors So it's really isolate the quads right around the knee Right there We lean forward when we're doing the passports The muscles are just absolutely gorge-dried blood man So to target the quads even more now We're going to superset leg press with scissy squats To start off with the leg press We're going to start off with our feet at the bottom of the platform With heels about fist distance apart To slightly pointed out And we're going to start off with 14 repetitions And then you're going to rest for five seconds without racking away And then you're going to do 12 repetitions again Rest for five seconds and then do 10 repetitions And then we're going to continue that theme with 8, 6, 4, 2 And then that set is done Are you superset onto the city squats then For some people, I've trained with They'll do with 100 reps on the leg extensions and the partial reps And that's how it worked out done They're on their way to the rest room and they're throwing up But you've got to be conditioned to this I do a lot of cardio remember So my cardio-verscal endurance is pretty good So I can hit the high reps Someone like Branch Rowan would you believe Has got pretty good cardio-verscal endurance as well He trains very intense And he's a big guy so if he can do it a lot of other people can You just have to be conditioned to it So it takes a lot of experience But it takes a lot of mental focus as well Okay again straight into the 60 squats now Always unstrat my knees Now I don't feel too much stress Within the knees on 60 squats And I want to get the blood flow Back around my quads and my knee area We're going to start off with 20 repetitions Hold in the dumbbells Going down to just a little bit further than a parallel So your hand string should be just a little bit further than a parallel Once you've reached failure with that You're going to drop them go a little bit lighter And do another 20 repetitions Now you may reach failure before the 20 repetitions But that's fine You just rest pause until you get to the 20 again When you feel like there's nothing left in the tank You drop in the weight and you go and add it again And it's a great sense of achievement But it's a great sense of just being the bully And the gym, you're just pounding yourself Pounding yourself, pounding yourself Until you ain't got nothing left Until you get back up next on, do it all over again Shit, that was tough All right, so Once we're super-set it onto the Susy squats as you can see I was using a dumbbell As my counterbalance To lean back Keep it back a little bit more upright So I haven't had not lean in too far forward So I'm still getting a lot of pressure through the quads Not much pressure on my back And I only come up three quarters of the way Because I want to keep constant tension On the legs at all time Nothing on the joint All on the muscles You cannot stop until you reach You're a quiet amount of repetitions Which is 20 repetitions In this case, just do all day You've got to do it, you've got to accomplish it You have to achieve something every time you go to the gym If that's a goal that you set you make sure your damper set you're going to achieve it Okay, even though I made a breath It's time for set two where we're going to bring the legs up A little bit, a little bit wider Same with the Susy squats we're going to take slightly wider stance Now to hit the abductors Which is the inner part of the thigh So leg should be in the top of the plate now Close to the shoulder distance apart And about shoulder distance apart Honocity squat Let's hit it I don't like to rack the weight on the leg press In between my five second intervals between the 14 reps and the 12 reps or whatever Because I want to keep the mental focus in that set the whole time If I rack it, I feel like that set is over with I want to keep the stress and load on the muscles I don't want to relax and go out again Because I feel that it's going to take too much mental energy Just to get back into it again So I prefer to keep that tensioner, keep the intensity in there Because this workout is all about intensity and that's it for me So I like to just keep it un-racked and just keep knocking it out Not going to get out Okay I'm strapping in There's no pressure on the Susy squats on the knees So I need to get the blood back into the area That's a sense you'll be following these sets Take a few deep breaths in few nose Get the oxygen to your brain, clear the head Of any outside distraction And get your head into the set Because not just quantity, we're looking forward to absolute quality When I come into the gym, I think about nothing else for that This workout and I'd be thinking about it for maybe 24 hours before I'm pitching myself going through the motions You've got to, you know, psych yourself up and put yourself into that dark place as well If you want it bad enough, you will accomplish it A lot of the time I should sleep more than what I should But sometimes I feel good if I'm slightly sleep deprived Because I'm a little bit more pissed off And I'm a little bit more cittat to get through workouts like this And so reason being that's why I do it A second set absolutely mulled me But it's good, I felt no strain on my back and my knees Just my cardiovascular system and we're supposed to work right through the quads So I've experienced a lot of back problems with the conventional squats And a meal hill actually taught me this movement Which really blitz my quads just as much Without the stress and load on my back, of course I still squat And I do recommend squat Just I don't make it a common part of the workout on a weekly basis Okay, so we're done with that superset now We just did two sets, that's all we required from that We're going straight on to the next exercise Now we're going to do what's called hills squats With one leg, superset that With a variation of the lying hamstring curl Which I'll demonstrate for you Once we've done one leg on the quad and hamstrings In the superset fashion, we'll do the other leg In the superset fashion And we'll cross back and forth for three sets in total All right, let's get into it So the next exercise is a superset with hills squats With a variation of the lying hamstring curl Single leg on each one Now the hill squat is something that I learned from Neil Hill, hence hill squat So what we're going to do is with our single leg of the hill squat We're going to do 20 repetitions holding a plate Once we've reached failure at 20 repetitions on that same leg We're going to superset on the lying hamstring curl That variation that I demonstrate Once we've finished 15 repetitions on there We go straight back to the hill squat on the opposite leg Of 20 repetitions And then superset that with a variation of the lying hamstring curl For 15 And then we go back again on to our beginning leg of the hill squat 20 repetitions superseted back onto the hamstring curl For 15 And we just keep going back and forth until we've done three sets in total of each superset on each leg So there's no rest here You know it's going to hurt us going to be hard You're going to be lightheaded and you're going to feel sick But you know this is an assistive work out you know I'm sick of seeing people with big built up a body and skinny legs If you want to get big legs with cuts with separation You're going to have to get with a big body So let's get straight into it So remember when you're doing this The hill squat We're doing 20 reps on here and we're doing 15 reps on the hamstring curl When we're doing the hill squat here We're only going down All the way but only going up through quarters away That's three We're going to 20 So when you're doing the hill squats your leg should be supported on a box or something That's about knee height Any lower than that you're not going to get the full range of motion You're going to have to go down as far as you may or you might find that you're going to have too much stress and load on your supporting legs So from the ventral box of knee height is about adequate Bring that supported leg up right high So we can isolate the leg as much as possible Keep your legs arms locked, stay upright You won't be able to use much weight on this It's private We're going to 15 On the hamstring curls you'll notice that my range of motion wasn't fully extending The knee so the leg was never straight Because I want to keep the tension on the hamstring at all times And not on the tendons or the joints There's always tension on the belly of the muscle at all times Keep an at stress and load on there We'll allow you to reach failure faster as opposed to using the full range of motion And it's going to have less chance of injury as well I really enjoy workouts like this I thrive off the pain because pain is pleasure at the end of the day And not only that, you know, I get motivated by people telling me what I can't do And what isn't correct Specifically goings on the forums that I hate is And they say you can't do this meal frequency doesn't mean shit And you know, high reps you ain't going to build muscle like that Well, instead of having their noses in the book Maybe that it should be bleeding right here in the gym Because half the time I look at these cats and they're like fat pieces of Omebas or you've got like skinny rakes Tell me what to do, you know? Just check out the results that I'm able to attain All the ones of my clients and then talk to me You know, because otherwise you ain't standing next to me If you can't stand next to me, go talk to someone else in ways to breath You know, because I'm here to evolve and move forward Wow All right, that's our three superset stone With Hill squats and hamstring curl again No rest in between those sets or three single sets at all It's just back and forth, back and forth You will be blowing there, you'll be trying to suck in oxygen It's going to be tough, but you know, you've got to fail to succeed You leave everything here in the gym, you don't take anything with you right the door Then you do it all again next week, but tougher and harder As I said, if you want unnatural results You're going to have to do unnatural things in the gym So guess what, we're going to go straight back To our first exercise on leg extension We're going to do the same as what we did when we started this workout My hamstrings and glutes are really fried From this exercise, I want to fry the quads again So again, we're going to start with the first exercise We're repeating it exactly the same 100 reps drop set, followed by the triple drop of the passports No rest, let's do it So our final exercise is repeating our first exercise Leg extensions, 100 reps drop set Identical to the way we did it before Start off with a heaviest weight of around 20 to 30 repetitions I did, but you've got to do a minimum of 10 And then once you've finished your 100 reps go through the drop sets We repeat the passports again When you feel like there is nothing left But to drag your ass out by your lips Hitting those passports just totally, you know, wipe the floor with you Because you're not only just hitting some passports You're going back to the weight stack that you started with You're heaviest weight when you legs are totally fatally So you're just draining that last bit out Just think about getting your ass not out in the ring for instance And then someone dragging you by your face out of the ring That's what it feels like And you know, doing something to shock the system Or always shock the body So that's it for hamstrings, quads and glutes So I did a drop set then until I reached 100 reps It doesn't matter if you do Three drop sets, five drop sets as long as you get to 100 Reach in failure with every drop set Starting with the heaviest weight possible Just to totally fry whatever is left in the quads It is now dead, remember when you come into the gym It's your chance to be the bully You can kick the shit out of yourself, you know And it's legal So you just keep on adding, keep punching it Punching it, if you feel this some life left And you punch it some more So let me ask you, you're going to come up with an excuse Or a commitment, you have to do what you fear And not fear what you do If you fear something like this, do it Because that's the only way that you're going to progress But if you've got any more questions for me Hit me up on body space, my name is Caged Muscle And for more of my training programs You can check out the 12 week hardcore video trainer Or my 4 week DTP trainer And for more content like this Go on to bodybuilding.com

The fitness culture in India versus other parts of the world, the main differences that I see is that it is behind, by I'd say about 10 years. But it's rapidly growing. It's just the beginning here. So I see what's happening here is what happened in the US. Maybe in late 80s, early 90s where you had the van dams, the stilones, the Schwarzenegger's dominating a box of his screen. And now you have a lot of the bodywood stars with great bodies that inspire in nation. So people are inspired by that and they're filling up the gyms and they want to be educated, they want to learn about nutrition and how to evolve their physique. We hope to continue to expand the nations, you know, of transformations here in India. India has changed my lifestyle, definitely for the better and my routine. The routine was a little bit hard to begin with because, you know, we're in Mumbai here. There's a lot of traffic as a lot of delays. People are on a different time scale to me. Once I wrap my head around that, it was fine. I was able to adapt accordingly. And what I've really enjoyed here is that people are generally happy. You look at the TV, it's all colours and music. People generally have a smile on their face, the weather's great. I can see a definite comparison to how I was to how I am now. We're on a much calmer than what I was and a little bit more relaxed in my approach. Yes. The one thing I missed the most, I'd say, about training in the US. And I don't want to sound nasty or arrogant with this. People generally, you know, kind of leave you alone in the gym. But, you know, it's not uncommon for me to be in a middle of a set here and people come up and talk. Which is absolutely fine. That's not their fault, you know, people in India are just very, very approachable people and they're very curious and they're just happy, interactive people. And I'm not used to that, especially when I go to the gym, when I go to the gym, it's my therapy time. It's my alone time, it's my office. So I have to kind of close everything out there in order for me to internally express myself within the gym, you know. When I train it's much more than a vanity aspect for me, it's more therapeutic. I can stick to the same foods here in India as I do in any other country so I don't find it harder here at all. Two keywis and I'll have two avocados for you to transform, you just need to have your staples, which is what I need to every single day, it'll be lean, culture, you know, chicken, fish, egg whites, you know, oatmeal. So you've got low fat, high fiber, no cholesterol, good, so you can, you know, improve your health fitness and appearance goals regardless of your diet training. So I just had breakfast here now, as you can see, I just had egg whites, I had my roti bread, and you know, generally what I'll do, I'll have that set of for a while and I like to go for a running the morning, you know, I'm here right at the beach in Bandra and you know, when I go out and go for my run, it's my time to climb the clear my head and get myself set for the day. So from there, you know, generally come back and have my pre-workout subs and head to the gym, and then what we're going to do is hit doubts today. And my mindset when I'm going to the gym is generally, you know, visualization of what I'm about to go through in the workout. But to me, it's not really that much for challenge because I've been doing it for so many years now, I've become accustomed to it and I know how to control my environment. As I get older for some reason, I deal with more emotional issues, I don't know why, so I find to dampen those issues, I have to train more intently. I find that the more intense that I train, the more productive that I'm able to be in other aspects of my life. So we're here now, we're at the gym where at a gym called I think fitness here in Bandra. So what I'm going to do is show you some volume and some intensity. And various techniques and angles that I've kind of applied over the past couple of years to make sure that my weakness being my doubts is turning into more of a strength. So we started our first exercise now after the warm-up, was straight into single arm side raises and what we did was 12 repetitions on one side, 12 reps on the other, straight back for 10 reps on the starting side and I followed that theme all the way down to two. So I just find that it's a great way to kind of warm up the joint, the ball and socket, start improving the elasticity to the muscles, start getting a little more electrolite function, more contraction as I start reaching for tea again. I'm going to go a little bit heavier for the second set, rest about 45 seconds and stroke back into it. So that way was perfect. It did 30 pounds on the first 135 on an extra and really rich failure then. By doing one arm at a time I feel that I'm able to isolate my doubt that much more, but you know I still do both the time but I like to do this every night again, swap things up and get the isolation in there. What I'm going to do now is go onto like a side and a front adult raise at the same time where I come out to the side and I come to the front to make sure that I start off with the outer delt but now I start targeting the front as well. So we start hitting the in-between point. I hit 12 repetitions, I rest for five seconds and then I did 10 repetitions and then eight following a thing down again to six and then four and then two and then finish and I'll do one more set on that now as well. Again a real good pump throughout the deltoy. I can't feel any second remussels so that's exactly what I want. A lot of people find it hard to get that mine muscle connection, that neuromuscular education so that they can contract but you know with this give it a try I go into you you won't have any trouble isolating that area whatsoever. So we're going to move on to this bench at an incline about there. Now I really want to get this area here between the chest and the delt. You can only go light on this because it really isolates that much by getting a real good stretch and a contraction is insane. So we're going to go 10 pounds. We're going to do the girly weights. Okay so on that we did 20 reps. Make sure we're going to good stretch real good stretch out the deltoy. You wouldn't normally get if you're standing upright and you only come up not even 45 degrees. Just stop there any further than that you'll kind of rest. Hold it there for about one to two seconds come back down don't even go all the way down we're resting constant tension applied to the delt. Come back up and repeat that for 20 times and then I just rapid out with a little bit of momentum because I've pre-futy that muscle so then the isolation is just still within a front delt. I'm going to go a little bit heavier now anyway especially because I don't want to look like a girly front of you guys so I'm going to go up to 15 pounds. The next movement I want to go into now is going to hit all heads of the delt so we're going to do some upright rows here now with a variation of grips. So we'll start it off wide to 10 reps so what I find is going wide to begin with that really targets the rear the posterior delt especially if I come out in a slight angle just to get that contraction wherever your elbows point you're pretty much guaranteed that's where you're going to target when to the medium shoulder width and at 10 as I start going closer elbow start pointing up. Because I'm starting to try to target the traps a little bit more than and then close into 10. So wide posterior delt closer a little bit more traps so I started off with 10 reps then I did 10 and then did another 10. Obviously accumulating to 30. So I'm taking my arms up to take the headphones off but now I'm going to go a little bit heavier if it means decreasing the reps a little bit so be it because I feel like I'm completely isolated and pre-fitting now. From that final set I had to rest of the balls but that's okay. It's your body that's going to give out before you're brain. Take some deep breaths in between the sets and like I said take that meditative approach. That's it. What was that about 40 minute workout if that and now we'll just go and have a post-workout shake on wind and get ready for the day. That's it. So remember if you've got any questions for me and regards this workout or anything else then you know you can contact me on body space. My name is Cage D'Mussel, spelled K-A-G-E-D-Mussel, M-U-S-E-L-E and contact me through my body groups on body space and you know for more content like this with this video series or any other video series from Neil Hill, Jimstapani, Dorian Yates all the experts are on there. You know where to go. You get all this good content on bodybuilding.com. Peace. Live reporting from Mumbai. We're on the way to the gym right now. Hey persistent.

You know, I think a big part of what I want to tell people is that it's okay to step back and re-evaluate your life and make a change. And it happens with fitness, it happens in business, it's your life and you need to be happy. And it's okay to decide to change. You're not a failure. You're just choosing to do something different. I'm Christina Olsen. I am a certified personal trainer, have my degree in Earth Sciences, and in the 2015 body space books model way. My dad used to raise motorcycles professionally. He did flat track and quarter mile. He raised that they used to in Texas, Astridome. He was always extremely athletic growing up, and he really wanted to transfer that onto his children and get his children to be. He was active, always outside playing, participating in sports, extracurricular activities, skiing, snowboarding, from a very young age I started skiing. I mean, I was probably two and they took me to Jackson Hole when I was, you know, taking ski lessons. And he just always really pushed us to be adventurous and experienced life and all the different things that has to offer. And so for me, I've kind of embraced that. After I graduated from high school, I decided I didn't want to go straight into college and I wanted to pursue a career as a musician. Moved up to Los Angeles, got after it and made some good things happen. And I really enjoyed it. I got to be the singing voice for Barbie, which is like huge, because little girls love Barbie, and, you know, I loved Barbie, growing up, Barbie and the rockers. So that was like kind of a really amazing achievement for me. I'm just really driven. You know, that's the one thing at the body space spokesmodel search finals on stage that I didn't say about myself when you could describe yourself. My husband was like, I'm really surprised. You didn't say driven, because that's the number one thing. But I guess for me, it's just so ingrained in such an innate quality that I don't really consider it so much. I just go for things that I just want to be the best at what I do. It doesn't matter what it is if I do something, I'm all in. I love to cook because it makes me feel good. I don't know, it's cathartic for me. So what I tend to do is I take a lot of the recipes that I have or that I see mostly family recipes, and I just make them a healthier version. You know, instead of adding olive oil to something I'll use coconut spray instead, or instead of doing pork and green beans, I'll do like chicken and green beans. You know, I think it's about really learning how to shop in the grocery store and looking at the ingredients because there are a lot of things that if you just look at the label, you know, when you're scrolling down the aisles and you see something and it says, gluten free, non GMO, all this stuff, you actually look at the ingredients. It'll, you know, the second ingredient is like evaporated canches or something. So it's really about reading the ingredients and the fine details and that will, and itself teach you how to shop better. Also I'd love to do a cookbook that's something that I'm working on and I want to do more cooking-related videos because I feel like people can read recipes, but sometimes you're not really sure. They look a little different than they do in the pictures when you pull it out of the oven. So I'd like to show people, this is what it actually looks like. You know, you can go about cooking it this way, that kind of interaction. So as far as end goals go, I don't necessarily have just one end goal and I'm not trying to look too far into the future. I would like to continue to pursue fitness because I'm very passionate about it, obviously I love earth science, but I've kind of put that on the back burner for a little bit because there's so much going on in the fitness industry and I feel like for me it's kind of an extension of the entertainment industry as far as you know, me being able to give things to people on, share with them. I'd like to start training more clients in person. I do have online clients that I work with right now and I have a couple in person training sessions that I do with a few clients and I really like that experience, you know, being able to be there and personally, you know, cheer them on and root them on and be like, you can do it one more rep, you know, you got this, that kind of thing. I just want to tell the women out there that you can lift weights. It doesn't have to be just cardio. Wates are going to give you the tone body you want. Don't be afraid to lift heavy, honestly, because you're going to get the booty and you're going to get all the lines and the definition that you want by doing that. And abs are made in the kitchen. Jamie Eason says it all the time and it's so true. When you're really in shape and you're feeling good, it just translates to everything you do. It just radiates from the inside out. You hold yourself in in such a different manner. You know, when I worked in the music business, I never felt as good as I do now. And it's such a huge difference. I'm so much happier now with my life and with everything that I've done and with my body and I just feel a million times better and it shows with all my interactions with people. And I think that if people knew how they would really feel when they got in good shape that more people would do it.

I was in five or six car accidents, total, which resulted in a broken back. I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself and I became addicted. I'm Laura McGraw and I am the Optiminatrition 100,000 dollar transformation winner for 2012. My group in England, born in London and Dad was playing for a team there. I watched him get up every day and go for a run. He used to do sit-ups in the living room and he was the kind of athlete that didn't necessarily come to a gym every day but worked out every day. In Europe, you are gone in the morning and somebody may feed your lunchtime and then you go play the rest of the day and I always just competed with the boys because there wasn't girls' teens per se. So if there was a running race I'd just run with the boys or soccer. I'd do a play soccer football technically with the boys. But I wasn't really a tomboy. I love girl-y stuff. I love putting a dress on and he'll go out for a dinner and I also love the gym and I don't mind getting dirty and love competition and that comes from my family for sure. Everything we did was a competition. Who can brush their teeth the fastest? You can get everything every day that we did was competitive. I was in five or six car accidents total which resulted in a broken back. And back then I think it was, I was thinking about this bad luck and now I look back and I think that everything happens for a reason and I wouldn't be in the gym and working out lifting weights of it. Hadn't been for those car accidents because there was nothing that could fix it. They tried all sorts of different procedures and numbing the spine and everything they could possibly think of to fix it without having to fuse the spine. And so I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself and I became addicted. They said I think that the past enabled me to do well in the challenge because when I did finally get everything dialed in and then taken a supplement and I was watching when I was eating calorie-wise and contented food and just got everything in line and when it came off I said, oh look what just happened look what I did for the last 10 years of lifting weights and going to the gym and now I got the weight off and I have the muscle masses there so. About four weeks into the challenge, bodybuilding.com sent me in my order the body by design book and I started reading through it and one of the pillars in the book is about being accountable and sharing your experience with other people. And so I decided that I was going to do a fundraiser for the school and six weeks into my challenge started 30 moms and dads at the school in the same program I was doing and I think that that's huge when you're doing a program like this it's share what you're doing with other people. People in to give to others that are trying to change their lives and either with exercise or eating writer and I'm just being more positive without expecting anything great turning. That was a big learning experience for me because I felt that I needed to be a hundred percent committed to what I was doing to show them that they could do it too. My training is for ever changing and I always start my week with a plan of what I want to get accomplished but I don't really assign days to specific activities and busy because they am baseball and soccer and dance and all sorts of stuff so I know what I want to get accomplished and I would say probably 90 percent of the time I get it accomplished when it's going to happen in a one-order. If I get up in the morning and in my mind I thought I was going to do legs today and I'm just not feeling exciting. I know I need tons of energy for legs. Then I switch it up and maybe I'll do shoulders and abs because it's one thing that I want to get accomplished in that week. For the program I did Jamie's lift fit plan and I took a bit about sticking to it and towards the end she does a really high rep pretty intense superset some cardio intervals in between and so that was some new stuff for me. I've been very traditional in the way around 8 to 12 reps, three sets and so changing it up with Jamie's training program was great and my fighter responded differently to it so that was cool. You know the new philosophy and training with a lot of the programs is very very little cardio and that's hard for me because that's my in-dorther release. That's when I think and when I clear my mind and so I do cardio every day and usually somewhere around an hour. One of my favorite machines is a subbell and just stepping up the subbell you just feel like you're about to do your stuff and there's rarely a day that I don't do something active so a rest day for me is maybe an hour on the elliptical with heart rate maybe 60% of my act so I got some great tunes always in my ear. All I will drive home to get me. I pot if I don't have it with me so I'm always good music and I enjoy it I think this is a minute if I didn't like it and maybe I wouldn't work out so hard but I love it. I love getting sweaty I love picking up a 50-con dumbbell. Well my nutrition program is really basic and for me don't count calories and I don't weigh and I can eat the same thing every day so I can have chicken and broccoli every day for 12 weeks if I need to chicken and bread. It's very black in the way so I don't eat a lot of variety. I did eat a lot of Jamie's muffins which are the turkey meatloaf muffins in cupcake containers. So they were awesome. I'd make four batches and three half of them and so I could always grab them. I did the body by design nutritional program more so than Jamie's program. They're very similar. Jamie's is just more detailed of listing out foods. Normally I'd have oatmeal for breakfast. A couple hours later I made reaching to the fridge and grabbed some turkey then it went and shall have a spinach salad usually and kind of throw whatever's in the fridge on their vegetable-wise and chicken. If I've had chicken cooked or sourced more turkey on there and some point during the day I'll have a protein shake on the go. Always have a bar in the car. A protein bar in the car. I think that while my goal is to eat whole foods as often as I can I'd rather eat a protein bar or a protein shake if I don't have anything else. I don't believe in cheap meals per I think if you're at the weight that you want to be at then every once in a while you can have a treat and it's okay. For the program I was clean and I found in the past that diet was my number one obstacle. I enjoy working out. I knew that about myself. I'd always been active but I always had this extra 10 pounds, 15 pounds depending on where I was or if I just had a baby and so I knew in order for me to get where I wanted to be I had to be a 100% wan which is great for me because I'm very black and white so that worked for me. My supplements I believe in supplements I think that they supplement your diet they're great. I have not been consistent in the past with supplements and so I was 99% consistent with my supplements this time and without a doubt it made a huge difference. I had never done BSAs before and I've always struggled with recovery and so I couldn't go day after day after day with hitting it hard and then getting up and doing it again and being able to get a 100% number again and so I would say that the BSAs was probably the biggest change in my supplement program. I've always done a multi-vitamin. I did a mega as I always do a mega as I supplement with protein pattern when I don't have pulses on hand, same with protein bars. It's individual to everybody. What their body needs to help them recover and help them feel better and be able to work out again and enjoy working out. So for me it was BCA as I think I was lacking them internally and they made a world of different domains. Each supplement does something different but it doesn't mean that your body needs that. I think everybody needs a multi-vitamin. Protein powder is great to have as far as what kind of protein powder my body digests way protein is best but somebody else's body might do better on a sway protein way so it really depends on how you digest different foods and and what works for you. I don't think that it would have been able to achieve the goals in 12 weeks without supplementation but they haven't been able to do it before and I feel like I finally found what was lacking in myself to be able to recover and I needed those hard workouts more than once or twice a week. I needed three or four days a week in order to make that large transformation over a short period of time. I'm lucky that I feel that my body responds to whatever I throw at it. So it was responding to my workouts in the way that it could based on what I was giving it. So when I started giving it the BCA's and the amag is in the multi every single day it turned into a clock. It was expecting it. You know on Sundays I have my big supplement holder and open it all up and it has an amp and on Sunday night religiously. I filled up the entire week and I was good to go and for sure my body feels great to be better than ever actually. I've been a 41 this year so it took me a while to figure it out but I got it. Well that's it for my training, my nutrition, my supplementation. If you want to know anymore or ask me any questions you can sign me about a space that Laura McGraw. If you are looking for more motivation and you want to make a transformation you can get on bodybuilding.com and find tons of resources, transform your body lots of motivation lots of people they're willing to help you. You can sign up for a contest just like I did. I lost 22 pounds and 16% body fat in 12 weeks so can you.

How many times have you heard somebody say, man, I look so great the week before the show or I look so great that they have to the show, I look like garbage on the show day. What happened? What were it wrong? Hey guys, this is Lane Norton. I'm a pro natural bodybuilder for the Ph.D. in the traditional science. I'm going to use my experience in knowledge to walk you through one of the most important aspects of your contact prep. And that's your final week before the show, often referred to as P.C. We're going to go through what needs to be done in terms of your nutrition, your protein, carbon, fat intake, what you should do in terms of manipulating your water and sodium if at all, your workouts and cardio, we're also going to look at your posing. And what needs to be done on show day, like tanning and stage presence, I'm going to talk to you about the right way to do P.C. the science-based way.

In this video, I'm going to explain to you everything that you need to know to figure out how to manipulate your body weight in any way that you want. But there's a cat. This is only gonna work if you can stick with these recommendations for an entire 14 days. You're only gonna need three things. A food scale, a body weight scale, my fitness file, or any other similar app. That one is establishing a starting point. The Harris, Benedict's equation. That's gonna give you an estimate of how many calories we need to consume every day log your body weight daily and at the same time wake up. You take a fluke, you weigh yourself, you throw about your day. Way the food that you consume the only way that you can do this accurately. It's choosing foods that are really easy to measure. Chicken, brown, beef, rice, 40% of that total calorie requirement. And you're gonna put it towards your protein and say 40% towards carbs and 20% towards fat. After weighing yourself every single day for a week, you're gonna take the average of those seven day and you're gonna compare it to the average of following seven days. And you're gonna see whether there's a change in increase, you stay the same or you decrease your body weight. Using that information, you're gonna be able to make a much more objective decision of how many calories you could be consuming, whether you need to up them, even the same or decrease them. That is literally everything that we need to know in order to learn how to manipulate your body weight the way that you want. If you still have any more questions, feel free to drop them down below, make sure you save this post and share with your friends.

I am Leela Brada. Welcome to my 12-week Lean Body Program. Regardless of what shape you're in your age or how many diet programs you've tried without success, I'm confident that you can transform your body and become leaner and stronger. In my Lean Body Program, I'm going to show you how to shift your metabolism from fat storing to fat burning so that you can stimulate lean muscle tissue while shedding access body fat. This will be your personal journey of physical and mental self-improvement. You'll make changes that will profoundly improve your appearance, health and well-being for the rest of your life. Ready to start your personal Lean Body Success Journey? Let's get started. By using the Banx Program, which stands for Balance Nutrition and Exercise, I'm going to provide you a specific meal plan for recipes, exercises, workout routines and other information every day. So I'll be there with you every step of the way as you go through your transformation. As a former IFBB Mr. Universe, best-selling author and fitness expert, I've trained literally thousands of people, sharing my full-proof method to achieving the lean body that I've always wanted. In fact, I once helped an entire city get into shape. Once known as the Fatacity in America, Houston, Texas, had a weight problem. Working with the city, I was given free-range to do whatever it took to get Houston back into shape. I implemented an initiative called Githling Houston. 18 months later, I appeared on the Today Show with Matt Lauer to break the news that Houston was no longer the Fatacity in America. His name is Lil Libraita and they are standing by right now. In Houston, Texas, to share in the good news, Mr. Mayor Lee, good to see you both. For the next 12 weeks, you'll get one episode for every day of your transformation challenge, including weekends. But before you jump into day one, watch the overview episodes on nutrition, training, supplements, and the tools that you can use to get started. The four overview episodes outlined the principles of the lean body program and explained what type of exercise you'll be doing, what you'll be eating and how you can succeed using the lean body system. I'm on a mission to show people how to get into shape and stay in shape for the rest of their lives. And now, I want to help you.

Hi, this is Leela Brotta with Lebrot in Nutrition. I'd like to congratulate all the contestants at entered and successfully completed the Lebrot-AleamBodyBodyBody.com transformation challenge. I'd also like to announce the winners of this transformation. Our third place winner is Jason Taylor from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Jason will receive a three-month supply of Lebrot-A-Products and a Lebrot-A-Winner's checking. Congratulations, Jason, on your transformation. Our second place winner is Amanda Pate. Amanda will receive a six-month supply of Lebrot-A-Products and the Lebrot-A-Winner's check-in also. Congratulations, Amanda. I'm your transformation. And now it's my great pleasure to announce our grand prize winner. That is Andrew Clark of Salt Lake City, Utah. Andrew will receive a four-day cruise for two to cozy mill Mexico, along with a training session with me at the Lebrot-A-Nutrition Gym in Houston, Texas. Andrew will also receive a one-year supply of Lebrot-A-Products and Lebrot-A-Winner's check-in. Andrew, Amanda, and Jason will all have their photo and story posted on both the Lebrot-A and Bodybuilding.com websites and receive and awards certificate. Congratulations on your remarkable transformation guys. Your dedication and determination to finish the challenge has helped each of you make unique and dramatic body and lifestyle transformations. You're all truly winners and we're proud of you. I'm Lela Brada, your Leem Body Coach.

You're not to me, is a blueprint. You are an architect beneath your skin like the plant for your fastest, strong, and the longest, most powerful self. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you make up of your muscle and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best possible body. I'm Mike Robertson. This is Bill By Science. If you're serious about building a complete physique, it really begins at ends with your legs. In my opinion, they may be the most important muscle group to hone in development. Let's be honest, there's no way you can short-change yourself. If you're not pushing it in the gym, there's no way you're going to develop the type of size and strength you're capable of without getting a great looking set of legs. When you think about it, the legs are literally half the body, and there's five big muscle groups that we're going to cover here today. Your quads, your hamstrings, your glutes, your adductors, or groin muscles, as well as your caps. So there's a ton of real estate and a ton of information that we're going to cover in this video. With that being set, there's four areas that we want to cover with you guys here today. Number one, we're going to cover the muscular anatomy like we just talked about. We're going to cover the skeletal anatomy, the bones and the joints involved in those movements. Third, we're going to show you the motions that your bones and joints and muscles work together to create, and then we're going to finish it off by showing you guys a few key exercises that we think best represent how your body should move when you're in the gym. We've selected IFBB physique pro Krika Perso. We're going to help you guys better understand the anatomy and the function so that you can get the most out of your training in the gym. As I already alluded to, the legs are literally half of your body. We're going to cover five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles in this episode. And if you ask me, there's no better place to start than whatever guy wants to build, it's great looking set of quads. So we got Krika Krika, if you just kind of relax here for me, quads means four individual muscle groups. So you've got what's called your vastus, ladder out of us, your vastus, media out of us, vastus, intermediate, and your rectus femurus. So we'll start with rectus femurus because it's unique. It actually starts at the top of your hip and comes all the way down and crush your knee. Next onto what's called your quad or peteler tendon. And this muscle is unique because it's the only one of your quad muscles that crosses your hip. From there, you've got what's called your vastus ladder out of us. And a lot of people want to talk about their outer thigh sweet. It comes from the top of your femur, comes all the way down across, and it also attaches to that quad or peteler tendon. From there, you've got your inner thigh or that vastus media out of us. And you guys can see we talk about a tear drop. I mean, Krika's like a perfect example of that. So that vastus media out comes from the top of the thigh, comes all the way down and around, and attaches to his quad or peteler tendon. And then last but not least, you can't see it, but your vastus intermedius. It runs deep to your rectus femurus, and it comes all the way down, and also attaches onto that quad or peteler tendon. So quadriceps, four muscles, obviously the biggest bulk of the front of your thigh. So when we talk about legs, you may have heard people talk about the term feathers. Krika's a great example here because you can see all the individual fibers. You can see how his fibers are penetated. And that just means the angle of a nation or the angle of his muscle fibers. So I mean, he's a great example to look at. And when you're in the gym, you want to get after it. If you want to build a great looking set of quads, that's where you're going to look at. A squat, a lunge, or even a leg extension type exercise. Now that we've covered the front of the thigh, let's take a look at the back. So I'm going to have Craig turn around, and keep in mind, I get it. If you want to get big, strong quads, that's cool, but make sure you're spending equal time developing the back. So when we're talking about the back, we're looking at the hamstrings. And there's three hamstring muscles, but don't be confused because the biceps femurus, the first one we're going to talk about, has two individual heads. So the biceps femurus runs from the isle tuberosity, or essentially what's called your sit bone, comes down, and attaches onto what's called your fibula, or one of your lower leg bones. So you have your long head, it only makes sense that you have a short head as well. So in this case, the short head runs from the back of your thigh, and it also comes down and attaches to the fibula. So biceps femurus, it's one muscle with two different heads. And you also have two more hamstring muscles, and they're more on the inner portion of the thigh. You have what's called your semi-memberinosis, and it runs from the isle tuberosity, comes down, and it attaches to your fibula, or your other lower leg bone. And the thing that helps you remember, semi-memberinosis, it's more medial, or closer to the mid-bine, relative to the third muscle, semi-tinentosis. And it runs from the isle tuberosity, comes down, and it also attaches onto your tipion. And it's going to be a little bit more medial than the other one. Up to this point, we've covered the quads, and we've covered the hamstrings. Now let's talk about another muscle group that people love to work on and sculpt, and that's your glutes. You've got three glute muscles, your glute max, your glute made, and your glute min. We're going to start with a glute max, because that's the most obvious one of the ones that most people are focusing their time on in the gym. Your glute max runs from your sacrum, and your thoracolumbar fascia, which is essentially this big piece of connective tissue. And it comes down, and it attaches onto what's called your IT band, or your iliotibial band, which is another big piece of connective tissue, and it runs down, and crosses your knee joint. So that's one attachment. It also comes down, and it attaches onto the outer portion of your thigh. So when people are talking about glutes, most often they're talking about their glute max. So now let's take a look at the glute meat. Craig, if you can give me a quarter turn here. A lot of times, people don't hear about the glute made or the glute min, because they are deeper muscles. You can't see them, so most people think they're not important. But your glute meat is actually a very critical stabilizer of your hip and your thigh. So your glute meat, if you can imagine, runs along the top of your iliot crest here, or the top of your hip bone, comes down, and it attaches onto your outer thigh. Even deeper to that is your glute min, and it's a very small muscle right here on the outer portion of your hip, and it also comes down and attaches onto the outer portion of your thigh. So don't forget, when you're training your legs, when you're training your hips, you've got three glute muscles, glute max, glute medius, and glute menimus. Next, muscle group, we're going to talk about called your adductors. Now, a lot of people maybe aren't familiar with these, or they don't realize just how important these small muscle groups are. So you actually got five adductors muscles that we're going to cover here today. All of them start on what's called your pubis, or if you can imagine kind of the inside of your hip, that's where your pubis is. So they all come off this pubis and come down and attach to the inside of your thigh. So the first one is called your pectinius. It comes down and across and attaches to the top of your thigh. Second, you have what's called your adductor brevis, and brevis just means short, so it comes down and across and attaches below the pectinius. Third, you have your adductor longus, so again, running from the pubis comes down. So you guys can imagine how these are almost layered in fashion. Fourth, and one I want you guys to make note of, the adductor magnets. It's probably the biggest adductor. It runs from your pubis, comes down and it attaches not only to the inside of your thigh, but a little bit lower down as well. And that makes your adductor magnets quite unique. Last but not least, you've got a long skinny muscle, called your grisillus. And it runs from your pubis, come all the way down and attaches to the tibia, or the inside of your lower leg bone. So we covered five big adductor muscles, pectinius, adductor brevis, adductor longus, adductor magnets, and grisillus. And what's important, I don't want you guys to confuse these with the quads or the hamstrings. They're absolutely important for bulk and width, front to back side to side of your thighs, but they are unique. And we're going to make sure that we try and use some exercises to develop these muscles in their own right. Last but not least, we're going to look at the calves or the lower leg muscles. I'm going to have Craig go ahead and turn around here, and there's essentially two muscle groups that were interested in developing. Your gastrocnemius and your solius. With your gastrocnemius, it's unique because it crosses your knee joint. So you have what's called a lateral head of your gastrocnemius, and you also have a medial head. And both of those heads converge or come down and attach to your Achilles tendon. Deep to that gastrocnemius, you have what's called your solius. And your solius attaches to your tibia and your fibula, those two lower leg bones, and it also comes down and attaches onto the Achilles tendon. So two muscles, one crosses the knee, but both attach to the Achilles tendon and help create planar flexion, which we'll talk a little bit more about. Later on. So we've covered a lot of ground in this video. Five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles. Just as a quick recap, you got your calves. You got your hamstring, the big muscles on the back of your thigh. You got your glutes or your butt muscles for lack of a better turn. If we spin Craig around, you got your quad, the big guys on the front of the thigh, and then it turns his thigh out. We're just a little bit. You get a good look at the ad after some of those inner thigh muscles. So we spin a lot of time covering the muscles. Now let's jump into the bones and joints involved in creating all these different movements. Now that we've covered the muscular anatomy, let's take a look at the individual bones and joints that work together in your lower body and your hip. To create motion. The first bone that I want to talk about is called your pelvis. And if you imagine on both sides of your body, you've got a pelvis and it kind of works like a bowl to shape and tie everything together. So your pelvis is a really critical structure. Within your pelvis, coming on down, you've got your femur or your big thigh bone. Working our way down even further, you've got your big lower leg bone, which is called your tibia. And that's kind of the media of the two. It's right here in the front. And last but not least, you've got this smaller bone called your fibula. And while most people don't talk about it, it only absorbs about 10% of your body weight. So when most people are talking about their lower leg, they're typically talking about the tibia versus the fibula. Now that you have a better understanding of the bones, let's see how they all work together to create joints which will help us create movement. I'm going to have Craig go ahead and give me a quarter turn again. And when you think about your pelvis, it's really simple. It's got two basic motions. It's got what's called anterior tilt or rolling the hips forward. And it's got what's called posterior tilt, where he rolls the hips back and underneath it. So the pelvis is fairly straightforward. But from there, you've got your hip joint. And your hip is essentially your thigh bone coming into this socket here. So it's what's called a ball and socket joint. And at that ball and socket joint, you have tons of freedom of motion. If you can imagine, you can do all these different movements. So Craig can flex his hip. He can extend his hip, AB ducted, AD ducted, internally and externally rotate. So that's important to note, hip joint. It's a centerpiece for your body because it has so much mobility. Moving down, you got your knee joint. And a lot of people would call your knee joint a hinge joint. But that's kind of a misnomer. It's actually what's called a condoloid joint. So you can go ahead and give me a quarter turn here, Craig. Condoloid means it's got a little bit of rotation. It's necessary to note, but it's not necessarily true of what you're going to be training in the gym. Primarily, when you're thinking about your knee, you've got knee flexion or pulling your leg back like you would in a hamstring curl. And you've got knee extension, like you would in a squat, a deadlift or a leg extension. Last but not least, if we come down to your ankle joint. Your ankle primarily has two basic motions. It's got what's called planar flexion, like you would when you come up on your toes to do a calf raise. And you have what's called doorcy flexion. And that's where you would pull your toes back up towards your face. So far, we've covered the muscles, the bones, and the joints that are on-volved in creating movement through your hips, your thighs, and your lower leg. But what's even more important, I want you guys to have a really strong understanding of how you take all these individual pieces and put them together to create seamless, fluid movement. And that's what we're going to cover in our next section. Now that we've covered the muscles and the joints, let's put it all together. So you guys can see what this is going to look like in the gym using these muscles for real function. If you recall, your quad, you've got four quad muscles. But what is unique? And that actually runs from your hip comes down and crosses your knee. So, rectus femurus is there because it can help you flex your hip as you would in a step up, or even if you're going to the track and you're doing some sprinting for your conditioning work, that's where you're going to see rectus femurus being used. But more importantly, in the function that most people are probably most familiar with is knee extension. So you're going to see this anytime you're in the gym if you're doing like a leg extension or something of that nature, that's where you're going to see the quads. And then on a big compound lift like you would in a squat or something of that nature. Anytime you're squatting, that's where you're going to extend the knee and bring out those quads. So your quads are those big muscles on the front of the thighs. Now let's spin Craig around and we're going to look at the back. Remember your hamstrings cross two joints. They cross your hip and they cross your knee. So there's got two primary functions that we're going to hit when we're in the gym. The first is hip extension. What you're going to see if you're doing a Romanian deadlift or a trap or deadlift or any kind of deadlifting variation where you're pushing your hips back. You're loading those hamstrings and then you come up to the top and you finish nice and tall. So you got hip extension, but there's also knee flexion. So as you recall, hamstrings come down, they cross the knee. So anytime you're doing a leg curl, a glue ham raise or anything of that nature where you're flexing the knee, that's where you're training your hamstrings. So we got quads, we've got hamstrings. Now let's talk about glutes. When we're talking about glutes, most people think hip extension. So again, when you're coming back to those big deadlifting variations and that's sort of thing, that's where you're going to load those hips. So if he comes back, you can see stretching that glute out, stretching the glute out in this way and then finishing up tall. So he's using glute max. Now if you can go ahead and face the camera for me, if you think about a split stance exercise or something like a lunge or any time Craig's on one leg, that's where you're using those small glute muscles. Glute medias, glute minimis. That's going to help control your hip in your thigh position so that you're nice and controlled. Anytime you go from two legs to one leg or from two legs to a split stance, you've got to create stability on your own. So this is not only going to tax your glutes, but it's also going to tax your adductors. We talked a little bit about the adductors early on, but those adductors are there for stability and control. One exception, your adductor magnus is a really big muscle. If you recall it runs from your pubis, comes all the way down, attaches to the inner thigh, and even the lower leg, your adductor magnus works as a hip extensor. So if he comes down, he's actually stretching that adductor magnus out and then coming out nice and tall. So it works almost just like a hamstring. Last but not least, let's show some calves. So if you guys think about calf work, you'll recall your gastrochrosis, not only the knee joint, but it comes down and runs into your ankle. So if you're doing a standing calf race, you're going to be focusing more of your time and attention on your gastrochneemings. On the other hand, if you're in a seated calf race position and you've got this knee flex, that's where you're going to be spending more time on the soleas. So as you guys can see, there's a lot of different muscles, there's a lot of different joints, but hopefully after watching this, you've got a better understanding of how you can piece this all together to create a more functional program. Last but not least, we're going to highlight a few key exercises so you can get the absolute most out of your training in the gym. In this video, we've covered the muscles of your hips, legs, and thighs. We've covered the joints, and we've covered the individual movements that those create. But what's really important is tying this all together. I want to show you guys how this works when you're functioning in the gym doing some of your favorite exercises. Now, keep in mind, as we're going through this stuff, in no way shape or form, is it indicative of the kind of intensity that you're going to use when you're in the gym. In fact, Craig right now, he's not happy with us. He wants to in a quarter on the bar, but we're going to do it light. We're going to show you guys great technique, so that when you go in the gym, you're doing everything right. The first exercise we're going to demonstrate is a front squat. So Craig's going to go ahead and set himself up. Now, keep in mind, when you're front squatting, you're typically not going to walk the bar forward out of the rack. You're going to walk backwards and stay in the rack. But again, for demonstration purposes, we're going to set it up this way. So Craig's going to set the bar high up on his throat. It's a little bit uncomfortable, but this is the best place to have the bar. As he walks it out, he's going to set up with his feet about hip, shoulder width apart, toes turned out very slightly. And then from this position, always going to do, keep the weight about mid-foot to the heel, and he's going to sit back and push the knees out. The cool thing about front squat, it's going to hit almost every muscle in your lower leg. You can tell, as he's lowering down, he's really lengthening the quads, as he stands up. He's going to extend the knee, and he's really going to hit those quads hard. But it's not just quads, as you'll see, when he goes back and he sits down and back, he's loading the hamstrings. He's loading the glutes on the backside of the hip. So as he comes up, it's not just knee extension, but hip extension as well. That's why we love this exercise. It's going to give you a ton of bang for your buck. So again, great technique. He's up tall. Sitting back, knees out, and then standing up finishing nice and tall as well. The front squat, if you guys are going to pick one exercise to start building your legs, this is what we'd recommend. Next exercise we're going to demonstrate is a Romanian deadlift for RDL for short. This is a fantastic exercise, because it's really going to isolate the glutes and the hamstrings on the backside of your body. So I'm going to have Craig go ahead and pick up the dumbbells here. And I want to give you a few coaching points, or really set up points before you get into the exercise. If you can imagine, we're going to work on the glutes and the hamstrings in this exercise. And what you're going to focus on is pushing the hips back. So to do that, you want soft knees, you don't want them locked, and you want a nice neutral spine position top to bottom. So once he's set here, you can see as he pushes his hips back, you guys can imagine his glutes, how they're getting stretched out. You can imagine his hamstrings, how they're getting stretched out. And then to finish the movement, he's going to pop his hips through at the top. So that's why if you've ever done these before, and your hamstrings are like super sore the next day, this is why because you're going through a full range of motion and you're really loading the hamstrings eccentrically, or you're lengthening them out. And that's what's going to give you that nice stretch. That's what you're going to give you the soreness, and that's what's going to give you the growth and the development you're looking for. The next exercise we're going to cover is a lunge. And the reason we've chosen this is because as soon as you go from two legs to one, it's just going to change the stress on your muscles just a little bit. So Craig's going to go ahead and grab the dumbbells here. And to perform the lunge, he's up nice and tall, he's going to take a big step forward, he's going to land on his heel and push back. The reason we've chosen a lunge is because it's using every muscle in your body, every muscle in your leg. As he takes a step out, his quads, you can see his vastus lateral, his rectus femurus, his vastus medialis. They're going to help him extend his knee when he comes back. As he takes that step out again, again, his hamstrings are pulling him down and then they're going to help him come back out of the bottom. So you guys get a feel for you're using all the big muscles, but you're also using those smaller stabilizing muscles, like your adductors and your small glute muscles as well. Give me one more rep. So he's got to control his knee position long ways through his bone, so that's where his glutes and his adductors are coming into play. So even though they're not creating a lot of movement, they're controlling motion, and that's what's really critical in this movement. The final exercise we're going to cover here today is just your standard standing calf-free. Now, we're going to demonstrate it using body weight, but feel free if you're doing this at home, you can use dumbbells, you can use a barbell, or even a standing calf-free's machine. So I'm going to go ahead and have Craig just pick up this easy curl bar and use that to steady himself. And the best thing about a standing calf-raise are really most calf-raise variations in general. They're very hard to do wrong. They're not very complex. In this case, you can see he's got his knee nice and straight, because remember we're targeting the gastroch here. And what I want him to do, go ahead, get a full range of motion, really stretch out the gastroch and that Achilles tendon, and then come up nice and tall, getting a nice squeeze at the top. One of the big cues that I use in this case is that as you come down and you stretch, give that stretch a second or two, because the Achilles tendon stores a lot of energy. So if you're just bouncing up and down, you're not going to maximize your muscle grip. So get a nice stretch in the bottom, a nice squeeze at the top, and that's going to help you maximize your calf development. Now, with that being said, don't forget, this is just a small sample of the exercises. Make sure you check out the entire program to see all the exercises that we've included for your training. After watching this video, you may be feeling just a little bit overwhelmed. And if that's the case, trust me, guys, I get it. We've covered a ton of information. But with that, I hope you guys are starting to have a good understanding of just how important your hips, your thighs, and your lower leg muscles up. Don't forget, we covered five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles. So don't be afraid, go back, watch this video again, to make sure you're getting all the information out of it. When you guys start to put it all together, you can start to have a really strong understanding of just why we're spending so much time on our legs. Again, it's half your body. If you're not spinning the time and the energy to learn this stuff, you're not going to be able to take it to the gym and apply it to get maximum muscle growth and development. Don't forget to check out the entire built by science program, which is going to give you a full training template for your workout's going forward. Run muscular anatomy by mechanics of the cali, the skeletal system. muscle function and the best exercises to build the mass bath. No, it's power. No, you're self to build yourself. Build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, master piece.

Music Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Was that too much for you? My card yet. Music I'm going to attempt to do these tight jeans on. Oh, that. By an off-law. Caw tight. So you visualize sucking your belly button and just spline a kick of like that. Heels on off-law. That side. That side. Six either side. Then lift up to here. Same thing. Six either side. And then the third level is legs straight. Same thing. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Chosen. Chosen. Okay. I'll sit. Right down if you can. Good. Good tight. That's just activating the muscles in your lower back loose and everything off. Next one is for the hamstrings. I'm going to do it like a regular hamstring stretch. I got them walk out on your hands. Keep legs straight. And then just ankle walk in like this. And then walk out again. Push, push, push. Good. Walk with your hands again. Your hands down. Keep your legs straight. Walk out of your hands like your body stretch out. Keep your legs straight now. Just walk without an ankle. That's it. That's it. Just keep going. It's close to your hands. You can get push a little bit. Good. Go again. You do it like a regular four with lines like that. Which is going to rip my jeans if I do it. So I'm not going to do it. So line it forward. I'll sit. I'll just elbow inside here. And then in such stretching the glutes, keep that leg straight like that. And pull one hand, do the side of that foot. Now sit. Straighten this leg up and keep the other one straight. Come up on your toes. Feel that I'm straight. Then lunge forward on that one. Down. Keep this back leg straight. One, two, three, four. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. Good man. Feel that loose enough as you go along. Yeah. There's better than the static stretching because of this stretching like this. Because a little micro-thairs in the muscle and actually we can re-can you in the workout. This is activating getting the muscles ready to fire. Kind of warm up and sit up and all. All right. Nice little warm up. Leg extensions. Just light warm up set. 15. Easy. Nice and light, yeah. Yeah. Shouldn't have taken out. Not just getting a cup ready. Yeah. That's the light one out of the way. Going to go medium now. I swallowing Chris. Same form. Squeeze it at the top. Control down. Go easy stuff. One out of the time man. One out of the time. Concentrate. Squeeze it. Come on. Big legs. One. Two. Three. Everything. Come on. Six. Push. Seven. And again. Push. Eight. Two. Let's go. Squeeze. Nine. Come on. Let's go. Push. Push. Come on. One more. Let's go. Everything. Go. You got one more. Let's see. Everything. Yeah. In the quad. Squeeze. One win. Five. Goats. Two. Three. Oh. That's just the start. One that's these . Allot. Seven. Good man. sequence. Oh. Kirst. Good. Kirst. Okay. Nice, right? Well done. 10 nice two more push on more push easy good nice and tight man nice where you screw I'm 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 good job 2, 4, 6, 7, 7. All right Chris, come on. Nice and tight, yeah? Last set. There's many as they can get. I worried that the number is on that. Come on. 5th on the way down. Which one? 2, nice. 3, 4 is good. Come on. Play it up. 5, 4, 6, 9, 7. Come on, and again. Last one. Last one. Last one. 4, 7, 8, 3, don't want to move. Come on. 6, come on. Kick it in. 1, 2, 3, 4. Come on. 1, 2, 3, 3, 1, big red. Power. Good. Good. Good. Good. 12. Why is the mental failure? Because when people train with me, they're ready to stop and I'll say no. I don't know that they've actually got the formal reps, but I'll break it down into a few seconds. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll do it. If I do it one more finish and when I do it I don't do it. No, one more. I'm not going to ask somebody to do something that they can't do. You know, you could do it. He did it, but he's not used to going that far. All right. All right. 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 2 more, 11, 12, these are stuff now. Well, this A-Leb-Train separates the men from the boys, which is still here, moderate stance, a little bit closer. Nice and deep, below parallel, tight on the way down. Now I'm bouncing, my sense of smooth, a little bit lower, come on. There we go, 2, 3, 4, good, 5, all the way, 10, good, these are stuff, a little bit lower if you can't Chris, if not a problem with his knees. Chris, you're talking too much, that means you're ready to train man. Let's do some proper fall reps and only half reps, a bit man. I'll sit on this, okay, yeah. Sit right now and blast it up. Nice and tight, they're deep, squat, yeah. Ooh, should a little bit more. That's it. 2, now what are we doing it? 3, 2, come on, I'm watching man. 5, all the way. 6, all the way forward, 7, come on, come on, set, all the way down, 8, it's 2, D, 1, try, go, guys, guys, guys, one more, one D, go on, power up, power up, squeeze it up, squeeze it up, good set, one more, you're one more, alright see it, I'm glad we're good. Deep and more, four, four, good man, excellent, not good. It's a quad workout, we're finished and then we're going to go and do hamstrings and calves.

First, choose your weight and sit on the leg extension machine with your legs under the pad and your hands holding the sidebars. This will be your starting position. You'll need to adjust the pads so that it fits snug on top of your lower legs. Make sure your legs form a 90-degree angle between your lower and upper leg. Using your quadriceps, exhale and extend your legs while the rest of your body remains stationary on the seat. Pause a second in the contracted position, then inhale and slowly lower the weight back to the original position.

To perform this exercise, sit down at the leg press machine and place your legs on the platform directly in front of you with the shoulder width stance. Lower the safety bar holding the weighted platform in place and press the platform into your legs are fully extended in front of you. Do not lock your knees. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the platform until your upper and lower legs form a 90 degree angle. Now driving mainly with the heel of your foot, push the platform back to the starting position.

Legbris is one of the best exercises to build your lower body, but you need to know how various foot positions target the different muscles of your legs. Number one, low foot position. This is a great way to emphasize your parts in the legbris. When you place your feet lower on the back, there is a higher degree of knee pain. When your hamstrings are almost touching your calves in the bottom position. This is what leads to the maximum brother situation. Next, high foot position. This is the best way to target your boots in the legbris. When you place the feet higher on the back, you'll notice that the degree of hip pain is more than the knee pain in the bottom position. It results in the most tension being placed on the boots instead of the quads. Lastly, wide foot position. This can be a great way to bias your adactors in the movement. A wider foot stance with the toes pointing outwards allows you to easily co-deeper in the end range of motion. This is where the adactors are the most active out of all the other muscles. Keep these dry and you'll feel the difference right away.

And today's workout we are focusing on legs. We're focusing on the entire lower body here. We're working our quads. We're working our hamstrings. We're working our glutes. The only thing we're not directly training in this workout today is our calves. But keep in mind that you work your calves indirectly by doing awesome exercises that we're doing today like jump squats, walking lunges and step ups. In today's workout we're going to do seven exercises. We're starting with squats. Then we're moving into the leg press. Barbell, hip thrusts, walking lunges. Moving into sumo stance, Romanian dead lifts, Bulgarian split squats in the Smith finishing off with weighted steps. Your rest period should be no more than 60 seconds and the entire workout should take you about an hour and 15 minutes including your warm-up. Okay, so let's get going with this leg workout. One of the biggest setbacks in getting results from your squats is having weak glutes and or tight hip flexors. So I always make sure to do a lot of hip mobility stretches and hip flexor stretches before I start my squats. So we're going to get a mat. We're going to get on all fours and we're going to do a fire hydrant stretch which also opens the hips up. Starting with the left side, you're going to lift the knee up and you're going to go in a forward circle with your entire leg. Keeping your hips steady and parallel to the floor. Then you'll put that knee down and do the exact same thing on the right leg. Once you're done with that you want to do it all over again but switch the direction of the circle that you're moving your knees. On each leg you'll do 10 circles in each direction. From that exact position we're going to move right into a hip flexor stretch. You're going to bring one foot out into a kneeling lunge position and really push the opposite loop forward getting a really good stretch on your hip flexor. You'll do that for about 30 seconds on each leg twice. Now that our hips are open and our hip flexors feel nice and loose and stretched right here to go we're going to move into our warm upsets of our squats. I always start with the bar only. I do two sets of 10 reps. In between those sets I like to do jump squats. The point of doing the jump squats in between is it really gets the blood flowing, gets your joints lubricated and gets the nervous system really circulating so that you're ready for the weight of the squats. The next two warm upsets I'm going to add a moderate weight for me it's 10 pounds on each side of the bar. You do it right for you. I do two more sets of 10 reps. Now we're ready for the working sets. We're going to add the correct weight that allows you to get to three sets of 10 reps with perfect form. I like to set the bar not right on top of my shoulders but right below my shoulders resting on my upper traps. Step back get your core activated, get your feet perfectly parallel to one another, your toes pointed straight ahead and your feet are going to be placed anywhere between hip width and shoulder width distance. When you feel steady you're going to pop your butt back, archer lower back and go down into the squat. Make sure your knees are staying right over your toes and not wobbling right in left. Knees to ability is really important for perfect forming your squats. Look straight ahead, keep your chest lifted and go down just as far as you can in order to activate your glutes and rise back up the same way you came out. In my head when I'm doing my own squats, when I get to the bottom of the squat, I like to keep the weight in my heel so that I really dig those heels into the ground and drive up for my squat with those heels and that will definitely help you keep the tension in the glutes and really build muscle on that area. Moving into exercise two, we're going to do four sets of 15 reps on the leg press. And what's unique about this exercise is we're really going to focus on building our quad on this leg press move instead of the regular glutes or hamstrings that you're used to seeing on the leg press. We're going to grab a weight that's a little lighter than usual. Every machine is different so make sure you test it out do a couple of warm upsets and make sure you're choosing a weight that isn't too heavy. You want to go a little bit lighter on this because you want to focus on form. So what you do is you get into the leg press and you bring your heels as low down on the platform as you can. Your heels are together at the bottom of the platform and your toes are pointed out. As you bring the leg press down, you're going to make sure that your knees are pointed in the exact direction of your toes. So what I'm doing with this exercise is focusing on tempo. So as you bring the weight down in your head you're going to do a count to three. It's one one thousand two one thousand three one thousand. When the weight is at the bottom you're going to give it a two count so one one thousand two thousand. As soon as that two seconds is up you push the weight back up nice and slow one one thousand two one thousand three one thousand. You rest very quickly without locking your knees and start all over again. As you bring the weight down and push it back up the weight is going to be in the balls of your feet. You're not your toes but really in the balls of your feet. You're going to bring that weight down and your heels won't even be on the platform whatsoever and that is what's going to turn all of the tension into your quads. Moving into exercise three we're going to do four sets of 12 to 15 reps of barbell hip thrusts. This is one of my favorite exercises and one of my all-time greatest moves for building up those glutes. It also works your hamstrings with a foot position that I use. I like to do it the way I'm showing you right now in the rack because ladies it shows you that you do not have to have a spotter and you actually can use a heavier weight. All you need to do is grab a bench from inside the gym and set the rack to the same height as the bench. This setup will allow you to un-rack and re-rack the barbell without needing a spotter. When doing barbell hip thrust you want to make sure that the barbell is right across your hips and that you set your feet so that the back of your knees are at a 90 degree angle your heels are a little bit close together and your toes are just slightly pointed out. As you lift the weight up you will squeeze your glutes and as you lower the weight you'll have a slight anterior tilt to your hips and then when you bring the barbell back up you'll have a posterior tilt and squeeze your glutes and hold it at the top there for just a second before repeating the rep. The next exercise is the walking lunge. We're going to do four sets of 24 total steps which is 12 steps on each side. What you need to focus on while you're doing this exercise is nice, slow and controlled reps. Do not use momentum to be in a hurry as you're doing your walking lunges. I like to take every single step and at the top I collect myself. I actually sometimes put my foot down and then take another step with the next leg. In doing that it allows me to make sure that I am going straight down and straight up instead of leaning forward and activating all the wrong muscles. Taking a little bit more of a shallow step during your walking lunges it allows you to use the heel of the front leg to really drive up and that will help you focus on the glute and the hamstring of the front leg. The next exercise is a sumo stance Romanian for this exercise we're going to do four sets of 12 to 15 reps. I like using the sumo stance during my Romanian delips because it allows me to just slightly shift the focus of the muscle being worked. By doing a sumo stance you move the focus a little bit to the adactors which is the inner thigh instead of having such focus on the glutes and the back of the hamstrings. A tip I like to share for Romanian delus is to start the movement by tilting your hips and really moving that butt backward. I like this a lot because most glute and leg workouts focus on the up and down movement and this really focuses on the backward and forward movement which is really really crucial to building up the glutes. The next exercise is Bulgarian split squats. We're going to do three sets of 10 reps. When you're getting set up for Bulgarian split squats I like to get my body under the bar and put my heels directly under my hips that sets you up for good form right from the start. From there I take the working leg and I take a small step forward about one foot distance. Once your foot is in that position you're going to take the back leg and place it on the bench behind you. As you move down into the squat you want to focus on keeping your knee right above your ankle do not let your knee go beyond your toes so take a peek down at any time during this movement and make sure that your knee is right above your ankle. Look in the mirror if you can and make sure that your knee again stays really steady and that there's no right left movement. It's really important that that knee working alone is really strong in steady. As you move down you want to focus on keeping the weight in your heel. Keep that weight in the heel as you drive back up and that'll make sure that you're working a hamstring and the glue on that leg. Our last exercise in today's leg workout is the weighted step up. We're going to do three sets of 15 reps on each leg. You want to make sure that you find a bench or a box that's about knee height. You don't want the box to be too short otherwise you won't get the depth and the range of motion that you need for this exercise. Grab a moderate weight that allows you to control your balance as you're stepping up and down off of the box. As you step up onto the box drive with your heel. Make sure all the weight is in that heel and again that will focus on using the glue and the hamstring and the quad of that working leg. When you get to the top of the box I like to stop just briefly to collect my balance. I do this with this exercise and my lunges. It allows you to just make sure that you're using perfect form throughout the entire movement. Step back very slowly and I do all reps on one leg before I switch to the other one. This workout is great. If you only have time to train legs once a week it works all of the major muscles and the lower half of the body. The full breakdown of this workout is in the article below right here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions at all about today's leg workout you can reach out to me on body space or Facebook, those user names or Jesse Fitness or you can find me on Instagram or Twitter at Jess Hilcombberg. And for more free articles and videos just like this one keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Fittness fuels everything I do. At 29 weeks pregnant, fitness is an important part of my life. And the life I'm bringing into this world. I'm here to help you be the healthiest, fittest, happiest mother you can be. I'm Nicole Monier, IFBB the Kini Pro in Olympian, Nazm Certified Personal Trainer, Check Holistic Life Style Coach and teambodybuilding.com athlete. I'm 41 years young, 29 weeks pregnant naturally in my third trimester. I'm here to show you that working out while pregnant with weights can be safe. It also keeps you and your baby healthy. And prepares you for the biggest marathon of your life childbirth. Today, I'm going to take you through a total body workout. A lot of the exercises are very common, but as I'm progressing in my pregnancy and getting bigger, I've had to make a lot of modifications. So I'm going to show you how to safely and effectively take yourself through a total body workout while pregnant. Today's workout is 8 exercises, legs, chest, back, shoulders and arms. And we're here today filming at bodybuilding.com headquarters and they're awesome state of the art gym. Now if you don't have access to a gym, don't worry. I've provided alternative at home exercises in the article below. Now about to get into this workout, but I need to mention that every woman's pregnancy is very unique. And remember, you're just as unique on the outside as you are on the inside, so be sure to check with your physician or midwife before starting any exercise program. Let's get started. The first exercise we're going to start with today is a squat variation. Set one is going to be hip width apart squatting. And then set two is going to be a seawall squat where your feet are out wider than hip width apart, toes pointed out to the corners of the room, and then you're going to end in the split stance for a lunge. You can do anywhere from 10 to 15 reps, listen to your body. Take rest as needed. Want to two minutes if you need to take more, no problem, take it, and get water whenever you need to. So let's get started with the squat hip width apart. So for your feet, hip width apart, make sure your heels are down when you're squatting through the entire movement. And again, during your pregnancy, you may notice that you may be able to go a little bit lower early on, and as you progress, you may not be able to go as far down. So again, range of motion, listen to your body what you can and can't do. So I use the Smith machine that's basically something that I've used for squats and lunges all along, but I've taken off the weight. And for me, having the Smith machine there gives me that support. So then, you know, there's no risk of losing my balance, falling anything like that. And it's still actually a little more challenging for me than doing just my body weight. Next set, Stunwell Squat. Doing legs is important because you're strengthening your pelvis, you're strengthening your back. And those are the muscles that you need to deliver that baby. Now, with the squats, ideally, I don't know if many women know this, but that is actually the way that they gave birth back in the day. And that's actually the way many women still get birth today, naturally, whether they're doing a home birth or they're doing a hospital birth without medical intervention. Last set, lunges. The second exercise I'm going to show you is inner thighs. We're going to do double drops set. So I'm going to start at 30, because that's my pregnancy weight that I'm at, and do 10 reps, drop to 20, and another 10 reps, drop to 10. And end with 10 reps. That's one set. Once that, then I'm going to take a rest and then I'm going to do two more. So I'm going to get on the machine and being pregnant, you know, sometimes it's hard to maneuver and as you get bigger. I can usually get into position, but sometimes it takes me a little bit longer, so bear with me. So make sure your knees are over your ankles. So I'm going to open this up, get a nice, good stretch, you can lean back and then squeeze in, breathing. I'm not working out as many days as I used to, and I'm not working out as the intensity that I used to either. So there's certain ways where I've been able to incorporate the drop sets or other variations with tempos and speed and timing where I can still feel challenged. I'm not feeling any pulling or anything that feels different or doesn't feel right. And I still feel like, hey, I'm getting a good workout. Okay, now we're going to move right into our next exercise, outer thighs. So we're going to do the same thing we did for inner thighs. We're going to do a double drop set. We're going to start with 30 pounds, 10 reps, drop to 20 pounds, 10 reps, 10 pounds, another 10 reps. Take a breather, that's one set, and then we'll do two more sets again. So with the inner and outer thighs, again, it's the same thing. You want to get the whole leg in there. So every single muscle that is in your leg is supporting your pelvic girdle and your back. And same thing with, you know, labor and delivery. It's going to help with that opening up the birth canal. So you have those strong muscles. And there's your double drop. Now we're done with lower body. We're going to move on to upper body. The next exercise I'm going to show you targets the back. And so most of you, mommy's like me know that posture is not so good during your pregnancy. So this exercise, I actually call it a chest expansion and a scapular retraction because we're opening up those tight chest muscles from carrying that extra weight in the front and also from sleeping and that side lying fetal position. And then it's strengthening our scapula and the rhomboids and the muscles in our back. So I'm on a stability ball. Arms are out straight and I'm on a police system. I'm using a very lightweight only 2.5 pounds. Every police system is different. So make sure again you pick a weight that feels good for you. My arms are straight and then I'm going to open up with a little bit of bend in the elbows. Squeezing the scapula, bringing my palms past my shoulders and then bringing it back to the middle. Back exercises are a lost period whether you're pregnant or not with being pregnant. It just exacerbates it more because as I've said, you know women, they're breast are going to larger. You've got this weight here. I just want to make sure I'm really opening that up, stretching, I'm tight and again strengthen it because you're going to need it during your pregnancy and then even after when you're feeding and then again throughout life. The next exercise we're going to hit is chest. So I'm going to modify my knees being in my third trimester letting go a little bit and I'm going to start with about 10 to 15 reps and we're going to do about 3 sets. So I'm going to make sure my hands are in line with my chest and shoulders. I'm going to drop down, maybe about an inch or two above the floor but again everybody's bump is probably going to get in the way so down and up. Now if it gets too hard because again you've got that weight, your baby, weight, bring the knees into a tabletop position and you can modify here, finishing off, keeping your shoulders and wrist stacked and then your knees and hips stacked. Always listen to your body. I tell all my clients that doesn't matter if they're pregnant or not because you know what feels right, what doesn't any questions talk to your doctor, your midwife, you know be safe and as I said letting go, I'm dropping my weight, I'm modifying my exercises, I'm not doing this stuff I'm doing but you know what, I'm still proud of myself. At this point, and I'm still inspired and I think that I know that I'm inspiring other people when I'm a pregnant female in the weight room, still doing stuff. Now I'm going to take you through exercise six. Seated dumbbell shoulder press, my favorite muscle group. So with this one as I progressed in my pregnancy, I used to lift 25 pounds. Now I'm down to 10. So again listen to your body, drop the weight as needed. Another tip for you is that before I used to be able to do it, seated or standing. Now I really have to do it seated because I noticed a little bit of pulling when I'm seated. I'm good. So we're going to do again three sets and about 10 to 15 reps. If it's your first time training pregnant, you don't want to bite off more than you can chew. It's better to start out at a lower level and then progress. And again with pregnancy, the main thing is keep moving, keep active, moderate activity throughout the week and don't overdo it. You want to make sure you're hitting the whole body, shoulders are important there. Attached to your arms are going to be lifting the baby, carrying the baby and same thing with shoulders, posture opening up, having that strength, whether you're doing an overhitch shoulder press or incorporating other shoulder exercises as well. We're going to wrap up today's workout with a super set of arms. And we're going to do about three sets of each exercise, 10 to 15 reps. So again, being in my third trimester, I've modified to seated against my don't have any pulling. When you're seated on this stability ball, shoulders are stacked over the hips, knees are over the ankles. And I'm going to take my palms up to the ceiling and out to the corners of the rub. And again, I'm going to drop right into my triceps. So I'm going to go a little bit heavier with an overhead extension here, bringing the weight up and over. And I want to make sure my hands are positioned right. So I have my thumbs crossed and back. Elbows are in tight by the forehead, squeezing up at the top. That's my super set. So that's one set. Now I'm going to take a break, one to two minutes or whatever you need, and then we'll continue on with the second set. The mindset from this whole workout and this video and everything that I have to share is that self-care is the best health care. And you control your destiny, you control your health, you control your child's health. And so every woman comes into pregnancy at different places. And so we all have a choice on what we want to do or what we don't want to do. There's plenty of days where I've rusted from the gym and I've been fine with that. And that's the one thing I can say is that take care of yourself. And the huge part of taking care of yourself isn't just working out, but it's also resting. Well, that's it for my mommy to be approved workout. Hopefully you learn something new. If you have any questions about today's workout or anything, health and fitness related, please feel free to contact me on body space under username to call Lonear. As always, our bodybuilding.com family is committed to improve and change lives for the better. So no matter what stage of life you're in, be sure to check out Bodybuilding.com for videos and articles to help you no matter what your goal is.

ho... Many aspects of energy we use is that fun!

Rolling, rolling. Day three, interview tick one. You don't understand the benefits of being a normal person, so you look at someone like me. When you're 290, it's very difficult to do a lot of things. You have to be, I think, a little crazy. You're asking me if I get sick of being a bodybuilder never. I mean, I love lifting weights, that's what I do. Come on, back time for Baby Boy. Get a wash around your bum. I'm the greatest bodybuilder ever. But I never looked at myself and said, I'm so obsessed. Because you always want to be better. You always want to better physique. Everyone interrupts his workout. But Jay has never turned one person down ever. Are you at your 16-time a day to build a plan? Dad's dead. I'm going to get a wash around my house. Yeah, you're water-mind-out. But the whole mind-out.

As many of you know, I'm a power lifter and a bodybuilder. In today's workout, I'm going to start out with a main lift, squat, and then I'm going to progress to some accessory work for arms and calves. I'm going to use blood flow restriction training in order to target those areas. I like to use blood flow restriction because it enables me to get a lot of volume and muscle stimulation in without taxing my joints too much or detracting from my main lifts. So now we're going to get started with this workout, starting out with squat. So today I'll be doing four sets of six reps and I'll be taking about anywhere from 5 to 10 minutes of rest between each set. Now I'm not going to talk about how I actually perform squats today. If you want to know more about how I recommend performing squats for you and your body types specifically, check out the how to squat video tutorial I provided on the page below. I kind of go through the same sort of progression when I squat because I have the same and telling me I get my music on, then I put my belt on and make sure everything's in position where I want it. One is your first. Then when I get to the bar I'm going through my checklist, breathe brace. Take the bar out, three step walk out, get in position, breathe and brace, push your hips back, push your knees out. All those things I go through and it just leads to a more repeatable outcome. Don't just get in there and start going. Think about what you're actually going to do. Think about how you're going to do it. What do you want to accomplish with that workout? This evening, isn't it? I'm such a slow squatter. I'll do one of the people like, oh, he maybe have one more left. Two, six more. A lot of people will think that, oh, you squat, 600 plus pounds, 400, 400, 500, and easy. It's not easy. It still feels heavy. The difference is my focus. Many people believe that taking longer rest cuts down a muscle stimulation. But that's not necessarily the case. Time under tension is cumulative. So even though I'm taking long rest, my time under tension for all the sets combined is still going to be similar. And by taking longer rest, I enable myself to use more weight and do it more safely. There's definitely benefits to shorter rest periods. However, if you're going to do that, I prefer doing that when you're using lighter weight or not using compound exercise. This is how you should be breathing. If you're breathing correctly, tell your breathe afterwards. When I go training a different gym, sometimes it can be a little bit harder. Because I'm out of my element. It's a little bit different. But it's good training too, because on meat day, you're going to be at a different place. What is your profession? And I train with a lot of people. So I'm used to having a lot of people watch me when I lift. So when I go to a meat, it doesn't affect me. Not over. Not over till you win. Well, more round. Not always about killing it when you feel good, some days about grinding when you feel terrible. One more round. Action. Twist the tried. Round one down. Blood flow restriction coming up next. So why would we want to do blood flow restriction? Is it better than regular training? Is it worse than regular training? The research suggests that blood flow restriction is basically as good as the normal heavy training. So people say, well, why would you do it? Well, the reason you'd want to do blood flow restriction is you can use much less weight. You can use really light weights and still get the same hypertrophy effects as you can with heavy weights. So obviously, for somebody like me who's doing heavy squats, heavy bench, heavy dead lifts, and is pretty destroyed by the time they get through their main lifts. Something like blood flow restriction, why would I have to load up my joints again with as much weight is very beneficial. For blood flow restriction, you're going to wrap proximal to your limb. So any upper body work you're always going to wrap at the top of the arm. For any lower body work you're always going to wrap at the top of the thigh. Regardless of what you're working, for upper body work, I prefer a smaller cuff like a crickly medical attorney. There's some scientific evidence that the area that the cuff covers does not get the benefits from BFR. So you want as minimal a cuff as you can get for a smaller limb. For lower body which is a bigger limb, you can have a wider cuff like an e-rap, which is well-being used for caps. A lot of people will ask, well, how tight should I wrap? It depends on the cuff you're using and it depends on how wide the cuff is, but in general, if I'm using knee wraps for a lower limb, I'll wrap about a 7 out of 10. For arms when I'm using prickly medical attorney, it's because they're so thin, I'm pulling them to about a 9 out of 10. So for Bysept Curls, we're going to start with about 20% of my 1-repped max. To be about 15 pounds, we'll do 2 clusters of 4 sets each cluster. The cuff stay on for the entire cluster of 4 sets. After it's done, I'll take it off, rest, and then put it back on before the second cluster. The 4 sets of each cluster will go like this. 30 reps on the first set. 15 reps for each set afterwards. And the rest, 30 seconds between each set. One thing to point out is you should have some discomfort while you're lifting. You'll have a really painful pump. But if you're in pain before you start the exercise, it's likely that the wraps are too tight. Now, we recommend taking them off to rerapping. Another way to know if the wraps are too tight or the way to too heavy is if you can't complete the repetitions. If you're using a legitimate 20% of your 1-repped max and you can't complete the sets of 30, 15, 15, 15, 15. The wraps are too tight. Or you're over-restimating your 1-repped max. That was cluster number one we just finished. I'm going to take a minute, minute and a half, two minutes. That my beloved load overlise and I'll go back in for cluster number two. One of the things you're going to notice with love flow restriction. If you're doing it right, by the end, it's going to be a ridiculous pump. Well, here me say that and think I'm speaking in hyperbole, but I'm not. If you've ever done BFR, you know this. It's definitely very challenging from just a pain tolerance aspect because the pump becomes very painful. There should be some tightness, some discomfort, you'll feel a fluid shift, but make sure you're not in pain before the exercise. But the likelihood that you will be in pain during the exercise is pretty high. I'm going to take my time. Make sure I've got him in the right spot. Make sure they're about both equal tightness. Don't go into blood flow restriction trying to use as heavy as a load as you can. Make sure it's like make sure you can complete the reps and get the volume in. If you can go heavier and keep good form and keep good cadence, then that's fine. But make sure you're not overdoing it in terms of weight or how tight the wraps are. Let's talk about mechanisms. How does it actually work? I don't want to say anything has actually been shown to be the mechanism. But one of the proposed mechanisms is cellular swelling. When you do blood flow restriction training, you will feel a fluid shift and you put the cuff on it. And they've actually shown that you can get about 20% cellular swelling from blood flow restriction training. And that cellular swelling may be driving increases in muscle protein synthesis. There's some data to indicate that a hydrated cell is swallowed cell is an antibiotics cell. So we just finished up BFR for biceps. Now we're moving on to triceps. It's going to be the same wraps, the same reps, the same sets and the same rest. So we're doing cable tricep press downs. Another possible mechanism is targeting of type 2 fibers. Like trying to get my shirt under the wrap, otherwise it gets a little bit abrasive on your arm, but it doesn't have to be under the wrap. Typically your fibers are recruited in order. So your body will recruit your slow twitch, smaller fibers first. And as a weight gets heavier and heavier as you approach failure, it will start recruiting in immediate fibers and then your finally will recruit fast twitch heavy fibers. But blood flow restriction does by tricking up blood flow, it seems to pre-exhaust the type 1 slow twitch fibers. And you go right into stimulating the type 2 fibers. So you get a preferential stimulation of those type 2 fast twitch big potential growth fibers. Another possible mechanism for blood flow restriction is metabolic bipronic accumulation. There's actually some research to suggest that things like lactate, hydrogen, iodic humiliation, they actually may drive animal-accignally. But when you're a stricting blood flow, normally a lot of those metabolites would for lack of a better term be washed out of the muscle. But by a restricting blood flow, the venius return, they're staying in that area. That's one round down, and a rest of it or two, go back for the second round. What seems to make a big difference is the intrinsic growth factors within the muscle. So your muscle actually releases its own IGF1 in response to training. That can interact with receptors on the muscle to possibly drive growth. All right, time for round two. Well, when you are doing BFR, again by holding those metabolites in that area, perhaps you're giving those animal-accorn-mones that you're muscle-releases a greater opportunity to interact with those receptors and create more growth. One thing I do is I'm always trying to check my time. That takes me to complete a set because if it takes me much less time during one set, it means I was probably rushing. So I always like to make sure my sets are pretty consistent time-wise. I want to emphasize that blood flow restriction is not better than heavy training, but it seems to get about the same results. But again, this has merit for not only for power lifters who want to do some hypertrophy work like myself, but if you have an injury where you can't lift heavy, it's an X-Lift tool. And that is a wrap for arms. Now we're going to move on to calves. One thing you need to keep in mind with blood flow restriction for your limbs is you're going to wrap the same spot regardless of whether you're doing blood flow restriction for calves, quads, or hamstrings. You're going to wrap proximal to the limb. So as high on your leg as you possibly can, I like to use knee wraps. They're cheap and easy to use. Another good bit of people that it could be beneficial for is people who travel a lot. So a lot of times we have some of the new travels, they can't make it to a regular agenda. They just have a hotel in the gym that only goes up to 20 pound dumbbells. So it creates a lot more opportunities for you to get more sessions and create more growth. It also seems to cause a little bit less muscle damage than regular training, but again, you can recover a little bit faster from it and do more sessions possibly to create more growth. That's fun. We actually feel your heart rate go up because even in a short limb, like a calf, your body is working hard and are trying to get that venius return to the heart. So your heart rate actually increases just from blood flow restriction. So one more round of BFR and that's a wrap. Pun intended. You can find me on body space on the pontically.com forums or you can find me on Twitter at more videos articles and other great content from myself and other great contributors keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

I might be petite, but I'm still a badass. I grew up playing hockey and I've spent the last 10 years in the gym, building lean, sexy, muscle. You think I lift like a girl? I'll take that as a compliment. I'm Katie Chenwa. Today's workout I designed specifically for you using minimally equipment and minimal space. So if you're in college, it's great for your dorm room, it's great if you're out of college for an apartment workout. It's primarily for your lower body and it's going to take you about 18 minutes. For today's lower body circuit workout, you're going to be doing a total of 7 exercises. For each exercise you're going to be working out for 30 seconds with a 20 second rest in between each. You're going to be between each round of 3 rounds. You're going to be doing a 1 minute while sit to rest. Before you start, make sure you have a timer. I like to use my phone because I always have my phone with me. So just make sure you set it right where you can see it. The first exercise we're going to do is mountain climbers. It's a great warm-up. It targets your abs, your shoulders. Pretty much everything. So it's going to get your heart rate up immediately. Second exercise is your move squats. As you can see, I'm using weight plates. The reason why is because if you don't have weights, you can use your schoolbooks. History books are typically really big. So just grab your history book. It's going to be about 10 pounds. And then just make sure that you're squeezing your glutes at the top so that you hit not only your quads, but also your glutes. The next exercise is side lunges. I typically use a little bit lighter weight because it's a single leg exercise. So you're going to do 15 seconds for your right leg and 15 seconds for your left leg. It's going to target your glutes and your quads. The next exercise is alternating lung jumps. Now just in case your heart rate dropped a little bit, we throw these in here to shoot it back up. You're going to be doing basically lunges, shooting up and jumping in between. You want to get the full extension when you do jump so that you can hit your glutes just a little bit more. The next one you're going to do is place with a twist. This is a core exercise. We're going to be doing twisting and it's going to target mostly your obliques. The next exercise is split crunches. That's one of the more difficult exercises in my opinion. I think it's great. You just switch at 15 second marks. You do 15 seconds for your right, 15 seconds for your left. To wrap up your circuit, you're going to be doing a one minute while sit. You're going to be filling this in your quads, your hammies, your glutes. Pretty much everywhere in your lower body. This is going to be the only resting point that you get. Before you start your next round. So that concludes our lower body circuit workout that I designed for you. Remember, it's one of two workouts. If you want to find the upper body workout, check the link below. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on BodyStakes at Chung-Law, or you can find anywhere else Katie Chung-Law. For more videos and content like this, make sure to come back to bodybuilding.com.

Back the bar across the back of your shoulders holding it with both hands. Arch your back and keep your chest and head up. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and step forward about two feet with your right leg. Your left foot should remain stationary as you lower your upper body down. Focus on maintaining your balance and keep your torso upright as you lower your hips. Make sure to keep your knee from bending forward past your toes as you come down. Now using mainly the heel of your foot, exhale and push upward, returning slowly to the starting position.

I just the machine to fit your height and life face down. The pad of the lever should be on the back of your legs a couple inches under your calves. Keep your torso flat on the bench and ensure your legs are fully stretched. Now grab the side handles of the machine and position your toes straight. This will be your starting position. Exhale and curl your legs up as far as possible without lifting your upper legs from the pad. Once you reach the fully contracted position hold for a brief moment then inhale and bring the legs back to the starting position.

Life face down on the pad and grab the handles with your upper chest at the top of the pad. Lift the bar off the rack and extend your arms in front of you. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and slowly pull the weight upward. Keep your arms close to your torso and squeeze your back at the top of the movement. Be sure to keep your upper body on the pad at all times and do not use your biceps to lift the weight. After holding the top contracted position for a brief moment, inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to the starting position.

My name is Brooke Jaggan. I'm 19 years old. I'm from Prospect Connecticut. I currently attend the University of Connecticut and I am an aspiring bikini competitor and I'm basically doing this so that I can be relatable to people and try to show them how you start off because usually all UC is the end so I'm just trying to show them like the beginning and the journey because that's the most important part. I've never challenged myself physically with my body ever. I mean I'm academically I've challenged myself so I decided to do something a little extreme because I'd always be like all I'll lose a couple of pounds with a couple pounds. It just started off with one in the loose weight and then another big thing was I wanted to gain confidence Because when I look in the mirror I just be like yeah, I'm okay with my body but I don't like that part of that part and I would just you know kind of pick myself apart and it would bring my confidence I needed to do something for myself to I wanted to just be proud of something and to really know that I put you know time and effort into something My trainer is Tiana Tau. We have a pretty close bond and you know she out first, you know she's my trainer She's not supposed to be my friend. I've never had a trainer before so that was really hard for me to adjust to you know having someone on your back Telling you go hard or faster. Let's go. Let's go. I'm just like I felt like I wasn't good enough I tortured this girl. Let me tell you two hours a car to you a day weight training Six meals a day she's eating every two hours. So I used to work out it by myself without a trainer You stay in your comfort zone and it's easy to do that because you know you think you're pushing yourself and you're sweating so much But you're really not pushing yourself out of your comfort zone. There were a lot a lot a lot a lot of tears Less to add more tears. You're gonna feel like you can't do it And that's when your mind kicks in because when you're in the gym, it's all mindset the whole entire thing So you can come in here and be the strongest person, but if you think you can't do something you're not gonna do it That's the main thing that was holding me back. I would literally wake up in the morning Be like oh my god. I have to go train today. It's been a journey, but she said great so far. I'm really proud of her When my mind is set and my mind is clear. I'm good. So I came into the gym and Pretty sure it was a shoulder day that day and I was just going through the workout just going and she's like you cannot complain You're not, um, arguing with me. You're not complaining. You're not stopping and you just have to keep going with everything and You know that workout was great. When you push yourself out of your comfort zone and you succeed in doing that It's like you have no boundaries. You want to come back to the gym and seeing how far you can push the envelope My dad used to be a bodybuilder when he was about my age. My mom owns her own fitness studio So it's like my family is just around it all the time and I would be the last person to ever And anyone in my family to ever do this because you know, I'm the girl that you know, he says much as she wants whenever she wants And I'm just like, oh, I'll just work it off later and I actually walked in on her eating pizza and wings with her friends She was mid by she had a bunch of like finished wings on her plate and she had pizza on her plate and her friends Like that her plate right there and I was like, oh dear Lord. I weigh it broken and I'm like, hey, what did you eat last night? She's like, oh, last night. I had fried lobster, like, luck next to cheese, a burger fries, ice cream and soda And I'm like, you had all that in one sitting and she's like, yeah, and I'm like, oh my god I'm like, oh my god, I'm like, you didn't do how am I going to change its skills eating habits I'm studying nutritional sciences in school. I want to become a registered dietitian Things that I'm learning in school, it's sure they make perfect sense I mean like, if everyone ate the way they're supposed to eat all of these super models You know, but we're not and people don't do that and people have mental, like mental blocks And they need to get through them people have psychological things going on that also had to be taken into account So the fact that I'm doing this I can really relate to someone The things I'm learning in school plus this is just like the total package of what a nutritionist It's supposed to be like relatable and knowledgeable and like experience You know, I thought I was going to have a worse time with the food than with the workout But it ended up being flat-flopped When I arrived at the Olympia, I didn't know what to expect I was never been to a show. I've never, I only thought the only category that was was bodybuilding I didn't even know, I'm telling about my trainer that there was even other divisions So I'm walking around the meatfield and beans and I run into Nicole Negrani I didn't realize the ages of people When you look at someone, like, you know, they're age So I'm figuring this girl's like, wilds in the meat like mid-20s maybe She's like, my age in college, like pre-med, doing crazy things in school And she won the Olympia last year by the way Because in the beginning, I'm like, how am I going to go to school? Do this. You have a life. I was just like, no one does this This is crazy But then I met her and she's like, no, if you prioritize your time Go to the gym between classes, cook all your meals in the dorm, bring them with you to class and you're fine And I'm just like, you make it sound so easy She just really want, she wanted to help me She wasn't just like, yeah, well, I'm already the best So I'm not telling you my secrets, no, like she was very relatable And that's what I like because a lot of other people that I also I got to talk to feel like I got to talk to Nicole Wilkins I got to talk to a whole bunch of people And they just wanted to help, they wanted to just spread like wellness to everyone And like that's what I wanted to do too, so it's very welcoming Experience for me, it was just a huge eye opener to like the possibilities I have my first competition tomorrow on Saturday and I'm not really sure what to expect Because I can only prepare myself so much After that show is done, I would like to enter another show in the near future I want to be able to do the same thing I'm doing But, you know, on my own time, I want to be able to have, you know, not work out for three hours a day I want to be able to, you know, work out for one hour a day I keep all my eating habits the same and just get my body to where I want it to be And my own time because I just want to be the optimal version of myself She's been working so hard last five weeks I just can't wait for her whole package to come together Her friends are feeling like going to be there It's going to be so exciting and it's our first show man Like the first show is like you never forget your first show, you know So I'm excited They're the most proud of me, obviously, because they're my parents And I actually got my mom to enter a show Because she's always wanted to, you know, do something She wasn't, you know, she was always, if you, whether she wanted to do it She'd call me, I'm going to go, if you're my inspiration I entered the show and I was like, what? She's always been my inspiration Like I've always looked at my mom I always wanted to be as good as she was my mom And for her to say that she looks up to me, I'm just like, wait, what? Like, you want to be like me? And she's like, oh, I'm getting a emotional talk to her To fact that I inspired my mom to do something like with fitness Like, awesome. This is what they wanted me to do all along So, yeah, I don't know, it feels good Shooting this is obviously like the best way to get to people Because I'm gonna get to a whole bunch of people at one time But, you know, honestly, if I get to one person at a time And like, really hit home with someone And like, just get them to go to the gym Or get them to go eat to help me meal like, I'll be good I'm most proud of the way I'm a churn You know, the gluesing way I've lost Almost 12 pounds in five weeks. I mean, that's awesome But, to me, the most valuable thing is the way that I've grown on the inside And I think that it was really vital for me to do that Because, no, I've been sheltered and my whole life, my parents You know, wanted to keep me under the perfect little roof You know, now that I'm out and, you know, by myself and the world Like, you know, things are happening like, oh, we've got to call my mom Dad, no, like, I need a handle as by myself So, I'm definitely learning how to handle situations Be more mature, so that's the most valuable thing I've got on with us I'm Brooke Dragon and I'm really excited that I can, you know, get my story out there And start inspiring other people and getting them motivated And you guys can find me on body space And for more information, check out bodybuilding.com

Alright, so this is going to be very different from any of the episodes we filmed over the last few weeks. This is my reflection week. A lot of hard work has gone into training for the last three months from my first ever running program to where we are, which is a week out from Berlin. 929, very important day, 26 miles, my first attempt at it. Today I'm going to kind of break down a little bit of reflecting as opposed to going over what I did this week, but also show you guys all the things that I'm bringing with me to Berlin. Some tips that I have for my coaches that I can give to you hopefully towards your first marathon. So first things first, the cloud boom strikes. I absolutely love these shoes. I did my first test in them last week and they are phenomenal. I compared them a lot to the echoes. I think what they have in common is that they're light carbon fiber. I think what makes them a little better for me is that they're just a little bigger. The echoes are really thin and they feel so low to the ground. I love the echoes from my half marathons. I think they are the perfect distance for that. But I'm really, really impressed with what on is done, especially with these cloud boom strikes. I also love the inside of these shoes are phenomenal. So they have this really nice inner cushion mesh area right here that has been great. No kind of like blisters or pain or discomfort inside the area that I was expecting. So very, very happy with these. These at once again are the on cloud boom strikes. Big win for me. There's the only thing wrong with this shoe. These laces on if you watch this, just not the best. They come apart almost every other mile. So I was influenced by a friend of mine, Josh Vernon, to get these, which are a cataropy. There are no Thai shoelaces. He said that these are the best ones to get. My friend keep knows recommended these. You can tuck them, you can hide them or you can leave them. I love how simple that is. Tuck, hide, leave. Next thing I'm using for the marathon is just this little running belt. My buddy Alphonse from on got me this and I'm really excited to use it. Tons of compartments just for my jails. So excited. I'm not going to bring a water bottle with me. I'm actually going to just use the water stations that are on the course, which is newer for me. But I think probably the best just in regards to pacing on my run and all that kind of good stuff. So going to be using just the belt, empty and hat. These came out awesome. These are running hats that drop on a topper fifth, which is super exciting. MTM store. It's coming soon. We'll do a whole new bodybuilding. We've got to get some MTM bodybuilding stuff together. But more than miles, which is a super important part of my life. And running throughout this year has changed my life a lot. And I'll go into that in just a second. It's also on this is our more than miles penny. This came out great. So shout out to the Reflesse guys, Danny, Andy, and Pam. Can I thank you guys enough? But not least, I got this sent to me about a week ago from their PR team. I was supposed to go to an event, but I was on set that day with light sports. So they were like, hey, just come over to the office and try them. My buddy Christian who I trust a ton, he's an ultra marathon runner, was like, these are phenomenal. So this is them dimmed all the way. If I move my finger, I can increase the shade 10. Lighter, darker, lighter, darker. So I am really excited to be wearing these during the marathon. And also I'm going to play some music real quick because this thing can bump. So this isn't even full volume. Bumping. Shades on, shades off. Alright, I'm going to stop, but they are super cool. And it makes me even more excited to run with these because they're going to solve all the problems. I don't need headphones. That'll be falling all the time. I did a run with them last week and they felt great. I felt like I was zoomed. So, bringing these to Berlin. Like I said in the beginning of this video, this isn't going to be a video where you see the highlights of my week. This is going to be a video where I sit down and I talk to you about how nervous I am. And how excited I am and how grateful I am that I have the opportunity to run this marathon. I've been saying this for the last two weeks, but I don't get to do anything. I don't got to run this marathon. I get the opportunity to run this marathon. And I just have been really, really lucky that a lot of good people along the way have been supporting me. And I cannot thank them enough for that. It's been a wonderful training process with a lot of love. The affirmations that I get through DM all the time are the reason why I keep doing this is because there's a lot of people out there who are on the fence who might want to start their running journey. And they, you know, maybe see one of my videos and they're like, oh, you know, maybe it is more approachable than I think. So, that's the goal with all of this is to make running approachable for all because I was terrified for a long time about getting into the running community. So I met, you know, my business partner outpods who, you know, really changed my scope of what running is and made it more community focused and more about battling through whatever you might be going through through these 26 miles. And this is also for still I run, right? We got an incredible 501c3 that I'm working with that. AIDS and assist people who are going through grief loss and more with run coaches to run marathons to work through the mental health battles are facing. And I think that's something that I haven't been able to vocalize on here enough, but like there's power in that. There's power in clarity through movement, which is our mission statement at more than miles is clarity through movements, everything's made. So, hopefully this marathon journey is inspiring you to start. I think what I cannot think bodybuilding.com enough for is holding me accountable to document this, right? To east into Daniel, to carry to the entire team like they, they keep me accountable. They check in on me weekly, they ask me how I'm doing. They're not just a brand that reaches out and says, alright, where's the video to live for? They're asking me. I get on calls with east and east and if you get to, you know, scroll back and watch us. He genuinely wants me to do well. And he takes time out of his day in the unscheduled meetings that we have to check in, same thing with carry, same thing with Danielle. So, to the bodybuilding.com team, thank you for allowing me to be a part of this journey, but also holding me accountable to continue this journey and not just stop. So, next time you see me, it's going to be in Berlin and after the marathon. So, we got a lot of travel coming up. We got a lot of exciting moments, but I want to look in this camera and thank you for being a part of this journey. Thank you for being with me throughout these last few weeks and getting to know my family, my network, my work, me and hopefully you continue to start your running journey, whichever formula it is. So, the person running their first 5K, so running the marathon, you are enough and I cannot wait to see what we all do. So, next time you see me, I'll be in Berlin, I'll be 26 miles down and we're going to celebrate.

So our next exercise will be the crunch. The crunch is something that everyone feels they absolutely have down. Everyone says, oh man, I know the crunch is an easy one, but it is probably the exercise I see screwed up the most in the gym to be quite honest. It's actually a very advanced movement and I rarely see it done properly without compromising safety, health or your neck or your spine. So I'm going to get down there and show you what we see basically in daily basis. So I'm going to bend my legs, flat back position. So people get down in the mat. They think they go to do some crunches. They put their hands behind their head and they know they got to get a lot of crunches because if I do 500 crunches that means I'm going to be ripped, so I'm going to go here. And I didn't feel anything and not only that, but I'm compromising several different joints of my body and I'm actually wasting my time. So what I'd rather see is, you know, heels down, push your back into the mat, spread your hands. Pulling, I prefer your hands not to be even on the back of your neck more to the side. So what I have here is the pubic bone, the zipoid process and all I'm going to do is shorten those lines. As a matter of fact, you're probably not going to see too much movement. It's going to be minimal and what you see is a basic contraction within my abdomen. So I'm here. I come up, squeeze hole, shorten those lines, down slowly. Come up, squeeze hole, down slowly. Now I'm going to have curge it down here and I'm going to point some things out. So curge it, come on down. So curge pushes hands behind his head and then he slides into the side, it's called light fingertips. He's going to keep his elbows open. His feet are in the ground, bring his knees in a little bit right there. So he doesn't have to push his back into the ground. That's not necessary. He has a little bit of curge in his spine, there that's fine. He's going to lift up into my hand, wait a second. So he's think of it like this. This is the zipoid process, the pubic bone, there's a line there. He's going to try to shorten those two lines. He doesn't have to come up too high. What you're going to see from the side here is very little movement. That's all he needs, because his attention is to work his abdomen, not to do a full body rocker roll, not to pull on his neck, not to have his elbows come in. He's elbows open to work the abdomen and have a little bit of concentric pull here. So he's going to squeeze and then come back down. So come up, squeeze, hold it and then come back down. He has great control. He lets it all be back out. His elbows remain open. He's not pulling on his neck. Come up, shorten that line from the zipoid process, squeeze, hold it down slow. Really slow. Really the concentric and knee, he's actually the same speed. So he comes up, takes about two seconds. One, two, hold, one, two, let it out, one, two. That's it. He has great control. Come up, hold it. His elbows aren't coming in. He's not jerking or pulling on his neck. He's not compromising in the safety of his neck. There's no flex in there. He's actually elevating his chest. He's not rolling forward into his knees. Notice how you don't see his feet, his heels, his knees moving in and out. The ABADduction, he's actually just pulling up with his abdomen is doing all the work. So that's what it looks like when your abdomen does all the work. Now, if you want to manipulate your entire body, you do something else. That's fine. We just understand that that's what you're actually accomplishing. His intention is to work his abdomen and that's what he's doing here. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, admark, magnum, Facebook or my body space, admark magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

So the first exercise we have is a squat. Kurt's going to help us out and he's going to go through the exercise with us. The reason we chose the squat is because it's one of the most popular exercises in the gym. And one of the exercises is that there's a lot of different beliefs around the squat. IE asked the grass, goes lowest possible. Let's see the only thing that matters. If you quarter squat at a half squat, it's wrong in your attempt. There's a lot of different reasons that someone may do those things that he's going to go over those things today. So first I want everyone to see the bar. The height of the bar, the curve walks over to the bar. You see the height of the bar here. I don't want Kurt to be on his tip. He toes to pull the bar off the rack, but I don't want extreme flexion in his knees to get under that bar. So this is perfect for him. I want him squat down on the knee, that bar. He's set it up on his shoulders, then I want to take the bar off the rack. Take your time. Okay. So we'll walk away from the rack a little bit more, Kurt. Set your feet up. So I want Kurt to spread his feet. So he has a nice strong base. His feet and his heel is going to be underneath his armpits. It may be a tad bit wider, so it's a brief feature a little bit more. So a few things going on with the squat. Now pay attention to the length of his femur. It's from here, till about here. So he has a pretty long femur. So he's already going to have more work. The primary joint axis point is going to be his hip. He's going to sink back into the squat. When he sinks back into it, he's going to have the weight distributed to his heels. He's going to pull his toes up to the top of his knee. And to understand that, we're going to keep an eye on this final flexion here or the bat that pelvic tilt rather. So as soon as this almost starts to round and he loses this flat back position, that's his end range. Anything other than that, he's compromising his health and his safety in his spinal health. So keep an eye on that. So I want you to sink back into the squat. Take three seconds on the way down. One, two, three, hold it. Look where he is. He looks pretty good there. Stand back up. Now we're going to keep an eye on that lower back here and we're going to see if anything happens. If he starts to round his back to achieve more range of motion. Keep back into it. Take your time. Take your time. Sink a little bit more. A little bit more. Right there. Stop. The CLE starts to have that tilt. We've gone too far. We're going to cover my health and safety. Stand back up. So I want you to do five more. I want you to take your time. I want you to keep an eye on a few other things here. So watch the knee. So the amount of shear in the force going through his knee cap. If he was to put all the weight and distribute that weight into his toes, he'd have all that force going through his bat. We call the significant amount of shear to opposing forces moving in different directions, working against each other. Now if he does that, you know, it's dangerous. She is not necessarily a bad thing, but repetitive belts of shear can be a very awful thing. So squat again, please, Kurt. Think into it. St. Down, sink down, hold it and back up. Now he may not be about 90, but he's darn close. And that's good for him. Now there's certainly ways that he can, you know, increase his range of motion to mobility. What we want to do is to increase mobility. We want to be a stable structure. And then we can load more weight. Don't ever use weight on the bar to acquire more range of motion. If he puts 135 on there, that weight is going to push him down into the ground. If we're using the weight as an aid to acquire more range of motion, we're certainly compromising safety. Be very careful of what you're doing and what your attention is. If someone says get your ass to the ground and get your ass to the ground by any needs necessary, that is not healthy. I don't care what program it's on, what philosophy it is. Scientifically, you are going to crush your lower back. Do it again, Kurt, please. St. Back into it. St. St. St. St. right there. Stop. You feel like her? Stand back up. Now I want to talk about the primary movement here, which is that hit movement. He's going to sink back into it when he stands up. He's going to push his hips to the front, this being the front, Kurt. So we'll sink back into it. One, two, three. Now watch the movement. Let's hit hip back and pull hips forward. Stand up. Pull hips forward. See, it's a primary hip movement. Now he's going to lengthen his hamstring. He gets into his quads there. But there's a lot of hip activity there. Strong hip, then I can develop the quads. So I want to talk forward and put that bar down. Actually, I want you to do that again. Get in the knee, please. Stand up. So when he walks forward to rack the bar, I want him to walk all the way in to the pillar of the rack. Now bend your legs. That's fine. Okay. So a few things to keep in mind. Your range, my range, Kurt's range is going to be different from everyone else's range. Don't everybody into the fact that you must go lower. That's merely someone's belief that was thrown on a bunch of other people. If you want to go lower, then put the work in. Do mobility activities and you will be able to go lower. It takes work to get there. There's not one way to squat. There are a thousand different ways to squat. Pay attention to what is your goal and what is your intention. And then once you have that down, you can know where and how to take the little steps to get there. Okay. Don't look to the left and look to the right and gym. Say, he's squatting 500 pounds. So I have to do that. Don't turn your squat into a modified good morning where you're just crushing your spine. Pay attention to what you need to do and what you want to achieve. You won't put yourself in a compromise position. You'll be in a safe position and you build a strong base to progress for the future. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, at Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So our next exercise is going to be the Boroughville curl. The Boroughville curl is also one of the most popular exercise in the training facility or fitness center. You know, I see different ways this can be done. You know, I'm going to demonstrate the way I see it. And then I'm going to demonstrate the way I could be most effective. So I often see hairs on the borough. It's curling. And then they start to fatigue. So it might take a little bit of rest. And then they start to incorporate a little bit more hip, which this is actually nothing wrong with this. If you're trying to do a lower back extension, um, now I'm going to demonstrate how it can be most effective. So hands on the borough inside of mine. So Chris going to place the camera for a second. He's going to place his hands just outside his hips and his quads to slide your hands out a little bit more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more. Good. So now turn face me. So I want you to see something here. So what we're paying attention to is the length from basically his elbow to that curl. So the length of that amount of work is that's being done. So if he curls up, what I want you to do is I want you to curl up and I want this elbow to slide behind you as you curl. Let it out. Now as you curl, do this number. Okay. Now see, hold it there. Now see where his elbow is. See how much work is here. See the length. Call the moment arm. Let it back out. Now watch what happens. Now if he sits his elbow a little bit more in front of his body. I wasn't front right there. Now pin your elbow is not necessarily into your side, but don't let him move. Now curl up. Now look how long the moment arm is. You've increased the length before this will work. So already it's harder. Now I want you to pay attention and let it out. So if you slide your elbow in front a little bit more than your legs, take pressure up the lower back. Slide your elbow in front, slightly. That's fine. Now breathe up. Notice how much work. Now I want you to pay attention to something else. Let it out slow. Let it all away out. So he's letting the bar out. Now I want you to let the bar out of the exhaust from the full extension. Now pay attention to the way the force is. So the force is where it's in his hands. The force vector, which is the hour where the force is pointing to, is down. When he curls it up, watch where my hands simulate where the force is. Just pay attention to my hands. I want you to curl it all the way up to here. Okay. Curl it all the way up. This force, this force, this force. Now where's the force? Now there's no force. So from here to here there is no force. Right? Very interesting. So basically if you want to curl and you want it to be really hard. Curl it up. Curl it up. Curl it up. Stop right there. Let it back out. Now I want you to stop a little bit before there. Come on. Stop. That's where the most force is present right there. So he doesn't really have to go up there. He can go all the way up if he wants to rest. So if you want to rest, you want to make it easy. Go all the way up. You're not getting anything up there. Now letting it out when he's lengthening that's different. He's elongating the muscles, let it out, let it out, let it out. Now he can work some length to get that contraction. But bring it up. I would stop right here. Hold it and let it back out. Now I'm going to ask her, why don't you do the full rep slow and control manner. Bring it all the way up. It's hard. Now it gets easier right? Now it gets easier. So now he's getting a rest. Now he had him do a set of 10 and he would stop with the force completely changes. If pointed down, bring it up slowly. Now he's got a lot of force. Bring it up. Bring it up. Bring it up. A lot of force. A lot of force. It's gone. So let it out a little bit. I would stop right about there. Let it back down. So do a set of 10 where you come into that spot that we declared our position here. Good hold it back down. That's it. So really focused on squeezing your bicep back down. Now what I want you to do keep going. I want him to try to maintain tension on his bicep as he lets it out. So typically we get the concentric movement, then the eccentric, the lengthening. On the eccentric motion, he's going to really try to squeeze in maintain tension within his bicep as he lets it out which is completely changing everything. Bring it up. Squeeze hold it and let it out and maintain tension. So let it out. Bring it back up. Let it back out. Do eight more like that. Notice where his elbows are in front of his body so there's more work in the moment. It's only a 40 pound dumbbell and he's already getting crushed. If his elbow floats behind, he's shorn it, he's making it easier. Notice how he's not rocking his entire body. He hasn't even done 10 yet and he's already tired. So look, he's not rocking his whole body. He's not doing a lower back activity. All the focus, the primary focus is on his bicep. Notice there's no flexion in the wrist. His not curdling his wrist in and out. His wrist position is locked. He's squeezing and what you can't see but he's working hard to do. He's trying to maintain it as bicep as he lets it out. Do two more. Squeeze hold it. Let it back out. Keep your head in one position. Look straight. Straight. Let it back out. All the way out. One more. Squeeze hold it. Now I'll maintain tension. Let it all the way back out. Okay. Bend your legs with the board down. Nice job. What do you think? My arms are shot. So notice his elbow is not floating behind him. He's not showing it's shortening that moment arm. He's getting a lot of range there, which means it's more work present from the primary joint X point, which is elbow. Don't forget that muscles are joint managers. So your elbow is not necessarily one single joint. There are joint routine ur elbow, but this is the primary joint area being worked. The bicep is working that joint. It's manipulating that joint. His wrists are not flex. He has a lot of a long moment arm. He's not curling his back. He's not curling his wrist. There's no flexion. He's looking straight ahead. He's trying to maintain tension. His bicep is squeezing tight. Getting the concert. But as he lets it out, he's trying to maintain tension. He's not curling it up and just saying, okay rest. Curl it up and rest. He's curling it up. And then he's trying to maintain. And he's maintaining great control. Control is everything. Nice job. Thank you. Thank you. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, ad mark, magnum, or Facebook or my body space, ad mark, magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So our next exercise will be the lap pull down. The lap pull down, you see different ways it can be manipulated. I'm going to demonstrate what I see and then we'll have Kirk get down here in a demonstrate the proper way to do it. So I'm going to put my hands wide, the wide grip lap pull down that is hands wide. I can close my grip. I'm going to take a seat. So what I often see is to get that way down it's heavy weight. Of course I don't want to go necessarily light. I want to put on as much weight as possible. And then to get it down, I can't really pull it straight down. So I'm going to throw my whole body into it and I'm going to rock my body back. I'm going to throw my upper back to the ground and I'm going to drive that bar in the low my chin. And as opposed to sitting up straight, working my lap that force that I'm shooting that resistance is getting into my straightest interior. I keep my trap pulled down. I tilt my head back slightly, not my body. I pull my elbows down to the ground, pull that bar to my chin. I'll let it out with great control. So you don't have a curt take a seat. A few things before he grabs the bar one who adjust the seat. Might be a little bit different. You want to raise that one. So he's fixed. I want to make sure he's on the seat. You can sit up a little bit on the seat and move forward a little bit on the seat slightly. So now his butt is completely on the seat. His shoulders are going to be pulled back. I'm going to hand him the bar. He can certainly grab the bar in his own, but just for the purpose of explanation, I'm going to hand him the bar. He's going to put his hands wide in the bar. Okay. So I want you to tilt your head back slightly. Now when you pull down, I don't want you to move your body. I want to keep his trap completely down. I do not want this to elevate here. It's going to stay shifted down. I want you to pull your elbows down to the ground and pull that bar to chin. Pull it slowly. Good. And back up. Notice how there's no movement really in his torso or his posterior chin. He's not throwing his body backwards. His feet are firmly on the ground. His body is tight. His torso. Everything is vertical. He's pulling that bar down, pull elbows down. Most importantly, what's going to happen here is when he starts to fatigue. When his lat start to fatigue, he's going to recruit his trap. You can let it out and it out with control. Just keep going, Kurt. So the trap is actually a huge area back here and a posterior chain. When his lat start to fatigue, he's going to start to incorporate his traps where his trap may elevate and start to jump in and do some of the work. The lats are hey man, I'm tired. I need some help. When it needs help, the trap is going to get involved. Pull straight down. Notice how he's not rocking his body back and forth. So he's actually working here from the serratus and the lap. Of course, there's a little bit of moving in the scapard thoracic. Absolutely. But he has great control of the movement, which is the most important thing. He's actually working his latin serratus. Now Kurt's doing such a great job here. We're only dealing with the certain amount of weight. It's certainly go up because he's proven that he can handle this weight with great control. Now let's stand up, stand up, Kurt. Put that weight down. Let's go to 115. Put the pay 115. All right, grab the bar. He's going to take a seat. Now I notice he doesn't lean backwards. Now if he leans backwards, he's going to turn this into almost a rhomboid activity. He's going to get away from the traps. So the more he is pulling down in the front, the more he's working the side part of his body, which is straightened in the lat. And the scapard thoracic area to pull down, pull that bar down. Slightly hold it, let it back out. That's it. With control, he's not rocking at all. There's no movement backing forth with this torso. So his intention is to work his latin. That's exactly what he's doing right here. Can he go up? Yeah, he could probably still go up. It's going to be harder to maintain great form, great control, but he can go up. He's earned it. Try to do five more. He's sitting up straight. He's feet affirmly on the ground. He's breathing, driving straight down to the ground. That's it. No trap elevation. Notice how his trap hasn't started to rise. He's doing a great job. Great form. Nice job, Kurt. You can put it down. So notice there was no rocking with his upper body. His torso remained vertical. He's working from the latinisturators. He had a little bit of scapard thoracic movement there. He's actually scapular, rather. His head is tilted back slightly, not his body. If you do more you tilt back, then you get away from a lat pole. You would probably get into more of a rhomboid activity. If you wanted to do that, that was fine. We just keep in mind once again what was your intention. And if you look at someone you seem rocking their whole body, chances are that they're doing that because their intention is to move as much way as possible. Now if someone's intention is to move as much way as possible, well that's what they're achieving. That's exactly what they're doing. We're trying to get more attention to actually work that lat area. You probably want to drop weight and pay attention to how the action is being done. His intention was to develop the lat and that's what he was doing. Nice job, Kurt. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, Ad Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

So our second activity that we're going to focus on is the dumbbell row. Often in gym fitness facilities, I see people manipulating their whole body looks like a full body convulsion doing a dumbbell row. Once again you have to ask yourself, what is your intention? If your intention is to incorporate your entire body, most of the time that may be fine, I'm kind of against assessing someone from across the room and saying, oh, I know what he's doing. It's wrong. I really try to focus on what I'm doing within the gym and I want to make sure that whatever my intention is, I put all my power and energy and focus on exactly that. So if I'm doing a dumbbell row, I want to make sure that I'm using my arm to row the weight and I'm actually activating and using my rhomboid as I stay in retraction. What we typically see in the gym is that person's set up. It could be on a bench. I like to do my dumbbell rows prone into the racket self. So I try to take my lower body out of the activity, but my primary focus on the rowing itself. What we usually see in the gym, fitness facility, to really heavy weight and so on is using their entire body. I mean, once again, if there are intentions to use their whole body, that's fine. But always keep in mind that the less control you have, the more likely things will go wrong and you're compromising your health and your safety. So the way I want to set it up, you separate your feet, your parallel, you bend your legs, fall into the rack, notice I have a flat back position. I'm going to load my body so it's actually resistance here. I'm not going to be inflection. Okay, no flutching in my neck. I don't want to look up. I'm going to look straight down so everything is in alignment. The weight is underneath me. I'm going to keep my shoulder in retraction. I don't want to protract every time. Okay? My arm might come to full extension, but I'm not going to protract into it. And I'm going to demonstrate both. Okay? So falling into the rack, flat back position, bending my legs. If he's pressure off the lower back, I have a strong hand on the dumbbell. I'm here. I've rolled it up, hold it, let it out slowly. Hold it, let it out slowly. I'm not going to go into a protraction. I'm going to retraction, hold it, let it out with control. Hold it, let it out with control. Okay? So try to come over here. Here's going to separate his feet. That's fine. Bend your legs. You're going to fall into the rack with your right hand. Okay? Walk your feet backwards a little bit. Show me a flat back position. Pull your shoulders back more. More. No, no, that's flexion. Right there. Look down. Are you going to grab the weight? Pull your shoulder back. All right. So you're falling into the rack. Okay? Right there. So you're going to row it up, hold it. Let it back out as I keep his shoulders pull back. He's in retraction, pull it up, hold it, let it out slowly. Good. That's great control by Kurt. Notice how he's actually getting into his rhomboid row. Just keep going, hurt slowly. He's in retraction. He's a flat back position. There's no flexion in that. He's looking down. That's it. He's control both ways. He's doing a great job. Bend in the legs. He's pressure off the lower back. Take his low body, the other activity. Keep going. Do two more. Notice how he's having. He has a little bit of transverse movement here. But he's not rocking his entire body and manipulating the activity. Okay? You can put it down Kurt. Nice job. Okay? He's not rocking and manipulating his entire body to perform the activity. His primary focus is on his rhomboid and he's rowing. Okay? He has moving into shoulder, obviously. He's not using his low body. He's not bending and extending his legs to pull the weight up. He's focusing on what his intention is, the development of his back in his rhomboid. A shocker. Thanks. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, at Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

I am Mark Magna, a team muscle tech athlete, performance coach, and most or strengthening conditioning coach, and I'm also a former NFL line backer. When I was younger, I was very insecure, awkward, clumsy, and I was very lazy. I actually didn't like any part of exercising. I think when you're a bit overweight, you're very low, self-painting of yourself, then what happens is you want to stay away from those environments that might challenge you in a physical way. At one point, I think I got to such a low in my life, my childhood, that I really wanted to change things around, and I wanted to start participating, and I just be on the sidelines. So I asked my grandfather to help me out, and at that time, he was training bodybuilders, local bodybuilders, and he trained the first ever-missive universe winner. He took me aside. He gave me some very basic things to do, bench pressing, you know, curls, pushups, sit-ups, things like that, and I enjoyed it very much. He made me feel comfortable. I think that's everything, and that kind of started me on the path to health and fitness. I was raised in a single parent home, my mother raised two boys by herself. She had several jobs. She didn't have to much time in her hands, but she didn't make time for her, was, you know, paying attention to our needs and our feelings, our emotions, and she would always be there to support us. She was that person that told us, my brother and I, that, you know, you can do whatever you want to do. You're going to have to do the work, and she would always say it's not going to be easy, but it will be worth it someday, but you can do it. And I had a lot of tough times in my life when I went to high school, I had learning disabilities dyslexia, I had to go to a ton of tutoring, and athletically. I mean, I was just worried about making the team. I forget about playing starting, and I know that I'm probably the only kid that's really going to the gym every day, lifting every day, running every day. There's a lot of people did those things, but not every day, not all the time. But for me, because I wasn't an athlete, that got me in the game, not ahead of the curve. And then when I got there, there's a lot of parity. I wanted to be the very best at my position, than being the best at position, the best at defense of player, that being the best in the team. And I just had to work hard at the little steps along the way that she those big goals. I didn't even think about going to college. I wanted to join the sport Marines. That was my goal. Then a coach came up to me who was recruiting someone else and he said, you know, you can play college football. Did you realize that? You can get a free education if you keep showing people how important it is to you, and you give everything you have every single day. And when he said that to me, all of a sudden it was a reality. Now I know it's possible because someone else sees it, not just me. I went there because the head coach had such great energy that when he left their house and he was Jim Reed, when he left my home I said, I have to go to the University of Richmond. My mother looked at me and he goes to see where they don't have choice. You have to go there. And I didn't have choice because that was the only school that really wanted me. When I got to college, I was so bad at the school. I think I got a 1.6 GPA when I got there. I contemplated quitting, giving up a scholarship where school cost $50,000 a year to go to. I almost thought about quitting and my mother wrote me a long letter and the premise of that letter I saved it and I had that pick on my desktop computer and I said, dream big never quit. And she was telling me that you just got a hanging there. And if you hang in there, you give it everything. You're going to be surprised when you finish. I ended up turning around later on and actually graduated at like 3.0 and it was the hardest thing I ever did. And football wise man, when I walked in the door I think I weighed 219 pounds and he told me and I was a linebacker told me you're going to play defensive linemen and it wasn't like end or late. It was nose guard. Those are the guys we had 300 pounds. So I said, Coach, I can't do it. He said, I don't want to go anywhere without any mouth again. You can absolutely do it. Get out of my office. And every year it was 2.30 to 40 to 50 to 60. And I grew up when I lifted weights and I got stronger when I went in that bench, 300 pounds are left bent, 450, powerfully 450 pounds, quite a 700 pounds because he believed in me. And I said, I don't know if I could play defensive linemen and it felt like I don't care. I want to be the very best in the country at this position now. If that means tackles, if that means sacs, that means productivity, that means energy, whatever it is. And if L. Scouts came around and said, well, really not that big. Maybe he can't play defensive linemen but he can play linebacker. So, draft day I'm sitting around and I could call on my phone and I answer the phone and I say, hello, this is Mark Magna. He said, Mark, do you know who this is? And I knew who it was, I recognized the voice but I've never talked to this person in person or on the phone in my entire life. He says, this is Bill Parsell's from the New York Chets. And it was funny because I was a very serious, strict tough voice but I was crying. Obviously he could have seen me crying thank God. But, and I said, hello coach, how are you? He said, I'm pretty good with him. We're taking you with this next pick. How do you feel about that? I said, I feel amazing about that. He said, can you play linebacker for me? He said, coach, I can play linebacker. He said, can you play special teams? I said, yes sir, can you rush the pass with? Yes sir, he said, welcome to the New York Chets. Was that one of the greatest moments in my life? I worked my whole life just to hear that I was good enough to do it. I went into the New York Chets and I realized that not only was I playing a position that I hadn't played in four years but the guys that were playing my position in New York Chets, Marvin Jones, all pro, Mo Lewis, all pro, James Ferrier, all pro, Brian Cox, all pro. That's four on one team. I'm a nose guard from a division one double-day school, I haven't played the position in four years. So you can take that two years. That's a hell of a compliment from one of the best coaches that have a coach to play in the game but it's also a hell of a challenge. So I remember him bringing me into room and saying, you know what, you're here for a reason. You might not be an all pro on the New York Chets but you are here to work hard and you're here to push other people to be very best. He said, you might not end up playing here but you might end up playing for another team. In turns out I gave everything I had and he was right. I was with the Chets for a little bit and I was released and then I basically was miserable I cried for half a day and then later on that day, you go from worst to first I actually was called by the New England Patriots. Peacar was coached in. New England Patriots picking me up my hometown team. Three hours later I'm in the office, front office New England Patriots, I'm sending contracts, play for New England Patriots. And the next year, Peacar was let go and Bill Bellachick came in. Who was my defensive coordinator at the New York Chets. So I had a brief experience and I mean he liked to my game, he liked the way I worked and he had to very least that I wasn't going to embarrass anyone and I was going to be a solid component of his team. Even if it was his reserve player or a special team's player. So I played with them for a year and then I was released, I went to the Cincinnati Bengals and then back to New England Patriots from Bill Bellachick. And in between I was playing NFL Europe. My first year with the Barcelona Dragons in Spain, my second year with the Berlin Thunder. With my NFL career concluded I went up to playing Canada for the Montreal Allowets, played five years for the Montreal Allowets. So I fed a heck of a whirlwind in regards to a professional football. And now I'm doing more private and personal training for several years. They worked at a performance center, a bomb reader performance where we're working under Peacar and Rito. It's been a few years there, training being on a team where other who work with over 300 professional athletes from all sports football baseball. And very fortunate, blessed have a great group of clients and they love to choose. They like I think you're tracked which you are. They love to train just like I do. My general philosophy is that whatever I'm doing in regards to strength and conditioning, I want to make sure that I can do something with it. I don't want to be the person that looks like a superhero but can't do any kind of superhero things. I want to be a bit of a run. I want to be able to swim. I want to be able to do an obstacle course, do a race, jump in a five-care run under 18 minutes. That's important to me. I've done triathlon, I've done the courses, I did the in-part state building run in New York City, 86 flights of 1572 steps. And a week later I did this Spartan race. If you're 18 and a half miles, 25 obstacles, I'm never going to be the best bench pressure or the best squadter. Or the guy who wins the race, but I want to be good at many things. I train every day but I'm doing strengths four to five days a week. I'm a body part training, four to five days a week. I'll do hit training three days a week. I'll do two days, I do steady state, I might do a long run, I might do a swim. And I'll do one day where I do actually do an active recovery. So it's something that to me I don't want to say something that's fun. Because it's all fun to me. It wasn't fun, I wouldn't be doing it. But I also want to do things that give my body an opportunity to heal over cover. Because we know training in gym is very important, but your recovery is everything. I probably go to bed about 11.30, 12, wake up at 3.45 every day. I started my workout about four o'clock, 4.15 in the morning. I trained to a six, give my first client a six a.m. at 6.70, 9.10 transitions to the next place. Or I go 11 and 12, and then transition to the next place. And then I try to get maybe an hour break in there somewhere. Getting my workout in the morning, bang out of bunch of clients during the day, try to get when it's the end of the day midday. And these aren't long workouts there, usually an hour, and try to do two of those a day. I work strength, I work body parts, but I might start off my body part work out. If I'm doing legs, for example, with a floor clean or a hand cream or a deadlift, things like that. Compound movements, I'll throw an exotic compound movement or a kettlebell activity in with my body parts to make sure that I can apply the strength with movement. You have movements and you have the muscle. So if I strengthen the muscle, I want to be able to implement a usage of that muscle. So I try to go back and forth. When I say go back and forth, I mean if I'm working movement, I'm working movement, I'm working muscle, I'm working muscle. Sometimes I'll do an activity where I'll do a row, a slow control row. From my next might be a speed band row. So I'll do a speed band row which I can implement, a faster movement, and put that muscle into force production. Each person is very, very specific. And sometimes I get a kick out of people who say eat oatmeal. It's great for you. Or eat egg whites that's great for you. Well, it's not great for me if I'm a luch to eggs. And if I have a true sensitivity to oatmeal, probably it shouldn't be oatmeal. So you could be getting great information by that might not be information that's best suited for you. Still think it was still trying to prove our quality life. We talked about training and we're trying to prove our quality life to nutrition. How do we do that? If I put in those optimal ingredients in our bodies at the proper timing to make sure that we can take our bodies, minds and energy performance to the next level. Whatever that is and whatever our intention is. My A.F. six meals whole food meals a day. Those foods are animal proteins consisting of chicken, white fish, salmon, turkey, lean red meat, vison, greens, or kale, or arugula, broccoli, spinach, complex carbs consist of steel cut oats, sweet potatoes, quinoa, buckwheat, barley, millet, healthy fats, hamboil, flax seed oil, fish oil, and I go with some mutation, different vitamins, different minerals. I get probiotics, digestive enzymes, things like that, but they're all high quality foods that are put in a position to give me energy for the day for the workout for a covered. If your body has to work overtime in two, three, four, five, ten times as hard to break down food that are pouring substances in the body, well then that's less energy that can be used towards workouts, life, thinking, and recovery could it takes energy to do all those things. So if I put the more harsh toxic or chemically driven foods that are challenging to break down, my body is going to be under constant stress, it could raise cortisol, it could raise the information, and it's going to make sure that my body isn't efficient at recovering at the end of the day. You want to recover in the most efficient way possible. So you can train, recover, get back in there. The idea is to get back in. Put yourself in a position that beats just successful with the food you eat, with the training you do, and make sure that you're not compromising all your results by eating a poor diet. I mean you cannot train a poor diet. If it's going to stress you that much to follow specific diet, I don't suggest doing it. I suggest making small little improvements and curcaling your habits just a little bit. Start that way, and you'll feel much better, and it's more realistic. I don't want you to stay away from every single food. I want you to eat something green at every meal, for example, drink some mortar, drink more water, try not to eat too much at night, try to limit sugary foods, try to limit junk food, just take one of those and implement it in your diet. If you start to do that, it's going to be less stressful, it's going to be more realistic, and you're going to make proper revisions. Our job is to help you improve, improve your quality of life, improve your well-being, and I think that's how we should be done. Submitation for me, can't it make a break-you-training? Absolutely. I look at it as pre-during and post workout, to more you train, and more you stress your body, to more supplementation you need, to make sure that you put yourself in a position or recover properly, to make sure that you can endure the day. Never mind getting ready for the work next work out. I do use weight protein, it's a lost part of my diet, I think it's a huge, I also use Argentine, Betalan, Creatine, BCAs, good to me, but those are all things that I think are stable as of training, and then they put me in a wonderful place to feel good for my next workouts and recover. I do use those things, and I do encourage those things for anyone who's trying to improve in performance-based training or a muscle-high-predged free-and-body composition setting. If someone's trying to put on weight, they're going to need specific supplementation to put on weight. If someone wants to reduce body fat or improve body composition, they're going to need a certain panel of nutrients and supplementation to get them there. What am I trying to do? What's my intention? Am I bodybuilder? Am I powerlifter? Am I a strength-based athlete in dorm space-ethy performance-ethy and explosive short-burst athlete? Whatever it may be, and then from there, I know what's going to help me in regards to the supplementation. So that's all in my training, nutrition, supplementation. For more on MarcMagnet, you can find me at MarcMagnet or on Twitter or on my Facebook page at MarcMagnet. For more on the training and in-depth info, and the training tips we discussed today, you can look at the NFL Combine Trainer and bodybuilding.com. And for other news, training tips, articles, and peace and remission we can use for training supplementation, check back in at bodybuilding.com.

Hey I'm Mario Lopez, the host of Extra Entertainment News Show and also a BMTV's America's Best Dance Crew and also did Dancing with the Stars and you may have seen me when I was a kid on show called Safe By The Ball and a whole bunch of other stuff and today we're going to focus on Extra Lean Family. Bring the family back to the dinner table together, focus on food, nutrition and an overall healthy lifestyle and getting kids most importantly off on the right foot, learning to love food to be smart about food. So let's get started. Fitness has always been a top priority in my life, growing up my family and coming from a big Mexican family obesity is prominently featured and I knew that if I didn't watch things, I could blow up and not exactly look the way I'm looking right now, it could go on another direction and it's the people that I love and the people that I'm closest to and I don't love them any less. But just from a health standpoint, I wanted to help my family, I wanted to help with them and that inspired me to want to help other families. And now that I'm the Boys and Girls Club of America's National Fitness Ambassador and on the Governor and President's Council of Physical Fitness, it's something that I embrace and it's something that I want to help people, especially families that may not know any better families that come from different cultures and these inner city kids and Latino families and African-American families where obesity is again featured throughout everybody has someone that they care about that they need a little weight and it may get to the point where it's not healthy law. I want to do something about it because you can help those you care about it. You can make a difference in their lives just by reaching out and educating them just a little bit. Just a little bit with a little effort can go a long way and that inspired me with my first book, Extra Lean and now having my own family and practicing where I preach for my daughter, Extra Lean family, that's what I want to do and I want to take to her next level and I want to have you be tasteier, easy to make recipes. So there's this belief that eating clean is tasteless or boring, you know, is not much variety. Well, I'm so happy and proud to say that in Extra Lean family, we've got delicious recipes that are quick, easy to make and that are very tasty because I love food. I'm race food and I want people to embrace food. They just kind of know the right balance of what to eat when to eat it and what to put in your body. There's all these diets out there, lose 20 pounds of 30 days and all these schemes to get you to drop weight quick but you know what diets don't work. And it starts at the home and I want people to start cooking at home because that seems to be a lost start. Cooking at home, eating at the dinner table together, celebrating with food, getting a little educated with food and making healthier, fun choices. I come from a family and a culture where I have obese people all around me that I love and I got inspired to want to help them and not only my family but your family and I I welcome that burden. I welcome that responsibility. I want to educate people. I want to show them that hey, you know, it starts at home first and you can do something about it and you can help people that you care about. And it's not that hard, you just kind of know what to do and with Extra Lean family, I want to spell it out and show them exactly what they need to do to lose that weight and to embrace food because I love food and especially tasty food but how they can do it in a smart way and a healthy way and in the right way for where they can maintain for lifestyle. So in conclusion, I know you guys are already health conscious because you're on bodybuilding.com. So if you're ready to really make a change, you really change your lifestyle for good than actually family is the way to do it. It's going to educate you, it's going to get you on the right foot and it's going to get you to love food to be smart about food and to know how to go about taking care of yourself, your family, your neighborhood, your community, your need people in your life to be held accountable and this is a team that for guys. It's not an individual thing, it's a team family effort. And hey, this isn't the last time you're going to see me. I am committed to help you through this journey to help you reach your goals and to help you change your lifestyle. From good, forever. The more content like this, be sure to check out Bodybuilding.com.



My name is Craig Bungelie and I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I was pursuing my dream of becoming a professional athlete. I realized all the things I was learning to move myself forward, could help other people as well. And it was a natural transition for working as a coach. After seeing Scotland's strongest man when I was 17 years old and being a star, being a professional strong man was all I focused on. Becoming a coach, opening a gym, mentoring with some of the strongest athletes and coaches on the planet to learn as much as I possibly could. I build my body because I want to know what I'm capable of. For no other purpose in feeling what it's like to redline it and find out what I have. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Build your body. Build your mind. Build your life.

I'm Fristen Lentenberger, Dr. Physical Therapy, and I'm a bodybuilding.com master coach. I used to work for physical therapists, and I saw the impact that she could have on a client's life, so I became a personal trainer, and I started to see the same impact in my client's lives. I just love what I do. Movement has always been medicine for me. I always look to movement to sort of lift up my spirit, just bring me out of some kind of fog. My first interaction with bodybuilding was back in 2006. I was looking for some guidance on how to do a workout, and bodybuilding.com was the one place that I felt like they brought the best people, and the program was really approachable for me. There really is something for everyone there. Welcome to bodybuilding.com, build your body, build your mind, build your life.

Strength of body means strength of mind. It's never too late to do something great. Train with intensity, drive and focus. So many things that you get out of body building that kind of feels over until the areas of your life. Stay passionate about your goals and you can achieve the body of your dreams. At bodybuilding.com, we're invested in your fitness success. That's why we're bringing you the best fitness experts, totally free. Chris Gethon and Jamie Eason, your body transformation experts, are here to show you the way. Chris Gethon is a lifetime natural drug free bodybuilder. For the last 10 years, he's used his experience to help average people achieve amazing results. Jamie Eason is the female face of fitness. She's a professional cover model and has her own column in Oxygen magazine. And in 2006 was crowned the world's fittest model. I decided to get into weight training mainly because I'd a curvature of my spine and there was a great deal of pain. I was actually advised maybe start weight training to put a lot of stress more onto my muscular system. So after doing that for about five, six weeks, I had really alleviated a lot of the pain. So I decided for me to stick to this. I need to have a goal and I'd go was about a year and a half later to compete as a bodybuilder being a hooked epicence. I was an NFL cheerleader in 2001 and I'd luck with have it. I found a cancerous tumor in my breast. In 2008, I had another rear current. Still at that moment, I really didn't grasp the situation that I wasn't living a healthy lifestyle. I was referred to an nutritionist. I mean, basically, said how healthy you are is what we're eating. And he encouraged me to exercise. It was like my epiphany literally in six months, my body transformed. Pretty significantly. If you're ready, Chris and Jamie will share their knowledge on training, nutrition, supplementation, and motivation. They'll show you the path to your best body so you can walk it successfully. Go out, make time and make it happen. You'll get the results you deserve.

My name is Gabriel Snow, and I have a bodybuilding.com Master Coach. Fitness allows me to use my body in each and every way that I see fit. My first experience with bodybuilding.com is through my father training and supplementation was a part of every single day without his guidance. I don't think I would be sitting here today. My discipline allows me to keep my mind sharp and keep my heart full. Being able to share that with other people has really been the purpose of my life and makes me make up every day. I'm just to be here for a very long time because I work really hard to make sure of it. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com, Build Your Body, Build Your Mind, Build Your Life.

I need him as Harry Vargas and I'm a bodybuilder with a dot com master coach. I'm a certified personal trainer and I focus on running and string-think conditioning. I was a delivery guy and the active part of the job, that was the only part of the job that like I liked. Movement is how I connect with people and how I connect with myself. Everything else felt like work, fitness just came naturally to me. Bodybuilding.com is a community that just really wants to help people become better versus themselves and I'm excited to be part of this next chapter. I built my body in order to develop the mental fortitude and discipline that it takes to be successful in life. I want to be ready for whatever life throws at me. I like to keep the bar eyes. All the bodybuilding.com build your body, build your mind, build your life.

My name is Ken Yu and I'm a bodybuilding.com master coach. I used to be in a journey and for 10 years I sat at my desk, poured over the old documents, I started prioritizing work over my own health and then I decided to join a future finisher. I still love the pit. I wanted to do that every hour of every day. I went from feeding my body down to building my body up and then became a coach and I never looked back. I love how bodybuilding.com has evolved over time. It used to be only about big muscles and now it's so much more. It's parallel to my fitness training. But I first started out all I wanted to do was get really big. I went from 125 to 150 pounds and then I even wanted to do strength and I pulled off the website of 5.5 program and did that until I was really strong. And now I'm looking for more wellness. I want to be prepared to take on any challenge. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Build your body. Build your mind. Build your life.

My name is Isira Vargas and I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I am an NASM CPT, a pre-postnatal certified coach and a pain-free performance specialist. I really feel like fitness chose me. I wanted to help people in need and so I joined different nonprofit organizations to help areas that were affected by natural disasters. The work was very rewarding, it was also very physical. Coming back home, missing being active every day, I started taking classes all around New York City and was surrounded by coaches who inspired me to look into becoming a coach as a career. Movement makes me feel empowered. It allows me to be the best version of myself around the people that I love the most. Welcome to bodybuilding.com. Build your body, build your mind, build your life.

My name is Gabriel Snow. My name is Chris Martinberger. Hi, I'm Kenyou. My name is Jadira Vargas. Craig Bond, Jully. My name is Harry Vargas. And I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I've built my body. I build my body. I build my body to be able to show up for myself every single day. It allows me to be the best version of myself because I love to see the potential that it can have. I want to be ready for whatever life throws at me. I want to know what I'm capable of. That's what drives me. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Go to Body. Go to Mind. Go to your life. Go to your life.

In every generation, only a few are worthy of being called an ultimate athlete. A hero. Don't be... be better than me. Are you doing a Michael Hurn and this is Power Bodybuilding? We're going to train back today, starting off with some crazy ass deadlifts. Oh yeah, it doesn't end up being a deadlifts, I sure do. We're going to do a lot of warm upsets, but those do not count. When I'm talking about this, I only count the work set. Seven sets of two today. Then we do secondary work. We're in two other exercises after that. We're going to do some one arm rows and some pull-downs just to give it that beautiful shape. And I know that you guys are going to go away in a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Just two exercises. But after you deadlift, what you see here, that's all you're going to have. Left in the tank, trust me. So when you're on stage, what? You look scary, good? I'm telling you. Alright, this is what I want you guys to do. Because you're just starting this program. I want you guys just to come into the gym. Let's say you deadlift 315, alright? Just warm up with 135, 225, do a couple sets each, and take your time. You don't rush through this. I got to put blood into my body before I start moving around. Trying to keep all the energy I can for the heavy weights. On the way there, I'll do depending on how I feel. One, two, maybe three reps per warm up. Wait till you get to your work and set, then do your reps. I didn't come in and stretch for an hour before I did this. This is how I get loosened up. Deadlift managed the superhero lift, the beast lift, the man lift. My favorite of the three lifts. The deadlift is a completely mental lift. You can cheat a squat by not going deep, but deadlift is so cheating. Just grab a little bit of that bar and rip it from the ground. Best lift there is weightlifting. I'll stay double over on the hand placement, up till, you know, four, 500 pounds, and then I'll start with verse dripper. Reverse grip obviously is, you know, a powerlifting grip. I don't use straps. You know, you can't use straps and powerlifting meats, and you can't use a misogladiated soul. Why using it here? What I do is I'll reverse my grip per set. Take a big deep breath before I pull and just hold on to everything. All the energy keep it inside. Rip it from the ground and then get to the top and let it out. When I did let all either go barefoot or I'll do something that's, like these shoes somewhat flat. I won't use all these new type of shoes that are like, got the springs and all that. This is, I just think that's crazy to deadlift in those. Wrestling shoes are great, you know, a Tomix, old school of Tomix, shoes are great. I don't listen to music. I don't need that to get safe. I like the noise of the weight. I like going heavy. I'm going to tear down those fibers. Go to the strength. And again, you got a full body exercise here. This is what can everything. You do deadlift right, man. You go heavy enough. That next to you feel everything hurt. But it good hurt. With this, I'm ripping it from the ground. It's not a slow pull for me. I rip it. People like, I actually can hurt your back or anything. I don't know why people think that way. You know, they're already walking in half feet. I don't get hurt. I don't worry about things. I just destroy the weight. It's not the other way around. It's that whole approach that the weight ain't going to beat me. It's a fight between me and the weight. Same thing you think when you're going into a battle or she'll against one other thing and you can move that thing. I started lifting when I was, you know, 11, 12, 13 years old. You know, I always wanted to be stronger than my big brothers. Here in that weight, this man's made it all for us, training together in a steel of days. You'll never see me at a fitness center. This kind of training doesn't work for that. All right. Talk to you about the secondary work, the bodybuilding part. Today we're doing one arm rows. Now I do five sets of 10. I just love one arm rows because it gets the lower lat, the outer lat. When I do deadlift, I'm already getting the mid back, the thickness, the density. Now let's shape it up a bit. When arm rows are beautiful, exercise is a good nice wingspan. So five sets of 10 for one arm rows. You're going to love to feel of it, the power, the strength, the shape. Now remember, just because your back is pumped, doesn't mean you're having the best workout. I just like a gym blood. I want you to rip down the fibers. So still take a little time. Next thing is pull down. You got to get even wider. Take a wider grip, pull down of the chest. You know how to do pull down is right? If you don't, I'm going to come through that and slap you. Pull down to the chest, I recommend instead of behind the neck. You get a longer pull down to the chest. More squeeze for me. Three sets of eight there. Just taking it down, finishing off that back, finishing details. That final detail that you want. So when you're on stage, judges are just kind of giving the trophy. All right. That's power bodybuilding. I seriously want you guys to try this out. Now I came up with this because I see so many people working harder, not smarter. The new generation, I see so much potential in you guys. I really do. I don't want you to be me. I want you to be better than me. And I see that in you guys. Now go up and be great, all right? And if you need an information, you gotta get ahold of me. Bodybuilding.com.

In every generation, only a few are worthy of being called an ultimate athlete. A hero, don't be me. Be better than me. You guys do a Michael here. I'm up here with bodybuilding.com. We might know him as Titan from the American Lab Yators. They wanted me to talk to you guys about a little thing I call Power Bodybuilding. How you can power this in bodybuilding all together. So we're going to show you that today. I'm going to start out with a little chest here, a little incline press. I recommend you guys warm up, though, alright? Alright, so you stopped by a bread there. This is my little trick. What I do is low reps, but a lot of sets. I'm going to stay here for about six sets of five. Now, the reason why I do that is I like the poundage. I don't go 10 to 12s, like a lot of people do, because I accommodate two things together. Powerlifting and bodybuilding. So that is a little trick I want you guys to try both on bench press, squat and deadlift. So get up to that match weight that you want to do. Hit five reps and hit it six sets of five reps. Key points. If you can get cowbell when the shirt comes up, that's good too. But one of the big things is rest. I take about three to five minutes rest. Reason why is I want to recover completely for the power and the strength. The shape and the size just come in right now. I feel it. Oh, wow. Oh, help. Spop, oh, I'm just kidding. You can't fall for that. I don't take spots. But you should, alright? Yeah, we're doing good. We feel good. Alright, so we just finished doing climbs. The reason I start with an in-cline is to develop more of my upper chest. You know, I'm still creating that physique that I want. You know, you can either start with flat bench or in-cline. But I start with that heavy, you know, power movement to start with. And then we're going to come over to date flats now. Now, when you do the in-clines though, key points is, you know, don't arch too much. You know, taking down to the chest nice and controlled and explode up. You know, get through that exercise. Power through it. Now for the dumbbells here today, we're going to do about 10 reps. Alright? We're going to basically just, you know, get a spider to help you throw them up there. That way you can save your back if you want. And just watch the form here, right? Watch the form. You don't swing it. You don't bounce it. Take it down nice and slow and, uh, just pop this up. It's easy enough, right? Let's go, grub. So, I stay with, I'm going to do this. Obviously, you can see more free weights than machines. Now, that's just my take. I like to do free weights relative to machines. Bring them more of the whole body. And I also power lift. So, um, you can use machines, you know, same kind of thing. Go heavy. Five to six reps, you know. On this exercise, obviously, you can go more. Six to ten, even 12 if you want. I don't change it up, getting ready for a bodybuilding show. Now, a lot of people might go, do high, high reps. I let the diet control that. Um, and I just keep the heavy weights. I'm a natural bodybuilder and always have been. And so, the one thing I noticed is when I go light, I fade away. So, keep the heavy weights in there if you're a natural bodybuilder, and you want to just build that exercise. Now, this is me a week out from the guest posing. Now, I still still lift heavy. And I just recommend it. It's one of those things. You can try it, but again, it works for me. I may not work for everybody. My acting can pass. That's it, isn't it? You guys in me. So, what I did was the incline, flat dumbbells, and I'm going to finish off with some incline flies again. Just because it's a bodybuilding phase right now. But I'm going to keep it heavy. Now, here, I'm going to go about ten reps, three sets. Same thing on the flat bench, on the dumbbells. You have about four sets there, okay? We already did that huge six sets to start with. So, let's finish this out. Now, any incline flies? Same thing. You watch the form. You see what I'm doing. Take the arms out. Stretch the chest. That's what you want to see. It's good working it out. That pump's already there. Even though I take long breaks in between that pump is there, even though I'm curbed the plate and two, it's because it's at pound it. It's tearing down the chest. The fibers get torn up right now. In a good way. Trust me. Alright, so let's recap. Basically, heavy on the incline or flat bench, a lot of sets, six sets, three to five, to eight reps if you have to go eight, but I say, go ahead and go ahead and be made. Then, went over to flat bench, dumbbells, again, good form, go up to ten reps, you know? And if you go four, even five sets there, I'm okay with that. Again, heavy on. And then, we're going to step with nice stretch, flies incline flies today, three sets, eight ten reps, and that's it. Now, understand, this is what I do for chest. But I also do this for back, and I also do this for legs, but after doing about six sets of squats, go up to leg press, leg extension, with my same philosophy applies here. Go heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, and just, you're going to love this man. You're going to love to have that strength. That's how you build the muscle, tear down those fibers. Alright, I got a balance.

Power body belt, what is it? I developed this by putting together power and the physique of a body belt. In the old days, they used to do a power lifting meat one day and the next day of those guys would have to show their physique. So that means these guys were strong but looked good. And in today's day and age, I don't see it. I still want to be that superhero. I don't want to be just show and no go. So I developed power body belt. You know, it's something where I can continuously, as strong as I am, but as developed as a body belter. I'm here. You focus hardcore on a power movement. Just keep that strength up. Then afterwards only two exercises. That's it for your body belt. You just do it once a week. You're only training that body heart at one time for you humans. I would say do it for 12 weeks all. I do it year round, but I just want you to try it for 12 weeks. And trust me. You give this a couple of months. You can see such a change. First of all, you're going to put on so much more size than just body belt. And you're going to get a better physique than the power of this. Combined with two worlds, it's a superhero. Kind of sounds fun, doesn't it? I hope you're excited. I got to go train. You've got to put that alter ego on now. And slam some weights. Let's do this. We're going to go train with Michael here right now. Yeah.

Boom gentlemen, we ain't got a whole day, let's go, let's go, let's go! Begin! 1, 2, 3, 1, 1, 2, 3, 2, 1, go, go, go... Real good, real good!

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Body Billing.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BBCon podcast. Today we continue with our meet the coach series where we introduce our newest roster of coaches debuting in the Body Billing.com app in 2025. Coach Harry is a certified personal trainer and Body Billing.com master coach. Harry pushes the limits in and out of the gym. Injecting creative movements into his programming, his tough love and no nonsense approach challenges you to work hard while having fun in the process. In Av and Marathon runner, a casual 315 in the 2024 New York City Marathon, Harry specializes in training for endurance, hybrid, and body recomp. He believes every goal can be accomplished with a good coach, a consistent program, and the willingness to push past discomfort. Whether you're new to the gym, want to get shredded or hit the pavement for your first run, coach, Harry's got your back. Harry Vargas, master coach, welcome to the BBCon podcast and welcome to Body Billing.com. Thank you for having me. We're going to jump right in so that you guys can learn a little bit more about Coach Harry. So tell us about what brought you to becoming a coach and the purpose behind that journey. Yeah, I'll say it's um, it was quite the journey. Coming out of high school, I didn't know what I wanted to do in terms of like work. College didn't really seem like it was for me, just because I saw like how I was doing in high school. So I was heavily considering the military. My brother was also going to join at the time. And so we just started training together. We did all our paperwork. I literally got every piece of paper that needed to be signed. Signed, I got all the vaccines. I did all the the the the the the pre boot camp workouts and stuff. And literally the day before our bus was set to leave to boot camp. I called up the guy who was in charge of my paperwork. Whatever. And I was like, yeah, I'm so sorry. I don't think this is for me. I'm I'm gonna actually hang back. But I'll let you know if I changed my mind in the future. So after calling it quits on the military, I was just hopping from job to job to job. No sense of stability just because again, I didn't know what I wanted to do. So I was just trying to live life one day at a time until I found something that stuck. Then the pandemic happened. And like most of the people I went through the pandemic, you know, coming off of the pandemic, I was in a really negative headspace. And my sister was hopping was gym hopping. Going to all the gyms in New York City. And she found one that really stuck with her. And she was telling, oh, why don't you come with me? It'll make you probably feel better. Get out of this rut that you seem to find yourself in. And after a very long time, it just continues, I know, no, no, that's not for me. I don't really like it. All that sounds boring. I hopped on. And then I was just hooked. I saw the impact that the class had on me mentally. And after that, after that one class, I knew that I wanted to help give that feeling to other people. People who didn't either feel good about themselves or lost or wanted to make some improvements, whether it was from a mental perspective and prove their mental health or a virus from a physical perspective. If you want to look different, so that you can feel good about yourself, I know automatically that's something that I wanted to do. So after that class, just started getting into the gym scene via working there if it wasn't front desk that I was just helping clean and then eventually started working on my shirt and then the rest of the history. Thanks for sharing. How would you describe your coaching style? I would say intent. And I like it to be like that for a certain reason. I feel like there's enough coaches to go around for you to have a certain style at any gym you go to. And I personally feel like that intense style of coaching resonates with why I wanted to become a coach in the first place. And I feel like it helped me when I was in that negative head space. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with all the other coaching styles. I'm just saying for me in particular, I feel like that's the one that really got me out of that rut. Like going in there, getting uncomfortable, becoming uncomfortable with being uncomfortable. Yeah, and I just tried to translate that in all my classes. Yeah, that's that no BS approach. We're here to work. We're here to get it done and add all costs, right? And I think to your point, I think the best coaches are aware enough to understand my coaching style isn't going to be for everybody, but it's going to be for somebody, right? And I think to your point, when we were bringing this group together, we said exactly that, right? Our goal is to find somebody for everybody, but not every single coach is going to be that for everybody. So all that to say, you do a phenomenal job of bringing that no BS approach to the forefront of your programming and your coaching style. Thank you. How do you want people to feel when finishing a workout with you? Something along the lines of getting a glimpse into what you're actually capable of. So I feel like when you're coming into a class, whether for a guard of where you are on the spectrum of fitness, whether you're on the beginner side of the spectrum, or you're on the advanced side of the spectrum, I want you to come into class and then by the time those 60 minutes are up, I want you to have caught a glimpse of what that part of you that's past the advanced side of the spectrum kind of looks like. Now, are you going to be there for all 60 minutes? No, that's not sustainable. But I definitely want you to leave class me and like, damn, I tapped into that version of me that I eventually want to be every single day and tapping into it for just a glimpse is more than enough to give you hope that you can be that person. And then obviously, I feel like mental fortitude is at the forefront of at least my training style and with being having a strong mind all the other aspects of fitness just come as a byproduct. So yeah. In a way, we want the class, the workout, the one-on-one experience, where the group experience to be the hardest part of the day, right? Because if we can get through that, whether it's in the morning or at night, regardless of time, we can get through that piece. It sort of makes the rest of the day in the rest of life a lot more tolerable, right? If you kind of go into the 60 minutes and you're on the ground, hands and knees, you're on puddle and then you go and you have an altercation, you have a stressful call. It all becomes a little less daunting. Yeah, now I could definitely speak from experience ever since I started training. And it does not every, I don't want to give the impression that I'm saying every single time you're in the gym has to be 10 out of 10 intensity and you're dying your on your knees. But you should visit that at least once a week and by doing so. Anytime something in your everyday life, that would usually cause you either anxiety or stress or any kind of other negative emotion, you just find yourself in a position where you can just brush it off a lot more easier than it would have been otherwise. I agree. So strength is at the core of your teaching principles. Why is strength so important to you? Yeah, I would say mental strength is definitely at the core of my principles just because of what I mentioned earlier. A lot of people like to get caught up in the, oh, I want the six pack. I want the biceps. I want the quads. I want the back. And all of that is cool. I'm not saying that that's, there's anything wrong with that. But I'm saying the last thing you want is to become a bigger, strong version of yourself, but in terms of mental strength, they're still the same. I think it'll be very hard to find someone who's mentally strong and not fit. So by fortifying what's in between the years first, the abs will come later. The quads will come later. The back will come later. It's just, it's literally like a downman off-back. Once you get that mental fortitude down, everything else is just coming. I love that. What's your favorite movement and why? I get asked this so much either by other trainers or by people that come into my class. And I feel like it's not a movement in particular. It's more of a tool. I just really love kettlebells. And the reason I love kettlebells, because it's kind of like, for me, there's nothing better than a good kettlebell complex. Because I feel like it's a dance. You're going from one movement into the other. Like if you're doing a clean, to an overhead press for verse lunge, down, clean it again, and then onto the other side. Yeah, it's like a dance. And that's coming from someone who has two left feet. Like I can't actually dance. I'm Hispanic. But unfortunately, that dancing gene just skipped right on over me. But yeah, I love me a good kettlebell complex. Anything with a kettlebell, I'm going to have fun. There's so much fluidity that goes into a kettlebell flow. And there's so much body control that is required. That you really, those who maybe aren't familiar with it, there's such a transferable feeling into stepping off of that corner block, or moving out of the way of that car, or taking that random step to get out of the way quickly. A lot of that will transfer over into understanding how to control your body. Yeah. I feel like I get a lot of that out of kettlebells as well, whether it's a swing and just really having that control, and that activation to control the downward portion of it, etc. Yeah. Yeah. I get why that's why that's your choice. Yeah, no, it's a good way to also just work on strength and conditioning at the same time. I mean, you'll definitely get stronger, but your heart rate will also definitely shoot up pretty easily. Absolutely. Stay on the lookout for some kettlebell workouts with coach here. Sure, sure. What's your advice for somebody who's just getting started? Good question. I feel like you have to have a solid why. If your why isn't solid, you're going to find it really easy to fall off of the train. And by train, I mean, whatever moment of it is you're carrying it to the next workout. A lot of people get caught up into like, momentary goals and what I mean by that is like, for example, let's say somebody's getting ready for a wedding, whether you're the one getting married or you're just attending a wedding of somebody else. You say, I want to lose a couple pounds because I want to fit into this dress. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that, but the wedding does have a date. And then there's going to be a day where the weddings over. And so what did you just only exercise because you wanted to fit into this dress? Now that the wedding's over is like, what are you doing now? I feel like unless you have a solid why to hold as your foundation, then you're going to find it really hard to keep going into the gym. So I feel like once you have a solid why, that'll just keep you going into the next session. So whether you want to be, but a version of yourself, you want to improve your health for your family, you're going up an age and you feel like you want to start moving around with a little bit more fluidity. Yeah, solid why. What about, let's say a bit more of an advance individual on their fitness journey. They're hitting a plateau. They can't reach the one-ret backs that they've been chasing for a little bit now. And they're just not really seeing the performance they want to see. What's your advice for somebody like that? Yeah. I feel like I could definitely relate to that to a certain extent. I think this is my third week after the marathon. And now looking at hindsight, it's always 2020, but looking at hindsight, I could definitely see that right before the marathon approached. I was definitely redlining a little bit. I was a little bit over-trained. Usually when you're hitting a plateau, you're usually doing probably a little too much. I would say take a step back, look at what you're doing. Maybe take some time off. Sometimes you just need to reset mentally and physically, give your body a little break, and then jump on, jump back on when you're feeling a little bit better. As you know, we're redabuing our signature line here at BB-com. What's your favorite signature that you use on the daily? A creatine. Yeah, I mean, I can't speak highly enough of creatine. I know what my body looked like before I was taking creatine, and then post-taking creatine, and it's black and white. Yeah, always have a creatine. Always carrying creatine with me literally in my gym bag, just in case I can't afford to take it at home, or on the road, always have it with me. Coach Harry says, get your creatine everybody. Yeah. How do you feel your day? Tell us about your nutrition plan. Yeah, so I'm going to be completely honest. I'm not as consistent with my meal prepping, as I should be. I fortunately live with somebody who's a massive meal prepress. So I just hop off of, you know, I steal from her meals every now and then. I am burning anywhere around from 2,000 to 2,500 calories a day. So I have the fortune to be able to eat as much as I want, just because I need that fuel. I'm running five days a week, I'm lifting four days a week on top of that. I also just naturally have a very fast metabolism, so I can afford to just eat as much as I want. I have a massive sweet tooth. So I'm not going to lie and say that my diet is 100% healthy. I like to enjoy myself. So I partake in, you know, your casual sweet every now and then, but yeah, for the most part, shout out to Coach Yaya for holding the time at the kitchen because I'm definitely just dealing from her meals most of the time. Well, I'll take away here, but it is like you can still have abs and have the sweets. Yeah, for sure, for sure, for sure, for sure. Harry, what does recovery look like for you? Um, so if I'm not in the sauna, I have a pair of normal tech boots that I'm using all the time. And if I'm not doing sauna, normal tech boots, I'm literally just giving myself a really deep tissue massage. Mostly in the legs because of how much I run. And on top of the running, I have those lower body workouts to supplement my running. So most of my soreness and recovery does come from my legs. So either it's some CBD oil or some just regular cream just really get in there in the calves and quads for the most part. Nice. All right, you ready for your rapid fire Q&A? Yeah, let's get it. Let's do it. Number one, upper body or lower body. Lower. Push or pull. Push. Deadlift or squat. It's squat. Biceps or triceps. Biceps. Morning or night workout. Ah, that's really hard. Foot morning. Favorite book? Uh, the alchemist. Favorite food. Oh, favorite food. Um, probably Greek. Everybody's stumbling on this one. We all love food here. It's hard to choose. Yeah, it's hard to choose. Favorite music. Favorite music? Oh man, that's so hard. Um, I'm gonna just say rock in general. There's so many sub-genres. I'm not gonna get into which one's better than the other. But just rock. Whoa, that's well-added. The broadness. Well, one word to describe you. I'm pretty quiet for the most part. Um, just because I'm quiet, this means I don't have much to say. Actually, I have a lot to say. It's why I'm quiet. Just because I get overwhelmed with like, I'm trying to funnel all these words into a trying to string them into a sentence. But um, yeah, quiet. Quiet and disciplined. I think I think that's a different phrase. Yeah, I'll take it. One word to describe your workouts. Um, empowering. Love that. Yeah. Harry, thanks so much for stopping by today. Thank you. It was awesome to have you on and for you to connect with our users. And we're so excited to work out with you on the bodybuilding.com app. Yeah, I can't wait to work out with you guys. Stay tuned as we gear up to launch the bodybuilding.com app where you can work out with our coaches in 2025.

Music Mockfussel extract is taken from a plant. In the plant seeds, one extracted have three key ingredients called flavonoids. And that comprises a complex called cilimerine or cilimerine. That complex is the presumed or primary active ingredient found in Mockfussel extract. Mockfussel extract has some positive notable antioxidant effects. It also can support liver health and liver metabolism. People often use it when they actually are trying to rebuild or strengthen the liver function in support liver function, or as an a clinically researched and validated plant extract for antioxidant support. What you can expect from our benefits you would get from using Mockfussel is that it could improve your liver health and also improve any antioxidant needs in the body. Perhaps it could be coming from intensive training or climbing or training or working altitude. Dosing is typically 200 milligrams, one to three times a day. You can take that anytime that you want to, it doesn't appear to be important time to take it. When you're trying, we're considering combining Mockfussel extract with anything else for stacking. If you focus on antioxidant support, you can think of any other antioxidants that could be botanical and green tea. There is any types of fruits that are present in constate form, antioxidant vitamins like C or E. If you're thinking about actual liver support, perhaps the best way to combine it with would be an unsuitable sustain or an AC. That's something you'll ask that when taken up by liver, converts itself into or is converted into glut of fion. And that can help support liver metabolism and liver function. Especially if you're consuming Tylenol or the active ingredient Tylenol, acedaminophen frequently, or or and if you're consuming alcohol frequently. That combination of Mockfussel extract and an AC can support liver health very effectively.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Com podcast. Today I'm joined by Kristen Lettenberger. We're no stranger to Kristen here at BB Com. Everyone she's been on the pod before educating us on all things pelvic floor and instilling the proper breath work into our lifting routines. If you miss that one head back to episode eight to check it out. Kristen Lettenberger core recovery postpartum playlist on the body fit app that helps thousands of women online prepare for motherhood and beyond through movement. She's a doctor of physical therapy certified shandard condition in coach and director of a spoke women part of a spoke physical therapy here in New York City. She specializes in women's health along with general orthopedic conditions and injuries. Kristen's goal is to help women restore function and fitness through safe and effective movement. Kristen, welcome back to the pod. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm happy to be back again. Today is all about the moms or moms to be and rightfully so as this episode debuts on Mother's Day. Kristen, you yourself are expecting your first and less than two months now. So we're not only going to have a professional insight but real life personal insight here based on what you've experienced in experience yourself these last seven months or so. So team today we're walking through movement guidance for all three trimesters. The do's, the don'ts, the cautionaries as well as returning to exercise postpartum. This is exciting one for us. This is definitely a gap in the educational field that we're looking to fill. So I'm excited to jump in Kristen and I want to kick it off with topic one which is trimester one. So you find out your pregnant right and where do we go from here? Oh boy. Yes. So trimester one. I mean when you're early on in that first time so it's like one to 12 weeks is trimester one. You don't really have to change too much of your exercises. You can keep pretty much your same routine. But that being said usually women are hit pretty hard with nausea. You get lots of different hormones kind of coming in fluctuating so your energy levels are going to be definitely different. And if you're working out too on top of that you need to be able to fuel yourself appropriately to kind of recover from this thing. So you may not need to change too much of your exercises but you kind of want to take into account your changing energy levels and start a mind shift of okay I'm pregnant now. I'm going to have to kind of step away from what I've been maybe used to doing and start taking like different steps for each of the trimesters. So honor your energy systems if you're really nauseous you're not able to get enough food in probably like tone it down those first 12 weeks of your pregnancy and then the second trimester is okay and do and that usually feels a little bit better. So in terms of explicit movements you know are there things we should be avoiding? Are there you know kind of risk factors that we should be decreasing now that you know we're starting our pregnancy journey? Yeah I mean the major one is risk of falls and the injury to the uterus so like high impact sports boxing kind of things that would maybe cause some injury in that area can be detrimental to the pregnancy. So we just want to limit those things so if it's a high risk factor we can kind of just take that down. So obviously you know we want to consult with our doctors and we're going to treat this as a case by case basis but for you specifically Kristen you know give us an insight give us insight into maybe what your program look like you know prior versus what changes you made when you had it to try master one. Yeah so when I was pregnant I was still training kind of power lifting style and I was doing heavy deadlifts heavy backscrot heavy bench press I was actually going into a strength block so I was looking really forward to lifting really heavy and I could do that up until six weeks and then my nausea hit so bad that I was living on white race and soy sauce and I would go to the gym I would do some movements but I just could not output the same amount of strength that I was before so I had to take that strength block and had to like really tone it down and honestly do warm upsets just to get my body moving and kind of motor planning still and making me feel better but if I needed to rest that day I took a rest day. Yeah and how are we kind of you know meeting ourselves where we are right as you said earlier in the intro you know how can we still get the blood moving what are some low impact low stress activities that we can do we're not feeling the best we're not able to get our full new tritian and we don't have the energy levels to expand we don't want to set ourselves up for injury you know what does that look like yeah I mean that could look like some people are doing yoga some people are doing Pilates if you're a weight lifter like myself that's going in the gym in doing maybe body weight versions of it or instead of loading the barbell to even like 60% in your loading it to maybe 20 to 30% and you're just taking more rest breaks in there so you're just taking your time with each movement to kind of check in with yourself really trying to get that core activation and really good warm ups so you're spending a lot of time doing mobility you're spending a lot of time activating your core and so those are some ways that you can kind of meet yourself where you are. Yeah decreasing that intensity factor and just yeah 100% matching the energy so let's head into the second trimester all the same questions apply here you know maybe as you said maybe that nauseous decreasing you're overall feeling a lot better but when it comes to movement what are kind of the the bumpers that we're looking to instill here yeah although like you are feeling better and you're like oh I can go after it now you do need to kind of check yourself a little bit you won't we when you get pregnant you got to leave your ego at the door so you can't be like ego lifting during pregnancy it's not about this we're trying to create a nice foundation for your postpartum recovery and also a lifetime of athleticism so in that second trimester what you can do is definitely sorry I'm out of breath it's like pregnant everybody very pregnant is very hot but during that second trimester what you if you're starting to feel better you can start adding in some more load and more intensity you're just you're dialing back just a little bit from what you used to do in the first trimester or before pregnancy another recommendation is to your body is also changing so that baby is probably now bigger and your center of gravity is going to be changing and you may feel some heaviness coming into the pelvic floor and so we start looking into pelvic floor considerations during our second trimester even in our first so we're looking for signs of diastasis or like a coining in the front which is too much pressure into that linear alba we're looking for pressure down into the pelvic floor if you're experiencing your anary or fecal incontinence or you're just having musculoskeletal pain so this is kind of when peak relaxin happens is between 12 think to 15 weeks of your pregnancy so you can imagine your ligaments and your bones are just starting to shift to allow for this pregnancy to progress and for that baby to grow bigger so you're going to feel things more than you used to and you might be experiencing pain that you didn't experience before so this is a great time to just kind of like dial back seek help from a physical therapist I would usually recommend in the second and third trimester's kind of setting up the pelvic floor PT so you can have continued care throughout your pregnancy and postpartum where how can we start to understand kind of what the level of pain is well maybe I just need to move my body a little bit more during this time or hey maybe I need to back off right we know kind of a lot of the common complaints live in that low back during pregnancy and around the general core area where this is happening kind of we've got a self gauge then how do we know when it's time to reach out for help I mean if you're experiencing pain for more than a week I would say you should reach out for someone to help because during pregnancy your body's only going to keep changing so if you can kind of get on top of that beforehand you can mitigate a lot of those issues later on in your pregnancy so if you're experiencing low back pain excuse me in your second trimester already that's a great time to check in with a PT see if you're actually engaging through your core properly and you're still maintaining nice hip stability and for you how did your program evolve adapt etc during the second trimester well I really started writing my own program is at this point so I added in instead of more heavy barbell work it was more like kettlebell work so I was trying to get some conditioning of myself through there so in my second trimester what I was doing I tipped back on barbell I added more kettlebell I was doing like kettlebell swings I kept some of my main movements but I brought my intensity down to about between 60 and 70% of my red maxes and I just monitored for those symptoms so any mesquids go to pain any pressure into my pelvic four any dyes dases are cony which I do experience so I have to be extremely mindful of it and then I'm looking for just like overall how am I feeling day to day yeah I want to talk about cardio for a brief second here and this this isn't specific to you know for a second a third or really applies to all I think a lot of people you know we've seen the videos of of pregnant women running we've seen them deadlifting 400 pounds off the ground and we see the comments that come along with that but you and I have had the conversation of if this is something that you have been doing for a number of years at this point you know it is okay to continue to agree this act during your pregnancy so kind of where do we start to understand you know someone who's been doing this for a very long time versus somebody picking up running for the very first time in their second trimester let's talk about that a little bit yeah I mean if you were able to run through your first trimester amazing what if you're able to run through your second trimester and your body is feeling good and you're feeling really stable and you're not having any pubic synthesis pain any urinary continents you can continue those movements it's great for like your mental health and mental well being too but when you see these outliers of these women who are trained athletes and so they know their bodies really intuitively they're also probably have a team behind them being like okay yeah let's try this today this looks good your form looks amazing you're not showing any changes in your biomechanics and so let's continue doing these things but for the majority of women they you usually do have to kind of step back and take it down and if you're asking yourself can I yes you can should I maybe not like what's the reason behind why you're choosing to do these things and so what do you expect to do also postpartum right yeah maybe your second trimester is in the best time to do your first crossfit classes probably not anything that one but if you're an avid runner for the past eight years and you want to keep running you feel good and you get that clearance from your doctor then all the more power to you absolutely third trimester and let's break that down okay third trimester is fun that's where I am right now you can I'm pretty much my training program is to do the same I'm just kind of toning down the weights and I'm seeing how my body is feeling on the day today if I'm feeling a little bit more fatigue so sometimes you just start to slow down the baby gets like real heavy and you start to feel kind of bogged a little bit more what we want to focus on in the third trimester though is really learning how to connect to your pelvic floor because we want to yes have that contraction support our pelvic floor kind of get those kiggles and things like that but it's more important in this stage to find that lengthening aspect because when you go into labor your pelvic floor needs to move out of the way it needs to not be contracted it needs to lengthen and stretch and move out of the way for the baby so understanding how to get that contraction and then full relaxation and third trimester is really important so we're adding a lot more mobility into this area so we're doing a lot more hip mobility we're doing a lot more pelvic floor mobility just to help engage that baby into the pelvis and we're learning mechanics on how to push which is a little bit it's not intuitive for a lot of people so belly big belly hard use your diaphragm to push down and you're thinking about opening your rectum and so that that type of almost like a bearing down but release that we practice throughout the third trimester but you can keep your exercises going he may be more winded in your third trimester so you just may need more breaks and we're also looking at probably you're changing your squat because the belly you need to accommodate more space for the belly so if you're doing dead lifts I moved from conventional to sumo because I couldn't get past my stomach and then I moved from a regular back squat to a box squat because it wasn't able to maintain my pelvic control like as well as I was doing more pelvic tilting and then you also want to think about if you're putting too much pressure into that linear alba so doing like a bench press on flat my back was seeing more co-neing so I just elevated it I noticed it with planks kind of elevating my planks and my pushups and modifying there so we're reducing too much tension into the front here to kind of decrease our risk of a continued die status and to postpartum yeah and Chris has been putting out a lot of great pregnancy modification content on her Instagram which will share at the back end of this episode but really helpful tangible takeaways for users so Chris and we're going to spend most of our time here this is postpartum so we've we've gotten to it we've gotten to the the the big day you're it's coming up for you right so this is the neck of today's discussion because there's a huge gap in terms of how women can safely return to exercise post birth obviously we're going to have to navigate this differently again based off of a type of birth vaginal verse sees actions so let's consider both options and to let's talk about recommended timeframes order of events progressive overlords and things of that nature so I mean let's start day off right babies here I want to start right there and progressively work ourselves up into the weeks and months that would follow amazing and I have my patience and clients start day zero with some movement and some breathing techniques so you set up a great foundation during your pregnancy we practice all these skills during pregnancy so that you know how they should feel postpartum because now that that baby that was inside you creating all this tension like in your abdomen is now outside of you and that is feeling a little bit loose and a little bit more squishy and so harder for you to engage so day zero what is happening regardless of birth regardless of a cesarean or a vaginal birth regardless of tearing um what you're going to be doing is diaphragmatic breathing so you're going to be taking nice deep breaths trying to expand through your abdomen 360 degrees around and then you're trying to just gently engage through your transverse abdominis which is your deepest core and your pelvic floor now you may not feel it the same way you did during your pregnancy and even before pregnancy you got to trust the process that when you do that exhale you're getting those gentle lifts and so you just progressively do that over the first two weeks how are we navigating cesarean versus vaginal birth obviously to completely disruptions here so kind of breakdown both yeah so if you happen to have is cesarean birth that's a major abdominal surgery so they go through seven layers to get to that baby and then they'd suture you back up and we have to be now mindful of a surgical wound during that time so usually the timetable gets pushed about two to four weeks depending on how you are doing during that recovery so instead of a vaginal birth we'll be just a little bit more time maybe in that first phase of rehab during a seaside section okay and how does that impact returning to sport returning to movement I want to say not everybody's returning to a specific sport but they do want to return to an active lifestyle what considerations are taken into place in terms of rehabbing there based off of type yeah so we have to be a little bit more mindful early on with movements when it comes to a cesarean because of that surgical site we want to sort of preserve any sutures that have occurred there and so we don't want to we want to avoid like excessive we don't want the wound to open so we need to be more mindful of rotation load and recovery during that time opposed to a vaginal birth let's talk about when we start reintroducing movement so maybe we're doing things on the table on the floor except our learning how to reengage our core our our patience is lacking mom wants to get back to the gym or the road over whatever it is for her when do we start reintroducing some of those movement patterns standing them up on the floor and getting some strength back yeah I mean you're doing a lot already with the baby so you're picking them up you're squatting down you're bathing them in the tub you're doing tons of laundry you are doing a lot of the movements that you would be doing in the gym now you're just doing them in real life so what we want to think about is we use exercise to complement the things that you're doing throughout the day so that you feel more stable and more controlled in those positions and have less pain so what we're doing the breathing in the transursive dominance and the key goals kind of in that first half of the like the first two weeks you should start to start feeling a little bit more connected to your body and then we're moving into body weight exercises so these are going to be movements that you're really familiar with this is including bridges squats and we're also adding some postural movements because in those early weeks my main complaint is actually from breastfeeding so it's like that hunched over neck position so we do a lot more postural work lot more mobility in the stage and we're adding in banded work here and so you'll get back to doing movements that you're familiar with just body weight versions within the third and fourth week postpartum and then from there it's just we progressively overload it. What is the general timeline Kristen this is again I say general general general here it's going to be case by case and you have to get this clearance with your with your care team but let's say day one to 90 or maybe day zero to 90 as you put it right those first three months how are we bringing new moms new parents back to a consistent workout routine when are we picking up weights I mean it's it's very similar to a recovery protocol from surgeries and injuries right that's how we're approaching this yeah I mean you can be really systematic about it and then you can modify as needed for each person so really the first two weeks is that early rehab stage and then weeks three through six we're kind of adding in more of those movement patterns are really familiar with doing body weight six to eight weeks is usually when you get doctors clearance to resume activity and what does that mean it means your tissue is a field so if you had any tearing with a vaginal birth your c-section scars is healed so you're able to go through the movements you are not at a point where you can take on the same amount of low that you did during pregnancy because the postpartum body is more vulnerable than it than a pregnant body and that is because fatigue and now you you're breastfeeding or if you choose not to breastfeeding you're so recovering from those nine ten months that you were pregnant so that takes a little bit longer than the six weeks that the doctor is recommend but six weeks is when your tissues are healed so we can start adding load them and this is like small amount load so baby cannabels yeah like let's add a goblet squat let's do some lunges let's do a step up or step down and so that's in our six week around eight weeks is when I start to try introducing just some plyometrics really light plyometrics so like pogo jumps static mountain climbers just so we can get more core engagement more hip movement and then at like that eight weeks to about eleven weeks were progressively adding more plyometrics into it so if you want to return to a higher impact activity like running jumping anything that involves you kind of sprinting on one foot we I usually say we we eat till twelve weeks to kind of really introduce that but we're building up strength from day zero to those twelve weeks and so it's really systematic about that in the night twelve weeks we do like a return to run program and so you're back that's already three months there at your twelve weeks if we're just getting back to baseline over you were pre pregnancy probably you've been feeling stronger because you've been really slow and committed and intentional about your movements and how you build your foundation you'll be able to get back to most full sport probably around between twelve to twenty four weeks now Chris and you're an outlier and the sense of everything you've continued to do you know throughout this time let's talk about motivation for expecting moms and then new moms to you know speaking real for a moment movement isn't in the top of their head I mean their lives have been turned upside down for the better right but then there are also things like postpartum depression just thing through and more the mental health aspect of it so I mean one you know how do we find the commitment to stay movement stay moving during a pregnancy and then the second part to this question is you know how do we motivate new moms to you know put their health in their bodies first again as they're adjusting to new life I always say movement is medicine and it's like the analogy when you're on a plane and you have to put on your mask first and then help someone else so if you're not taking care of yourself you're you're not going to be showing up for your baby a hundred percent and so there's a lot of mom guilt sometimes when I'm like talking to people and they're taking that hour to to work out or get some movement in and but at the end of the day I'm like that makes you a better mom because now you can show up more fully and so I think moms just need a reminder of that a lot of times of like you can't take this time for yourself because this is what's going to make your time more more valuable in the in later points but the easy way of like adding movement back in kind of working through either baby blues or if you're dealing with postpartum depression of course we need to seek help for for that and you need to talk to someone but I love movement snacks so like exercise snacks throughout the day because you don't necessarily have to do the 45 minute workout you can do the 45 minute workout 10 minutes throughout the day and that's like four to five points of your day that you're doing some kind of intentional movement and you're getting the same volume and load that you would if you just did it straight through but it's more manageable so adding things like a band next to your breastfeeding or wherever you are feeding your baby like on the stand or in the diaper bag and just doing like a couple banded pull parts when you finish putting a diaper on that and putting them down so just making it more accessible throughout your day I think makes it a lot easier for moms to start creating a program and being more consistent for some you are about a month and a half out from me near little one not two months right so seven weeks seven weeks yeah what's been the biggest learning lesson for you during this period oh boy I mean I really did have the tone it back and so I had to check my ego a few times and it's fascinating because I feel like I've I've coached pregnant and postpartum moms for years now and now going through it myself I'm like I have a whole new appreciation of what that fatigue feels like like your body feels like how sleeping just sucks so bad it's like a cruel joke of you having insomnia during pregnancy and then knowing that you're not going to be sleeping postpartum it's like oh god so I feel like I've learned a lot going through it myself and I just I I like to think of it when I'm in the gym and I'm moving myself intentionally and I'm working out that this is a real privilege that I can do this for myself and I'm doing this for my baby so I'm like setting up a good foundation for her so that I am hopefully going to recover a little bit faster so I can show it for her every day you said a public gender reveal on the baby's home podcast excited to be having a girl Kristen we were thrilled to have you back on today thanks for all you do for women seeking more education around pelvic pregnancy and postpartum health please remind the listeners how they can follow along for more content and education yeah so I have a ton of information on my Instagram that's at Kristen let and burger dpt I'm sure it'll be in the show notes because it's a very long name but you can also find me at bespoke treatments in midtown in New York City I love treating prenatal and postpartum moms and helping them get back into exercise a lot with pregnancy and postpartum is individualized advice is always best so if you're unsure just seek the help we're here to help you and there's a lot of individual recommendations so you're never alone keep moving it does help and yeah thank you so much for having me yeah thanks for coming by again Kristen happy mother's day to all of the baby comm moms out there and thanks for tuning into another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

Music Multivitemans are combinations of different vitamins. A vitamin A-finition is something that is essential to life. Even though a balanced diet can provide you with nutrients, sometimes you need more that you can't typically obtain from foods like vitamin D. With a multivitem because the X-y are essential nutrients, food or beverage or a dietary supplement will have a nutrition-fax panel or a supplement-fax panel. And on the right-com, you'll see a percent DV or daily value. That tells you from that serving size or portion size, what percentage of your daily value of that need for that vitamin is present. Very few vitamins are needed above that to sustain or support metabolic performance. Exceptions to that would be perhaps vitamin C, vitamin D, maybe vitamin E. Those are needed perhaps in certain states or conditions in higher amounts. When you have a multivitemund product, it's almost always present your fine vitamins A, D, E, and K combined or at least A, D, and E. And those are all fat-scival vitamins. And because they're fat-scival, you need to consume them with a modest amount of fat at the same time to increase the amount of absorbed.

The early-ever client of Drain has questions about supplementation. And my answer is always the same. If you don't take him, you're not going to get your results as quickly or as dramatically, but the list of supplements out there seem endless. So picking a right one can be tough. But we've amassed the best of the best to make sure that you reach your goals as fast as possible. Protein is essential for growth. A weight protein is easily absorbed on low and fat and sugars. Try to get about 40 grams postwork out and you can also have it throughout the day to make sure that you have one gram per pound of body weight. When choosing a weight protein, we list the nutritional label on every product page to make sure that you get one low and cholesterol, low and carbohydrates and low and sugars and fats. In order to build muscle, I have to be taking protein. Now I take a protein powder because it's a fast, easy community way to do that without it. I wouldn't reach my goals. A multivitamin ensures that nutrients are missing from your diet. So your body can just focus on what it wants most. Building more muscle. Now buying a cheap multivitamin off the value match shelf just won't cut it. That's good for the sedentary individual. But for an active individual, you need to get the best if you want to be the best. Essential fatty acids. They call the central because your body can't produce them. You need to get them through your diet or through supplementation. And Omega 3 is a particularly helpful because they help with brain function, joint mobility and increase testosterone levels. When you train intensely amino acids which are essential for muscle growth, like a pleating, BCA's or branch chain amino acids are essential for this growth and best taken before and after your workout. Take about 5 to 10 grams, pre and post workout to get your maximum results. When I was working out in the gym, I was getting really, really sore, but I wasn't recovering fast enough for the next workout. And when I incorporated branch chain amino acids, I realized that, hey, I'm not as sore as I was, I can get the next workout. The best pre-workout supplement is going to contain creatine, citrally, and adgeny. And these together will help you get a better blood flow, better pump and better nutrient delivery to the muscles. Pre-workouts coming several forms, pills are great for convenience, but powders will provide you the fastest absorption. After demolished the weights, your body is an immediate need of nutrients to jumpstart growth and repair. Experts refer to this 15 to 30 minutes as the anaepolic window. Take advantage of this window before closes by downing a postworkout shake with 3 key ingredients. Fast digesting carbs, weight protein and creatine. You now have a supplement stack to get massive and muscular. From your foundational supplements to your heavy hitters, what a buildup commons got you covered. Thanks for watching.

Good morning on this very early third day of the muscle building trainer. Today you're probably feeling quite sore from your chest and tricep workouts on OIM, which is a good thing because of the weight that I was using yesterday. I didn't really know if I was going to be sore but by focusing on the contraction of the muscle and the negative was able to break down that muscle tissue. One of the things that's going to help prevent that soarness is obviously rebuilding that tissue. So branch chain amino acids, BCA's, they're coming various forms whether it be capsule, whether it be in a liquid or in a powder form is an essential. So it's a third day of our muscle building workout. We are going to be hitting shoulders and abs today. Second time that we've hit abs this week. We did lower abs at the beginning of the week. Now we're going to hit the upper abs. It's going to be a tough workout. shoulders not being a large muscle group but you know we have to hit it from many different angles to really target it and it can be a muscle group that is hard for people to isolate. So I'm going to break that down to ensure that you do isolate it to make sure that we get everything that we want out of every single day over these next 12 weeks. On a way to the gym because the gym is about an hour away at least from where I reside. So it's quite a track so it gives me plenty of time to digest the food, mentally stimulate myself for the workouts. The soon we walked into the gym was warmed up the shoulder girdle and then we did a standing shoulder press with the dumbbells. So we raised up, used our rotator cups and our tracts to bring the weight up and then our outer and front belts to plow with the weight up. We reached failure at around 10 repetitions. Once we reached failure couldn't do any more you'll notice that you're still able to push out a few. Until even you're just moving a couple of inches just to ensure that there is nothing left in the time for whatever you should be running on vapours, you know even after your first set. We did that four times. When you do that make sure that you keep the tension on your traps. I've all time when you're holding the dumbbell at the bottom don't let your arms relax. Keep your body in your torso tight. We went straight onto the side raises. Now you will notice that my form may look a little bit loose to you but to me it feels very good. So that little bit of leverage and that little bit of suspension works well for me. However for you I would do recommend use a little bit of a tighter form. So I just did side raises and this is our front bar bell raise. So we were at a medium grip and when I say medium that's about shoulder width apart. We re-raised up over the eye level and then slowly came down again. I was using a little bit of control cheating here to get the movement up and again reach failure to around nine ten repetitions and then did our rest cause principle just to get out that 12 repetitions and we did three sets there. Our final exercise for delts was the bent over re-a raises. You will notice with the grip my hands were pronated you know my palms were facing behind me as opposed to neutral facing each other. The reason why I do that and with all the weights on the outside of my hands is I do believe that it isolates the rear delts that much more. So again reach failure at around eight repetitions I stood up, took a few deep breaths and then went down, did another one or two stood up until I reached my 12 repetitions. Up at abs was using a resistance to make sure that we stay within the realms of the Y3T rep principle of around eight to 12 repetitions so I wanted to make sure that we reach failure within those reps. If you do not have a decline bench within your facility just do it flat on a floor however make sure that your arms are vertical the whole time to add assisted resistance upon your upper abs. So we really worked the negative there, exploded a little bit more at the top and paused at the top and then come back down and we did about 10 repetitions there and we did four sets. Rest period was for about one minute but then when we finished our shoulder workout we rested for about four five minutes. Once we did that we moved on to barbell rollouts so you'll notice again I rolled out very very slowly came in nice and slowly as soon as you feel the tension release away from your abs that's when you know you've got to go out again. Don't come all the way in and have a breather left to rease it you'll probably end up doing 20 reps we need a reach failure within about 10 so I think I reached failure at around eight and then rest paused until I got 10 and again we did three sets on that one and I really felt depleted during this workout. Today we did 15 minutes on a bike you'll notice I did three minutes lower intensity so I didn't have that much resistance I always had a high cadence on the bike and then I increased the resistance so I had to stand up and pedal for one minute and then I came back down I did that for three cycles totaling 15 minutes. So three days in a road tomorrow is going to be four days in a row even though it's my first quick back in a gym it feels good it feels like I'm growing already I'm adding more sodium into my diet some holding a little bit more fluid same with the creatin I've added a little bit of weight already I'm 91 kilos I was 89 on Monday 89.9 feels good that I'm adding weight already and I'm growing because I know I'm going to fill this out. I was very nervous at the beginning thinking that I'm in too much of a deficit of all the muscle that I've lost but I'm confident now that we can do it we will do it. Unaccountable to you now I'm being transparent you be transparent to me lay all your goals out there online on body space let us know exactly what you want to attain and put your sincerity on the line and we will help as your account of body to allow you to achieve that. I've had my post-workout shake so remember as soon as you finish your workout that's when you have your protein isolate immediately following and then you do your cardio so that's it for today I'm going to go home now and on the way home it's another meal just remember if you've got your nutrition your supplementation your rest your recovery on track you're going to be right there alongside with me so now as soon as I've got in the car here I am having more egg whites and oats and some plain apple there get some antioxidants in my carbohydrates and obviously my protein so egg whites have a very high BV you know by availability that is my food of choice right now

Hi, I'm Mark Magnum, Muscle Tech Athlete and Performance Coach. I got a question for you. If you've got a very one-spot you in history, who would it be? Post on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook. Hashtag Mike Fitsquad, tag bodybuilding.com, tag Muscle Tech for a chance to win a Muscle Tech prize pack.

One week down in the food may have lost its punch. Get creative and show your best healthy recipes to help your teammates and others find great new trees. Post on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. Hashtag myfysquad, tag bodybuilding.com, tag muscle tech for a chance to win a muscle tech prize pack.

The biggest surprise was the condition that Jay Copmer was in. He was coming out doing fist pumps and he had this extreme confidence and he did the quad stop and I turned to my wife and I said I've never seen Jay like this before. He's got a good, very good chance of winning this show back and it's getting to be who's going to take second through last place. Branch Warren was also surprised last year. He came in looking phenomenal, best conditioning that he's ever shown. There are a few guys that did look as good as they had in the past. Dennis Wolfe, he didn't even place last year. He came in, he was looking very smooth, his conditioning was way off and the crowd knew it as soon as he walked out of his dead silence and people knew something was wrong. Like I said, he did make the final cut, he did make the top 15. Ty Green and Phil Heath were both a little off last year. Phil had a bow with food poisoning and just time things a little wrong. I think he and Oscar probably spent a little bit too long and Vegas before the show last year with their prep. They came out a couple months early. It's probably a little bit too long so they're staying out of New York a little bit longer this year and trying to correct things. But those are the big surprises for last year's show. The guys who were in the top six places last year probably be in the top six places again this year. I'll talk mostly about those guys and then a few of the guys that are probably like seven, eight and nine that I think the dark horse is a technique up to possibly the top six spots. Jake Kotler as everybody knows he came back last year, one is titled back. The first time someone had one their title back after they were defeated and that was the first time in the Mr. Lemby history that was done. And he looked great, he was in phenomenal conditions, his best night ever seen him like the center of the earth. And if J comes in looking that way again this year there's a very strong possibility he will win his fourth Mr. Lemby title. Branch Warren last year who came in second, there's no one could have predicted the way he looked last year. I don't think anyone predicted that he would have came in second place and placed ahead of Dexter Jackson, the guy that won it in 2008. Still debatable whether or not he deserved second place and was very close between him and Dexter Jackson if he would have taken third I don't think anyone would have complained is very close but he was in great condition last year in the judges awarding it for. Dexter Jackson the blade took third last year at the Mr. Lemby and he would like to win his title back. There's no doubt in my mind he wants to win his title back. He's been training with Charles Glass for a while out here in California and I think Dexter is a little hungry this year and he wants his title back and he's training hard and I think he's going to just step it up a little bit more and he looked good last year. He didn't look bad but I think he wants it. I think he stepped up his training a little bit trying to try to win his title back. Kai Green was in fourth place last year and he again won the Arnold Classic in March this year defeating Phil Heath. I don't think he was as sharp at the 2010 Arnold Classic as he was at the 2009 Arnold Classic but a week or two later after the Arnold this year he traveled to Australia for the Australian Pro and his conditioning was much improved and as Kai said he thought that was the best shape that he'd ever been in and judging for the photographs I'd have to agree he looked really really good. If Jay's off this year then we could have an in Mr. Olympia Kai Green could potentially be the new Mr. Olympia. Last year I had predicted Phil Heath was going to win the Mr. Olympia. But I know that he was going to get overcome by food poisoning the night before the judging I didn't know Jay Cutler was going to come in the most fantastic shape of his life. So Phil took fifth last year Jay wanted Phil took second at the Arnold Classic this year. Just about six months ago he was defeated by Kai Green. It was close I could have seen and I thought Phil had it one but apparently Kai sharpened up just enough at night and was able to gun her the first place trophy. Phil always makes great progress between each show he says healthy this year. I see him in a top three spot this year and if Kai and Jay are both off he could step in and actually win the Mr. Olympia title too. Victor Martinez was able to get six place last year despite having a horrible, horrible personal life last year. He had a lot of things happening. Probably the worst was a sister being murder without having his head in mindset at 100% he was able to take six place in the world's biggest professional bodybuilding championship. I don't know if his leg is going to be up to the caliber of Mr. Olympia status yet after his injury in 2008 that he required surgery for. We'll see. I don't think we've seen the best picture Martinez yet. I still think we will see the best Victor Martinez in the years to come. We haven't seen it yet. Ronnie Rockle was 7th last year. He took six at the Arnold Classic. I could have seen Ronnie a couple places higher at the Arnold Classic. I could have actually seen him in fourth place. Ronnie has established himself as one of the better bodybuilders out there. Kind of flies under the radar. He needs a little bit more back development, a little bit more width, a little bit more thickness, a little bit more detail. But all in all he's got good proportions, good symmetry, he's got enough muscle mass. And I think that with a little bit of fine tuning he could break into the top six this year. Tony Freeman is one of those guys that is inconsistent. You don't know which Tony Freeman is going to walk on the stage. He's going he could be super ripped and shredded and flat. He could be full and a little smooth. He can put a winning combination together like he has a couple times. I think his best showing was a 2008 Mr. Olympia or the 2007 Iron Man. If Tony can put it together with a winning combination, he's got a top position also. If not, I see him somewhere 7 through 10 this year. He's over 40. So it's going to be a little bit more difficult for him than some of the other guys to give in the type of condition that he needs to be at to place really well to Mr. Olympia. Dennis Wolf is a guy that everyone says has a lot of potential and I agree he does. His breakout show is the 2007 Mr. Olympia. A lot of people thought he should have wanted that year. A lot of people thought he was going to win it the following year. Again, he's another guy that's been inconsistent with his contest prop. And if he comes in at 100% the way everyone wants Dennis to look, he's going to be in the top six. But he's struggling with getting to look that Dennis needs to get. Last year he was way too smooth. He came into the New York pro to requalify. He took third and did qualify this year. But he was flat. He was depleted and he wasn't the normal bold Dennis Wolf that we've seen. And I think if he can put it together, he's going to be a threat. But until he does that, he's looking to make the top 10. But if he does put it together, he's top six. And it's all to Dennis and see where he wants to actually place this year. Really winkler is one of those guys that it was amazing. I saw him at the Arnold Classic in the pump up room. And I was shocked. I mean, in my previous article for the Arnold Classic, I picked him to be dead last. You know, the new kid on the block always takes last in the Arnold Classic. So I thought that was pretty safe. I'd seen his pictures online from last year's Arnold amateur win. And he looked okay. But I didn't see him having a top spot against the best professionals. Boy, I was shocked. And I think a lot of people were. Really after that show had a pretty big fan base established. He came back qualified at the Mr. Olympia, the Australian Pro, by taking third behind Kai and Dexter. And a few months later, he came back and he won the New York Pro against guys like Tony Freeman and his Wolf, he did Tate Yamagishi. So, really is one of those guys that you got to watch out for. He could easily sneak into the top six this year if some of the other guys are off. He's got, like I said, he's got a huge fan base. I've been reading on thebodybuilding.com message boards. And there was a debate who's got the best all time tricep. I think it was. Rul, there was a really winkler. It was a fill-heath. And you had guys going back and forth saying, no, it's Rul, he has her his or her better. And then there's another guy saying it's fill-heath. And they're comparing the, you know, the long head of the tricep in the shape and the amount of striations. It was pretty, it was pretty entertaining. So, I enjoy reading that stuff guys. Keep it up. I love reading it. So, who has the best triceps fill or Rulie? I'm hoping they're standing side by side. I'm hoping the guys in the message boards get to see him standing side by side this year also because I think everyone wants to see that. That'll be a good match up between Rulie and Phil Heath. I hope Rulie gets some comparisons in there and they all come in at a really, really good shape. As far as predictions last year, I predicted Dexter Jackson to come in third and that was about the only thing that I got right. There wasn't a whole lot of people that predicted the outcome last year. And this year, it's hard to say, but I'll stick my neck out. I'm going to say Jay Coller is going to win. Ky Green in second, Phil Heath in third, Dexter Jackson in fourth, Victor Martinez in fifth and I'm say Branch Warren in sixth place. Rulie win cleared seventh. So, there you have it. Those are my predictions. I am really looking forward to being there again this year. I'll be there with my wife and we'll have a good time in Vegas and we will be keeping up with a hectic schedule, but it's a lot of fun and I'm really looking forward to again.

What time is that getting on? What time is that getting on? The NFL Combine is the elite benchmark of football performance. This all-nothing event can chatter dreams or make them come true. Just six tests, stand between you and greatness. This is where the elite train. Stated y'all facilities of full-time staff of coaches, trainers and medical personnel. On Pete Bomb Rito, and I make champions. Today you're working out in my house. Two time-oil American athlete, former linebacker from the New England Patriots, certified strength and conditioning coach. I'm Mark Magnum, and I make champions. We're giving you complete workouts designed for you to increase your performance for each of the main NFL Combine tips. 40-yard dash, 2-25 bench press, vertical jump, pro shuttle, pro jump, and three cone drill. Plus, we're hooking you up in nutrition and supplementation plans used by the pros. Train, eat and supplement. Just like the top athletes at Bomb Rito Performance Systems. Be stronger, be faster, be better than anyone else.

The 225 test in Rutgers down at Calcombine can be simply stated it's just strengthened endurance. You know, it's obviously looking for maximal strength that's looking for endurance strength over time. So I think a 225 is just a number of that kind of pick that was safe. That was easy to kind of gauge in a pair from the year to year in terms of the overall strength endurance, which is an important factor of football. Because the actual test itself on bench is a rapid action with that stretch reflex, you want to enhance the motion and eventually over time. So I think that it's important to get speed, but also have that reverse strength and a DT-celleratoric component down towards the chest. So if you're looking at a one-one-star tempo, it's one second down, one second isometric pause and the X or the star does the nates exploding up to the end range of motion. Get your set position, you want to get a good arch in the back, glutes your tight on the bench, speed or tight on the floor, shoulder blade squeeze together, heads down. Good. Hey, and rack. Now if you're looking at star one star, you had that high speed, centric load with an isometric pause, then a complete explosion up to a star one star. Same exact setup, same grip. Hey, hey, and rack. Chain slash band same thing, it just varies the load. So at the bottom of the rep, the ball will be lighter at the top, the rep of ball will be heavier. So you had that acceleration component, the n-range emotions. We like to use chains to wear when you're fully extended, you still have a couple of links on the ground. I mean, you know, these are football players that are powerleters, so in order to just kind of bounce at ball or stabilization, if you have all the links off the ground, it's a little bit tougher at the top. Okay, next tempo is going to be star star star star. So you're going to be no isometric pause where I see if we can actually reflex down and up at the same time. It's not going to be a bounce off the chest. It's going to be a rapid acceleration downward. Right before the bar hits the chest, it's a rapid deceleration, then a re-acceleration, a reversal strength, up into the concentric action. The only difference is now it's going to be a little more challenging in terms of the pressing. So bench press for me to get the mentality that you're pressing out away for you towards your feet. Now, the final one is at exact star star star. It's simple. The only difference is no pause at the top. So eliminate the isometric down here. Look at the stretch reflex, but at the same time, can you accelerate all the way through the end range of motion, then pull back down and re-accelerate back down into the next rep. The star star star tempo, no pause at the top. Okay, racket. So the tempo again, one one star star, star one star star star star. Hammer grip bench is basically going to be here. What we want to do is try to get a little bit wider than the chest. I want to try to get a good stretch down and it's deep as possible. And I want to go for endurance. So we're going to go as fast as he possibly can. The tempo is going to be star star star, fast down with no pause, fast up. Raves of dumbbells get to the exact same stance. He did on the bench press in terms of the 5 point system. So lay back. feet, glutes, back, chest, let's go. We're going to good heavy weights. So he's coming all the way down, like I'll a little more at the top. That's it. All the way down. Clear the chest, all the way up, lock it out. I like to hammer grip because it's just changed. This stimulus a little bit from just in a forward benching. All thuring the rotation of the upper arm will change the stimulus. So I like to come out a little bit wider than the chest and get a real, real deep contraction. Just to put a little bit of a different stimulus across all the muscles and bow than the press. We're trying to get as deep as possible. It's fast as possible if it was made reps as possible. And good, doop it. What he's going to do is going to separate his feet here. Put his feet flat in the platform. A little more to his weight than his toes there. He's going to reach down. He's going to grab the spider grip right here. Clear properly. Once he pulls it off, he's going to pull his shoulders back into position. His arms are going to be locked. He's going to be engaged. He's going to rep in one time. Hold. Yeah, the row isometric wave tempo is very. Okay, so for each rep it's going to be a different tempo. So if you're looking at again concentric isometric eccentric on a row, the first rep of that series will be 161 or one second up, six second pause, one second down. Then you do a rep. Then when you come back up for the next one, it's one second up, five second hold, one second down. Then you do another rep of one-o-one tempo. Then you come back up, one second up, four second hold, one second down, do a rep. One second up, three second hold, one second down, all round of the two second hold to the one second hold. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Bring it down. He's going to do two repetitions. Nice controlled reps. Squeeze hold, five, four, three, two, one, two reps. I like to do a lot of isometrics for a number of reasons. I think that isometric strength in all of your scapular retractors and all the muscles and biomed in that wrong action are very, very important. Four, three, two, one, two reps. Nice control. Three, two, one. It's head is neutral, two reps. If you look in specifically for a performance on the bench press, you have to be able to maintain that isometric position for, you know, possibly up to 35 or even 60 seconds, in terms of you just be able to maintain it as you're reping it out. So what better way than train isometric strength than to actually do isometric weight loading in terms of the rows. The race is going to work is that he's going to stand inside. First he's going to start off with the green band. He's going to do as many reps as he can. He's going to start with his elbows tight, slightly lean forward. Elbows facing front, he's going to continue to start reps. Go. He's doing nice speed reps. Still maintaining control. He's going to force that band down, keep pushing, keep pushing. Get a good traction with the strike, working it. Try to push down with the band. I like to use the variable resistance because one thing about the triceps, the triceps contribution into bench press, what you're doing, a maximal bench press or even a dynamic bench press or even an endurance bench press. The triceps contribution is often neglected and extremely underrated. He's going to go to failure. He's going to use many reps as he can. He really wants to burn out those trice. He's going to keep pushing, keep pushing, keep pushing, maintain control. When he fails, I'm going to take this green band away. He's going to continue on. He's going to reverse his grip. I was going to do speed reps, reverse grip, push down. He's going to keep going, keeping elbows on the side, maintaining that fully lean. So, to keep pushing down, he's going to go to failure once again. Once you actually get the bar off your chest, he's going to start pressing the bar out towards your feet. The contribution of the tricep or the elbow extensor, so to speak, is tremendous. I think that's definitely a weak link. We see in a lot of athletes coming in. It's something we really overload. Rep it out. As many reps as it can, keep cranking them out the last two reps at the end of the most important. We're closing, recruiting that's it. More fires, that's it pushing it down. One more rep, that's it feet. Way to go. Every single upper body day that we do has got some type of elbow extensor type work. And we band almost all of it because we like that acceleration component. If you look at typical, you know, a T-bar row or a dumbbell row, it's going to be slow and controlled. With the sled, it's just a great motion to be able to hit that power in turns of those muscles over a distance. So when I say power endurance, obviously we've got a 40 yard sled row, you might get in a good 20 to 30 reps. Brendan's going to help us out again. He's going to keep going, doing consecutive reps. We're usually set it up at about a 40 yard distance. He's going to do as many reps as he can with the net 40 yard range. Okay. Brendan's going to pick up the handles, get his feet set, speed a little bit wider than the shoulders. Shoulders are back as butt is down. He's a nice flat back, head is neutral. He's not going to avoid all four lean. He does not want to lean and expose the lower back. Okay. Perfect posture. Squat down a little bit more. Shoulders back. Turn and row. Stand up. That's it. A nice pull is driving his elbows back violently. Squat. Turn and that's it. Nice strong base shoulders back, flat back. Safety. That's it. Shoulders back. Thumbs are down. Turn and row. Tage, drive the elbows back. Really working those round boys. That's it. One more rep. Drive the elbows back. The bench press itself is a power endurance strength in the run side of exercise. We're moving fast and moving very very powerfully and maintaining that strength. I think that you have to reverse that motion sometimes and that's why we have such good success with the sled row. Once again, we'll set up at about a 40 yard distance and he wants to try to work the entire length of that area. So you're going to work for the whole 40 yards. He's going to continue to try to drive reps for his main possible. Let's get the set up. There's one foot in front, one foot in back. He's going to try to keep his elbows in front. His hands can be separate a little bit. There you go. And he's going to try to rep it out, lean forward and drive snap it out. Get full extension. That's it. As he keeps walking, be continuous. Walk, push. That's it. Another step. Lock it out. He's going to try to keep his elbows facing front. He maintains that forward lean. Keep walking. When he try to make it as though that sled won't stop, he's going to keep reping it out. That's it. Nice job. Different stimulus across the tricep to be able to have that same type of elbow extensor strength at very, very powerful actions. And the same type of thing is it's just endurance over time. Four lean. Hands fall behind the head. Lock it out full extension. That's it. Slightly lean forward. His back is flat. He's neutral driving that sled away. I'm going to tell obviously, no is five position by how big you are. Your number should be as long as you consistently lift weights. I think that's what it does. You're looking at some guys. It's not afraid to lift weights. It's not afraid to take care of his body. You don't have to be like a weight you're in free. But you look at the average numbers. You know, the good number for linements in the 30s, the middle level guys, the tight ends line back is 25, running backs 20, DBs, wide receivers around that 15 range. As long as you can get that baseline number, you're looking at a guy's not going to be a consistent problem with the proper strength in getting a shing program for the team. These exercises we just showed you will help you perform it to the 225 reps test. Be sure to check out the entire boundary performance systems for fall training tiers here on bodybuilding.com.

The broad jump has been explained me by a lot of personnel that has probably the most specific test there is. Horizontal power relates to so many things in football and that's really all it does. It's a true expression of horizontal power. The only rule really is when you go through the descent or the ascent of the jump before you're feet leaving ground, you can't shuffle your feet to get our main planet. And then once you jump out and your feet stick, you have to stick to land and you cannot fall backwards and you cannot fall forward either. The box broad jump, the broad jump just to get that pure expression of horizontal power, but at the same time, soft in the landing. The landing does go through an excessive joint load that you don't want to repeat over and over again. You want to be able to actually execute the form on a broad jump without the impact and the joint load of the landing. So what better way than the soft land by jumping up on the box is that simple. It's identical to the exercise we did for the vertical jump in terms of linear box jump. And for now we're going to take the box height down a little bit about this height and we're going to stand further back. So it's going to technically be a broad jump with height up onto the box. So a box this height, we're going to back up anywhere between three and five feet. So Mark has to have it going to demonstrate this one. Approximately three to four feet away. The position being about hip width apart, the arm starting up at the body fully erect in terms of the hips, the knees and the ankles have no bend in it. It's going to be a rapid arm action down with the hands clearing the hip. Then at the bottom of the deep knee bend you drive your arms forward. The hips will follow. Then you're going to be jumping up and on to the box. The only difference in the arm action is now after you come out of your D-cent and into your A-cent you're going to kind of put your arms out and up a little bit and let your hips just follow your arms up onto the box. Remember the arms will always lead the hips on the D-cent and up into the jumping action. Good. You know how his forward projection of his hips. So it's not necessarily just a vertical. Now we're looking for more horizontal plus vertical power. There's no correct progression. It's micro progression within what that person is able to do at that particular moment. So if they can safely land on a box, that is the proper distance. The I'd say on average we typically start people out about three feet away from the box and up onto about a 35 to 40 inch box. Then we micro-progress the box up and their distance back. Again arm action will lead the hips. Jump up and on to the box. Try to do it a couple times a week because you're going to soften the load of the body joint loading. Be great for technique. You know keep the reference between one and three. The Lambeine Linder Jammer definitely have a favorite exercise of mine because it's a great way to load and be able to micro-progress through an external load of horizontal power. If you look at the Lambeine Linder Jammer itself and you look at Mark's X to the song film. When he drops his knee down it looks very very similar to the base of the jump. You know the full hip knee and ankle flexion of the jump itself before he explodes into his jump. The Lambeine is this sleeve here we have actually have attached to the rack but they can also be at that sleeve that fits into the bar can also be on a ground plate. And a combat handle attached here which is a very very inexpensive easy way to train linear power. Okay. So at the bar fitting into the Lambeine sleeve we have the plate. Now when we do our linear jammer we obviously need a little bit of room in between the plate and the combat handle. We just fit a simple PVC pipe. So in terms of the setup Mark's going to pick up the combat handle put it right on his shoulders. Okay. Then you want to find a good lean in order to get that linear position. So notice how the combat handles, we're in his hands, sets up on his shoulders. He's going to back up about 45 to 60 degrees. Then when I say set he's going to drop down into a squat position getting the knees is closely brown as possible. When I say hit he's going to explode board just like the broad jump or the box broad jump we just demonstrated and the acceleration of his hips is going to pop his hands out into an extension. So perfect start position, set, hit, good. So I like a lot because you can overload the system. And the energy transfer that is created from the hips can be extended out and transferred to the arms. It's very similar to when you do a broad jump you're trying to hold your arms up and out as long as you can even into the decent before you land. So I think it's great for the joint loads, it's great to micro-progress an external load and it's phenomenal for the energy transfer from the hips all the way through the upper body extending out. Walk back with the handles on the shoulders, good 45 degree lean, hit. I like to hit that about once a week and I like to keep the rep range. Again, about that four to five is maybe even six range because I really want to try to micro-progress and load it up as much as possible over the course of the overall program. I do one more rep, bring it to the shoulders, get the lean, set, hit. And relax. But for the specifics of the broad jump, that loaded horizontal power cannot be under stated in terms of its importance. Another exercise great for the broad jump is the elevated back once. I think it's just a great single-late strengthening exercise. There's a lot of single-late strengthening exercises that you can do that would help you in the broad jump or any other athletic motion. The elevated back lunge is definitely a favorite of mine because from the back of the position, you're actually selling your hips forward number one. The other thing is the joint load on the back leg is extremely important. I like that reflex and that stretch you get through the ankle joint on the back leg. And if you elevated, you can actually drop your back knee below the front foot. What's going to happen is piece going to stand up on the plate both feet together. It's going to set himself under that bar. It's going to lock his elbows here. Once that bar is secure, both feet on a plate. Make sure he's on a plate so we can drop that foot that knees going to be below the front foot. So if he's going to step back full of air, step back, absorb the blow tap and accelerate forward. As he accelerates forward, he's going to make sure that the chest doesn't sink. Okay? Exorve the blow, lock the ankle, lock the ankle, absorb the blow tap the knee, accelerate it forward. Accelerated forward, make sure his shoulders do not come forward. He does not class the chest. That's it. So the elevated back lunge is great for just pure single leg strengthening, which is very very important. Plus I like that reflex. You get through the hip and the ankle because you're forced to drop into a back lunge. It's easy to micro-progress in terms of the external load, which is the weight in your back. First lunge, tap, lock the ankle, step forward. That's it. Tap the knees, step all the way forward. Come more. So lock the ankle, absorb the blow, accelerate forward. I like to keep out rep range from you know, five down to three, you know, really try to load it up and build pure maximal strength. The seated band hamstring curl was an exercise that we chose to demonstrate for this video series because it's very simplistic and it's easy to control. But at the same time, you have to be able to control pure knee flexion without a lot of external things like hip flexion, hip extension, getting in the way of what you're trying to accomplish. So a piece going to sit up straight on this bench right here, which is going to lock his hands. He's in a perfect aerodynamic position. He's going to curl that band in. He's going to have absolutely no pelvic tilt whatsoever. He's going to squeeze that band in in a controlled manner. Squeeze, he lets it out in a controlled manner. He locks the ankle or all the way out full extension. It comes all the way back in. He's going to try to minimize knee lift. It is very, very easy to set up. You just take the band, wrap it around or loop it around any type of a post like the outside of the rack like we were doing. Then micro progression would just be limiting the distance where you go. You can even move the band up or down. When you move the band down, you're creating a different type of moment on which could add some more resistance. But, you know, typically we like to set the band up about hip level because it's easy to control. Loop the band around your leg. Then as you come back, you're actually varying the load because you're coming into more band resistance as you're getting into more and more knee flexion. All the way in, all the way out, full extension, no pelvic tilt. He's sitting up straight, great posture. All the way in, squeeze. This exercise can be done prone on a machine or prone with a partner. We chose the band because it's, you don't need a lot of equipment. Anybody can buy a very inexpensive band and just set it up. As long as they're in the proper ergonomic position, as long as they understand it's all about, I symmetrically controlling your pelvis because you don't want the pelvis to shift which would be taking away from what you're really trying to accomplish with the goal of the exercises and that is just to strengthen your knee flexures. That's great all the way in all the way out, couple more reps. Squeeze hold. You see, it might only be getting like six to eight even ten reps, but your tempo might be two, three, two, like two seconds in. A three second pause and two seconds out. Anything that's going to increase the time under tension within a particular workout. Blood jump is very simple. It's horizontal power expression. And horizontal power is more specific to motions in football than vertical power. Vertical power is very general. Horses are horizontal power is very specific. If you look at just a pure acceleration step, that is an expression of horizontal power. There's no rhyme or reason on, can your broad jump increase draft stock? It may or may not. But the way I look at it is why not just go ahead and train for it because you might be neck and neck with another player and every single category when it comes down to athleticism, that might nudge you up. If it nudge as you up, that might be one draft spot, it might be two full rounds depending on all the teams picking behind you. So you never know how the drafts gun folds, you might as well get every single question answered and pure athleticism is just one of those questions. These exercises we do down here at Bommery Performance Sisters will definitely help you make massive gains in terms of your broad jump. You can be sure to check out the rest of the football training series on Bodybuilding.com.

The 3-coin drill in terms of the NFL combine is a linear start position at 3.5 and it is a power drill, not linear speed. Because the distance is so short it's only 5 yards it's more of a bound into the drill and a linear bound out of that 5 yards. After that then it becomes a speed motion because you're looking on it at circular speed which is very specific to a number of athletes. The easiest examples are you'll pass rushing, coming around the corner or a wide receiver and coming across a middle and turning on the drill. You know those type of circular cuts are very important and football so what gets better way to demonstrate your ability to navigate those turns than to put a 5-yard radius on the turn itself. We're going to do this thing together when standing a line, feet together, step. I'm going to bring my left foot back toe to ankle bone, right foot back 4-6 inches. I'm going to drop my right hand right to the edge of that line, put my left hand down in front. I'm going to load the left knee, nose to knee, lock the right tricep, left hand up, 1,000 1,000, 2,1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 5, 2. You're not necessarily going to be running out of the start, you're going to be bounding out of the start. So you notice that Mark was putting Brennan in position, identical to our teaching philosophy on the 40-yard start itself. Now at the same time once you come out of your start it's not going to be a run, it's going to be a 3-step bound. It's very, very similar to a triple jump and track and feel. What? Two-hiss step touch? What? Two-hiss touch? Come on, I'm action fire out. So you're gonna jump out of the start, not run out, and hit a bound, and then a bound hit step stop. When you come back, it's the same three step technique where you're literally trying to throw your legs up and out as high as you can, and gain as much distance on every step. So it becomes a power bound not a run. So the key points to remember is our proper progression leading up to the three point stance. Our one, two, his step touch, our two-hiss step back touch, and our double arm action fire, take us into the acceleration phase. The significance of the five-yard radius arc run is real simple. It's circular speed. Circular speed is used so much in football. That obviously, that's why I, my opinion, it's put into the three cones real because the demonstration of that type of speed relates to so many positions and so many instances in the game itself. We're gonna start three yards away from this first orange cone here. I'm gonna demonstrate first here. I'm gonna put my basically my right foot back, my right arm forward, I'm gonna two point stance. I'm gonna start firing my arms. I throw my head towards these cones. I'm leaning, I ensure lean. My tilting my head towards these cones are a matching keeping it as tight as possible. Tight as possible. Pumpin' my arms, arm action, hand clear in the hip. It's fast as possible. Finish strong through the line, through the white cone. I keep it as sharp and it's tight as possible. So Brandon's gonna give us a live run through here. He's gonna back up. He's gonna be three yards away from this first orange cone. You're gonna start off with this left foot forward, right foot back, two point stance, right arm forward. Ready? Go! That's it. Nice job. Nice arm action. The five-yard radius is obviously just means that the cones replace five yard of parts if you're running around a circle. The radius is going to be five yards, which is identical to the drill. So what we do with athletes, they might do great in terms of the first five yards, the second five yards, then when they come out of the second stop, they navigate that first turn. They might square this and pose around you. So a lot of times we'll just use the preparation of that five-yard arc radius just in itself, because it's gonna help you navigate the first turn and the last turn of the drill. You just have to throw the head towards the imaginary center of the circle at the same time as just keep your arms pumping. That's good. That's good. Remember the legs follow the arms in every instance of walking, sprinting, jogging, whatever. So if you wanna maximize your circular speed and your head is in position, which means you're body-leaning the position, you just want to follow up with rapid rapid arm action. So we just will do arc runs itself, just like Mark and Brennan were doing, and that in itself will make you more efficient in circular running than when you put it in the three cone, it just happens naturally. Now the arc runs are extremely, extremely taxing. So you wanna minimize the overall volume of the arc runs that you do. You might say we do one to the left, one to the right, take a rest period, getting some three-point training. And this is one of those things that's very, very easy to feel for athletes. They'll come out of a squared turn by gay, and I square that turn, they can feel it. So it's very easy to self-coach. The importance of the single cone sprint drills is very, very simple. You're coming to a complete stop at having to change directions at the same time of navigate around the cone without it falling over. So the desoloration components are already kind of built into the previous drills. Once you desolorated, I wanna make sure that they're able to accelerate as quickly as possible. So my opinion you do that by just consistently chopping the feet and keeping the arms moving. It just teaches that quick put action of pop-up hoppup and you re-excelerate. Violin arms, lots of choppy steps. We're gonna stand in that line. We're on our back one on forward here. Choppy feet, you're gonna have violet feet. NeacTION, knees up, that's it. Choppy and the speed, that's one trip. Arm action, two trips, one more. Arm action, three trips. We're gonna have a great choppy feet. He had lots of knee drive. Arm action. In terms of that single cone sprendrill, that is probably the one you should do the least. Okay, and again, only three revolutions, that's it. Don't do any more than that, cause you're gonna get dizzy, it's gonna come a worthless drill. But again, if you have problem, if you feel coming out of that turn clean, you wanna do three quick revolutions, that can rest here, go right back into the three cone drill. My philosophy is that strength is the key. That strength and that speed strength in a power potential can relate to anything. As long as that is set, I don't feel the need to consistently beat up the joints. The one drill I think, that's kind of a combination. Everything, that's got the power, it's got the linear power, it's got the circular, multi-directional speed, it's got the breaking, everything. So I've talked with some scouts that think that that's one of the most important drills that the combine, because it has everything you need. The overall reps and volume of a three cone approach, that all is very minimal. You know, we might actually have three of the four days straight in your speed. We might get to the end of that type of training session and just throw in a good 10 to 15 minute block of three cones and shuttles. You know, we don't practice it a lot, we really don't. Expect a good time, I always say the bench block is you have to break seven, just have to. You know, and I believe that across more of our aimless dial alignment. When you get into typical speed positions, like wide receiver and defensive back, I strive for six, six, seven, I really do. Lime in the odd berries, I'd say, where between like a seven three range is kind of what we shoot for in terms of the elite. I'm going to try to get everybody in the seven, five's or below. Be sure to check out the entire series of drills for the three cone on the page below. I mean, entire Bomberator Performance Systems football training series program is available here on bodybuilding.com.

So basically a barmed-up performance that actually comes in, we have to figure out how many the multi-zeeding a day. A lot of times we want it to, if that, and just pull the time to meals and pull the comprised meals from there. You start to understand and break down how many calories are going to be in each meal. When those high calorie, a low calorie meal is going to be in the exact specific timing and break down, when they will take place through the entire day of each meal. Three solid meals a day, two snacks, maybe one evening meal as well, so it's anywhere from five to six meals and that sometimes includes pre-imposed work out nutrition as well. Also a part of step one is the body composition test, which is also known as the body fat test. We use the body fat calipers to do a nine point test. There's several ways to test your body fat. We feel most comfortable doing that. Most efficient for us. Once you know your body fat, you know where you are, you're starting point is very important. You know where we want to go with that is, because if they get fat, I mean if you run a program where you're consuming mass calories, because you're trying to put on weight, well then of course we want them to get that person's body fat up a little bit because they come into a little bit too lean and that season is long. They're going to wear and tear up wear and tear up during the season. They're going to be able to take care of the body so we're going to have to have a little bit higher body confidence. They're incredibly lean person and lean gainer. If they're a little bit too heavy, they also need to be a little bit light so they're not over taxing their body. So if they're 350 pounds and they're incredibly soft, maybe they could be about 305 pounds, 308 pounds and they could just lean up and gain a little bit of muscle reduced the body fat. Every meal is actually made up with an assortment of micro nutrients and different vitamins. Micro nutrients because it's just thing, oh vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E and health effects, vitamin A, it would be, uh, carinoids. You get that from carrots, vitamin C would be citrus fruits. You get that in any vegetable as well. And vitamin E and healthy fats get from nuts. So we can add any healthy fats to it. I mean you can add flacks, fish, coconut oil, things like that. I mean those are the things that we really want to keep an eye on because of an athletes pushing yourself and grind themselves down. You can wear an athlete out if you're not getting the proper micro nutrients he needs, but probably we cover within he's not going to heal properly. It revolves for how wonderful the work out is. We try to day person buying the sources that they come from. I'm a benefits or a proper recovery, regeneration, shortening the time in between workouts. When we talk about recovery, we make sure that we can keep a close watch on what the way those micro nutrients come from. I mean we get them from food, we get them from supplementation. We essentially use both. Step three, cover hydrates, bomber phones, we follow the glycemic index. glycemic index, the simplify it is basically the number placed on each cover hydrate food based on the higher the number, the more quickly distributed it is to the energy usage, the lower the number it is, the slow distribution it is for energy throughout your body. You want to basically stick to complex or low glycemic index number foods. You can actually use that energy throughout the entire day and not ready energy. First we make sure that the athlete gets a good variety of those combat cover hydrates here is a multiple of choices from you know, a whole grain rice to kinua, millet, barley, things like sweet potatoes, oatmeal, you know, combat cover hydrates are basically our main source of energy. The training is not the average person goes into a weightroom for 40 minutes. They're out here doing drills, agility. They need proper fuel all day. We keep referring to our main source of energy, keeping that athlete fueled up so that athletes in a position to be successful throughout the day and throughout the whole training block. Every athlete needs carbohydrates, irregularities to be trying to gain or lose if we have a very large athlete and often it's a lie in a defensive lineman. He's still going to get accomplished, cover hydrates even if he's a smaller athlete, D.B. or speed athlete. He's going to get lower glycemic foods as well. I don't think it necessarily has to apply to the position or the size so much as for the proper fuel that athlete. We try to give the athlete an opportunity rather to choose different sources of animal protein. We do go organic and we try to keep everything as clean and it's the most natural state as possible. We go anywhere from organic wild salmon, organic turkey. We go tuna, chicken, hormone free, antibiotic free, chicken. Anything with the body doesn't recognize simply put will be stored as fat. So we make it as efficient as possible. No preservatives, very clean food, hormone free, antibiotic free. We try to get them at least two grams per pound. But if it athletes 150 pounds, if he's getting 300 grams, he can be put in himself in a position to be successful and he's in a part of the state in regards to being an antibiotics state throughout the day during his training box. The definition of antibiotics is keep the body in a muscle building state. Keep the muscle tissue healing and recovering properly and basically giving it everything it needs to keep producing healthy muscle tissue. An athlete that's catabolic is an athlete that a body has turned to using that muscle for fuel and we want to stay away from that at all costs. If you're trying to gain weight or lose weight, you still want to stay in the antibiotics state. You know, you're primary source of energy would not be muscle. Our athletes are very susceptible to falling into catabolic. They based on the amount of the workload we're placing on them and regards to the field work. A agility speed work can also spend time in the weight room. That's the general breakdown for what we've followed here in Bomba-Reheat-O-Four-Formation System. To get a more specific breakdown to help you get closer to your goals, check out the page below and welcome to the Revolution.

The NFL Combine is the elite benchmark of football performance. We're giving you complete workouts designed for you to increase your performance for each of the main NFL Combine test. 40-yard dash, 225 Benz press, vertical jump, pro shuttle, broad jump, and three cone drill. Plus we're hoping you open nutrition and supplementation plans used by the pros. The numerator performance system is not only a training system, but I also think it's an educational system. We like to think ourselves as the ultimate resource for any athlete at any age, any level, and you teach athletes how to truly maximize our genetic potential. We're out to change the world. Deep Bummerido, I have a Master's Green Nutrients Science, I have a specialization in clinical sports biomechanics, I've been working with NFL athletes now for many, many years. San Juan Bolton, Chateau Chocenco, Tony Romo, Eli Manning, Vernon Davis, Greg Olson, Morris Jones, Drew Fred Taylor, Matt Forte, John Abraham, Jolly Evans, Michael Orr. Now I'm Mark Magnum, certified strength and conditioning coach, I work at Bomb Readable Performance Systems and Average Tour of Florida. I'm also a sponsored athlete for Fulmus Coates for Muscle Tech. I also played in the NFL. I was drafted by the New York Jets, played through the New England Patriots since in any Bengals. I also played in NFL Europe, I also played in Canada. It's not just about coming down and getting rehabilitated or getting trained or getting stronger is about information, learning how to take care of your body. It's not like you can always exactly get a specific motion of power that's going to be specific and football in terms of tackling or blocking or cutting or changing directions or accelerating or decelerating. Everything you're doing, you football requires power output and then you build off of that and get it a little bit more sports-specific. You might be neck and neck with another player and every single category when it comes down that flutters is of that might nudge you up. If it nudges you up that might be one dress by the might be two full rounds depending on all the teams picking behind you. So you never know how the drafts gone, full of you might as well get every single question answered and pure athleticism is just one of those questions. If you display tremendous athleticism across the board, you're in the top category every single drill. You're going to force these people to go back to why you're taking. We've teamed up with bodybuilding.com to bring you the most exclusive NFL Combine content anywhere and you're getting it all for free. So last yourself, what kind of athlete can I become? Welcome to the Revolution!

The show along with the NFL Combine is based on a couple of different concepts. Number one from the start is Lattle Coward. Take the into Lattle Speed and you have a full change in direction 180 degrees from Lattle Speed back in the linear speed. Then you have a pretty good acceleration through 10 yards and then you have a linear speed into a full change direction 180 degrees back in the linear speed and you have a finish. The start standing long jump is real simple. The main concept is the position. You have to get your hips as low as possible without sitting your center mass back too far that you can't get out of the stance. So that's to be a pretty good way to distribution between the front and the back of the foot and what your head position to be down with your neck muscles completely relaxed in order to not throw yourself back too soon but the truly use your legs and your hips which is the power muscles in order to get that Lattle power on the start. So the first drill we're going to work on, a size standing long jump, Brennan's going to straddle that line. You're going to make sure he's right in the middle of that line. And then he's going to be down to the side. He's opening up too. Very lightweight as you can see. His butt's down a little bit. Shows rough slightly. His arms off his knees. Nice and relaxed. He's going to explode all simultaneously to the right. Ready? Hick! Nice job. See we cover his a lot of ground. His hand lifted and his feet move at the same time. Nice job, Brennan. I'm not a big proponent of lifting the heels off the ground. I think the feet should be flat in order to get a true jump. The other thing is this got to be a two foot jump. This is where most people fail. It's your more powerful off two feet than one foot. A lot of people air in picking the foot up and trying to turn it as opposed to getting a weight shift from the left foot more over the right foot and using that right foot to propel yourself off two feet later. That's really how you maximize your power potential. So you want to keep the reps short and increase more sets. You might want to do, but say two to three jumps, the right two to three jumps, the left, do some pro-shuddles. Then come back and do it again. That way you really maximize your power because you don't want to defeat the nervous system. What to do it one more time, ready? Hit! That's it. Give a quick demonstration here. You're going to start if he's moving to his right. He's going to have his left arm up here. He's going to relax that athletic position. He's going to quick step behind. Then he's going to pull that knee over. When he pulls that knee over, he's going to fire his arms back up. You're going to be sure that he actually crosses over with his knees. He's going to come straight up and straight down and fire it. He's going to carry Oklahoma back again. He's going to move over here. All right, the left arm's up. He's going to relax that athletic position. He's going to quick step behind. Drive his knee up and down. Fire his arms. Whip his arms quickly. Ready? Go. Whip. That's it. Whip. That's it. Come back. Nice job. Notice that he ran a quickly moves his feet. He's going to carry Oklahoma behind. Then the quick step. He whips his hands. Then fires it back quickly. He's going to stomp his index finger together. He's going to use a lot of nice and easy. Carry Oklahoma. Then the quick step. The knee comes up. Drive with the arms. Drive it back down. Caraca quick step is trying to simulate after you come out of that lateral power motion that you're not actually going to be jumping into the run. You're going to be accelerating at high speed similar to the start of the side standing long jump. And then you actually have to start your lateral run. If you run laterally, which means you're running to the side and you're not necessarily looking what you're going. You have the tendency to turn the feet. You don't necessarily want to turn the feet because it's going to be harder to come out of your change in direction. And it's really only a five yard radius you have to run. So the Caraca quick step is a great drill just to get the comfort level of accelerating off the edges of the feet. The other thing is the arms. Basic, track and field from foul mechanics is the arms will lead the legs. So there's a component of motion that the faster more fish than the arms are, the faster more fish than the legs you're going to be. So if you notice the Caraca quick step, we're really, really over emphasizing the arm action of clearing the hip on the backside and then resetting up the hand punch forward. The benefits of perfecting this exercise will make that first five yards lateral run quicker and more fish. But at the same time, the Caraca quick step is because that arm action and because of the comfort level of the edges, we'll make you more fish in any change in direction and football or specifically in the shuttle. The Caraca quick step even though it looks like a pretty simplistic drill is very taxing on the nervous system. We're going to do to the right side, we want to keep the reps about six to eight perfects. Not do character quick stuff or say 50 yards. You want to keep it very, very short and very, very perfect and very explosive. And then take a rest period and repeat again and take a rest period and be again. Go back to some coach, all right. The left arm move to the right once again. His left arm is up. He's in a relaxed athletic position small bend in the legs. Ready? Go! Hand whip. That's it. Fire it back. That's it. Fire it back. That's it. The basic form and technique of the line-bounding series is you want to try to maximize the lateral distance. So if you have a line that you're founding across, you're going to say you want to focus more on forward distance, you want to focus on lateral distance. Latter-o-moving. Cover distance on that four step. Stack the feet. Tap the outside edge and then split his hands. Fire it's being quick step karaoke if taken through. Ready? One, two, three, four stack the feet touch. Drag your hands. That's it. Nice job. You really want to whip those hands. Take it into the acceleration phase. I'd say on average we try to dictate that you should be able to minimize your ground contact maximize your height time and try to get about a yard across the line. So about a two yard distance on each bound. And once you complete your third bound and you're jumping in your fourth bound, which is where you're going to try to accelerate out of. You want to hit that edge down and then drop in your squat very very fast. Now the eccentric loading component of the hips will definitely dictate how much power pretends you have, which dictates how quickly you come out of those change directions. And obviously the final component is arm action. As soon as your finger tips touch that blade of grass, you want a powerful do a double arm pump. Just like character quick step. And again, it's not always just about strength and deceleration components. A lot of times just a comfort level with the edges of the feet. So when you go into any full change of direction, you're going to have a two step stop. The inside leg is going to have to deselect off the outside edge. So you got to get that comfort level and you got to get those deceleration components. So the components of deceleration is going to be maximized through the bound. Obviously, you also have to simulate that stop because the rules of the pro shuttle dictate that you have to touch one hand down not the other one. So if you can get the athlete to touch the hand back down by the heel, like Mark was demonstrating with Brennan today, then you're going to just naturally keep the other hand off the ground, which is going to fall into the rules of the actual drill. The same time is that's actually going to get you into a position where you're able to re-accelerate very, very quickly. Latter emotion, touch on the four steps, split his arms. One, two, three, four, touch. Split his arms drive. Nice job. Way to go, Brennan. All three of these drills will basically take care of every aspect of athleticism within the pro shuttle. The interesting thing though is, is general athleticism is needed for anything in football. I think a lot of our NFL veterans are very, very surprised how much a line-bounding drill and serious and the care of quixthep is just filtered within their natural training. And as we're doing like simulation training, it's specific to the training of football players, we definitely complex those drills as well. So it builds overall, athleticism for anything, but specifically we'll focus on the pro shuttle itself. I look at these as a great transfer of weight-room strength into pure athleticism across the board. Any athlete, any sport, any position. These exercises we do at Bomberger Performance Systems will help your shuttle run performance. To check out the entire drill series for the shuttle run, check out the page below. And the entire football training series of Bomberger Performance Systems is available on Bodybuilding.com.

Well, the vertical jump is a measure of vertical power. So you had the two jumps that jumping in the vents of the combine, broad jump versus vertical jump. The vertical jump will measure vertical power, the broad jump will measure horizontal power. So vertical power, I guess, is the most basic form of power expression. Everything you're doing in football requires power output. So again, I mean, it's not like you can always exactly get a specific motion of power that's going to be specific in football in terms of tackling or blocking. It's all expressions of power. So I think that you have to have expressions of power in a very, very general basic sense, and then you build off with that and get it a little bit more sports-specific. So a few things you want to pay attention to. We have a nice wide base. P wants an insurey pushes knees out when he squats and when he comes back up, he's going to pull full fill of air on the way down. He's going to release that breath of air when he's almost to the top. We have tempos as well. The first number is how long the eccentric is going to take us. The second number is how long the pause is going to be in the third. He's going to be how fast he's going to come up. So our first progression is we two one-exth eccentric. Two seconds in a way down, a one second pause, fast in the way up. Okay, piece of get onto that bar. So we're full full of air. So you're going to unlock his hips for him, locks his knees. The band tension itself will vary the load. It won't vary the resistance. It will vary the load on the bar. So if I have 135 pounds of my back, it's 135 pounds right now. And if I squat down and come up, it's still 135 pounds on that bar. I want to vary the load through band or chains or whatever. So if I have so much band tension when I stand up, it's not only 135 pounds in the bar. Now it could be 135 pounds plus over band tension I have. Reach back in the box. For the air, pause. Hit. Nice job. Now when I go down through the squat, the band tension is released and the bar becomes lighter at the bottom and heavier at the top. That variable load will allow for me to get the acceleratory component of the concentric power we were just discussing. That's really what it's all about is to try to make the bar heavier as I come up from a squatting position to a standing position. I want to make sure it has a nice pause on that box for I give him the hit command. The second progression is going to be one second the way down, one second pause, fasten the way up. Spread your feet. You're going to reach back or lock a hit for me like the knee. Pause. Hit. That's it. Nice job. Reach back. Hit. Nice job. Always remember you want lock a hit before you're going to lock the knee. The variable load speed box squat series will only do once a week. And a lot of times you want to do it once every 10 days. That is a very very taxing type of exercise. It's such a highly neural activation exercise that you're doing yourself with this service to be trying to execute those dynamic box squats for many reps that is set. The last one is going to be star one X. This is dive bombing. He's going to go down as fast as possible. Still pause on that box. Fasten the way up. Hit. Nice job. Nice and explosive. That was star one X. Fasten the way down, one second pause, fasten the way up. We don't ever go more than two reps per set. So don't give me wrong. We might put multiple sets in there. So we might be doing eight or ten or twelve or even fourteen sets of two reps with about a 45 to 60 second rest period. So you know, allow the nervous system regenerate a little bit. Not maybe fully recovered because you're keeping the rest period short. But allow that regeneration so you can execute the same power potential for the next set and try to build up that power and turn it over time. Just like running your arms will need your hips when you jump. So a great way to teach that is to jump up onto a box for two reasons. Number one, when you're trying to go for a maximum jump on a vertex, you might not land exactly properly. And you don't want to continue to slow those joints by landing on the ground. So if you jump up onto a box, you're going to soften the blow of the land. Now we've already taken care of the building blocks in terms of speed. We want to actually get the foot position, the arm action with regards to the vertical jump. So feet about hip with the part and you want your arms off to act as levers. So when you're dropping down as fast as you can, you want the arms to actually leave the legs. So you throw the arms back first. So it's going to clear the hip and you're going to drive the arms up forward and the hips are going to fall. So the faster you go down, the faster your hips move. The faster you recoil and punch your arms up, the faster your hips will move through, which will dictate the height of your jump. So we typically start this tip teaching of a vertical jump on a box such as this. If you get your feet set, toes pointing straight ahead. By hip with the part, arms up. This high as you can, it's going to be fully standing up. So no bend at all on the shoulders, the knees or the hips. With the down through the hip, drive the arms through. So again, if you notice, the barcus actually getting full hip extension, full knee extension, full door to planar flexion, all the way through, this hip's knees and ankles. And everything is being dictated on the speed of his arms. So drive back a little bit faster, drive it up. We like to put the box jumps almost on every lower body day. You're training a crash course for NFL combining. You might only have six right weeks to get right. That technique of jumping is just too valuable. And again, keep the reps really short. Maybe one to two to no more than three jumps per set. And the jumps could be in terms of the total sets, could be anywhere between three and ten sets. As long as you can execute a perfect jump, again, that means that you're not shuffling your feet or anything like that to the decent of the ascent week by week, you just try to make sure that you're not a micro-progressed little bit higher as you can control it. Dumbbell seated box jump and you can say from up general principle standpoint, it's very similar to a box jump. The only difference is now we're looking at a little bit more concentric power, pure concentric power because there's not a lot of eccentric loading components. So on a jump, I'm starting fully erected. I'm dropping down into my eccentric load and the stretch reflex is a huge component. Dumbbell seated box jump, going straight through flex you have is because you're lifting your feet off the ground and slamming it down into like a baseline problem at your action, getting that easy centered loading component into the concentric power. Same feet position, by hip width apart, same knee position straight ahead, you're going to hold the dumbbell up but not too high up that its maximum is how when he comes up. Lift the feet up slow, driving down fast and complete the box jump. And again, safely just step down, come back, reset the position. So it's still a little bit of a stretch reflex but not nearly as much so it works on concentric power from a little bit more of a standpoint. And I like to weight that type of jump. Again, my co-progress, the height of the jump but also my co-progress, the weight of your hand. Same drill. Deep hip width apart, toe straight, knee straight, dumbbell up, reset, recoil. By adding weight, you are definitely just making the power expression more challenging. It's just overloading that stimulus. And again, there's no real rhyme or reason behind this athlete has to start at this height with this weight. It's whatever you can safely execute a jump. The dumbbell seat of box jump we never go over two to three and we usually keep it like singles. To try to execute one perfect jump and then repeat it again on another set. If we're looking for something really to top it out all off, just make those massive gains at the end. I would say the dumbbell seat of box jump definitely achieves that. He's going to fall 12 inches off the box onto the ground and as he's falling, he's going to be driving his arms into that position. The concept is as soon as his feet make contact with the ground, he's already in the maximal jumping position with the arms back and the hands clearing the hips. And he want to try to limit the ground context with the feet of hip. You punch the arms forward the same jumping action as a box jump landing up onto the box. So start with your arms up. When you fall he's going to go through a powerful whip back then bound up onto the box. The depth jump just introduces a little bit of a baseline plow metric. The plow metric of getting more into like a bounding technique in trying to limit the ground context. It does a good job of just introducing basic plow metric actions into a jumping action. That's why I like it. It's definitely safe and not a lot of joint loading. As long as you have a competent, based strength of all of the muscles in the hips and the quads and handstrings and so on. So for a thick and be very effectively done. I'd say it's a very, very good transfer. Kind of like the dumbbell seated box jump to tie everything together and top it all off. And you really have a good opportunity for tying that arm with. And that arm with timing in terms of the arms leading legs under jump from a technique standpoint. It's very important and all types of jumps. The depth jump definitely needs to be only put at the later phases when you know that you built up a solid base foundation throughout the beginning of the program. So we only put the depth jumps and maybe the last one or two weeks before we start tapering down for our event. Four good hand braids is just a really, really good exercise to strengthen the knee flexors. It's very simple, it's very easy and you can actually perform it with no equipment. When you can just have a partner hold your ankle down. So if he's going to come inside here, he's going to lock his ankle. He's going to remain tall. He's going to have a slight anterior tilt for. But once that tilt there, he's not going to bend anymore. He's going to bring his hips with this hole up her body. He's going to slowly lower his upper body. Come down forward, almost try to tap and pull himself way back up. He's going to remain tall. If he needs the use of his hands, he's going to put his hands out. If he needs to, he's going to give him a light tap to the ground. He'll push himself all the way back. If you can really do a good job of eccentrically loading that exercise, it's good control and the pelvis. The one thing about strengthening the knee flexors is you want to watch excessive hip flexion. If you start on a leg curl machine or you're doing the glueed hammer as you have to start with a little bit of hip flexion as you saw me demonstrate. But you want to be able to maintain that slight hip flexion as you're going to do the extension, the flexion exercise. He keeps me as glue already engaged before he gets there. Lights out, push up. Your main stall is a small tilt. Forward lean, very small, very small. Reign his upper body with him. His ankle is locked. His glutes are engaged before he goes down. I think that type of control is very, very important. It's pretty easy to control that because you can almost use your self as resistance. It's a great way for people to kind of micro-progress themselves to the exercise. The knee flexion strength can be, obviously related to almost every athletic motion. But it's extremely important when we're talking about jumping ability. It terms of actually performing a vertical jump as is with the test with the vertex. I think it's overrated. I think that building all the base foundations and making more powerful is important. Then obviously you want a little bit of the technique of we stand underneath the vertex getting a feel for where you stand. Also getting a feel for, obviously reaching up at the top of your jump to be able to actually express your true power potential and not leaning back and not swatting at it. But those things are very easy to teach. We just do it at the very end-after we've built the base foundation. We love to use potentialiation, potentialiation in terms of power development. I think we like to potentially that power by doing very, very heavy, loaded, lower body exercise like a split squat, like a elevated back lunge. Immediately once we've got that neural activation go right into power potential exercises. So it's almost like a complex super set. We'll do a very, very heavy set and immediately file by one of those power exercises and then take our rest period and repeat. These exercises, we at Bombry Performance System recommend and increase your vertical jump. Check out the entire football training series on bodybuilding.com.

Today we're going to discuss the natural ways to boost testosterone. Testosterone is crucial in muscle development and a couple of bodily functions, so if we look at the optimized hormone levels, this video is for you. Get enough sleep, sleep is critical for testosterone production. Studies from the American Medical Association show that sleep deprivation can decrease testosterone levels. So, prioritize sleep and try to get about 7-9 hours every night. Next, make sure you're getting adequate amounts of protein. High protein diets have been associated with high levels of testosterone. So make sure you're picking high quality sources and make sure you get a variety of sources such as chicken, beef, turkey, and egg whites. Now, since we're on the topic of supplementation, let's talk about fenugreek. fenugreek has been shown in the fight of therapy, research journal, to increase levels of testosterone and improve sexual function in men. So we can't talk about estrogen management. So one of the ways that we can do that is by incorporating dim and indole three carbonyl which have been shown to keep estrogen to a favorable level. Alright guys, the sum it up. The best way to increase your testosterone naturally is going to be to make some lifestyle changes, optimize your diet, and optimize your supplement protocol. A bodybuilding.com, we have all of the supplements we mentioned in this video. And one easy, convenient package. It's going to be the elite testosterone booster. Check it out at bodybuilding.com. If you like this content, you found it valuable. Hit that subscribe button. Hit the like button. Show it all your friends. I let us know down in the comments what you think. And if you have any ideas for some topics that you guys want to see. That's coachK from Bodybuilding.com signing out.

antwortLAB THANK YOUR app

Hi, I'm Nicole Monier Guerrero and I'm proud and honored to be a part of the first ever team bodybuilding.com athlete. I'm also an IFBD bikini pro and believe it or not, I'm 38 years y'all. I'm going to share with you today a little bit of my training program, nutrition and supplementation. So you can see what it takes to be like me. I actually have an active and dancing VH4. I was on POMS and High School in college and then I am a former NBA cheerleader I cheered for the bulls during the Jordan years. I basically did want to grow up. I wanted to continue my passion for being on stage and being active and dancing. So I started competing almost 10 years ago and so that's actually kind of what led me into modeling. People don't understand the power of steel and I started out, I've danced my whole life part of it, you see my thing and as I've got an older I changed smarter. I'm a lot more efficient, I don't do a lot of cardio. I've also learned to eat right, I eat right for life and it's taking me time. I didn't learn it overnight, it's taking me years and so steel is my deal. I love him the way and that's actually what has called my body and there's so many miss out there a lot of people men and women think they're going to get big and bulky. My male clients have been all in time, always pushing them to get towards that way training and also the nutrition to get the whole package. My approach to training is I make way training fun by throwing in body weight. It's harder and again it gives me great results because it's fun. You got those sexy exercises as we call them. They look difficult, they look you know really cool, plyos, drills, jumps, it's fun and I love it but it's also very hard on my body. And everybody should be doing it unless they're under the guidance of a trainer or somebody like that. Way training I do probably like five to six times a week. I hit every major muscle group. A lot of times I'll do upper body twice a week just because I'm a dancer. My bottom half I've had from all leg work I've done. I will do legs but again I love to do plials for legs, body weight has really shaped my lower half. My upper half when I started competing I didn't have these shoulders in arms so it's worked for me is twice a week with shoulders and arms doing a lot of body weight even a lot of plyometrics with my upper body has his health. Blending it up mixing it up you know I'll do three sets four sets five sets heavy weight. Sometimes time under tension when you're always changing things up you're confusing the body. My rep range typically if I'm doing heavier weights six, eight reps lighter weight 10, 12. I mean sometimes I will do 15. I'd love to do drop sets giant sets to get like a real good you know pumping burn especially in my arms and my shoulders cardio twice a week you do have to work the heart I tell people that it's important to do cardio actually the cardio I do is in the classes I teach I teach about two cardio classes a week it's cardio kick boxing every now and then I'll do some interval training and even some stuff from when I started as a fitness competitor but again a lot of people think they need to do all this cardio and initially some people do rest I tell everybody they have to rest I usually take two days some days I take more but again that's my body I know what works best and rest is actually going to help you grow and make those changes and you're going to come back stronger I don't believe in doing drastic things to the body you know I'm going to point where it's all about maintenance and you become your own scientist I know my body I know what works for me and it's the same thing with my clients I work with them until we find out you know where we can get them at a maintenance program and keep them there the key is finding out what works for you nutrition is a huge part of my life I take my food with me almost anywhere I'm eating clean pretty much 98% of the time it started out yes competing and having to have a certain look but as I've gotten older it's more about healing the body and feeling well and people don't realize that food also has the power to heal I was super about 20 years and had a plethora of conditions and food and supplementation has really helped me heal in so many ways okay so typically my meal breakdown for the day approaching it every meal you know there's so many people out there that don't have protein and when I look at their meal plans that that's a huge thing you need to have protein in every meal carbohydrates I usually have like I've like served in the morning we need more veggies in general so I try to eat a lot of veggies like don't do a lot of fruit that's a work for me for me as more of a cheat not to say it's a bad thing I eat typically five times a day sometimes six do a lot of salads with you know different sprouts and ingredients and stuff like that mixing it up between eggs chicken turkey, lean beef, fish I'm not good at cooking fish so usually by a fish it's went about you know there's a few things that I tighten up typically pulling out some of the fats I definitely need those complex carbs so for me pulling out the fat is what works best I treat just a little there's a couple things I take out even the things I take out are very healthy not butters, almonds, stuff like that there's just a couple things that that I take out to get a little bit tighter I'm usually three to five pounds away from being photoshoot right here contest ready I do believe in cheat meals I mean that's this life and I do you know I do enjoy food and moderation but again I know that when I am going to eat that way I'm going to feel at the next day if I eat too much I'm going to feel rocky and sluggish I'm pretty particular about where I am you know eating out and stuff like that you know when I'm out in public or with friends or family they look at me cross I because I'm eating clean and you know they think it's more like about vanity and I'm like you know you don't know my health you know what I went through in the past I've seen the light at works it's hard anything in life pretty much as hard but it works for me and I feel great supplements are very important supplements to have helped me reach my goal as far as feeling good and then also looking good they help me you know get dialed in for stuff it's top with my overall health and well being which is important you want to have good energy you want to feel good you always mix up your workout you got to mix up your supplements you don't want to take the same thing all the times but I also make sure I'm taking top quality brands mixing it up have supplements that everybody should take are probiotics calcium magnesium vitamin D complex and then a fish oil probiotics everybody needs to be on a probiotic the power of probiotic is amazing it's actually really helped with all the conditions I've had people don't understand that you have more in your God and that's 75% of your immune system and that that's that's better than a multi-vide of an environment vitamin C calcium magnesium and vitamin D complex very important I have a lot of people who complain to me about cramping and stuff like that and even ask you a process look people don't get enough oils are very important for your brain for your mood for your skin for your blood like everything people don't understand the importance of having your own make it through six nines there is no one super pill and there is no one super food it's there is no one super exercise but you got to build a build a package build a program find out what works for you I just want to give people hope there is no age to this sport and that eating rights and exercising for pretty much over 34 years of my life has been my anti-aging serum anything is possible and there are so many women now in this sport that are getting into it at 40 and 50 and even senior citizens and so just letting people know that you can do it just believe in yourself I'm Nicole and today we talked about my workout nutrition and supplementation program which you can check out on the page below to ask me more questions visit me on body space at the full on your hero and come more content like this be sure to check out the rest of bodybuilding.com

Have you ever gone for a long intense run and by the time you got home, you were exhausted, not hungry and maybe even a little bit nauseous? If so, this video's for you. If you workout long enough at a high enough intensity, your workout can alter your hunger cues and leave you as for yourself, why am I not hungry the day I workout? This can happen for a couple of reasons. In increase in stomach acidity, particularly for those who have a history of acid reflux. A decrease in blood flow to the stomach as the blood is traveling to the muscle that's being used. And perhaps even a decrease in your hunger hormone. This small study found that growing your hunger hormone was lower in athletes who had exercise at a moderate to high intensity level compared to those who were sedentary. Therefore, causing these athletes to feel less hungry after their workout, which can then impact recovery time as most individuals will wait until their hungry to eat. My suggestion, take your closer look at how you're fueling your body. Are you eating enough carbs before your workout? If not, try to have some simple carbohydrates that just fruit 30 minutes before your workout. Is your high intensity workout longer than 60 minutes? If so, then you might need to supplement with carbohydrates during your workout, such as gel packs. And lastly, eat carbs and protein, post workout, emphasis on the carbohydrates. For example, you can have Greek yogurt with honey and chia seeds or maybe a protein shake with banana and oats. Try using trialan error to fuel your body during your workouts and monitor your progress through performance as well as hunger cues.



So today is your first rest day, it's the Wednesday of week one and you should be feeling really sore from the workout. But that's totally normal. This weight training program will be a shock to your body. Today I'm going to speak to you about nutrition and how to shop and what you should be shopping for and how to prepare those foods. I'm very strict with my diet to make sure that I get the best results possible at the end of this transformation. So you should be eating exactly what I eat. Today we're going to go to the supermarket to come along with me so you can see exactly what foods that you should be eating and foods you need to stay away from. Eating healthy does take a commitment and although it may not necessarily be cheap to buy healthy it can be affordable and it's definitely well worth it in the long run. Okay we're here at the sweet potatoes. We've also got the yams here that you can have on its transformation or in the UK it call them suites. It's good to mix up your carbohydrate sources like the main source for me comes from brown rice but I also like to mix it up with some sweet potatoes and some oatmeal as well. It stays very basic with a carbohydrate source. This is a slightly slow digesting carb along with the brown rice and oats. Okay another form of carbohydrates that I recommend on its program is brown rice. So a lot of people are carbohydrates when doing a program such as this I'm a carb freak. I like to have my carbs. Keep some metabolism fire and provide that you get in a right carb a high jr. You're going to get the results that you want and provide in that your stick it's a nutrition training program and frequency of those meals. So we like to go for the short grain. I've been told by my life that they are a lot more moist than a long grain brown rice. One of the tips that I like to pass on to clients is to eat before you actually come to the supermarket so you'll prevent less amount of cravings in your less likely to pick up foods that you shouldn't eat in. It's just because you're on this transformation doesn't mean you need to exclude other people like friends or family that are on this transformation when you're going shopping. So my wife just poured some almond butter here which is fine she needs a healthy fats but when you're doing this transformation you don't need those healthy fats so much. You need to be burning off the fats that you're storing not the fats that you're ingested. Okay the next carb hydrochop for us is the quick oats. So we get a big bag like this for convenience because we'll go through one of these in a month between having this for breakfast with the egg whites and using it as a meal of placement with protein powder it's very easy to go through the the oats and I never cut this out at all junior entire 12 weeks and the next thing on my shopping list is steak. So the macronutrients that we're really focusing on on this transformation are your protein and your carbohydrate sources. So obviously not going too much for the fat we need to keep meat sources very lean. So for that reason I like to go for the eye of round steak which is a very lean source so we can just throw that on the grill or on the barbecue another one that I like to get is the eye of round roast so I've actually got a meat grinder at home this is great to put through the grinder and have it like ground beef and one more but I get is a tender loin. Now it looks a little bit fatty on your head so that's okay you can trim that off but throughout the rest of it is very soft very moist and very lean. Another lean protein source that I like to include in this program is fish so I like to go to for to laugh you personally it's very tasteless I don't like anything it's too fishy and it's cheap. Don't go too much for like the daily meat or anything like that or anything that's going to be this is going to have a lot of preservatives so I know that lean forms of steak and fish and stuff like that I know exactly what I'm going to get into my body because it's listed on the ingredients list on the back. Next protein form that we're taking or eggs so we separate the egg whites from the yolks because the yolks is what contains all the fat and cholesterol between myself and my wife we go through 24 egg whites just a breakfast hence we're getting them in bulk like this sometimes we do water and from bodybuilder farm and just get the egg white formula for convenience other times when we're at the supermarket we'll just grab them like this. So the last stop for protein I like to grab the poultry so here I'm just picking up the turkey breasts is very lean always go for the breast as opposed to the leg or the wing you know you're going to get a lean a cut of the bird so I've got loads of chicken at home so no need to get any more chicken just turkey and that's it. So another five risk carb that I like to utilize within my diet especially as I'm cutting out the carbohydrates in the latter meals I like to replace it with a five risk carbohydrates to replace the complex carbs like in your brown rice or in your potatoes. So it's very important to have fiber within your diet so make sure that you're regular to keep me metabolism firing as well. I don't eat a huge amount of vegetables but that's okay you can eat as many vegetables as you want. A lot of it is water so you're probably burn off as many calories digest in it as the amount that's in it. I personally just like to have it in a last couple when I cut out my complex carbohydrates. Although coffee isn't an essential part of this transformation it's essential to my transformation because I really feel like I need this in the morning and before my workout it's just to give me that extra boost of energy as a stimulant especially in the morning when I really don't want to do my cardio and in the afternoon when I'm having that the mid-afternoon kind of crash. So the coffee really gives me a stimulant to get a more intense workout so that's why I have my coffee black and just with a natural sweetener. So we're here at the sweetener slash sugar section. Obviously you can't have sugar while you're on a program so what I like to use is it's like a stevia extract. It's from the stevia leaf so you're not going to have anything that's like any additive or any additional calories. This is calorie free. This is great to have any black coffee because you can't have milk on this program, not every supermarket sells it so you can actually get this on bodybuilding.com as well. So on this transformation fact is a big no-no especially saturated fat. So here you've got your core oil, your olive oil. You shouldn't be frying your foods anyway on this transformation. So what I like to use if I'm going to use a fat is just a spray so it gives me a very thin laddron. I'll put that like on my barbecue grill so my food doesn't stick to it. So if you're going to use a fat use something along the lines of a spray. An essential tool on this 12-week transformation are your top-of-work containers. So I eat nearly every single one of my meals out of these top-of-work containers and as my training partner you should be too. So I like to get the larger containers just to store my chicken and my tilapia and my rice in just to keep them a fridge and I get the smaller containers just to put in my cool bag to take to work to eat my single meals out of. So water is a huge part of your transformation performance during these 12 weeks. The body is made up around 70% fluid. I'll drink about a gallon which is about this amount during a day and I'll add my BCAA extend formula within here as well so if I've got a grape or an orange flavor the chances are I'm going to drink more of it. So yes the upfront cost of stocking up on healthy foods were grocery shopping may seem like a lot at the checkout station but actually you'll most likely be saving money on a weekly basis. So now that you've bought all the foods that you need let me give you some tips on preparing those foods. So I always like to make my foods in bulk so I'll cook a couple of days worth of chicken breasts and fish and stuff like that so I just have to get it out of the fridge and just cut it up per meal. But I'll always make sure that I prepare my meals for the following day the previous even so when I wake up I've got no distractions I can just get my meals put them in my cool bag and off I go to work. And I also make sure that I grill or boil all my foods as well. I don't like to fry them too much I need to drain out all the fat that's actually in the meat sources. So I always use a griller like a form in grill or a barbecue grill and measure all my meals with a scale just to make sure that I get accurate portions. But what you can also do is measure your food portions up against a size of your fist. Just to make sure that these fruits aren't getting too bland and too boring I also like to add various things to it like some ginger, cayenne pepper, some spices, garlic and things like that. I even add salt on it just to make sure that my body is holding enough fluid so I can push a little bit more weight in the gym. The only time I'll cut the salt out is like a couple of days before my afterfroids. So don't worry about the salt at this stage as well. Remember you've got to make sure this diet is part of your life whether it's at work where the atrublim at social gatherings at school. You've got to stick on this plan. So you'll notice throughout this transformation I travel quite a bit but I never wave it off my nutrition plan ever and neither should you. So tomorrow's going to be a training day we've got back and by-seps but today I'm going to be doing cardio but done at this morning I'm doing it again this evening. Are you whining already? Come back to mode and I'll get you thinking differently.

When it comes to nutrition, I rely heavily on the research that's been published in journals and then by scientists over the world, but just because something's been discovered in the lab does not mean that it's necessary to carry over into the real world. So I tested on myself and thousands of people who follow my advice. So with all that data, I'm able to sort of bring it all together into the best nutrition advice that's out there. With the nutrition program for Shorke to Shredd, it's all based on mechronutrients getting a protein to complement the recovery from the training helps you to build more strength and muscle that's going to keep you also burning more body fat. When the Shorke got to Shredd program, the macronutrients are ranked protein first, fat is actually second and then carbs come in third place. Protein is the most critical macronutrient on the Shorke to Shredd program for the simple fact that muscle is made out of protein. So to build more muscle, you need more protein. Protein is also critical for energy. The amino acids that protein is broken down into are actually used by the muscles as an energy source. Plus, research shows that higher protein diets that are lower in carbohydrate actually work very well for fat loss, especially when we're trying to maintain your build. The muscle. There's a simple fact that it's very difficult for the body to take protein and then convert it into body fat. It's not impossible, but out of the three micronutrients, your body has to work much harder to take protein and convert that into body fat. That's going to either go to build muscle or be used as energy, especially when you're eating fewer calories. So focusing on protein is a home run as far as dropping body fat and building muscle in the Shredd. The protein sources that you want to focus on during the Shorke to Shredd program are your lean cuts of meat like top, sirloin, flank steak, those are very lean sources of beef. You can even get ground beef, that's 97%. Lean, anything in 95% of the body lean is great. Obviously chicken breasts, but even chicken thighs, people think all the dark meat, that's so fatty. It does have a bit more fat than a chicken breast, the white meat, but it's not going to ruin your program. It's a small amount of extra fat, the same thing with turkey or any poultry. Fish is always a great source and we have both lean fish, like halibut, soul and then we have fatty fish, like salmon, obviously eggs, eggs are a very high quality protein source. And then we've also have dairy. Dairy is a very critical protein source on the Shorke at the Shredd program and any of my diet because the simple fact that dairy has been shown to be critical for building muscle and it's because it's composed of the two main proteins, weigh, in case in which complement each other nicely for promoting muscle growth. So how much protein do you need to consume while your following Shorke is the Shredd? Research shows that anyone who is training intensely need at least one gram of protein was put on at least. There is research showing that going as high as one in a half grams of protein, proponent body weight, was very effective for promoting muscle growth and strengthens. And that's basically what you're going to be eating when you're following the Shorke at the Shredd program. Now that's not just what's been shown to work in research studies, that's actually what I've found with thousands and thousands of people eating these higher protein diets while following my programs. Getting in one and a half grams of protein to the pound of body weight is critical not only for growing muscle, building strength, but also helping to shed body fat while you're on the Shorke at the Shredd program. So that's our rank as the second most critical macronutrient in the Shorke at the Shredd program for several reasons. Now a lot of people are kind of surprised at the fact that you're eating so much fat, but fat is not the end. Just because you're eating fat doesn't mean you're going to get fat. In the fats that we're going to be focusing on are the very critical omega-3 fats. These actually have been shown to enhance that loss. So omega-3 fats actually work in the body to turn on genes that increase fat burning and they turn off genes that decrease fat storage. And they also produce very beneficial pros to glandens that help to decrease inflammation which provides most of the health benefits. Plus omega-3 fats have now been found to actually aid muscle recovery and muscle growth. So we're going to use the most of the critical fat. Saturated fats are actually not a fat you need to avoid. Especially for males, saturated fats have been found to enhance testosterone levels. And this is going to be critical when you're training as hard as you're going to be training and trick it to Shredd. You want to maintain those testosterone levels. That's going to help you build muscle and strength. Train harder and actually lose more fat. So even saturated fat is not the end. Mono-insaturated fats are another health effect. And rib-saturated fats they've been found to promote higher testosterone levels. The omega-3 fats in mono-insaturated fats have been shown to be preferentially used as an energy source, especially during exercise. But also when you're just sitting around, you're mainly burning fat as your main fuel source. The only bad fat is trans fats. Those are the ones you want to avoid. These have been altered in the lab so it provides better shelf life. This sort of tweaks the molecule the fat and the body really doesn't recognize. What it is, it doesn't really know what to do and how to process it. So it gets into your cells and causes have that's why it's been found increase in risk of heart disease and certain cancers. So there's one fat you want to avoid is trans fats. The problem with fats are the fact that they are chlorically dense. When you look at protein and carbohydrates, a gram of protein or a gram of carbs spreads out four calories. Now when you look at a gram of fat, it's more than double that. It's around 8 to 9 depending on the fat and even up to 10 calories per gram of fat. And people think oh well that's going to push me over my calorie limit and it can. You do need to be cautious of how much fat you're taking in. But as long as you're hitting that 0.5 grams that I have in the diet, your calories will stay in check. And you'll be in that fat burning zone. Calories are an important factor, especially when trying to lose body fat. The calories really aren't the only factor here. Macronutrients are actually more critical. And as long as you have your macronutrients broken down properly, then the calories will fall in the place. Good fats are as the focus on while falling short at the shred program are nuts, which you can throw at the monocytrated fats. Olive oil, peanut butter is a great one. When you're dining, nothing's better than peanut butter. Another great source of mono is saturated fats. When we talk about the essential omega-3 fats, you're going to be focusing on fatty fish. That's one of the best sources. Sam is a great source also some fatty or cuts of tuna. If you're going to get canned tuna, actually get the white albacore instead of the chunk light. It has more of the omega-3 fats. Even sardines are a great source of omega-3 fats. And then egg yolks are a great source. I actually recommend gaining at least three egg yolks per day. And that's based on research showing that when subjects followed away training programs, those who were getting three yolks actually gained almost twice as much muscle mass and strength. As those not eating the yolks, and they believe that's due to the fat as well as the cholesterol content. Cluster oil is actually important. You do need some cholesterol to maintain the integrity of the membranes of cell such as muscle cells. So make sure you eat enough fat on this diet, especially as your carbs dropped throughout the face. Cards provide very little benefit other than an energy source. And if you can realize that out of the three macronutrients, carbohydrates are the only ones that are not essential by the body. Protein? There are essential amino acids. Those are amino acids your body can't build that has to get the amino diet. Fats? There's essential fats. You'll make a three fats. You'll make a six fats. These are essential. I mean your body cannot produce them and has to get it from your diet. There's no essential carbohydrate. None. You know why? Because the body can produce enough carbohydrates mainly in the liver from the protein and the fat that you consume. Doesn't mean the carbohydrates are a demon or anything. But when you're trying to lose body fat while building muscle and strength, you want to make sure that you're getting adequate amounts of protein in fat. The two main type of carbohydrates are your high glycemic or fast-adjusting carbohydrates. And then your low glycemic or slow digestive carbohydrates. And the reason that they're called high glycemic or low glycemic is the way that the body responds to them when you consume them. High glycemic carbs, like I said, sugars, white potatoes. When you eat them, your body processes them very rapidly. So they basically get broken down in the body and then absorbed by your intestines and get right into your bloodstream. And that raises your blood sugar levels, your blood glucose levels. They shoot up in the spikes in the levels. So those are your high glycemic carbs. That's not a great thing. It is at certain times that get to workouts which we'll talk about later. Then you have your low glycemic or slower digestive carbohydrates. And those are low glycemic because when you eat them, they don't get rapidly digested in the absorb. They take longer, it's a slower process. And that way your blood glucose levels are blood sugar levels stay steady or so-do your insulin levels. So good examples of low glycemic or slow digestion carbs are most fruits, whole grains. And we're talking about oatmeal here, whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta. Other good examples are sweet potatoes and it comes to potatoes. A sweet potatoes tend to be on the more slower side or lower glycemic side. Whereas your white potatoes are actually on the higher glycemic side of the corn. During the workout, you're mainly burning carbohydrates as your main fuel source. And this comes from mainly the muscles. You store your carbohydrates in your muscles in the form of glycogen. As the workout proceeds, those muscles that you're using burn up more and more. And that glycogen, which is your stored from your carbohydrate. After you work out, you want to replenish that glycogen so that you have energy for the next workout. And research shows that the best way to make sure you are restoring this muscle glycogen levels is to get high glycemic or fast digestive carbs. So that's why I recommend getting things like gummy bears or pwanka pixie sticks. Now, when we talk about sugars, you have the main type of sugars like table sugar, which is sucrose, called the dye saccharide. It's two different sugar molecules. Blue goes and fruit dose. A lot of those two fruit doses actually are slower by justing carbohydrates because it has to go to the liver and then the liver has to convert it into glucose. That's what your blood sugar is. That's what your body is going to use to store as glycogen. So the reason I recommend gummy bears and pixie sticks are they pretty much have either no fruit dose or very little fruit dose. They're mainly a source of pure glucose. It's almost like injecting glucose into your bloodstream. You digest them. They literally get absorbed by the intestines. Go right into your bloodstream and then get delivered right to your muscle. And that helps you to replenish that muscle glycogen immediately. And that's what's been shown to enhance glycogen levels, which is going to give you more energy for that next workout. Plus, they spike insulin. Remember what I said about insulin is that insulin is an anabolic hormone. It gets to the muscle. And it triggers a process of protein synthesis. And that's just the chemical steps that lead to building muscle protein, which leads to building muscle growth. Plus insulin is going to help all that glucose from those carbs and drive them right into the muscle. You're also going to be getting protein shake right after you workout. You want to make sure those amino acids get into the muscle. Insulin also helps drive those amino acids into the muscle. And this is all going to help with better repair, better recovery, and better muscle growth. On the shortcut to short program, the diet goes through three different phases. You'll be changing your carbohydrate intake based on the phase of the diet. Phase one last a week long. You'll be eating about 1.5 grams of carbohydrates per pound of body weight. Phase two, less two weeks. You'll be dropping carbs down to 1 gram per pound of body weight. In the final phase phase three, which will be the final three weeks of the program, you'll be dropping carbs down to just 0.5 grams of carbs per pound of body weight. Or about half of your body weight. Through all three phases, you're protein and fat stays the same. By your carbohydrate's drop, each phase, you're just who drops your calories. In phase is one in two, you're caloric intake, and even you're your carbohydrate intake. And protein intake to some degree are going to be different on those training days first that one. You'll be able to get one rest day because on workout days, you also have that pre and post workout. Meals that you're adding to the diet. That's going to give you the extra carbs primarily in the fast digesting carbs that you want. Post workout is also going to give you a little bit of extra protein on those days. Now, in phase three on the other hands, on your rest day, you're actually going to be getting even more calories than on your workout days. And a lot of people think, well, that doesn't make very much sense. And it does because when you're dropping your carbohydrates in that third phase, all the way down to just 0.5 grams of carbs per pound of body weight, that's very little carbohydrate. Now, what can happen when you're eating so few carbohydrates and calories is that let the levels can drop when you're getting in so little carbohydrates and calories. Now, left in is a critical hormone for maintaining your metabolic rate. So, if left in levels drop to low, your metabolic rate can come down. What we found is that by giving your body this high carb day, it can sort of reset your left in levels, and that keeps your metabolism burning. It also makes the light easier to get through the diet when you've got that day, and that just helps with your sanity on this program. So, remember food is just one part of the shortcut to shred nutrition plants. And it's also played a critical role. So, be sure to check out the sub-location video as well as the training overview video and the workout examples. And for a full breakdown of the nutrition program, be sure to check out the page below.

So the clutch body shop nutrition and supplementation, methodology, really revolves around fueling your body with foods that are easily digestible and have a high thermogenic effect on the body and what that means is foods that your body can receive in, your body can process them very quickly and it can boost your metabolism. So the way that I set up every single nutrition program is I give you the serving size that you need to be having and then you get to choose what you want to eat. It's very, very, very simple. That makes it so that whether you're cooking at home or whether you're eating in a restaurant or ordering room service, you can find something that fits within this program. So one of the biggest mistakes that I see people make especially females is that they decide that in order to lose weight or in order to get the body I want, I'm going to really deplete and to pride myself of calories. And eventually what ends up happening is the body gets upset. And that is really, really due to the fact that they've gone through a long period of dieting and they've never replenished what they've kind of burned through. And so one of the things that I've recommended my entire career and especially as a part of this program is that you do have one cheat day per week that's a very, very high, horrible hydrate meal. By doing this, it affects your left and left levels and left in is a hormone that is released that tells the brain I'm full. Well, when you basically diet for long periods of time, there's interference. It doesn't work properly. And so that's another reason why I recommend this high calorie, high carb cheat meal every week because I want to make sure that we're keeping those levels up. With the clutch life 24, 7 fitness trainer nutrition program, we've made it so easy for you to basically choose the exact goal that you want. So there's two goals, shred and build. With the shred nutrition program, obviously it's going to shred body fat, but you're also going to see an improvement in lean muscle definition. With the build program, you're going to obviously build lean muscle and you will see a slight reduction in body fat, but the goal is really to pack on size. And so with the shred program, you're doing four meals per day, plus a postwork out shake and a postwork out meal. So on the build nutrition program, you're doing five core meals a day, plus a postwork out shake, a postwork out meal. And then there is also one additional shake that you can take at bedtime. So with the clutch life 24, 7 fitness trainer, the nutrition program and the supplementation program are closely tied. But let's kind of go through how that breaks down throughout the day. Your first meal the day is going to be pancakes or waffles using the clutch baking mix. Then before you work out, you're going to be taking the clutch fat burner and the clutch workout powder. And because these workouts are intense, I want to make sure your body has exactly what it needs to push through the workout. Some burn as many calories as possible. And really have as much strength as possible. Because as we know, the harder you push the better results, you're going to get. And then as we've already covered, after you work out, you're going to dive right it and have your postwork out shake using the clutch protein powder. So on this program, there are a ton of foods for you to choose from. On the lean protein, you can choose from all different sorts of fish, organic chicken, organic eggs, your protein powders. Even your clutch baking mix can be used as an alternative vegan protein shake. With your carbohydrates, make sure that you load your fridge up with things like sweet potato, rice, quinoa. On the carbohydrate side, we really stick very, very closely to things that you literally could go out into the field and pick it. Or not going after things that are highly processed or that come out of a box that have kind of been made by a manufacturer into a carbohydrate source. So, and the reason for that is I want the fiber to stay intact with the carbohydrate. On the side of fats, you can go through tons of raw nuts, coconut oil, all of oil, pumpkin seed oil, avocado. And then finally with your seasoning, you don't have to necessarily stay away from salt, but you definitely don't want to go overboard because it's going to make you bloated and nobody wants that. But there are a ton of different seasonings that we've also listed that can spice your food up and make things taste delicious without adding a bunch of high calorie sauces and such. And then on the hydration side, definitely want to make sure that you're taking it at least 100 ounces of water a day. You can knock yourself out with as much herbal teas you want, but please again, I really want you to keep your caffeine in take kind of wrangle-dinned. So, please limit yourself to two cups of coffee or green tea per day. Maybe three, but that's really, really pushing it. So by now you've watched the clutch life intro video, the program overview video, and the nutrition video. Next up is to go the training day one video. If you haven't watched all these videos yet, make sure that you go back and watch them before checking out the day one of the training video. Again, every single thing that you need for your nutrition program and your supplement plan is broken down on the page below right here on bodybuilding.com.

XD

I was a gymnast for 13 years. I've always been competitive. I've always been trying to push myself. I started doing my first competition my first career in college. So I knew I wanted to do something but competitive and that was a great outlet for me. Started doing fitness first and it allowed me to utilize my gymnastics background into the routines and then when figure came about which was right around the time that I started I crossed over and was ended up being more successful in the figure division which is why I still did today. All right so this is the first exercise the shoulder workout we're going to start with military press with the barbell. For the warm-up sets I tend to go a little bit faster just want to get the blood flow to that area that I'm working. I usually go down to my chin I don't really go whole lot lower than that and I keep my hands so that my middle fingers would at this line right here in the bar. Presses are one of the compound shoulder exercises and then it requires the most energy so I do that right in the beginning when I'm the most when I'm freshest to carry start of the workout. All right so first working set. I'm going to stick with about 10 to 12. I generally keep my repetitions no less than 10. My repetitions may go off to 20 to steep ends on the exercise I'm doing. I challenge myself so I do lift as heavy as I can so less be repetitions I'm really struggling. Second set I'm going to add another 10 and eight sides so bar is 45 and we've got 40 so we're going to 85 second set. Okay so I only did eight so I'm going to do a drop set so what I'm going to do is take off the turn on each side and do as many as I can. Usually if you have a partner they can help speed this drop set up a little bit so you don't have a whole lot of time in between to recover. What's today? I'm on my own. I think if I did the same thing every single week when I went into the gym I would be so bored it wouldn't really motivate me to get to the gym. We're planning on how I feel I may add in a drop set or a superset or so I may do five sets instead of three or it's constantly just changing it up. All right so my shoulders are on fire now. We really did two sets so I'm going to do one more set. This is the last set I'm going to go up another five and each side probably only get about four and that's all right so I'm going to do another drop so I'll probably just take off both 25s and just wrap out the bar. I'm the larger muscle groups shoulders, back legs I have training partner. I have few girlfriends that I train with it back in Michigan. I think it's important to have a spider if necessary when you're lifting heavy you're just to make sure that you don't injure yourself. I usually train with girls but I wouldn't be opposed to training with guys. It's going to feel heavy. All right for sexercise in. After a compound exercise I like to hit each area of the shoulder individually so the meal del creates that rounded shoulder when you're doing your front pose and figure and I like to do the lateral raise on the cable because there's resistance on the way up and the way down so content tension on that area. Shoulder's definitely always been my favorite to train and I think throughout the years they have gotten better and better. This year probably have made the most improvements on my shoulders and so I would say that they're probably one of my best body parts now. And what you do on one side must be really up. So my left arm tends to be a little bit weaker than my right and then go up a more than exact. Probably won't get 15 or probably get more to 10 to 12 but when I do these I go a little bit slower and it's really important to get that elbow up. You don't want your hand to be like this. I don't lift heavy to the point where my form is sacrifice so I think if you're trying to lift too heavy and exercises where you're holding the weight out far from your body that's a great way to get injured. So you can have to go a little bit lighter when you do lateral raises or front raises where the weight is further away from your body. It's a good song. It's gonna be a good set. Well I just got the new Rihanna CD so that's been kind of on the replay. Upon the replay you know. That's really fast upbeat so I listen to that kind of blur my radio and so anything with a good beat. You're five moment. Press ball. Olympia shoulder right there baby. I'm still kind of fresh toward the beginning of the training so I'll throw in a upright row. I don't really go super heavy. I do these more slow and controlled again. This is kind of hitting more of the medial delt when I do upright row so that's why I do it right after no lateral raise. I don't go really heavy on this because I don't want my traps to play a huge role. We really want to feel it in the shoulder. All blows are going to go up higher than the shoulder. Chest up. Knees slightly bent. Almost that time I fit my workout in between clients. It keeps me focused and it helps me not mess around between beds so I think an hour for me is plenty enough time to get a good workout in. Okay so I'm about to start the third side. I'm going to leave the weight the same. I want to make sure that my form stays good. My shoulders are pretty fatigued from everything else I did so far. And again I don't want to go too heavy. I want to really just focus on the shoulder here and not let my traps take over. All right so one of the last exercises we're going to do on this shoulder workout is for the rear deltoy. This is one of the most neglected body parts when training shoulders. It really gives that finishing touch to your back toes especially for me when I compete in figure. So it's this muscle right back here and this is going to be a cable reverse fly. This is an area on the body that a lot of men and women neglect because you can't see it. It's a weaker area for me so sometimes I'll throw this at the very beginning of my shoulder workout but today I'm doing at the end and I always do two exercises for rear delts. It's that area that kind of finished just off and it gives a little bit more of a rounded effect to the shoulder in the rear pose. Okay so when I do these I want to make sure that my arms pretty much stay out at a T. You don't want to pull them back too much. Don't go heavy because again you're pulling it away from your body and on the cable it's a lot harder than doing it with a dumbbell. It's used to make sure both cables stay even. Make sure you stand right in the middle here and I like to put one foot behind so that it helps with my balance. When it comes to shoulder training I rest a little bit longer between sets but I try not to rest longer than it takes me to do the actual set. So if it takes me 45 seconds to complete the set it'll take me a 45 second than a 45 second break in between. I have other body parts that I'm trying to just maintain out my rest will be a lot shorter. So I only get 10 reps at time barely. Sometimes I'll stretch between sets so put one arm in front of your body, kind of pull it across your chest it'll stretch out the back of the shoulder. Okay this last set I'm going to drop it. Kind of embarrassing. The last plate. Okay so the last exercise for this workout is another rear belt exercise you use the dumbbells for a rear belt fly. Use 15s. I like to lay on the bench with my knees up so that way I have more support again bring your arms straight out to the side so that it's like a T. Here we go. I would consider myself pretty extreme when it comes to the whole training and diet and just living the fitness lifestyle 100% of the time. I live at I breathe it I want to practice what I breach to my client so it's a lifestyle for me. Usually I try to rest as long as it takes me to do the set. It's trying to evolve a lot longer than that. I'm going to stick with 15s pretty good weight for me. Sometimes I go up to 20 but pretty good shoulder workout today so I'm going to stick with 15s where they focus on my form again. I don't always train a failure. I think if you train a failure all the time it's a great way to increase your risk for injury but I do like the feeling of not being able to go out anymore because they get makes you stronger mentally and physically to do that sometimes. All right, less so. I'm Nicole Wilkins. I'm I could be a pro figure Olympia champion and this was my shoulder I do this twice a week one day heavier one day lighter. I can check me out on body space or on my website at colwellsons.com and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com.

As UDA designer remove every center 100 genreill aula

To the flat bench, place a dumbbell on each side of it. Next place your right leg at the end of the bench and bend your torso forward from the waist until your upper body is parallel to the floor. Place your right hand on the other end of the bench for support. Now use your left hand to pick up the dumbbell and hold the weight while keeping your lower back straight. The palm of your hand should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. From here, breathe out and pull the weight straight up to the side of your chest, keeping your upper arm close to your side while your torso is stationary. Focus on the back muscles when you reach the contracted position of this exercise. Also, make sure the lift is performed with the back muscles and not the arms. The forearms should do no other work besides holding the dumbbell. Now lower the weight back down to the starting position, breathing in as you perform this step. Place the switch sides and repeat the movement with the other arm.

To the flat bench, place a dumbbell on each side of it. Next place your right leg at the end of the bench and bend your torso forward from the waist until your upper body is parallel to the floor. Place your right hand on the other end of the bench for support. Now I hold the weight while keeping your lower back straight. The palm of your hand should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. From here, breathe out and pull the weight straight up to the side of your chest, keeping your upper arm close to your side while your torso is stationary. Focus on the back muscles when you reach the contracted position of this exercise. Also, make sure the lift is performed with the back muscles and not the arms. The forearms should do no other work besides holding the dumbbell. Now lower the weight back down to the starting position, breathing in as you perform the step.

Hook an ankle cuff to a low pulley and attach the cuff to your ankle. Face the waist deck and stand a couple feet away. You'll want to grasp the steel frame of the machine for support. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your knees and hips bent slightly, exhale and contract your glutes to slowly move your working leg back in a semi-circular arc. Raise it back as high as you can comfortably. Now full extension, squeeze your glutes for a brief moment to maximize the contraction. Then slowly return your working leg to the starting position.

I'm pleased to chief Daniel Banks. My life is busy and stressful, but the gym is my sanctuary. The matter will happen this day. The iron helps me through it. Daniel Banks, for your sponsor Ashley with Otter Nutrition, today I'm going to take you through my back workout. The goal today's back workout is to build muscle and to plead it through three or four heavy sets and then break it down to drop sets of 30 to 50 reps. First exercise we'll start today with is white grip pull ups. Follow by, seat it, cable rolls, using the V bar, then switching over to a lap pull down, then dumbbell row, then move on to reverse lap pull down, super set it with behind the neck pull down, going over to barbell row, next we move on to single arm pull down, superset with straight arm pull down. Then we'll finish off with ice and measure pull ups. Between each set, I like the rest between a minute and a half. Hopefully this workout lasts me about two hours, but if you really hustle through it, the last you'll be able to finish it by the hour and a half. Let's go to work. First exercise we'll start with is the pull ups. I typically start my back workouts with pull ups, it's warm up, quarter-five sets, 20 reps. The reason why I use straps is it helps me maximize my bag muscles and not my form. I don't use full extension, I like to keep constant tension on my bag. After bodyweight pull ups, we'll head over to the cable rows. Here we're going to do four to five sets of 12 and then mainly do two down sets of 30 and 30. When doing cable rows, once again just like to pull up, I don't want full extension. I want to keep tension on the back at all times. After working sets, we'll move it to the drop sets, 30-50. That's when you totally deplete them also by just wrapping out. After cable rows, we're going to move it to the lap pull downs. The lap pull downs, it's got a mimic that cable rows with this before five sets of 15. Just like the pull ups are the last, I'm not full extension, and you want to keep constant tension on the lap to get maximum blood flow. Then drop down to 30-50 sets per drop set. After that pull downs move to the dumbbell row. This is being another working set for five sets of 12-15. It's just a straight working set, no drop sets with this one. There's why I don't drain drop sets because I go immediately heavy on these, that I feel I don't need a drop set based on the weight that I pull on this exercise. Just like the cable row, I keep the muscle tight, then I level it to the rep, I'll just stretch it out and then squeeze that 12th rep in. Our first exercise is reverse lap pull downs, super set with behind the neck pull downs. You start out with 11 reverse lap pull downs, super set with 22 behind the neck pull downs. When you go on behind the neck, you want to go real light because it's going real heavy, I hope a lot of pressure I rotate it got. We're going to do the barbell row. Here we're going to do four or five sets of working sets, followed by two drop sets at 30-50. Put the barbell row, you want to focus on form. We're going to form and take your time through exercise, you'll reap more out of the exercise. I'm not wearing a belt today, but if you have a lower back prom, how do you suggest you use a belt on this exercise? Our seven exercises go be single and pulled down, super set with straight on pull downs. Typically, 12 to 15 reps for four or five sets. With single and pull downs, I like to twist as I come down and squeeze with each rep. Also with the twist on a single and pull downs, it also engages your biceps to get your small bicep workout. Followed by with the straight on pull downs, I like to do it exactly the same. As I come down towards my hips, I like to do the same thing with a nice short squeeze and release. Last we're going to finish out with ice and metric pull ups. I do this exercise to totally deplete my back and my biceps. With this exercise, you want to pull yourself up to the bar and pull your back up to the bar and squeeze the hole for as long as you can. You want to do this for three to four sets. One hole at the top is one set. The full breakdown of this workout is an arcable though. This is typically my back workout every week. I do switch it up between reps with my working sets or my drop sets, but I suggest you know take what you learn, add it to your workout and then how it works for you. If you have any questions on this workout, you can reach me here on body space, disco banks, Instagram, also disco banks or Daniel Banks on Facebook. For more free videos on articles like this, continue to come back to bodybuilding.com.

Hi, this is Jamie East and I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen today and I'm excited to show you one of my favorite healthy desserts. This is Orange Almond Biscotti. Let's see. We need two bowls. We've got a large bowl and a smaller bowl. And we've got all our ingredients here. I'm using oat flour. This is essentially just ground up oatmeal. You can get it at any grocery store pretty much because now they have the little healthy section. But if you need to, you can also grind your own oatmeal and a blender. Just know that you usually can't get it quite as fine as this. So you might need a little bit more. This is too cup-serie. You might need more like two to two and a third or two and a half even. So dump that in the bowl. Next, dry ingredients that we need is our baking powder. Baking powder is the leavening. You've got baking soda, baking powder. Usually when you use something like baking powder, it keeps it like baking soda, think, cake, baking powder, think a little more dense. So that's what we're using as baking powder. So we've dumped that in. We've got, I think that was a teaspoon of baking powder. We've got a fourth of a teaspoon of salt. Normally you need salt because it's going to help your leavening ingredient like your baking powder react. So then we've got to get our whisk. These are our dry ingredients pretty basic. Okay, we'll set that to the side. And now we've got our wet ingredients. We need four egg whites. Kind of hard to break it on this little bowl. And you're going to separate the yolk from the whites. And you can throw that away or save it if you want to. So that away. Number two. Number three. That would get any shell in there. That's pretty important. And if you ever happen to drop the yolk in like this. It's pretty easy. You can actually fish it out with the same one and pretty much get all of the yolk out. You have a little stray here. Oops. You can use the other side. Simple. Let's get the last one. By the way, make sure you preheat your oven to 350 which we've already done. So we're ready to go. Once the pan is off. All right, then we're going to use our cup of Splenda. Now, Splenda is the sweetener that I chose, but you can choose any sweetener of your choice. I like the no calorie stuff and some people only use in the natural sweeteners and that works too. So just whatever you like. I'm going to mix that out. It's a little frothy. Okay, once that's incorporated, we're going to add our extracts, which is what gives the the Scotty cookies they're flavored. So we've got almond extract here. Almonds is pretty strong. So we're actually going to put a little more orange than we will the almond. But so for this one, we're going to do about a half a tablespoon of the almond. And this is pure almonds. There's artificial or imitation. You can use those as a work, but I personally prefer the pure because I think they have sort of a little bit of an alcohol kind of smell and flavor. And then we've got our orange extract. And for the orange, because we really want to, that's really the main flavor of the cookie. We're going to do full tablespoon. Let's see. Let's mix this together. Start this smell really good. Okay, once you have that incorporated, we're going to add our odd ingredient, which is our baby food. This is apple sauce. The reason I like to use apple sauce is it really, actually replaces the butter and oil in your ingredients. You can use lots of different types of baby food to do the same thing. There's all kinds of fruit versions. Like a berry, you would enhance chocolate. Apple's are good for anything that's, you know, spice or actually like in this one. Because of the orange in the almond, it sort of just disappears. You don't really taste any apple at all. So then that's about it. Got it, got it all cleaned out. And by the way, there is sugar in the baby food, the apple sauce. But it's about, I think it's about 11 grams in that one. You want to look for one that's, you know, as low sugar as possible. But it makes so many cookies that really it's negligible that amount of sugar that ends up in this. So we've got that incorporated. And so that's all of our ingredients. Now we're going to add our wet ingredients to our dry ingredients. So I'm going to get my little nifty spatula here. It helps me scrape the sides. You can use a whisk to mix this all together. Sometimes it gets a little bit thick or you can just keep using this spatula that you have. We'll try this spatula. This is supposed to be kind of thick. If you've never made biscotti before, you actually bake it a few times. Like this one, we're going to put it in the oven and I'm going to end up baking it for about 20 minutes. And then when you take it out, you're going to cut it and actually bake it again. You can continue to bake it until it's as hard as you want. So you can see it's starting to really thicken up, which is what we want. Get all the good stuff off the sides. It's more doughy than like a cake batter or anything. Okay, so we've about got that mixed. Smells really good. Another option for this is when you've got your dry ingredients, you might want to actually add protein, which I'll do sometimes just to add a few macros to it that are good for me, that I need anyway. So we've got that all incorporated and you're going to get an aluminum baking sheet. The reason you need aluminum is we really want you to get brown. If you use anything like glass or anything like that, it really doesn't get as crispy as you want. So we'll do a light spray, just so it doesn't stick on sticks spray. I always use the butter flavor just because it's better for baking, or the taste won't really interfere with the bait good. See, I'm just like I have a little extra dry stuff on the bottom there. So I'm going to dump this. It's a little sticky. dump it on and then you're going to actually sort of just spread it out. Can you use your hands too, which is often what I do? I think I'm going to do it, so push that off. And you just sort of want to make it, push it around until it ends up about maybe about an inch and a half thickness. And you actually are looking to sort of make a rectangle out of it. That's about good enough probably. It doesn't have to be perfect and pretty. It'll taste the same. So, right. And it's ready for the oven. You want to make sure that your oven is, or the rack is about in the middle, make sure it's not too close to the heating element, which is on the bottom. And we'll set the timer for about 20 minutes. And we're good to go. So, 20 minutes later, we'll be able to cut them and bake them again. Okay, maybe turn our timer off. Let's see. It's been oven about 20 minutes to see what we have. Looks just slightly brown, which is what we want to relate on the edges. It's about the same as when we first put it in. So, now we've just needed to set it aside for a little while. Probably about 10 or 15 minutes, let it cool enough so that we can cut it into our whisked out of cookies and put it back in the oven for about 15 minutes. Alright. Now, our cookies are about cold at least the first step. So, it looks almost like it's not even done yet, but that's really because it's not. But it should at this point be pretty easy to transfer from here to a cutting board. So, we're going to move it over. And you want to get a knife. This is a good serrated knife. It doesn't have to be serrated. You can use a regular butcher's knife, just whatever. But the goal is to make these as uniform in size as we can. So, the first thing I like to do is cut it straight down the middle. So, this one's perfectly and factually. So, if you can see, you've got kind of the beginning of your cookie in there. So, I'm going to push it back together. And I'm going to start making my slices. And you can probably, I like to do the very first one, really, really close to edge. And these are my eat them right now, cookies. But, they're not really done. They're too small to really make an actual cookie at it, so that's my excuse. So, that's the first one. Now, we want to make about 13 cookies. Or about 13 slices. And you can do as thin as thick as you want to. That's totally up to you. Okay, and again, got the ends that it's snack on now. So, I'll put those to the side. Okay, now what we want to do is we actually want to put them back on our baking sheet. You can spray it or actually don't even need to spray it. They don't really stick, so we're just not even going to spray it. But now the cookies will look like this. So, we're going to just place them all on their side. I'm going to spray it out. They're a little bit crumbly at this point, but when we're done with them, they won't be. So, our oven at this point is still on 350 degrees, because we're going to put them back in. Let them continue to bake 15-20 minutes, however long. And then when we take them out, it's up to you at that point if you want to continue baking them to make them a little bit criss-pear. Or if you're done at that point, I like mine pretty hard because I like to have them with my coffee, so I will usually put them in a several times actually. So they're ready to go. We'll set it for 15 minutes. Cook it through done. Let's see. Let's do this up. Alright, they look brown, pretty brown on both sides. You can actually do it one more time if you want. If you like your cookies, you can harder. But one cookie is only about like 30-31 calories. It's got less than a gram of fat in there. You've got four carbs and about a gram and a half of protein. Thanks for joining me in the kitchen. Please check back off in at BodyBillin.com for future recipes. Thank you.

Alright, Larry Peppy here with the Aurei of Faber for Pro and May Radio on bodybuilding.com with the UFC fan expo. Aurei, of course, first question. How you feeling and how's the leg? It's much better, you know, it got a real big for a little bit and then it's gotten a lot smaller, even smaller than it was before the fight. So we're working on building some muscle back there and kind of getting a game plan or what I'm going to fight again. So not 100% sure when, but it's going to be fairly soon. So you feel like you're ready to get back to training and get back in the cage? Yeah, I've been doing something, you know, proactive the whole time. It's just a matter of, you know, when I'm going to be 100% and it shouldn't be too long. So a question. The other big question is 135, 145. Where do you want to be in this next fight? Well, from the sound of things, it sounds like they're going to want me to go down on 35s. It's something I've wanted to do for a long time, good on it. It has some bites down there. So I'll probably have a couple of bites down there, maybe go back up to 45s. We're not real sure yet. So do you think the time off, you said the leg got a little smaller, maybe you lost a little bit of that muscle that you put on, maybe that helps you make 135? Well, I mean, I'm a small 45-bounder. So all through college, I was 133 pounds. It wasn't like a, you know, it's been a hard cut for 45. So I'm probably a natural 35-bounder won't be difficult for me. But I like to get the muscle back and still make 35s. All right. So we're breaking news. It looks like 135 for the next fight. Most likely. Okay. Before I let you go, hometown take down, talk about that program with the WEC and AM. It's an awesome promotion. We're basically giving folks at home the opportunity to tune in, be active and get the WEC brought to their hometown. So whoever has the most activity out of their hometown is going to get the WEC there. And unless you've been living under a rock, yes, this is the same to your eye of a baby you've been seeing in AM commercial after AM commercial. Are you getting more recognized because an AM commercial is going to run constantly? Uh, probably I did cut the hair. But you know, I think it's just been over the years I've been getting recognized more and more and all this stuff helps. Awesome. You're right. Hey, we know you're really busy at the fan expo. Thanks for taking the time and good luck in that next fight at 35. Thanks. And thanks guys. Energy. My manager's ever made incorporated and formatfletx.com. Check us out. Alright, check out pro MMA Radio Monday night 6 p.m. Pacific 9 p.m. Eastern.

Connect the standard handle to a tower and if possible position the cable to shoulder height. If not, a low pulley will suffice. With your side to the cable, grab the handle with both hands and step away from the tower. You should be approximately arms length away from the pulley, with the tension of the weight on the cable. With your feet positioned, hip width apart and knees slightly bend. Hold the cable to the middle of your chest. This will be your starting position. Press the cable away from your chest, fully extending both arms. Your core should be tight and engaged. Hold the repetition for several seconds before returning to the starting position. At the conclusion of the set, repeat facing the other direction.

Alright, what's up guys and Parker Cody my body space profile is clutch 401 and I first just want to talk a little bit about how bodybuilding.com and body space has helped me improve my physique and honestly my life in the past eight years So I mean first off I started when I was 15 Um, with the insight and then we're on to articles that literally read hundreds. I'm not kidding I read hundreds of articles that was like so into it So obsessed with it and and I would you know late night on you know It didn't matter. I would just like learn as much as I can and kind of combine that with what I was doing myself Actually in the way room and in the kitchen with my diet To come up with a plan that worked well for me and then a few years later body space came along and I joined shortly shortly thereafter and Things people were really inspired by my transformation of my original picture with with where I am today that Really I think it just helps it makes me feel amazing that knowing that there's people that are like 15 and 16 and 17 and just emailing me and messaging me saying hey man like I really I can relate to you and you know, what do you what do you do and then the real secret is just like It's hard work and dedication and just keep Just keep at it and I'd be be patient too But yeah, and I also want to get to the lift-life campaign just why I'm right now in Boysy Idaho. I'm so excited Shooting this campaign for bodybuilding calm of Jamie Eason and Ashley and just a whole great crew of people and Yeah, so the campaign I think it's gonna be really Honestly like revolutionary it's gonna be the sickest campaign. We had the meeting last night with the With the agency and just the way they're gonna go bad is really gonna Turn things around for my little calm in a good way so I Can't wait I'm Spring I'm excited it's static to be a part of it and I can't wait to see other shots turnout even though this morning With the weight thing that was a little hard I got a little scared about the rest of the day. It was gonna be like we've had some downtime Sort of lags and hang out so it's been a blast and I'm looking forward to it That's a test

Hey everyone, I'm Lai Stallion, NLA for her athlete and today I'm going to show you how to make my favorite peanut butter banana protein pancake. So to start we're going to mix all of our dry ingredients. First half a cup of oat flour, half a cup of any gluten-free pancake mix, and one scoop of NLA for her vanilla cupcake flavored protein powder. Next we'll mix our wet ingredients. First we'll add half a cup of almond milk, one whole egg, and one tablespoon of coconut oil. Next we'll blend the ingredients into a pancake batter consistency. This will heat a nonstick pan and spray it lightly with coconut oil spread. Now we can pour in the batter. This recipe should make about 3 pancakes. Once your pancakes are fully cooked, serve them and top with one tablespoon of peanut butter and half a banana. What I love about these pancakes is you can top them with pretty much any topping you like. The step I step guide and macronutrient breakdown for this recipe can be found in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on Instagram at Lai's Dillion or my website Lai's DillionFitness.com. And for more free recipes and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

Hi guys, I'm Lai Stilion and I'll leave for her athlete and today I'm going to be taking you through my 21-minute at Home Leg Workout. I structured the circuit to give you a great leg workout that you can do anywhere with no equipment, but as a bonus you're also going to get a great cardio workout. This workout is structured as a circuit. We have six exercises and you'll be completing each exercise back to back for a minute total. That's one round and you'll be completing three rounds. With a minute rest between each round. Alright, so let's get to work. So the first exercise is the pop squat. Now remember you're going to be doing each exercise for one minute. To perform a pop squat, go down into a squat, tapping both hands to the floor. Jump up, bringing your feet together, and perform this continuously at a moderate pace for the full minutes. Reset and we're going to move into our second exercise with the Bulgarian split squats. We'll be performing this exercise all to four one minute, so that's 30 seconds on one leg and 30 seconds on the other. To perform the Bulgarian split squats, you'll need a platform to place your foot on, like a couch. Start by placing one foot behind you onto the platform. It may take you one or two reps to figure out where your foot placement is most comfortable. Try to keep all your weight on your front leg, push off of your heels and make sure you're keeping your knees in line with your ankles. As soon as you've completed 30 seconds with one leg, you immediately switch over to the other leg. The third exercise is a variation of the same exercise we just did. The plyometric Bulgarian split squat. The difference here is that when you're performing the exercise, instead of coming up slow and controlled, you want to explode up and actually come off the floor with one foot. And make sure when you come down, you land softly on your toes. And just like the previous exercise, when you're done completing 30 seconds on one leg, immediately switch over to the other leg. And the fourth exercise is what I like to call a one and a half squat. To perform a one and a half squat, squat all the way down, then come up halfway before squatting back down and coming all the way back down. The main reason I like to do them this way is to increase time under tension. Exercise 5 is the glute bridge. Just like all the other exercises in the circuit will be performing the glute bridge for a total of 1 minutes. To perform a glute bridge, lay on your back with your feet flat on the ground. Drag your hips up as you squeeze your glutes at the top. Pause for a second, then go back down and repeat. This is a great exercise for isolating your glutes. And we're wrapping up the circuit with the jump squat. For the jump squat, you're going to come down just like a bodyweight squat, but instead of coming up slow and controlled, you want to explode up, making sure your feet come off the ground. This is a great exercise to finish off the circuit because it not only burns out your legs, but gets your heart rate way up. Now remember, you're performing each round a total of three times. I would recommend you do this workout anytime you either can't make it to the gym, your short on time, or your traveling. The full workout breakdown is in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on Instagram at lieystylion, or on my website at lieystylionfitness.com. And for more free workouts and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Lieyst, home workout, content, take one. Oh my God. This is my job. This is what I do. Okay.

... Squat, bench, dead. Think you've outgrown them? You're wrong. I've created the perfect balance of intensity. What? Recovery. That's a growth. Oh God. And performance nutrition to make you a master of the barbell. Come on. I'm Lane Norton, and I want you to go heavy. With me.

I'm Melody DeSena Wyatt. I'm a bodybuilding.com and optimum nutrition sponsored athlete. I'm in the Army National Guard and a mother of one. I've always been active growing up. My parents always had me in like ballet, gymnastics, martial arts. It wasn't until I went to basic training for the Army where I truly discovered my physical potential. Going to airborne and aerosol training, I kind of strived to prove myself that I could hold my own. After I had my daughter, I remember a lot of people would tell me, like, oh, you'll never have your body back how you used to have it. She was delivered by C-section and, you know, if they cut through your muscle, you're never going to have abs again. So that kind of mess with my mind, like, I think kiss my good body days goodbye. I was a complete cardio bunny. I would run seven to 10 miles a day and it helped me shed the weight, but then I was just scrawny and skinny. I had no muscle tone. I was actually on bodybuilding.com. I'm trying to look for things that could work for me and it was there when I really got inspired because I had seen a picture of Jamie Easton for the first time. And I was like, wow, I mean, I show my boyfriend and I was like, I got to get a body like this. This is this is awesome. Like, she has a going on. So that's when he told me he's like, look, if you want a body like that, you're going to have to give up the treadmill and you're going to have to start lifting heavy and intense. I started seeing muscle definition forming in my legs when I used to just have like toothpicks for legs. It was motivating to see that. Then I remember a friend at the gym approached me and she's like, there's a fitness show coming up. You should compete and all's like, yeah, right. Neon stage in a bikini like there's no way I didn't think I was good enough for whatever and I thought what the heck I'll try it. I didn't know what I was doing. I was just winging it. I didn't even know if I should do bikini or figure. I didn't even know where I would fit in. So I was like, well, I'll just do both and see. I ended up placing first in both divisions and then I was just in love with a whole sport. Through my journey and being able to share it on body space or social media, I was inspiring other moms. That was also my motivation whenever I would hear it from people like all your transformations inspired me to want to start. That really gave me some drive to to see what that was doing to other people and that the motivations can take. I'm on a five day split. I do a whole day dedicated to chest, a whole back day, an arm day, which is bisoned tries and then a whole day for shoulders and a whole day for legs. Every other day, I do abs or calves. The 60 I'll rest and then I'll start back all over again. When it comes to cardio, if I'm not prepping or trying to cut down for something, honestly, I don't do cardio. Maybe once or twice for 20, 30 minutes if that high intensity definitely is the way to go for me. If you're an avid runner and you love running the power to you, but I'm all about saving time and getting in there and doing what I need to do. I'm sweating. I'm doing intervals. I'm doing sprints. I'm all in just the stairmaster or all even go to the park and well my daughters on the playground. I'll do sprints on the field and with active rest periods of pushups or bench jumps. Don't just jump into it right away. Properly warm up, stretch, even two warm upsets with lighter weight and then start gradually going up. I see a lot of people going right away and they're like, oh, I got to get this heavy weight up. When you're on stage, they're not asking you what your bench presses or how much do you squat or what's your PR. Sometimes I'll put on some angry, mad at your dad music or some really like a V-e-d-m. Something crazy that just gets me pumping. Even my boyfriend got me into motivational videos while you're lifting to hear those words. It's just so epic and profound. And using the power of visualization and the power of the mind is such a strong thing and that's what you have to overcome is the mental part of it. So just listening and hearing those words, it really pushes you. I am like any other normal person. I love food. I'm a big foodie. I love cheeseburgers and pizza and cheese cake. I love it all. I like having cookouts and going camping and not having to worry about trekking my macros or whatnot. I believe that there's a time to work in a time to play and I love enjoying food but I know that if I'm not on top of my nutrition, I'm not really going to see results. I try to keep it to white meats, like chicken and fish and egg whites, but I'm always switching up what I do with it so I don't get tired of it and I think that that's what the key is. You don't want to burn yourself out eating the same boring thing every day. You need to enjoy what you're eating. Otherwise it's going to be miserable for you. There's healthy alternatives to so many things. TheBodyBinding.com healthy recipe database has tons of awesome recipes. Just last week I was going through a cookie craving so I made protein cookies. I don't count calories or anything like that. I do try to eat 1.2 to 1.5 grams of protein per pounded lean body weight and I'll tweak my carbs and fats as I'm nearing a shell or trying to prep for something. That's another thing that I tell a lot of people because you know they ask me what your meal plan or you should make me a meal plan. But what is going to work for me is going to be the same macros as you and everybody's body's different. It responds to different foods differently. I love directing people to all the fitness plans on bodybuilding.com. A lot of them have a macro nutrient calculators in it. You can just eat according to your weight, age, activity level. This lifestyle is like a big ol' science experiment and you gotta find what works for you. All my life I was always raised taking my vitamins and supplements. My mom used it or spilled down her throat and we hated it at the time where she'd grind it up and sneak it into her morning orange juice being raised around that kind of like rubbed off on me. So I've always taken vitamins and supplements my whole life and I believe that it's not just to attain the dream physique but it's gonna help what's going on inside of your body and take care of you. The all year round I'm taking a multivitamin and my make of threes and iron calcium, biotin, all those are are always important to me. I feel like I'd rather eat my protein powder like bake with it and make treats than to drink it and I'll just have a simple casing cheek before I go to bed and I always have glutamine before I go to bed or after my evening workout. I'll usually mix that in into my shake. I've always taken creatine monohydrate. I believe that it's helped me with my endurance or my stamina or my strength. I always take a pre-workout tool and I always like to rotate those because the body adapts to pretty much anything you're doing to it so switch those out and take different ones or I try new things all the time and that brings me to branch chain amino acids. I think those are really important and I recommend those to anybody. Whether you're prepping or not those are the essential amino acids that's really going to help you recover from those intense workouts. If I'm prepping for a competition that's only time then I'll take a fat burner. Sometimes if I do take a fat burner that kind of has stimulants, I don't need a pre-workout because it kind of already gives me that like crazy energy. I love what I do and being an example to other women or inspiring other people. A title or a pro-card or a trophy. They're nice and all but it's not what I'm only living my life to do. It's about the whole journey and enjoying it and really truly discovering my mental and physical strength. You can find me on body space and Instagram and my Facebook Melody Dissina. For more content like this, come back to bodybuilding.com.

This is an important abdominal exercise. Get into a prone position on the floor, supporting your weight on your toes and your forearms. Your elbows should be bent and directly below the shoulder. Keep your body straight at all times and hold this position as long as possible. To increase difficulty, one arm or leg can be raised.

Energy Smash is a new high-performance drink designed in Chris Energy for both your body and my energy smash by ultimate nutrition is a potent blend of natural herbs, vitamins and caffeine that supply a burst of energy whenever you need it. Energy smash is designed to compliment the lifestyle of today's active man or woman. Energy smash is the perfect pick me up for people experiencing lack of energy. Get your energy smash today. My I'm Chris Gatton from Bodybuilding.com and we're in beautiful Malibu California and today we're meeting up with Heidi Montag and a trainer Chad Waterbury to find out how they prepared her for a playboy cover shoot for the Miss Universe after a new season of the hills. So we're gonna head on down to the beach and find out what they have to say. Heidi how did he get in such good shape for your playboy cover shoot? I worked my butt off. I worked harder than I've ever worked in my life. I was training five days a week with my trainer Chad Waterbury. Her plan of course is based on the look that she wanted for the playboy cover and she didn't want to be too muscular. She didn't want to be too big. She wanted to be too skinny. She kind of just wanted that what I call the bikini body. She wanted more shapely thighs and hips. She wanted her butt to be a little bit curbier. She wanted to show some athleticism and strength in her upper body without adding too much mass. So I put together a program that would give her that. Now I understand that you didn't like the fact that previously you had a flat bum. Is that correct? Yeah, before I was slimmer. I was a little bit skinny or a little bit scrawny or I had no butt. It was completely flat and I really wanted powerful sexy curves. I wanted to feel strong also at the same time. I didn't want that skinny look. Can you provide us a routine along with some tips and advice on how you've got more curves to your body? A lot of sprinting, sprinting running is great for it. Head of Bell, my favorite lift that I did to get my butt really strong is called a dead lift. And I can lift my body weight which is a hundred pounds on a dead lift and that really helps all your leg muscles and your butt muscles to really grow and get to come stronger. And to get those powerful sexy curves that I really want to achieve. I hear that you didn't use many machines and you didn't do excessive amounts of cardio. Well, one is well, to get the best results you want to train the body the way it's naturally designed to work and machines take the body out of its natural element. Besides that though, with athletes like I don't do long duration low intensity cardio anyway. I do short, very high intensity and energy system training and since I wanted to turn her into more of an athlete that's what I had her do. So a lot of girls that are looking up to you, I'm sure a lot of them would assume to get a great figure like yours that they that have to stop themselves. So this is in fact false isn't it really? Starting yourself is the worst thing and the most unattractive love you could possibly do. And I think that's a big misconception that women have to be skinny, as attractive. And that's the opposite to be strong and to be athletic and to have powerful sexy curves. That's what men like to and that's what makes me feel better and that's what makes me feel more confident. But eating is very, very important to your health. Did you find that you had to eat more than what you normally eat? Yes, actually my metabolism was set up from eating, from working out so hard. But I cut down on carbs when the shoe came closer. I cut down on that and I cut down on sugar. But I ate more protein and vegetables and fruits. Okay, so after the playboy shoes, do you find that you still have to watch what you eat in order to stay slim or can you have a few shoes days here and there? That's funny, mention that. I get two cheat meals a week. So two meals, whatever I want. But that's only twice a week. In the rest of the time, I just monitor more of what I'm eating. Okay, you're eating more. You'd be an exercise in five days a week. What about supplements? Do you take supplements? I do take fish oil. I take that twice a day, two teaspoons a day, a fish oil. That really helps everything. That helps my skin. That helps my hair. That helps everything. That helps my immune system. So that would be the main supplement that I take. Many women think they're going to get bulky if they work out with weights. Now what advice do you have for women who have this assumption? Well, you know, I understand their fear because certain women, if they're genetically predisposed to having big legs or big shoulders or something like that, they can get too big. But it doesn't have to be that way. The key is to control the volume. That's the first thing. You don't want to do excessive amounts of volume of any one exercise because that will overdevelop one area of the body. The second thing is not allow yourself too much rest. So you keep that athleticism up and you're pushing the energy system training which helps upregulate the metabolism. But it doesn't allow you to recover fully which will, you know, then make you want to lift a heavier weight than maybe you should. You control in that volume. Is there a certain repetition range that you would recommend? Yeah, well, I like to focus on time. 10 second sets is really a great place to start with short rest periods. If you're looking at reps, you know, anywhere from five to 15 reps per set usually works well because you know, you could actually get 15 15 reps done in 10 seconds. If it's a light load, like you do a kettlebell swing 15 times a little light weight in 10 seconds or if it's a heavier weight, you know, as the smoothness can be a little slower, so maybe five or six reps to get the same, you know, 10 second time frame. Now unfortunately, Spencer isn't here today. I know, I know. But I didn't want to ask, do you have a train with Spencer? I train every day with Spencer. So Spencer and I trained together. So Spencer and I are doing the same workout in different variations. Yeah. So we're not just talking about cardio between your and Spencer now. We're talking about proper training on the beach. Right. We train here every day together. He does more than male, a little bit more male geared for his muscles. And I do more of the sexy curves tone plan. But we race on the beach together. It makes me more competitive. It pushes me a little bit harder. I know, I'm sure brings you closer together as well. It's my favorite time of day when we're here on the beach in the morning. I mean, you couldn't get better a little competition in the morning to start the day off right now. I understand all your exercise and nutrition secrets now are going to be available in ebook format. So why did you decide to let all these secrets out of the bag? I wanted to let all these secrets out of the bag to really help people. I really changed my life. It changed my confidence. It changed every area and every aspect of my life. So I really wanted to be able to share that with other women. Because like you said earlier, there's so many misconceptions of being skinny and that's the right look and I really want to help people get that sexy powerful look that they don't know how to get. The Heidi Montag workout ebook, it's fantastic. It outlines the program that I put her through to prepare her for the Playboy shoot. It's a six-week training nutrition program and there's really no stone left-hand turn. I mean, there's all every exercise has high resolution picks and descriptions and I lay out the key principles of my nutrition plan and give sample diets and you can go to the Heidi Montag workout.com and pick that up. Just to finish off, how are you keeping yourself busy now and what's next on I've arrived and for Heidi Montag? So much, I am so busy. I have the ebook, the Heidi Montag workout. I have that coming out. That's one of my main focuses. I really want to help women to achieve that body, the powerful sexy curve. That is, it changed my life so I really want to help other women. That I might album coming out, October 13. So I have that coming out. I just did my first performance from the University of Philly and I's building people watched it. I have the hills coming out this fall coming out instead of Kemmer and I have a hair product coming out. I have a bunch of things in the works. So I'm very busy. I feel very blessed every day. Good job. You've got chas, I keep you disciplined. Oh, if I didn't have a chad in my life, every morning keeping me disciplined, it'd be chaos. Okay, once again, thank you very much. I'm so much pleasure. Thank you. Thanks for joining us at the Beach in Malibu. We you found out exactly how Heidi prepared for a playboy cover shoes, how she got prepared for the Miss Universe and for the new season of the hills. Remember you can get more in-depth exercise and tips on HeidiMontagworkout.com. So until next time, we'll see you again.

Energy Smash is a new high-performance drink designed in Chris Energy for both your body and my energy smash by ultimate nutrition is a potent blend of natural herbs, vitamins and caffeine that supply a burst of energy whenever you need it. Energy smash is designed to compliment the lifestyle of today's active man or woman. Energy smash is the perfect pick me up for people experiencing lack of energy. Get your energy smash today. Hi I'm Chris Gathin from Bodybuilding.com and we're in beautiful Malibu California and today we're meeting up with Heidi Montag and a train that Chad Waterbury, the fine nights is how they prepare for playboy coverage shoots for the miss universe after a new season of the hills. So we're going to head on down to the beach and find out what they have to say. Okay on Chad Waterbury here showing you a couple pieces out of the Heidi Montag workout and when I train Heidi or when I train any athlete I like to focus on full body explosive exercises and one way I really make sure the people are doing it right is that given exercises that can't do slowly and two of my favorites are the swing the kettlebell swing and then a medicine ball slam so Heidi's going to demonstrate here so we're going to start off with the kettlebell swing to stand with a slightly wider shoulder width stance. You'll push your hips back and squat down keep your abs tight bend your knees, grab the kettlebell pull the kettlebell back start the swing so when she comes up she's locking her hips out squeezing her glutes as hard as she can at the top one more and drop it good now she's going to go to the medicine ball you're going to hold it up overhead and with as much force she can slam it to the ground it's going to grab it do it again good three and two more and one excellent excellent so those two exercises together makes for a great combination to work every muscle group in the body you can do it slowly and it'll really help reshape your body so for the Heidi Montag workout I like to combine two or more exercises together full body exercises with minimal rest in between so we're going to demonstrate one of my favorite combinations which is the dead lip of the kettlebell and a squat for us with the medicine ball so Heidi's going to start off here to stand with slightly wider than shoulder width stance she's going to squat down through the kettlebell go ahead squat down keep your abs tight keep good posture back flat she's going to do five reps it's fast as she can so go ahead to Heidi squeeze the glutes hard at the top it's really helps develop the butt muscles great exercise to make the lower back strong I'm sure most of you are familiar with this which will do one more rep and then she'll sprint down and get the ball this is about a 15 pound medicine ball you can use kind of 15 pounds to set it right here it's a piece of jumper feedback stand up press it overhead this is a squat for us with an overhead press works every muscle group in your body and you can make this even more challenging by jumping up in the air at the top so Heidi's last two reps she'll jump up in the air good one more excellent so you can do about five to ten reps of each exercise do that four or five times and then rest about a minute and repeat and you will burn a lot of fat and reshape your body thanks for joining us at the beach in Malibu we you found that it's exactly how Heidi prepared for a playboy cover shoot how she got prepared for the Miss Universe and for the new season of the hills remember you can get more in-depth exercise and tips on HeidiMonthagworkout.com so until next time we'll see you again

With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position. Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same and your arms should remain straight. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees. Next comes the second pull. The main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid-pack position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion, accelerate by extending the hips, knees and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight. At the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back with the arms still extended. As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pull by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. At peak extension, pull yourself under the bar far enough that it can be racked onto the shoulders, rotating your elbows under the bars you do so. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have risen to a standing position.

Position yourself on a preacher bench and grab the easy bar from the front barrest. Grab the easy bar at the close inner handle with the palms of your hands facing forward. They should also be slightly tilted inward due to the shape of the bar. With your upper arms and chest positioned against the preacher bench pad, hold the easy bar at shoulder level. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar until your upper arms are extended and your biceps are fully stretched. Then exhale and use your biceps to curl the weight back up until your biceps are fully contracted at the starting position. Squeeze the biceps and hold for a brief moment at the top contracted position to get the maximum benefit from this exercise.

Alright, Larry Peppy here at the UFC Fan Expo for pro MMA radio and bodybuilding.com. This man probably needs no introduction, Kale Sondon. He will be taking on Anderson Silva for the middleweight title. And Kale, understand we might have gotten almost a little preview last night. What happened? Because Twitter is a buzz with a little negative interaction between you and the champ. You know, I was really trying to be helpful. Anderson was signing a group of autographs. He looked like he didn't want to be signing them. And I let him know that in two months he won't have to sign anymore because nobody will care about him again. And then it escalated though, because at some point I guess somebody translated it and you guys had a little interaction in the lobby I heard. Is that what happened to somebody translate? I didn't know. I was going down the hallway with my manager, Jeff. And he came up. I heard somebody saying my name. I thought, gosh, is that Anderson? I looked back. Well, it was Anderson. Sure enough. I don't know how much of an interaction it was. I thought there was going to be, but that really it was really quite un-eventful frankly. Well, when he came up, did he say anything to you? Did he seem upset? Well, give us a little more detail. Well, yeah, a little bit. It was hard to say because there were so many people and there was cameras and there was a lot of noise. I'm sorry for not giving more detail. But he caught me off guard too. And when he called my name, I stopped and looked. I didn't know where it was going. He was telling me to relax. He kept saying, chill, relax, chill, relax. That was truly, I mean, that was about the extent of it. There was people everywhere. I can't fully remember because I was a little bit on edge myself when he tracked me down. I didn't know where that was going to go. But you know, all's well, it ended well. So this has been kind of an ongoing theme for you. You've been kneading him a lot. You did it before the fight was announced. Talk about how important it is from the business side. Yes, you won three huge fights to earn this title shot. And earn the title shot is the way to put it. But you also understand the business side. You've been kind of marketing this fight for a while. Yeah, I mean, that's true. You're never going to get a fight that nobody wants to see. You know, the first thing you have to do is have people that want to see the fight in addition. This one's, you know, this one's an easy one because we really do want to fight. I had to fight with a guy named Dan Miller who's a friend of mine who's going to cheese. We'll go out there and compete as hard as we can. But I don't want to fight Dan Miller. I will fight Dan Miller. I don't want to fight. There's a big difference. I want to fight Daners instead of I wanted to fight for four years. I've been sticking my finger in his chest. I told him for four years to stay away from me. For four years he has and for whatever reason he decided in the hallway yesterday was a good idea to break that streak. There was a lot of people in it in WELP on an August 7th. There won't be a lot of people and it's not going to end well. Why have you wanted this fight for so long? I understand he's the champion. Is it just about the title or is there something about him? You know, it's a large part about the title. It is a large part about him. He's not my kind of guy. We're not going to be friends in real life or just not. But on top of that, it's truly also a point to prove to everybody else in the division. One guy is challenged and still in four years. One guy, me. You can't find a challenge anywhere by any other athlete in this company except me because every 85 pound or every 205 pound or everybody else in the UFC is a bunch of cowards except me. One guy wants to fight the champion. One guy is willing to be the best. That's why I have this fight because nobody else will do it. And, Chale, I remember you telling me that when your dad was passing the last thing that you guys spoke about was that you promised you would bring home a World Championship. Is that a big driving factor in all this as well? Oh, yeah. That's the only promise I ever made in my having kept. I told my is going to beat Tito Ortiz and win the championship. Tito was the champion at the time. So, I'm sure Anderson will soon just find. So, before I let you go, congratulations on the primary. Thank you very much. And now, when does the actual election come up for you and how could that impact your training for Anderson? I don't know. This is uncharted waters for me. The actual election is in November. We do it in Oregon the same day. The whole nation will be voting on that. Senate and congressmen from every other state. And as far as training, I don't know. It's like I said, this is new to me. But whether I train for Anderson or I don't train for Anderson, on August 7, I'm going to walk out there and beat up Anderson. Fair enough. Before I get you out, you have C1-14. Rashad versus rampage. Does the rest of it? You know, I think he sure does. I would bet on Rashad. You know, you look at rampage because he's, I don't know what skill this guy brings to the table. But he sure does win a lot of fights. Rampage is, you know, if you look at his resumes, it's impressive as anybody in the sports ever. I don't know how he wins. I can't imagine he wins tonight, but he keeps surprising me. And you mentioned Dan Miller being a friend of yours. He fights bisming. Dan gets back in the win column. You know, that's a really good fight. I'm cheering for Dan. I hope that he does. But that's a good match. And Bisming's a hard guy to beat. He goes really hard the whole time. So you got to show up. You got to be in shape. Dan can beat him. But Bisming, Bisming can win that fight too. Well, another guy that shows up in shape is Chaelson and expect him to be in shape when he takes on Anderson Silva. August 7th to get that title. August 7th Oakland, California, 7pm. All right. Thanks a lot, Chaels. Thanks, Lear. You got it. Appreciate it.

Hello and welcome to Bodybuilder.com's daily video trainer. This video series will be a 12 week diet and exercise program. You'll have a video to watch every day for the entire 12 weeks. Work out plans, nutrition advice, motivation and supplementation. You'll get it all right here. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. My name's Chris Gethin and over the next 12 weeks I'm going to be training with you. You'll see the exact program that I follow to get an amazing transformation. This program is not going to be easy. If it was easy then everybody would be walking around with their physique that they desired. But if I can do it, you can do it. There's a thousand excuses that you can choose from and if you're that kind of person and walk the other way, if you want it bad enough then follow me. So let's jump into training. The training split that we're going to be following is chest and triceps, back and biceps, legs and shoulders, calves and abs. I like to train with the two days on and one day off training split for rest. So you're going to be doing cardio twice a day and 20 minutes per session. There's some days that you won't want to do it but you have to do it every day because it will keep you in metabolism firing. It'll help digest your foods and it'll help utilize your stored fat as energy. Now I'm going to tell you how I eat, what I eat and how often I eat and this is exactly how you're going to eat as well. So to start with, I don't count calories. I don't want to complicate things I want to keep it simple. I just count my portions. So if I start eyeballing my food, then looking at my protein I normally go for about a fist size which for me, when I weigh it out it's about 200 grams and I go for a fist size of complex carbohydrates as well and normally that adds up to a better cup. Now I'll eat every two to three hours which adds up to around six or seven meals per day. The main food sources that will both be eaten on this transformation is protein, carbohydrates and then naturally occurring fats. So the protein sources that we're going to be eating are fish, poultry, steak, egg whites and obviously you're protein powders. The carbohydrates sources, they can be sweet potato, brown rice, whole wheat pasta and you can also have oats as well. And lastly, fats. I don't take in many additional fats when I'm on a diet. When I'm not dieting, of course I'll have my almonds and I'll have some olive oil and peanut butter. But when I'm dieting I don't want those additional calories. But throughout the day it's just the naturally occurring fats like in my steak. There is some in the in your fish as well. So that's all the fat that you need when you're on a transformation like this. Now let's cover what you can drink. Obviously number one, water is fine. I like to add extent so I have some flavor and I'll drink around a gallon per day. Other fluids I like to have tea. I like to have coffee but these are black. The reason being is because you're not allowed to have milk on its program. It's got lactose in it which is a form of sugar. The same was so you can't have any soy milk. You've got to stay away from the sugars on the program. And the sweetener of my choice is stevia. That's what I like to have as it's a natural source of sweetener. And lastly, no booze on this program at all. Obviously beer has a lot of empty calories that pretty much useless to you. And I don't care if like red wine has a lot of antioxidants in it. Dark chocolate does too but you can't have either on this program. On this program there are no cheat days. Some programs will recommend that you have a cheat day just to take a rest or to speed up your metabolism. You don't take a day off from your training or from your cardio. So why should you take a day off from your diet? If you cheat on your diet, don't just put that behind you. You have to dwell on that and feel really bad about exactly what you've done. Because if you put it behind you the next week, you might do it again. And if you do cheat, you're only going to get exposed. When people who haven't cheated will look amazing at the end of the 12 weeks. And at the end of the 12 weeks, you'll be wondering what went wrong. Supplements. As supplements aren't a magic pill, although I wish they were, that will replace a nutrition or training program. I'm not going to give you all the intricate details on every single supplement right now. I will later on in a series and you can read more about them on bodybuilding.com. But let's just go into the basics and what you're going to need to get through this program to give you the best results and the fastest results possible. So, supplements that you'll be taking every day and I take every day. It's number one, a multivitamin. So, a multivitamin will help provide you with all the vitamins that you're going to need throughout this program, help with your recovery. Also has calcium, magnesium as well, all your minerals that you'll need. So, I like to take that morning and night. Another thing that I like to take in the morning and at night are my omega fats. So, this helps to create growth hormone, helps with brain function along with the many other health benefits too. I like to take digestive enzymes too so go out and get some digestive enzymes. A lot of the food that you'll be taking, especially the protein can be hard to absorb. It's not about the amount of protein that you eat. It's about the amount that you absorb as well. A pH balance set is something that you should be taking as well. This will help with your alkalinity levels. Glutamin. So, this is something that I'll take every day also as well. It's an anti-cadabolic agent so it helps prevent the breakdown of muscle tissue. The protein powders I like to use are a couple of different kinds. I like to use isolate, immediately following my workout because this is a very fast digesting protein that'll shut all straight into my muscles for recovery. If I have an ameliplysement, I'll go for a slower protein so for that reason, I like to go for the CNP, pro peptide kind because it's a blend of different proteins so I'm getting my fast, slow, amedian chain amino acids. Moving on to carbohydrates. The form that I like to take is the targo. I'll take that immediately following my workout because this is a fast digesting carbohydrate I can put into my body to replenish those depleted glycogen stores and lastly, I like to have BCAA's branch chain amino acids. This helps with recovery. I like to take it in the extended powder formula because I add that to my water and it gives my water a nice flavor. So now let's move on to the performance supplements. There's a trifector of fat burn in supplements that I like to take. I'm riding with green tea. The reason being it helps increase my metabolism and it's slightly suppresses my appetite because I get very hungry during the 12 weeks. Elcarnity is the next supplement that I like to take. It helps me utilize fats as energy and lastly I like to use your himby. The reason being is because it's a bloodvast related so it helps push blood into the adiposterias that you may hold fat for me. It's going to be my lower back and my ab region. Another performance supplement that I take is creatin. The reason being is that it'll help me push a few more reps in the gym so it helps increase the intensity and the density of my muscles. So it doesn't matter if you're trying to build muscle or burn fat because it helps with both. So that's your entire supplement shopping list. So make sure you go on to bodybuilding.com now and order that stack before you start your next 12 week assault. Let's talk about tracking your transformation. To start with, you need to take before pictures. Please do this against a plain background so you can see the silhouette of your physique. You need to take a front shot, a side shot and a back shot. Make sure it's in good lighting and that camera is steady so it's not going to be a blurred image. Put them up on your body space and when you get in good comments from other people, it'll certainly encourage you to get through to the end. Just in body fat with calipers can give you an accurate indication of what your current body fat and lean muscle mass percentages are. Make sure you have it taken in the same place by the same person every time where you can have conflicting measurements. So way yourself, I like to do it on a Monday morning before breakfast just in my underwear on the same scales. Don't weigh yourself on different scales you will get conflicting measurements. Make sure that you track your training as well. I like to log down my training every single day in my body blog. So I can see from day to day in week to week if I'm progressing with my weights, my reps or my intensity. But just make sure that you write it down because studies do suggest that you're more likely to see through these goals once they're written down. So now I've given you a basic overview of everything that you need to know about nutrition, training and supplementation and the tools to get you through this transformation. To start up a body space now, it's free of charge and join the transformation body group so you can follow along with other people doing this transformation with you. All the info that you need is below on this page as well. So if you need a recap of that supplement stack and also we'll be the workout log on every training day. So you can take that to the gym, print it out and log your workouts as your training. Remember I'm going to be there with you every step of the day in the gym and on the non training days giving you all the info that you need to have a successful transformation and be a winner at the end. To mow is going to be our first day and it's going to be a training day. We're going to start off with a hard one. We'll be training legs. But that's good because everyone else will be doing chest in the gym so you'll have all the leg equipment to yourself.

We'll need all the talk, many times, about what makes a champion a champion. In a truly its its mindset, but there are certain types of people that would challenge themselves every day in life, and they don't have to be driven. Those are kind of good need to be held back and those are good things with the leaders. And there's kind of people that are just the followers that just go with what people say, just kind of fall along and just to tell them what they're like. You know, this is why we chose way lifting or body building or whatever we choose. When people take the path of least resistance, it doesn't really ever make sense to me. I mean, a whole idea for doing it is to challenge yourself to be better, to be stronger in every way possible. So, swan the every day is just another way to challenge yourself. You know, I literally believe that swan every day is not really going to build character, but it's going to reveal your character. Like you're truly going to find out what you're made of. Can you get up? Can you go to the show? Can you get on to the bar? You'll get tired if it's teeing, then you'll be so hard to work. But guess what? Here's to live. You get up to next day, you do it again. And if you see things in your life from a point of necessity, not a point of desire, you'll be way more successful. The people have become wheelchair-pensive at the mindset. You can't beat those people. I think you've got some something no option for filling. Most people try to squat once a week, with them to try to squat once a week. I see it in the gym, guys going quarter way down, halfway down, skipping sets, talking a lot in between. So I built this squat every day trainer on that every day you've got to challenge yourself like going to squat first. You're going to squat for 20 to 30 minutes, but then fit your normal splits and after that. The key is that you're bringing intensity right out the gate to the squat rack to really freak out your body. Put some real weight on the bar and let's set the tone for the rest of the workout right out the gate. And I want people to walk over you and say, did you squat yesterday? And you say, yeah, I squat every day. Three main goals in this program, one, to get stronger and become freak. Two to add muscle mass with that hormone profile, your raising on a regular basis, and three to really become just more of an expert in the squat in general. If you've ever trained in any hardcore gyms, there's always an old guy that'll say, if you want your bench to go up, make sure your squat goes up. And that's true because what happens is that sets the tone for your hormone profile for your testosterone and your natural GH in the body. So if you're squatting on a daily basis, in theory, you're raising all the other lifts that go up also. So the way this program originated was, in March of this year, I had a powerlifting meat that I bombed out of it. So I decided I needed to do something crazy to increase my squat to another level, so I started reading online. I come across an article by a guy named John Bros. who's an Olympic lifting coach on bass. After reading about John's concept of squatting every day, I kind of mixed and matched a couple different things that I've done in the past two. I took some of the west side, conjugate methods I learned from Coach Louis Simmons, and also took some of John's stuff from the squat every day and kind of mixed them together. So a lot of people are going to look at this to say, man, that's overtraining. They're going to call it, but do you really know what overtraining is? Do you know the definition of overtraining is that your sick, your immune system's hit? Do you even take yourself to that level? Because most people don't even know what that is. The thing is, nobody's built with an orange mat. Like people don't know what to capable of. You why can't you squat every day? Have you tried it? How do you know? To me, that was incentive to want to do it more. It's like seeing that I can't walk to work today because I walked yesterday. So I believe that anybody can adapt to this program and eventually over time he builds intensity and weight and continue to make progress and PRs in all different ways. You know, I had three kids all started this same time. They all had different starting points where they started when they came into the gym. And when you're later ironically they all made identical gains. They all went up almost 200 pounds in their squat in a year, but they all started with the different starting points. So we're girls of where you start or where you are, everybody can make progress. I mean, no one has a monopoly on strength. Anybody can get stronger. Don't you fucking quit! There's always two main goals for people either to drop body fat or to gain muscle or maybe a little bit of both. This plan is set up to where you can really dictate which way you want to go. Because I've built out two specific nutrition plans to pick your goal. On the squat every day trainer, we're giving you a 30 day template for your workouts, nutrition and your supplementation. So this program doesn't discriminate. It's for men, it's for women. It's just for somebody with the hardcore mindset that wants to challenge themselves. So on Mondays, you're going to squat, then hit your chest. On Tuesdays, you're going to squat and then pull and then hit upper back. On Wednesdays, you're going to go ahead and squat, hit your shoulders, Thursdays, obviously you're going to squat, and then hit your arms. Friday, you're going to squat, then touch on chest and back one more time. And then Saturday and Sunday is a little bit less volume. You're just going to squat both days and hit a little bit posterior chain work. So you might be thinking when you're listening to this, that you're going to be in the gym for like three or four hours, but that's not the case. Your squat is to take you around a half hour and the other workout will take you from 30 to 45 minutes. So you're looking at an hour and 15 minutes. So no texting on your phone, no staying at the drinking fountain for 15 minutes and seeing what your boys do when get to work. Don't try to alternate the program with leg press or Smith machine squats. That will not work. I need you to get a real barbell in a squat rack. Take it out and free squatting. That's why this program works so good. It's got to be difficult. Do not use a Smith machine and don't use the leg press or you're defeating the purpose completely. I'm going to teach you 11 different squat variations to test yourself against. So each time you're going to squat, you're going to be doing something different and trying to beat your old record. I'm not going to go in to each variation right now because I've provided for you videos how to perform each one of these squats. What I believe you need to be doing is post the video of that squat variation max rep each day to your body space. So you can stay accountable to everybody on body space and yourself. Squatting every day is uncomfortable. Getting out of bed early is uncomfortable. I believe you should get up out of bed early and go right to the squat rack. Set your day up in an uncomfortable frame of mind. I'm not telling you what the rest of day will be a breeze. You're going to see a lot of results. You know not just physically but mentally. You know I truly believe that squatting every day is not really going to build character. But it's going to reveal your character. Like you're truly going to find out what you're made of. You know it's going to be very difficult and you're going to challenge yourself. And after a while it's not even about a physical challenge anymore. Because your body will adapt to that. It's about mentally. Can you get up? Can you go to the gym? Can you get on to the bar? Even just to get up and go to the gym after time is half the battle. So I think up by squatting every day. Now that you're going to see phenomenal results in your strength. You're overall size, mass, how you feel. Everything but mentally you're going to grow stronger. After that period of time everything else will see easy. It's a mindset. You got to go after it. You want to be a freak in the gym. It'll carry over to every different muscle group. It'll carry over in your deadlift and your clean and your overhead press. You want to be physically stronger than you should tackle in this program. The next video you need to watch right after this is the squat history video. So you can see why squatting so important and where it all got started. It's time to step up your game. Turn into a freak. Upload those videos on your body space. And let's see what you got.

MUSIC Live reporting from Mumbai. We're on the way to the gym right now. Meals already prepared here. If I go to the gym, I'm going to fucking walk. That's enough to talk for now. Let's have some action. For the next three months, we're going to control our environments, hold each other accountable and become training partners. But you have to do exactly what I tell you to do. We'll eat, train, travel and grow together. I'm going to be your personal trainer who will be with you every rep, set and step away across 84 daily videos on bodybuilding.com. All for free, but you need to commit. Other screw around, so don't screw me around. Every meal, every rep can't smell. Fuck it genetics and fuck it busy lifestyle. Kill your excuses. This knee was fucking killing me. I don't cheat. I'll never quit. I'll only roll. I should be doing at least four flights aside there. Grow with me. 92.8. I'm nearly three kilos. And we won. I can definitely feel it this week. That was just a work out of form hell. Really fucked up today. I've done some serious damage. I had an MRI yesterday and whatever the outcome, it does with the matter. I can't stop. I don't have the luxury of stopping. You've got to embrace that pain this pleasure. I said it was going to finish strong, didn't I? Night night.

Grab the pull-up bar with the palms of your hands facing forward. For a medium grip, your hands should be spaced as shoulder width. Both arms should be extended in front of you while holding the bar at the chosen grip. You'll want to bring your torso back about 30 degrees while creating a curvature in your lower back and sticking your chest out. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and pour your torso up until your head is above your hands. Retreat on squeezing your shoulder blades back and down as you reach the top contracted position. After a brief moment at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower your torso back to the starting position with your arms extended and your lats fully stretched.

Clean the bar to shoulder height. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and lower your legs by bending your knees slightly. Then exhale and push through the heels of your feet to help propel the barbell upward. Simultaneously press up until your arms are fully extended and your legs are also straight. Finally inhale and lower the barbell back to the starting position.

When you span your life bringing the lab to the gym, there's no such thing as bro science. Hundreds of studies conducted thousands of articles written and techniques continuously tested. There are no variables, just results. I'm Dr. Jimst the Pani. Today's test workout is workout one, week one, and phase one of my 532 strength training program. Now this is a super heavy program that's going to take you to 10 weeks of very heavy way on the main exercises and will leave you stronger than you've ever been before. Now I'm about to start the test workout, but I want to remind you that heavy is just a relative term. A lot of people take when they hear heavy, it means they have to be bench pressing 350 and 400 foot up. Heavy is what's heavy to you. And during this workout, I'm not even going to be going that heavy just to show you that it's not about impressing anyone. It's about finding the proper weight that's going to allow you to get 5 reps for 5 sets. The first exercise is going to be the bench press. Here it's absolutely critical that you're hitting all 5 reps for all 5 sets. So that means on the first set, you're not going to go to absolute failure. You want to save something. The rest period is going to be somewhere in the 2 to 3 minute range, but the real heat to doing the bench press properly and safely is your upper arm position. You don't want your arms straight out forming a T. That's going to lead to shoulder problems. One thing that you can kind of visualize to do this is to think about holding grape fruits in your armpits. So you're actually going to be squeezing with your lats as you lower that bar down and keeping your arms in that proper position. Now the second exercise in this chest program is the incline bench press. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets of 6 to 8 reps. You're going to take an overhand grip a bit wider than shoulder width apart. What's different is where you lower the weight. Because the body is on an incline, now you're going to lower the weight more towards the upper or middle chest. You can't really go too low on the chest due to the incline of your upper body. So lower it down nice and slow to the upper chest. And again, you still want to explode the weight up nice and explosively back up over your upper chest. The third exercise in this chest workout is the flat dumbbell bench press. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets against 6 to 8 reps per set. Like with the incline bench press, this is an assistant exercise that is going to help you increase your strength on the barbell bench press. But also help the focus on muscle growth mainly the middle and lower peck area. Now with the dumbbell bench press, obviously you're using dumbbells which means each hand is moving independently of the other one. That's going to help increase the use of stabilizer muscles in the shoulder girdle that help. And that's going to help increase overall muscle strength when you get to that barbell bench press which you're using as your parometer of your upper strength on the chest for this program over the full 10 weeks. Incline dumbbell fly. This is an assistant exercise so you're doing 3 sets of 8 to 10 reps. Unlike the previous 3 exercises which will protect your joint exercises, this is a single joint exercise. Sometimes called an isolation exercise being on an incline helps the focus a bit more on the upper peck. Muscle fibers. Now to do the incline dumbbell fly, you're going to hold the dumbbells over your chest. Close together. You're going to keep a slight bend in the elbows. Bring your arms down as well as possible. Main chain is just that slight bend in the elbows. You're going to focus on using your chest to bring your arms back up and together in the top position. After the incline dumbbell fly, we move into abs. And the first ab exercise is your standard crunch. You're going to be doing 3 sets to muscle failure. One of the things about abs in reps speed is that most people think you need to really focus on slow and controlled reps. But with the crunch, research is shown that the faster and more explosive you do your crunches, the more of not only the abdominal muscles, but also the obliques that are used. You can rest as little as a minute to two minutes at the most for most of these ab exercises. The second ab exercise is the reverse crunch. This helps to focus more on the lower abs. You're going to do 3 sets to failure just like you did with the crunch. You're going to place your hands at your side to support your body or if you're using a bench, you could hold out for the bench. Start with your hips and your knees bent at 90 degrees. Then what you're going to do is use your lower abs to curl your hips up off the floor, bringing your knees toward your head. Then you're going to slowly lower it reverse to motion to lower your hips back to the floor. The third and final ab exercise is the obliques crunch. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets to failure just like with the other ab exercises. Here obviously is the name implies the focus is the obliques muscles. Then once you've done all reps to failure on one side, you're going to swing your knees over to the other side and then complete the reps just in the same manner. But on that side, again till muscle failure. So that's it for this chest workout. Now if you have any other questions on this workout or any of the workouts, you could reach me on my body space, my Twitter or on my Facebook page. And for more programs and tips like this from me, you should have come back to bodybuilding.com.

Lye on the floor face down and place your hands about three feet apart while holding your torso up at arms length. Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale. Now breathe out on press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.

Lye on the floor face down and place your hands about three feet apart while holding your torso up at arms length. Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale. Now breathe out on press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Compaqcast. Today I'm joined by Anthony Krisheli. Anthony is the founder of More Than Miles. He's a VP of talent and content at LightSport, partner of Rebel Union and Alpha Fit Club and a founding trainer at Gritboxing. Soccer player turned top fitness expert Anthony has transformed the traditional workout into a holistic transformation of mental and physical growth, dubbing his motto as one rep at a time, and ultimately creating the one method. Previously working at top fitness studios such as rumble, various boot camp, performance house, and more Anthony is now transforming failing gym franchises into some of the nation's top performance studios with his consulting business gym rescue. He has 10 plus years of boxing experience and has various certifications inside the fitness space including CFSC, USA boxing and NCSF. He's been featured in USA today, the view, GMA, NBC, people magazine, shape magazine, and readers digest. Anthony, welcome to the BB Compaqcast. Thanks for having me, a little five paragraph intro. We love that. We're not, you know, surprisingly it's a brief one, so thanks for keeping it short and sweet on you. Guys, today we're going to jump into no surprise learning a bit about our guests. We were talking about topic one building Anthony. So, start out by telling us how you got here. What's your background and health and fitness tells about the journey that brought you here today professionally, personally, and beyond. Yeah, so the fitness journey started kind of as a kid playing soccer competitively, started in my local hometown, and then moved into club ball, club ball, playing academy ball, and then from academy ball into college. And I think once I kind of saw the cusp of my college career coming to an end, I feel like all the athletes out there, you kind of know when you know. I was like, oh, what do I do post-grad? And that was the biggest thing that I was struggling with because I didn't know what that exit was going to be. And you know how it is if you're an athlete, you exit college and you're like, well, what else do I have to offer? So, move to the city, like every single fitness person I worked at Equinox, which I think everybody normally does way back in the day. And I started my career as a trainer, but then I would sell a class there called Abla. And I think it's now called like best abs ever, whatever it is. But I did that for like three months, and then I had a friend who worked at berries who was like, hey, you should come and work at berries. And I was like, I don't know anything about group fitness, but let me go try this. Fell in love with the culture of berries. I think what I loved about it there was it was super accepting and welcoming, but also right in my energy source of like fun engaging group fitness. So I departed Equinox and took on this challenge of berries, or this next step at berries per se. And then I think it was like four months later, rumble was opening. I met with somebody there and they were like, hey, we're opening this gym. You've got great energy and you boxed. Would you be interested in potentially coming onto the team? We're looking to add like two more trainers to kind of this like founding after the founding five this kind of like next wave of people. And I was like, yeah, sure. So that was madness. If you know the rumble OG days from like 2015, you got like just the Bieber coming in and Jason Derulo and David Beckham and young Anthony, I'm like, I'm from a small town in Jersey, so I'd post in my Facebook and people would lose it. They'd be like, I photo with David Beckham and his kid and people would be like, who are you? What are you doing? And I took a moment for those like, I would say that three-year gap there where I was meeting so many individuals because so many celebrities were coming through that door that I was like, this is craziness. And then I took a moment to reset because I kind of burned out from the group fitness space. I actually worked at WeWork at Brise by WeWork for a little while. I was working on more of their consulting of their group fitness opportunities they had there. So they had a bunch of different studios and I would kind of go in, teach, take and then kind of review and see like how can we build out these class models to be a little stronger so that the people upstairs were going to soul or berries or other studios. They could just kind of stay in the building and use that rise by WeWork space. And then I met a great guy named there, Kurt Ellis, Kurt Ellis shout out, if you guys don't Kurt Ellis, he's a rock star and he was at performance house and he was like, hey man, I think you would do great here, you have a good following, you have a lot of clients, you might want to explore looking to go into that space. So I met with Eric and Matt and Devon back in that day, popped in there and then of course I feel like it just happens in these stages like the next year like, it came around and they were like, hey, you have all this experience we're building a gym and then pandemic hit. I feel like I'm going a little bit of a tangent of a pandemic hit and then from there I kind of built out my connections and that's where I was able to work with other brands like Aqua bag, got him with light sport and then got him with Aqua Fit Club and because I had this background experience that kind of led me to a place where I could consult and then invest and then grow with those brands. I feel like every story starts at Equinox within this city specifically and I've been there, you've been there multiple of our guests have been there, that's that seems like the starting line of the New York City fitness scene and it's cool to see. You've essentially been a part of every major, let's call it boutique, you know, fitness, class, gym, franchise, etc. in New York City. Do you think that there was a synergy between all of them and what kept drawing you from one to the other that you, you know, were really excited about being a part of? Yeah, community. I think I would walk in and take class and see how connected people were from the start and I'm an empath so I was like, oh, I resonate with these people right away. I think what always struck me as a kid, I kind of noticed it's too before the podcast that, you know, I was one of the first people in my family to graduate college. So I come from a very like empath, we're all family, we want to grind, we want to grow but I also come from a place of wanting to learn and I think that's what kind of got me from Studio Studio Studio was like there was a new spark, there was this new kind of creative twist on fitness that I was like, oh, I can learn something new from each of these different studios and that's where I kind of got to where I was exploring these, you know, Studio Studio. Yeah, I mean, you mentioned a blue collar background as well and just kind of being able to get your hands dirty and the want of getting your hands dirty, if it's a founding trainer, that's not, that sounds glamorous but that's typically difficult no matter what brand your founding trainer is nice and theory but usually means you're creating something from the ground up so do you think there's correlation to your personal background and to the willingness to have that in your professional life? Yeah, I think even at light sport, I give them like the biggest credit, I've been with them for about four years and I'm like a cowboy there and that's what I love about being a founding trainer or being a part of those like starting from the ground is that you have this energy to win because you have this underdog mentality the whole time and I think the synergies there because every single time I walked into a space outside of berries, I had that kind of like I got to prove myself, I got to prove myself and that's a little spark that lets that like small impact have intentions behind it. I love that. What's been the why behind movement becoming the epicenter of your life and now career? Well I think I found a lot of clarity through movement, I think like we know it before with soccer and stuff and when that came to a close, I kind of lived in that like I don't know what to do next. I think I come from a home that is a little more, I would say, stoic from time to time with emotions and feelings and so forth so I think movement was that ability to find release so I think that's why I became my why because I'd be able to vocalize about it and then I would see somebody in class do it and I'd be like oh you're putting in the same effort in this class into your relationships and your friendships and your family and I was like this is the science is that like if you put the same effort that you're putting into punching a bag into your relationships you're going to find progress. That's great you know I feel like you've now you've now been the athlete you've helped people become more athletic in multiple modalities across New York City and beyond especially with the digital explosion that occurred during 2020 and beyond you're able to reach so many more people during that time. How did you instill an inject community during that timeframe specifically? I feel like we all and I was in the health and wellness event business during that time as well. It kind of turned us all on our heads a little bit and made us think differently so how did you how did you deem yourself as successful in terms of building community through a screen and through a through a digital platform? I this story is kind of crazy so I will try and keep it as short as I can but it was while the day that the world shut down the next day I went on Instagram live and there was like 10,000 people on an IG live workout and I was like I've never seen numbers like this. Yeah it's usually like 82 on a good day 50 on a good day. This is like pre IG live being anything. So everybody was home and I did this like hour long workout on Instagram and everybody was like oh my god oh my god oh my god oh my god oh my god I do this from all that day I hit up seven people who taught different modalities I was like here is my Instagram login and they taught different classes that were 30 minutes each so there was a dance class a Pilates class a yoga class a strength class a boxing class everything and I ran there for three months and that's what grew my social out was I just gave people options all in one place and then from there we kind of were like do we want to do this on a platform and so forth but then also at that point it was like music copyrighting was like they were getting strict on that things were gently starting to open so you could do distance based workouts with masks on and stuff so I wrote that first wave hard of like the first three months during the lockdown I was running probably eight classes a day on IG live that moved to zoom and then from zoom to in person and then obviously with light box or light sport I started moving into that space where they had hardware and that was where the audience could go to as well but that space was I mean you probably know that she would like go on Instagram there was like 20 people doing an Instagram live it was wild yeah no it was a wild time for sure and I feel like we're now we've talked about this in the podcast before as well with previous guests or now entering this era where it's awesome to see that stone that was flipped over during the time period and help people connect and move their bodies and get healthier through the digital format and that exists today at the same time we're now in this aggressive other side of the spectrum where people want to connect in real life again and this has been a huge part of our dialogue it's part of our strategy going to 2025 as a brand as well getting people together in real life how are you how are you doing that in your career and bringing people together how are you doing in the brands that you work with Tesla a bit about that so more than miles has been the easiest part of it so I started this race collective is what I like to call because we we don't want to be just another track club or another run club we say that we're race collective so what we do is we have these unsingcion races like go on throughout the year and we use the funds that we raise from that to allow people who can't afford the ability to race the ability to race people show up just for that because I just want to support somebody who might need it we have a race tonight funny enough but through these races people have kind of been flooding out because they want to meet people they want to connect with people it's not necessarily like you have the son of for a 5k a 10k or a marathon we have races that are run the hill right so you run directly up a hill and then we grab a beer or not alcohol beer after whatever people prefer and that amount of social link I think is great for people community runs that are not super heavy at a super fast pace we allow walkers and runners who come out and then group fitness classes like I've been back in that space I think what the digital space has done in a great way is provided options right Mike our client at light sport is jack in the back with three kids right works a long day he's about to go out the door to go get his work out in and then he's got a cook dinner or he's got to help his partner out or whatever it might be so can they pick up and do something at home that gives him some kind of accountability data and so forth that they have that option you are now transforming gym franchises into studios I feel like I could be seen as a level up I'm sure it's seen as a level but it's also a whole another layer of work added to the whole different yeah so tell us more about that how it started what feels the success and more about the spatey book spaces that you're building yeah so gym rescue started with my business partner Aaron in Montreal with rebel union Aaron and Lessa they are the absolute best humans I know and I met Aaron through aquabag so when the world kind of shut down aquabag was planning on going into this digital space so what I would do is people be like I want to box at home and I would be like cool I'm going to essentially part of with aquabag you can buy an aquabag with a sensor in it and you can track your punches it was just really cool format that we built with them the technology never kind of took off to the masses but I did meet Aaron through that and what I started doing with Aaron on a small scale was consult he'd be like hey man I have no music I need music to like when he comes to New York he's like this is the greatest fitness experience I get to have and then he goes to Montreal and he's like it's almost there but I need something help wise so I consulted for a while and then I was like why don't why don't we just partner up on this like why don't I come in and start doing fractional work and see if I can use my knowledge of musicality in the room to training trainers but then also like how do we retain members on different membership packages the big thing they were doing in Montreal was they had packs they were selling five packs and ten packs can we bundle a membership that gives people enough that they feel like they're getting a true value so I started with rebel union and we've been now working together for almost two and a half years and that's been great they have been skyrocketing in Montreal they've added a string studio there've been talks about expanding from there into another brick and mortar and then I kind of crossed out of that into consulting for different franchises that were opening up through something like an exponential right so somebody would be like hey you worked at that gym back in the day we have one in the suburbs can you come in and Anthony Phi the trainers or can you come in and just give us perspective on what is a client success journey from the first 30 days to 90 days and how are you tracking their progress how many classes are they taking per week how are you following up how are you hitting their touch points and then with alpha that was me coming in as a franchise owner and that's when I learned build out costs L.O.I.s I learned H.V.X which are a beast inside of itself but I learned all the nitty gritty side that I didn't get from before which is front facing right it's talent it's music it's membership now I'm doing the other side where it's like build out labor costs overhead P&L all that kind of stuff so I'm grateful that I had the opportunity I'll say in the last year to really get a full perspective because next year that's going to be a little more of the pushes really leaning into that space of hey if your gym is going to a tough time let's create a roadmap for it it's not me coming in and like John taffering it it could be but I think more the goal is a lot of people have the dream and the vision they're just too busy and what I can do is kind of offload those hours and concentrate them so you can find success so essentially partnering with the owners the managers the team that exists there not only on customer engagement though it seems like that's our member engagement rather seems like that's the course in which it started to fall on reimagining what the space can look like feel like right because I think we're entering we've already been in this era for the last couple years as people have returned to gyms and whatnot they are looking for a very uniquely different type of experience as of in comparison to what we saw years prior so the classic big box gyms they're dying in a way right and we are seeing the rise of boutique fitness and one off locations that maybe have the potential to franchise but maybe also that's not their goal yes I'll speak to I'll speak I'll give a shout out to a never in Long Island city which is our home home great fantastic there are home gym where we're shooting with our founding trainers right now and it was just there was thought and love put into the build out of that gym and the way they continue to run that is the community first mindset so I think the big players in the games I won't call anybody out on the podcast but the big players are starting to realize you know what they are missing and comparative to some of these one off gyms and you know this too once you sell to the masses right you sell your company then they can franchise it out loses the value right and I mean that respectfully but it loses the value because not saying the name of it but like ten years ago right it was a crime telecrime and then when they sell and then there's hundreds of them they lose that little spark of what they had and then I think what happens more less is you've got these privately own gyms that are franchising out but they're still private so they still hold the core values and they still kind of maintain this brand presence throughout so there's never that like things slip through the cracks I think what they're doing in Long Island city that's really great is that you could tell they put a lot of TLC into it but every single time I go on their page and they're doing events everybody's engaged from the wellness side of it to the strength side of it to the conditioning side of it that gym is packed in a great way yeah I totally agree I hope we continue to see more of it yeah I think that's really where the masses are starting to to flock to yeah let's talk about modality flexibility so you yourself going into topic topic too Anthony you yourself have have explored and continue to explore a variety of modalities so boxing running soccer consistent string training throughout all of those how do you feel you benefit from a classic cross-training regimen and versus going all in on one specific movement well it's a funny question because right now I'm doing it right like I'm in for everybody watching I just ran the Berlin marathon I run New York City in three weeks and then I do hierarchy Kaggle right after that so you think about it though it's like very different it's similar but it's different training I'm struggling right now because I'm running so much that my strength I feel like it's taking a back seat even though I'm prioritizing unilateral work it's still at that point where I'm like oh I don't know if I'm going to be strong enough for this hierarchy competition that's come up I know conditioning wise I'll fly but strength wise you got to push that's let you got to have that posterior chain to pull that weight as well I think cross-training has been super beneficial I came from when I was in that boxing lane that's all I was doing I was boxing four five days a week and I think there's pros and cons of it right when you're in it so dialed in you fall in love with the sport because it's all you know and that's all you're doing but at the same time I go to lift the weight in class and but that doesn't move the same way as it used to I think we talked about marathon training as well right I started my marathon training probably like 15 weeks ago for Berlin is when my first my first wave went out and I've lost 18 pounds in 15 weeks and I'm eating everything in sight so I think cross-training is super beneficial I think where I'm finding the hardship right now is you want to pour everything into this one modality because you want to find success in it and it's really about being smart with how you attack that because if you're not you're going to put so much load on your joints and then in return you're going to do more harm the good yeah and that really is the fast follow question here how can something like a well-rounded routine really lower the risk of injury that we say it's so often here there is no such thing as 100% injury prevention but we can certainly lower the risk of obtaining those injuries so you know how do you say you know when you're training for your marathon you're training for a high-rexor whatever event that you have on the schedule because we we do preach here it's important to have something on that schedule to work towards but how do you work towards that while keeping cross-training in mind and you know keeping your pre-hab routine alive stretch sleep recover I like I use that simple but that's it it isn't it isn't I mean I'm I'm the prime example right I work a nine to five and then I screwed out to all the different gyms that I have to fill in the gaps so I have a nine to five and then a five to nine what I found really successful was I do these 15 minute routines in the morning where it's going on my foam roller just gently get my you know body moving I'll do a little bit of trigger point stuff with a lacrosse ball and then I just actively stretch your out the day until night I will tell you this my body has never felt better since I started stretching and prioritizing stretching so I think leaning into as you're going through these moments of how do you improve your body how do you feel strong how do you continue to grow if you prioritize the recovery side as well that the possibilities are endless because you know this as well I used to be 22 years old Anthony in the city I was trying to be in the thousand pound club I looked like this I looked crazy and I think at 33 years old I am now I feel like I'm the best shape model I agree I'm with you I think there's a maturity that comes into play when it just starts to click mentally and you start to just take a step back to understand what makes you feel your best like right today ups and salt that's a really helpful for me they just draw out toxins they help my muscles feel really good sauna is huge for me and sauna on coal plunge I know it sounds cliche but these small things on a consistent basis add up stretching the same thing like throw tiana night I sent on my floor with my cat and my dog and we're catching up and playing fetch but in the middle I'm doing just like some yin yin yin yin type of flows and just like holding them for two three minutes just stretching out the fascia that really hasn't gotten that love so all these things are just a kind of a culmination of definitely learning lessons let's say over the last 10 or so years you know I've had the the fractures I've had the overuse injuries we all have so I think with with each of those you know hopefully you don't have to go through an injury to learn the lesson and you can kind of just understand that your body needs rest your body needs physical care you know sometimes you need a hands-on body massage just to get into some of those places and then sleep is huge how do you balance sleep with such a crazy schedule and having your hands and so many things you schedule it right like my my whole day is Google meetings like I schedule my lunch breaks everything inside of that so I think I hyper prioritized sleep because if I didn't I wouldn't know what to do my also thing is like you know there's like I work in talent development but I also do a lot of production stuff so sometimes I'm editing late at night and I know that I have to log off at a certain time because if I don't that can go into the wee hours of the night to circle back really quick though with recovery I think one thing to note is the accessibility to recovery that's something that's not talked about a lot I ran with a lot of people in Berlin and a lot I talked about my journey they were like I saw you going to get dry needleing and and massaging and stuff like that like that looks super expensive and I had to take a moment to be like yeah like that is an investment inside of itself so I think what I would love to see more of is either educating people on making recovery accessible or finding alternate options right like if you can't afford a place I'm making this up but like the cold punch lounge or the sauna lounge how do you find that at home you talk about absence of that so right so like giving people alternatives I think is something huge hopefully can happen down the line it's like making recovery accessible for all I totally agree something that we're actually debuting in our new fitness app that's coming out later this year or slash early next year we'll have a whole accessories tab whole accessories library or snacks as we call them and they'll essentially be pre pre or post accessories that you can do just for that purpose I mean some of our coaches are going to be walking you through foam roller just for your thoracic spine or upper body taking you through foam roller lower body sessions taking you through you know a tech neck you know series where if you were on your computer all day what is something that I can do you know to loosen up my cervical spine to get my shoulders out of that rounded position to loosen up those those wrists so that we don't have carpal tunnel at 30 something years old but we we purposely and strategically injected this into the app with a specific emphasis on people just taking the 10 to 15 minutes even if it's not both by the way these don't have to be before or after you work out this could be at two clock in the afternoon when you come an hour in between calls or you're on the go etc you just drove for a while whatever the case may be but just holding people accountable and helping show how truly seamless it can be by just taking 10 minutes I'm giving your body some love yeah I think I it's funny you talked about the word snacks I gotta give him a small shout out if I can I think with Joe Holder did with exercise snacks and what he did just in the community of allowing people to get information at an accessible point or provide assets and these like you know kitchens and stuff that he does and these like shops that he puts up with the I think it's like the vegan kitchen or vegan whatever he does he does this incredible thing where he pops up into different pantries and essentially puts you know fresh food for people who might not be able to afford it and that's what I talk about accessibility in this industry a lot is I think I didn't even realize it until I started running outside of this country of like wow a lot of these things that we are doing are not accessible to a lot of people so I'm excited to hear that you guys are doing that because you're going to provide a lot of information and and give people a lot of accessories that they can use to you know improve their performance yeah absolutely and we're excited to have you involved in the future as well going to the 2025 and I couldn't agree more I'm we're not going to go down the health care conversation here because we only have a limited time this studio here ladies and gentlemen but fitness should be accessible just just plain plain flat fitness should be accessible we're on a mission to do just that you know you you don't need a $300 gym membership every month to just gain the basic necessities of how to take care of your body and how to live a longer and healthier life 100% I want to talk about more than miles this feels I feel like this is your baby right now I feel like so so I it was definitely deemed worthy of having its own topic today so you are the founder of more than miles breakdown how the idea came to fruition what the mission behind it is just give us some context of what this is yeah so my co-founder Alfonso Spoli we met in October of last year he works for on he's an incredible human he was going through a really tough spot in his life I was going through a really tough spot in my life and he funny enough for a while could not run because he was going through a medical condition that was limiting him movement wise of what he could do so he was doing with all this pent up energy through a really rough time I was kind of working in a parallel at the same time of not being able to do something and we when we were able to be cleared to run we went on our first run and we excelled and we said wow that felt good we got everything we need to get off our chest and we did that by just going on a jog and having conversation and kind of like naturally venting and then our other two co-founders Mike Riley and Muhammad Bader came with us on this run and we kind of all started clicking and we all come from different backgrounds right very diverse founding group but I think the conversations that just started happening from it I was like oh there's something here and we started just running and it wasn't for time it was just like hey let's just like run and have a conversation so I would for people then 10 then 15 then 20 and 30 and 40 and now sometimes 50 60 people but what we do is every corner mile on our community runs you switch where you are on the run so you have to meet somebody do and have a conversation with somebody who you might know or not know and it kind of forces you in a great way to being a place where it's not that deep but just be able to find clarity through movement and it's been this really great thing because like we talked about before it's like we are the no time run club or the new time movement collective like we could care less about time we care that people are not sitting at home and they're moving their body like the demographic for anybody out there who might be listening to this is like if you're a couch to 5k person or you've run 10 marathons it doesn't matter there's a place for you at more than miles because we just want people to be people through movement I feel like we need t-shirts that say no time run club no time run club I want to be the first one I get satisher that's good so you now hold the vents regular events for this where you hold in them how many people are coming to them how did this grow over time on a run we like I blocked out I literally was like I had no idea how to happen we in Hoboken we ran on one of our community runs we passed the hill at Stevens College and I was like huh imagine we sprinted up this hill today so we did got to the top and I was like hoof I'm exhausted and I'll fawns is like okay do it again and I was like all right so we started doing it we're like there's something here and then our friend Mike if you ever see Mike right like he's like this tall very buff man who's like Nick bear 2.0 shout out Mike he ran it and he was like oh I got to get somebody we got to compete and I was like okay so we started doing this with our internal group which was just more of our community and then kids from Stevens College would like hop the fence and be like hey man can I run and we're like yeah sure and then it's sort of becoming this thing where people would show up and then from there brands wanted to get involved and we really I say this all the time more than the miles we are not like a brand focused run club we do these events and like if you want to pop up and have some cool stuff they're great like at the end of the day the whole mission is always anything that comes in we kind of put into the small fun to be able to allow people who can't afford to run the ability to run so the race is kind of took off this year because run the hill did well and then me as a creative I was like great I want to do this mid-day mile where it's like your fastest mile in Hoboken this will come out on October 27th but we're doing a race called Pintapin which I think will be the most unique race we do it's 20 people five teams of four each person is driven to an undisclosed location they're given an envelope that has a pin and they have to run two miles so their teammate everybody is running to different pins and they all finish at the same pin so it's just really cool kind of like capture the flag obstacle course kind of set up but that's where we started thinking differently outside the box of like we are this like unsanctioned movement collective and that's where the race came from yeah gave me a fun game of finding I mean it's like school yard recess again right exact that I'm I'm having the time my life seen some of these newer run clubs pop up but you know you guys and many others bendest run club comes to mind they're doing gosh I don't even know how many they I think they had four clubs to like 400 500 people should open and given nine the need of police escort the the important thing here this is not just runners these are people who have never run a mile in their life this is bodybuilders you know quote unquote bodybuilders are people maybe who just spend most their time on hypertrophy lifts these are people from all different walks of fitness in life who are just so desperately seeking the connection in the community and these run clubs are making it one accessible to your point but two fun yeah like you game though you just give the perfect example of how you're game of finding making this something enjoyable versus just okay we're gonna go out every Tuesday night and run the west side highway and do the same out and back every single time whereas I feel like our on clubs are evolving so quickly at that point where even that type of style is already it's in the past it's not yet well I think you got three sectors in it right you got your track clubs which are really dialed in runners like I first seen comes a mind is like Manhattan track club Brooklyn track club whip it's all those like premier run clubs I would say track clubs and you got run clubs who are more of kind of like the social hey we got a couple friends together and we're gonna build this out and it's gonna kind of just be like out and back and we run marathons but it's kind of like whenever we feel like it varied that middle ground and they have training cycles we're okay this New York City marathon crew we're gonna meet et cetera so they're kind of working towards these goals but a little less serious than the first group and then I would say you have this kind of separate sector that we're nowhere near OSR but I always shot them out I think OSR 100% and Darcy from take the bridge like those people paved the way for what we do I think there's this other sector though of people who are community for us I'm gonna give a quick guy shout out named Dar Sean from Chill Town in Jersey City I think what he's done so well over the last five years is his motto is why can't we all get along I know it sounds so cliche but in this running community it can sometimes get really either time heavy or like you ran here last week and now you're running there like that's the last thing we want but that's why I think our demographic is different our demographic is could be the bodybuilder could be the first that first time ever running our mile midnight mile quick little example fastest time was at 4449 and then we had people who were running over a time in a mile and everyone stayed to support and that person around the 4449 runs in a track club in the city he could have left but he stayed and supported and sheared people on and I think that was the moment where I was like oh this is something different this isn't just like when your money and get out it's people are coming together yeah it's non-alietice and I think there's a time in a place for the elitist that's fine because there is a demographic for that and it's the no BS people who just want to get in crush miles get out right there's this there's one particular that comes into mind I see them out where I run almost every weekend and they are just they got the sunglasses on the hats are real low and they are charging forward and they don't care if there's a stroller in their way that's it right and then there's you know the ones out there similar to what you guys are doing more than miles and like the pace is easy the conversation is light they're laughing they're dealing they're having fun so I think it's a really cool time for running I think it's exploding I don't think running is as exclusive as it used to be I think it's much more accessible and I think you're seeing a very diverse group of people participating and run clubs across the country yeah I think you can note this too I think the creative space in running is also exploded where stories are getting told that weren't and I think now you're finding another shout out we run up town like Hector you're watching this massive shout out he's built community over like 10 years in the heights and like those stories are getting told and those people are getting their flowers with which they very well deserve circa 92 those guys over there like miles miles miles miles in the Bronx boogie down Bronx like those run authentic run communities that weren't highlighted because they didn't have X accessibility are now getting highlighted by these major brands and it's refreshing because now you're seeing all different types of people at the forefront of these campaigns you know I agree and you know obviously Nike has been doing this since the 80s and 90s probably earlier but I'm gonna recount what I remember as a kid too I mean sitting there watching YouTube video it's just getting goosebumps and chills because of how compelling their copyrighting was on the commercials that they made but now they're along with many others both being in small the brands are putting story telling at the front of their strategy I think tracks met those are really great job not only gorgeous imagery and photography and content altogether but injecting those stories if I think more locally I think band it does a really great job right like so all of this to say we're gonna stop geeking out for a second on run clubs to say running's having a moment it's not just for quote unquote runners and I think it's here to stay I think it's good to continue growing yeah who is your dream guest for more than miles this is this is like the question if you could choose a dinner party dead or live who do you have this is your version personalized for you yeah I got to go with Ned Brockman we talked about him before the pod I recently stumbled across him and I'm shining him out because Renethous Miles ran raise 2.6 million dollars for charity I think what I fall in love with more than anything with people through these more than Miles docs that we do is their why like why do you do this why do you take these feats of strength per se to do it and there's nothing for them in the reward it's not like they're winning first place they're doing it at the kindness of their heart so Ned sticks out I think I'll go back like I think Hector from we run uptown is another person I'll give to really quick but I think Hector does something with community that is undescribable and I think what he's done for so long is he's just been a great listener for people and from that he's built so much trust and I think those stories and somebody like Hector I would love to run with Hector if you're watching this I'd love to run with you and be able to share his story a little more awesome stay tuned in the coming weeks after this comes out we will be releasing some more than miles episodes with our own BB com coaches Anthony will take them out and various places throughout New York City and help you all get to know them a little bit better so stay tuned for more on that last question Anthony favor place to run it's two-part or fair place to one location wise and then also favor interview so far I would say my favorite place to run is the palisades in New Jersey underneath the GWB because it's a lot of rolling hills favor person I've interviewed David Kilbur he's the coolest guy in the world and I would have had him as my dream guest but I was lucky enough to have him already as a dream guest seven marathon seven continents seven days all sub three and I truly mean this he is one of the kindest individuals you ever meet in your life awesome well Anthony thanks so much for stopping by today tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey yeah you can just follow along at more than miles TC on Instagram or Anthony Grishelli on Instagram great thanks for stopping by today thanks for having me thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

I'm Fisito EGEM, finish model and bodybuilding.com athlete. But what I'm most known for is being shredded 365 days a year. I designed this program to keep my body in shape all year round. And I've put it all together in this 8-week program, absolutely free for you here on Bodybuilding.

We say less than five testic right now because we've got the answer from bodybuilding.com. This is the number one fundraising group and alongside this Jamie, how much money did you get for a kid? We raised over eight thousand dollars. That's his awesome and how many people are on your team. We have over 60 people on our team and we just claim that it's hopefully the 5000 bucks. So we have a couple of guys like Son O'Neigh that agreed to go and the two team care. We're not a fish dog. We're not a fish dog. Come over here in the middle of here. Son, how much money did you bring by saying you were at the team? I like to know the same thing. Do you know? I think I'm doing this for three. But it's for a cause and obviously you wouldn't do this being a bodybuilding.com guy. You wouldn't do this for anything. Would you? I do it for friends and a good cause. All right. There you go. You know. We're going to congratulate your responsibility for the $5 billion. The number one fundraising group here and you guys, what's the use for a proposed? I need everybody to strike a proposed. Come on. There you go. That's what we were looking for. You know, we're going to be back here. You're just joining us. If you want to make sure that I'm trying to try to blend in with these guys. But you don't have to keep doing this. No, I don't. That's the reason. I'm going to take another break. But we're going to be back here. If you're just joining us, if you want to contribute to the race for the viewers, you can do that. Look at the bottom of this screen. Seven here. Five here. Six here.

My name is Rachel Flint. I am a captain in the International Guard and winner of 2012 Military Transformation Challenge for bodybuilding.com. I was never athletic in high school, middle school. I just went to class and hung out with my friends and really had no desire to be athletic because I thought it was beyond the realm of possibility for me. It didn't even occur to me that I could be athletic. When I decided to join the military is when I knew that if I was going to survive, they were training. I was going to have to get fit. At that point I was a smoker and so I gave that up and started running. When I was about 23, I went on deployment to Saudi Arabia and was there for about four months. There was somebody over there that showed me the basics of weight training. It was very beginner level stuff. I just built on that and at that point I didn't really do much with it. My natural shape is a pair. I was always very small, had very narrow shoulders and bigger hips. I thought, okay, well if I get fit then I'll probably just be a smaller version of that. I was probably about 140 pounds and I'm 5.7. I'm some of my body fat was in the low 20s which is still healthy but it wasn't something I was comfortable with and so I decided to try to build some muscle and reduce my body fat and see what was underneath. As I started lifting weights and really challenging myself from the gym I started to see that shape change. I was astonished at what I looked like. It's been incredible to see I'm not genetically determined to always have the same body shape. It's incredible. It really can change your whole body. I'm now staying at home, other than my one week in the month in the International Guard. I'm busy with two little girls, I just four and one and a half. I want to set a good example for them and healthy eating is really part of our everyday lifestyle. I got to a point where I knew I just had gotten kind of complacent with my workouts and was ready to kick it up a notch. I've always worked really well with deadlines, this challenge gave me an excellent opportunity to have a 12 week goal and just really hit it hard for those 12 weeks to make the most of it that I could. I used the machines when I very first started because I wasn't real sure about my form and I made the machines took away that guess for me. I think at this point I've gotten through a lot of the trial and error and I know what works well for my body. I'll lift heavy for a while to see how far I could get with that and then I'll switch over to lighter weights with more reps for a while and do that to see what my results are with that. So I tried to always change things that keep an interesting. I do prefer the traditional body building movements. I work out at the same gym every day and the same equipment is there every day so there's now to be some repetition there but whenever I'm working in particular body part I'll change up the exercise to target that particular body part after a while. I work out six days and so I lift weights on all six of those days that I do a five day split and then usually hit my twice in one week usually on on two days or and Thursdays or two days in Fridays. I make sure to give myself a couple days of break between when I hit legs again. I like to do back and my steps together and chest and tie steps together and then shoulders and abs on their own. I tied two cardio two or three times a week. If I have time, if I finish it work out early I'll use the rest of that time to do some cardio. The rest day for me is starts off with church because it's on Sunday so I've got church with my family and we go out to eat and it's a nice day. We'll go to the park and still try to do something slightly active but I really try to just do as little as possible on that day to get me ready for the coming. I take progress pictures every two to three weeks and compare them side by side with previous weeks and not really helps. Helps me know if I am making progress and it works either way if I'm not seeing the progress that I want to see then I push harder at the gym and if my am seeing progress, it could take side it and I still push harder at the gym. The most important thing I could tell people who are a little intimidated and not sure if they can do this would be to just start gathering information, start reading. I think that's the most important thing to get all the information that you plan before you even step foot in the gym. There are so many free programs available on bodybuilding.com. Pick one of those and get going. I think that I was really happy to learn is that you don't have to start yourself to get fit. There's a lot of bad information out there about calorie restriction. Not that you can eat everything that you want to. You can eat and be full and you have a lot of healthy foods and you don't have to always be hungry. When my husband and I first got married we would buy cheap pizza and hamburger helper and a lot of the quick and easy stuff. Over the years we got away from that but we still weren't even quite as well as as we should. There are a lot of clean foods that I eat that I never even tried growing up. I didn't know the benefits of eating them. Things like avocado, some spare, I guess, sweet potatoes. Those are some of my favorite foods now. I eat six or seven meals a day. Usually every two to two and a half hours. For my sources of protein I really like chicken and lots of carbohydrates. I really like sweet potatoes, brown rice and I like getting a lot of my carbs from vegetables. As far as for my healthy fat I did just recently discover home and butter and it's amazing so I don't buy it very often because I have issues with portion control on that. But I love peanut butter and so peanuts, almonds, avocados, a lot of those that this is the source of my feedback. I have a sweet tooth and I've discovered that sugar can really derail me for quite a while. So I've tried to go more towards savory teeth like pizza or beans. For me I tried to just have one cheap meal a month. I tried to do a cheap meal once a week and for me it didn't work because I wouldn't do a lot of the progress that I had made earlier in that week. On the claims we prepare the same way most of the time because it makes it easier for our daughters to see familiar things. Since they're used to eating those same foods over and over every once in a while I'll change that but for the most part we just need to keep it the same for them. I really think that when you start when they're little they learn what you need to introduce to them. So they do love broccoli. They love sweet potatoes. They love chicken. All the foods that we eat, they eat. When we go to a restaurant I usually pull up the menu before we go and take a look at what they have and make sure that there's a healthy option. Once I get to the restaurant I can make it in forms, decision on what I'm ordering and asking until we go. The butter and oils that there may be on common food. My definitely think that supplements are a vital part of my overall success in fitness. I don't think you have to have them to get in shape that I think they are so helpful. I really like to keep it simple with supplementation. I don't think it's necessary to go overboard in everything that's out there. So I just think the things that I know are going to help me meet my goals and leave it at that. I like to use a pre-workout and BCAA, CLA, EFA and a protein-counter. As far as pre-workout I get a bit of a forecloth in the morning and so the caffeine in a pre-workout really helps me wake up and get going. I've just, I've had a lot of success with those. They help me feel strong. I get the most out of my workouts when I take them and I know some of these different when I go out. CLA is one that I first started out a few years ago. I read that it's something that occurs naturally in foods and helps you break down fat in your body. Just like that, the idea is nice, easy thing to add just to give me a little bit of the mixture edge and that loss. Our family is not consumed a lot of dairy and so I prefer ed protein but when I'm out, I need a quick meal replacement. I keep packets of way protein handy and those are great to help me feel full and go on with my errands and do the right thing to do. I think the best thing for people to do is to start off simple and maybe a pre-workout supplement and a protein counter and maybe a multi-biagment. To start reading up on the other ones and see what they do, what they're intended for for this is. And match that up with what their personal goals are and see if that's something that they might need. I've had a lot of people whether it be an military member, family member, some friends, all tell me that they're willing to give it a shot because I did and they've seen that you don't have to have a personal trainer. It doesn't have to be expensive, you just have to have the discipline to do it. My mom is the most recent example. She's signed up for a transformation challenge on how to go to the Win.com and is going to hit R for 12 weeks so I can't wait to see if it happens. So if anyone has any questions for me and you need words of encouragement or with likes and more details, then they can look for me on my body space which is RDF in zero three. So for more content and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

Set up in a power rack with a bar on the pins. The pin should be set to the desired point, just below the knees, just above or in mid-thigh position. Position yourself against the bar in proper deadlifting position. Your feet should be under your hips, your grip shoulder width, back arched, and hips back to engage the hamstrings. Since the weight is typically heavy, you may use a mixed grip or a hook grip or use straps to aid holding the weight. With your head looking forward, extend through the hips and knees, pulling the weight up and back until lock out. Be sure to pull your shoulders back as you complete the movement. Return the weight to the pins and repeat.

Our manager could tour and head with bodybuilding.com. This is the action movie of all action movies. If you're into that genre of film, you're going to love this. I really really anticipate this movie coming out. I just saw it for the first time in a screening and was very pleased. It lives up to its billing and there's a remarkable group of guys that came together to make this movie. I was excited about the opportunity and I like the character I read the script and like the tone-roader. I thought he was interesting and in some ways he captured some of who I am or a combatant. It was a little bit different since it worked but it caused the educated guy to fight for it. It would be working with guys like Jason Stiff and he was at Leigh and Nicky or if you tear you cruise and golf on there. It was ridiculous to guys. All the guys got along well with this kind of a particular electricity when all the expendables came together on a set for scenes and stuff, especially the first couple times. We had fun telling jokes and being silly on set to a background still on to be very very intense. I mean he's wearing a lot of hats, he's really directing it plus he was in front of the camera for it. I don't know how he was still standing. It's a lot of fun. I'm going to enjoy it. I'm going to go through one of the expendable workouts and he's one of the workouts that helps me peak for fights and puts me in the kind of shape that you'll see him in the movie. This is all more straightforward and because we're still 10-11 weeks away. As we get closer, we'll start adding more cardio stuff. I think the biggest thing that I learned is especially as I transitioned from wrestling and I started out with a national team to fighting is that I was continually overtrained. It wasn't me lying my body, trying to take my lying my body, trying to recover, I eat my hungry and I tried to eat a lot, tried to eat greens a lot because they're very out flying. They counted the rest of the media that we build up between him and stressing everything else in our bodies. The carbs, earlier in the day to go meals and the past is in the rice. It didn't think they'd get earlier in the day and later in the day it brought teams to help recover after you look at it. It's fine in those partners that share those goals. It's easy when you're just to you to just get an entire day going this morning. But when I know that other guy's going to show up, maybe he isn't going to show up, but you think he's going to show up. Then a lot less likely to let him down. You'll come up with a reason to lay yourself down and talk yourself out. It's fine in those partners that you don't want to let down. You're going to show up for this before. And then again, keeping it simple, more complicated and cumbersome it is. The harder it's going to be to sting. It has to be alive stuff. It's fine. The diets are dirty with you. Those are all temporary minds that can incorporate things. Change your eating habits. Forget the diet. Change your eating habits. It first gets hard, but after a couple of weeks, you've been pretty soon for them to eat greens, try to get the bag and to be growing them down. The plate and the dressing and all that stuff. Occasionally, you'll fall off the wagon. It's okay. You'll have the ice cream, and you'll have the cookies and you'll probably feel hung over the next day. I'm going to put you get right back up and keep going and it's okay. You don't get away with it because you're doing it. Let's see what it does. Experience is where you just keep pitching yourself. I grew up on Rock and Ram Bowen and then to now be working with the guy. I am the rest of that cast for that matter. It was pretty remarkable. It was a great experience. So, the movie comes up 13th of August. I've got to fight on the 28th of August. So I'm just now ramping up, peaking phase, you're the ripping of the jade and great shape for that fight. At first, you have seen Boston, you have seen one 18 and the welcoming Mr. James Tony, the former old champion in boxing to the mixed martial arts, so it should be a lot of fun as well. Thanks for taking the time with me today. For more content like this, check out Bodybuilding.com. I'll see you soon.

 Here is.



Line your back on a mat with your knees bent and your hands to your side. Lift your legs and bend your knees to 90 degrees. This will be your starting position. Now pull your knees in toward your chest and hold as you exhale. Slowly lower your legs back to the starting position as you inhale. Remember, don't use momentum to swing your legs up. And it keep the motion controlled by your abdominals.

Lion and incline bench with your chest and stomach pressed against the incline. Have dumbbells in each hand with the palms of your hands facing each other. Extend your arms in front of you so they are perpendicular to the angle of the bench. Your legs should be stationary while applying pressure with the balls of your feet. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise the weights away from each other and to the sides while keeping a slight bend in your elbow. Try to squeeze your shoulder blades together to get the most effect from the sexier size. Your arms should raise until they are parallel to the floor. Once you've reached the top contracted position hold for a brief moment, then exhale and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position.

Hey, buddybuilding.com. This is Rich Frowning, two-time CrossFit Games Champion, BSN Athlete, Rogue Fitness Athlete, and we're here at Rogue Fitness Headquarters, about show you guys a workout. Alright guys, the workout today we're going to do is 15-12-9-6-3 of shoulder to overhead pull-ups and 30 double-unders in between each set. So the 15-12-9-6-3 you're actually going to do 15 shoulder to overhead and 15 pull-ups. Then you're going to do your double-unders and 12-12-12-12-9-9 all the way down to the free. Now before we do the workout I'm going to bring Ben in and we're going to show you actually how to do the movements and then also how to scale the movements. If you're not, you can't do the exact weight we've described or the exact movement, we'll show you a few different options to do this workout. Alright, so the first movement we're going to show you is the shoulder to overhead. There's a few different variations you can actually do with this. You can just shoulder press, push press or push jerk. So I'm going to show you all three options. Push jerk, you're going to use, it's probably going to be the most efficient, especially when it gets heavier. You're going to use the most muscular jerk. You can start with the bar on the ground or you can start with it in the rack. You kind of up to you. What Ben's going to do is his feet are going to be right underneath his hips. Hands just outside the shoulders. So he's going to, for this, he's going to act like he's taking it from the ground. He's actually going to clean it up, making sure he's got a good flat back. The bar is actually going to rest here on his shoulders. His elbows are going to be up slightly, but not too far up, not like he's in a front squat down just a little bit, but they're not going to be behind the bar because what happens with behind the bar, then you're pushing the bar out. We want this bar to go straight up and down as possible. The whole time Ben is doing this movement. We're going to start with the shoulder press with the shoulder press. He's just going to press it up. He's going to tuck his chin, shave his face. He's got good active shoulders at the top. He's going to pull his ribcage down, good tight core. Protect that spine. We got good support all the way through the movement. Coming back down to the same exact bar path. The more straight up and down we can go, the more efficient it is, the better it is, the safer it is. So from the shoulder press, we'll move to the push press. So now we're going to add just a little bit of velocity. You start getting tired out. You want to save your shoulders a little bit, use the legs. He's going to just quick little dip of his knees. He's going to drive it up. Using the momentum, he gets from that dip from his hip. He's not actually, so bring it back down. He's actually going to use that little drive. He gets little momentum on the bar and then just continue the press. Just like the shoulder press. But he's just going to add a little bit of dip with his knee, keeping his chest good enough right. One thing he's not going to do is dip his chest forward because then the bar is going to go out once again. We want to keep this bar over his center of mass the whole time. If we can, safer, more efficient, easier. The final movement will be the push jerk. Basically the same exact dip is the push press. This is the same press as the shoulder press. All he's going to do is retreat just slightly under the bar and receive it when he goes to catch it. So go ahead and drive it up. He's caught it here. What he's going to do to finish the movement though, he's going to go ahead and stand all the way up. Every time we do the movement, we want lock knees, shoulders all the way up, torso, good and tight. Bar all the way overhead. We don't want that bar too far back when we're over extending the shoulders. We don't want that bar out in front of us because that's not a full rep. We want to make sure it's a full rep every time. You can bring back down to his shoulders. He's going to do a few, four-year cycle. If he does widen his feet out, he's going to bring his feet in. He's going to bring his feet in. There you go. In between reps. All right, so the next movement we're going to show you is the pull-up. Everybody knows how to do a pull-up. The first variation will be a strict pull-up. Just like the shoulder presses, the, I guess, the dumbed down version. You just pull up chin all the way over the bar. Fully locked out at the bottom. Still has active shoulders at the bottom. He's not just letting himself fall down and letting those shoulders fall out of joint there. So he's still active here, but he's fully locked out at the bottom. Next what we'll do is we will add a little bit of velocity to it. Just a kipping pull-up. So he's actually a lot of people get the negative, oh, they're just flailing around on the pull-up bar, but we're the whole point of the kipping pull-up is to increase the work done in short and amount of the shorter amount of time. What he's actually going to do is it's not really a foot-driven movement or a leg-driven movement. It's more right here in the core. He's actually going to go ahead and get a little swing and he's going to kip himself up there. chin still over the bar. Shoulder still locked out. Still active shoulder. That's a regular kipping pull-up right there. So we'll move kind of like we did. The shoulder press to the push press to the push shirt. He did a regular kip right there. The next is what they call the butterfly kip. It's a little bit different of a kip and it's a little faster so you can get a little bit more work done even faster. So here's a jim or butterfly kip. chin still over the bar. Still active shoulders. Safe movement. Now if you have to just like the shoulder press where you can take weight off, what you can do with the pull-up is you can either do it on a pull-up assisted pull-up machine. You can use a band, hook your foot in the band to assist you. You can do jumping pull-ups from the box. You can do inverted rows if you need to. For however challenging you want to make it. All right the final move into the workout double-unders. A lot of people hate these. So there's a couple of things. The rope's going to go around twice for every jump. One of the common faults that we see is a lot of people when their hands are out. We can bring your hands out. What they'll do is they start bringing their hands out with shortens the rope so then you start bustling yourself in the shins. We want to keep those hands pretty close to you. Slightly in front of you. Try not to go too far behind. Don't let them come up. You want to try to keep them just. Arms bent, relaxed. A lot of people get frustrated. They try to it turns into more of a painful experience than a positive experience. So when we have been to a double-unders for you, it's more of a timing issue than anything. All right so the way we can scale that movement is single-unders. A regular single-jumpel seat bend can do that. We don't do many singles often. For this particular workout what we'll have you do is if you're going to scale it to single-unders just double the single-unders. So instead of doing 30 you're doing 60 singles. So bend's going to do try to do a few single-unders as he looks like a little schoolgirl. So he's good. Another way you can scale this is you can also do plate jumps. You can get a little plate. Just have the person jump up to the plate. Or you can actually take the barbell have somebody do a lateral hop over the barbell. A few different options. If you can't do more than five or ten double-unders without whipping yourself or kicking the double-unders, don't do double-unders because you're kind of missing the point of the workout. It's wanted to be hard going to be fast. All right so now I'm going to show you what this workout actually looks like. This workout really for anybody. It's a more of a pure crossfit workout you know it's a metabolic conditioning circuit so there's no special group. It was targeted towards this just a null around just a good little workout. There's a push-up hole. As soon as the press starts to become an issue you switch to a pulling movement. So then when the pulling movement becomes an issue then this is the double-unders and then you know so it's just a good keep you moving. Good fast quick little burner. Nothing fancy just just get some work out. I was never a show body builder but I mean I did the body building type the chest and back by try legs. It started doing crossfit and then just kind of as a supplement type thing then just fell in love with it and haven't looked back sense. I want 35 for 45 reps. It's a little heavy you know it's not a strength. What it's say it's going to help you with your strength. It'll help you a little bit muscular endurance. It's going to help you cardiovascular endurance wise. Help you with grip. It's going to help you with coordination. I mean it's a lot of reps to get some practice on the movements. You know like I said once you start getting fatigued with the press switched to a pull after the pull the double-unders just just get you out of breath. You know tax of form just a little bit enough to make the pull-ups not as easy. So it's pretty good little you know like I said just keep you moving. No real breaks in there. The only break is the transition time so. You know we say it's infinitely scalable and it really is. We talked about how you could take each of the movements the press and you could back it down to however your your skill level. You know if you don't have the coordination to push jerk just shoulder press you know you don't you don't need that velocity on there you're still getting the work done you're still doing the movement. We're not really changing the movement. We're just you know adding a little bit of speed to it you know, recruiting a little bit one last year. Let's do that type of thing. Same thing with the pull-up and the double-unders. I mean you could really take this down to the to a basic level to where anybody could literally do it. Even if they have a shoulder issue they could do it with a PVC pipe they could do it with five pound dumbbells. Something like that and that's what's great about CrossFit is anybody can do it. Yeah so into this workout probably five minutes under is probably your elite or you know those movements are good for you. It's a fast time. Five to seven minutes maybe a little over seven minutes is is real good and then you know just kind of maybe two or three minute increments from there take it up. It kind of really depends too as how you're scaling it. You know the target is to be within that five to seven minute range of scale appropriately you know scale to where you can get it in that five to seven minute range once you get over that seven minute range you kind of miss the purpose of why we did the workout you know if it's over seven minutes not hard and fast that's long and not slow but you're you're kind of losing the the whole point of why we're doing it. So the CrossFit workouts you could add you know would it's could be your cardio day or you know whatever you you feel like you need to work on or incorporate them into the different lifts into to your body building routine but I honestly think that anybody can benefit from doing CrossFit and I think once you start doing it it's a lot more fun it's a lot less meninas it's it's interesting there's you know so many different things to do. For more information more work out similar to this for bodybuilding.com you

I'm Ronny Razor, 2014 Body Space Sports Fin winner. I am a IRDB Pro Mancer Z competitor, GM Manager and my personal friends. This play sports growing up, I grew up running racing no shoes on them streets with friends and playing basketball, football and all through high school, playing basketball football and ranch racquet. So I got a really athletic background. When I was younger, I was just slim and skinny. Light way, blowing the wind, tie a guy. And the wild thought I could never put on pounds. I was also thinking that working out, eating and I wasn't gaining anything. I was at one, I was complaining to a GM, like, man, I can't put on those pounds. I wasn't consistent working out, I'm at that. I was consistent, I'm workout, not start. But what was consistent as I ate a lot of food all the time? That just went back and forth and eventually I went from filing breaking 200 to stop getting weight. Working out in local gyms where I live and a buddy of mine is a trainer. Tell me how should look at him in a trainer. I don't know, I enjoy working out sometimes, but I don't know if we have the lifestyle or leave your knee burgers, man. I'd come on to be out there and be a trainer. He'd do just get certified for a trainer to try it. So I took his word on it and looked at some sort of occasions. He came a trainer. And even in the first couple years of your trainer, I wasn't still dead the same stuff. I trained at clients, things like that. And kind of do as I say. And how does that do? At this point where I woke up and realized that I wanted to change my life. And it was because I had ran across Mississippi, which is a IVBNPC category. So I feel so much better. Obviously, I look great. When you look great and feel great, it shines. People see that. It's contagious. It's a difference between cockiness and being confident. And I feel like you naturally show confidence and positivity when you're in me. When you feel good about yourself. I'm a slow rep, lightweight kind of trainer. I use this lip heavy and it's trying to so much joints. And I appreciate that concept. Go heavy, that's fine. But new clients come in into the gym and don't know a lot about weight training. And things like that were wearing two forecount downs, floating up, control movements. 30 seconds breaks in between. I believe in their cardio and disguise type theory. That's what I call it. It's that if you work out a high intensity, you're getting a cardio in. cardio is getting your heart rate up, whether it's you running, or whether you're weight training, your heart rate still up. That's still a cardio. Monday, I just started a new program. So I'm on reflect of now. So I do chest and back. I'm a Tuesday, it's legs and shoulders. Wednesday, our arms. And in Thursday, I'll go back into my chest and back again. And then I always don't even calves, traps, abs, kind of just whenever, always mix and hit. So that's kind of just all the time, after a workout. So I do cardio every day pretty much. And I play basketball three, four times a week. So, you know, I am not your distance runner. I'm not your 12 mile guide. I'm a sprinter and basketball player and then I'm a football player. Those are a spurred exercises where you're boom and then you're stopped. So you boom, so that's how I tailor my training. I'll get done with a head with a nice workout. I finish it off with 25 burpees, 30 second break. One minute jump and jacks, 30 seconds break. And then I'm intense. If you see me in a trail meal, I'm doing sprint drills. So in a short amount of time, I feel like I get the same workout. If not, to me, more intense than you would just run into 12 miles in a trip. You know, I switch it up. I always keep in a fresh, you're all resource. I'm a farm believer, it doesn't matter what you choose to do in the gym. People come with me all the time. Do you believe only in free weights or do you only believe in? Okay, well, I'm like, hey man, believe it. Where do you believe? Do everything. And even if I did, I ate the 12 reps. Next time I might do a 15 to 20. Or if I do incline dumbbell first, I'll, that might be third next time. You keep that theory always fresh, which in the order, switching the rep count, things like that, that's how you get results. People think I do abs all the time. I don't. I probably do abs a couple times a week. But it's proof and it's, I love it because when people talk me about that, that's a great transition that talk about nutrition. Because abs don't come from the gym. They don't. They come from what you be. They don't look great and look good and get results in the gym. And you want those to shine and reflect on your body. Starts nutrition. Are you small, man? So I actually post that on my gym. That's my never more in-class than spreading them out. And we're from two to four hours. You should never be eating to a point where you're stuffed a car cycle. So I do like a 3-1 theory. I do a 3-Low Carb Days, which is, I've usually under 50s range in carbs. But I'm getting more broccoli, as a spirit, as green beans, more of the green source carbs in. And I replace the higher car with higher good fats, like almonds, the con, walnuts, things like that. And now I flip it on that fourth day. I'm incorporating more carbs, sweet potatoes, you know, brown rice, those some oatmeal in. And I'm warm, I'm good fat. So if technically, if you look at the calorie intake, it's about even a drink a lot to water. You know, help regulate the sodium potassium intake in your body. You're going to have a cheat meal, conservative. Once a week, use it as a treat to yourself. You celebrate the greatness you did all week in the gym and nutrition. Go have that burger. Get right back to your hard work again. Yeah. Yeah. Burger pizza. Pizza pie, my weakness. You know, the problem with a diet, quote unquote diet, it's a short-term fix. That means that you're specifically going to do this four time. And it's no longevity in it. A nutritional plan, a structure, a lifestyle, supports everything you love. When I put a plan together for someone, it's not to say, hey, you must eat to lobby it. I don't like to lobby it. We're eating it anyways. That's not where it should be. Hey, I enjoy tuna. We're perfect. I enjoy pizza. Awesome. But let's go home. Let's get a week rest. Let's get a low saturated fat. Cheese. It's going to help your toppings. So what I do, my theory is I'll take what you enjoy. And I'll re-rap before you get back to you to a defeat what you like. And you'll stick with this forever. I guarantee you. I believe in all the using things that work. People hate to eat. They're about to already make a video. Okay, so the question is, do you not want to use something about your support? You see, there's that make people have more right to teach in the other. Yeah, with me, I don't get a lot of attention taking care of you. You would make possible do. But everybody's different. So I believe in it's not magic. It's not magic peel. But if you're already doing the right things, those things will help you. So assistance, I believe in assistance all day long. Way protein. It's awesome. If you're not wanting to calorie intake from the protein, maybe you might just want to do an alicart, which is the amino's only. So all depends on where I am and my nutrition. If I'm looking too low on my calorie intake, I won't do the protein power. I'll just do the amino's. I still get the same benefit from the same sources. I do a hearty vitamin, fish oil. I do love proteins that have more of an overall base to slow the fast, the egg, the way and the casing, all mixed in and one. So your release of your protein goes to after by throughout the day. I am a firm believer in that. But not necessarily barge me to only take those kind of protein. So, read, read, don't believe the hype. Don't fall into a brand name. You gotta take a brand name. You can't make your own supplements. There is brand name support everything. So you can't do it with that. What I mean is don't just do something because you heard it works. Do some research. Some things might work for you. My preach carbs slightly. I might say how do three-one carbs. I cut the carbs out of my diet for three days straight. I don't come down to everybody doing that. Maybe your body responds to carbs differently. So those are things you should figure it out first. Trailing air. I've used my own body as a test to have a trial and air. It really what it comes out to. The things I've talked about today are things I've firmly, firmly believe in. And man, I really love spreading the word. I'm not that, when you come here and ask me questions, I love it. I really want to do my part in helping every person understand what they're doing. You have any questions for me at all, any advice, anything you need for me. Find me more body space, Rodney Razor. And for more video content like this, keep coming back to BodyBillin.com.

With a barbell in front of you on the ground, reach down and grab it with a shoulder width over hand grip. Now stand with the barbell. This will be your starting position. Keep your head up in your back straight and begin to lower the barbell by pushing your hips back as far as you possibly can. Your hamstrings should feel very tight as you do so. Lower the bar slowly to a point just below the knees. Your chin should be up, your butt should be back and your chin should be vertical. The knees should be only slightly bent. After a brief pause, drive through your heels as you return to the starting position.

BSM. Finish first. He is the eight-time Mr. Olivia, the cornerstone of Team BSM, and the winningist IFBB for a bodybuilder of all time. He is the legendary Ronnie Coleman. In 2006, Camerochrom has followed Ronnie for nearly a year for an unprecedented look at the day-to-day life of this remarkable athlete. Since then, footage has been unseen and unreleased. Until now, this is Ronnie Coleman, the undiscovered footage. In 2006, you competed for your ninth consecutive Mr. Olivia, finishing second to J. Cutler. Now someone say you never should have lost that night. He's nothing away from J. I know you respect J. But do you still feel you were the better man that night? As far as 2000s it goes, the guy that won that night, if you want my opinion of it, the guy that won that night, I shouldn't have won. I think I should have won that night. That's always been my view on that. Probably I would be my view on that. I won the eight-and-a-ro and hadn't too much change with my physique. Maybe I'll just maybe a tad bit not as sharp as I was a year before, but I was still my same old self. There's no doubt in my mind, I was a far better man than night. Far better than the man than night in 2006. Can you take a specter to the 2006 Mr. Olivia? 2006, okay. Awesome. Why do you think the judge placed him second? That's amazing. The 2006 Mr. Olympia. That's the very first Mr. Olympia I've ever been to. I'm sitting in the weder booth, you know, enjoying myself. I call do some joint-making a little bit eating, you know. Looking down, saw Ronnie come out as Moses, it's like, oh man, this is all him. Then when a call came, you know, I was like, whoa, did I just see that? That kind of inspired me to be a bodybuilder in a lot of ways, motivated me because when you see somebody that's so great and so magnificent, actually, you know, not doing what you expecting new, I'm not saying that he should have lost. My no means. I thought he should probably should have won that night. But just to see that, that was like, what? Any day is possible. Do I have a favorite Ronnie moment? I like Ronnie in the gym. That's my favorite Ronnie moments. Anytime Ronnie is in the gym he's enjoying it. He's being a quirky, you know, he got all this saying. Yeah buddy, live with you know. Yeah buddy. You know, all that kind of stuff, you know. I like Ronnie's in his element, you know, he could just be Ronnie. So, you know, he keeps you laughing, you know. For this town, it was $proachhouse in South America. The 2018 campus that got coming to how it's getting to light.

Training is about paying it forward. The biggest guy in the gym, ship it in nicest, most helpful guy in the gym. I'm muscle militia captain Ronnie Milo, an IPA at forward. What we're training today is legs. We're going to start with calves and roll into our hamstrings and our quads. The goal is to get a good volume based workout, to get a good contraction in the muscle, and be sacrificed in a little bit of the weight today for more of a form. When you concentrate a little bit more form, I think you really get down to an inedity grid of breaking down your muscle to build some out. So today's workout is eight exercises, starting off with calves, rolling into hamstrings and then quads. So today we're moving on a fast pace. Should take no more than 60 minutes. So the first exercise today is going to be seated calf raises. I like to typically warm up a little bit, anywhere from rep range, 15 to 20 reps. You get to kind of blood in the muscle a little bit. Then when I feel a little bit more comfortable, then I start loading up the weight. I like to work backwards, heavy to light. You want to kind of concentrate on the balls of your feet. You're pushing off your big toe more than that rest of your toe. Just to give that concentration the right on that medial head. So I go into the standing calf raise because I like the variation of the different angle or the muscle. Now for the rep range, I do a good warm up set. Then I can go right into the heavy weight or three sets. The first one, you know, eight to ten and then drop ten percent of the weight. And then go from ten to twelve, drop ten percent of the weight. Just go as much as you possibly can. And I don't use any kind of platform to pull my feet on or any kind of a plate or anything like that because I feel that. If you go past ninety degrees that you put a lot of stress on your killie's tendon. But also to it doesn't really take a lot of stress off that muscle. So you can work out harder and longer. So we're done with a calf from the roll into some hamstring exercises. And the first exercise we're going to do is some seated hamstring curls. We're pretty much going to do three sets. We have a good warm up set. But then we're going to work heavy to light. You know, dropping ten percent of the weight. You know, rep range we're going to go obviously first set with the heavy set. We're going to go from eight to ten and then we're going to go from ten to twelve. And then we're going to drop ten percent again from twelve to pretty much failure. If you're going at a fast rate you're not going to feel it as much as possible. So a nice slow steady tempo and just pretty much concentrate on the exercise and that, you know, contraction. This one's going to be using the late press machine. But we're going to do a variation of it. We're going to keep our feet very high on the platform almost to your heels or just the only thing on the platform. At that time, we're going to come down to 90 degrees and then we're going to actually push on our heels. And that's going to actually engage the most of your hamstrings. Definitely get a good warm up set with it. And then, you know, we're going to go as heavy as possible depending on your weight or what you're comfortable with. You know, to get a good set between six to eight reps. Then we're going to go from ten reps to twelve. And then the next set we're going to drop ten percent. We're going to go, you know, we're going to finish now twelve to failure. So we're going to roll into now is the stiff leg of that left. You could do two different variations. You could use the barbell. You could use the dumbbells. I choose the dumbbells because I feel that you can control the weight a little bit better. But we're going to do three sets. You're pretty much should been warmed up by now. So we can go right into a comfortable weight. Nothing too heavy that you're really going to, you know, hurt yourself on. You can go six to eight reps again. Drop ten percent. You know, we're going to go ten to twelve. Drop ten percent for the third one. And then we're going to go from twelve to failure. I like to keep the dumbbells close to my body to, you know, drive from the heel. And then come all the way down to get a good stretch. You know, it's where it's not painful, but it's where it feels comfortable. And then start this rep again. So we're going to roll into the quads now. Our first exercise is going to be forming in the leg extension. So I like to do singles first for a little warm up and then obviously roll into a heavy set. We're going to be doing three sets. The first one's going to be at a pretty heavy weight, but comfortable enough that, you know, you're not putting too much stress on the knees. So we're going to be forming six to eight reps with that one. The second set we're going to drop ten percent. And we're going to be forming a ten to twelve reps. And then for the third one, for the set, we're going to drop ten percent. And then we're going to finish it out 12 to maybe failure. Back in the day, I used a gym that the legs led was inverted. So I'm trying to replicate it here with this Smith machine. Not every gym has a Smith machine or not every gym has it inverted leg press, but you know, you could be creative on your own. To set it up, I mean, it all depending on your gym and what you guys have. Today we're using the box, but you want to obviously set it up underneath that, you know, you're going to be almost at a 90 degree angle from the bar. We definitely recommend you put the stops up just in case. Safety first. So we're going to do three sets. The first set obviously is going to be your heaviest. Tips on this one is really to concentrate on that quad that's going to help me build out some outer sweep and some inner thigh and thumb on stage. I can look more three-dimensional with that with L.A. exercise. So now we roll into what I like to do is a finisher. I can do some walking lunges. You can do a stationary if you'd like, but I like to do walking lunges. Obviously to get some momentum going and it makes it up a little bit. So I do probably two sets. What I like to try to do is take a weight that's comfortable that could do, you know, ten reps each leg. Take a little bit of break and then repeat the process. Yeah, this one, it's a wake-up call. It takes a lot of adiah, you know, to do them. You've got really concentrated on your form of this and a lot of people say don't put your knees past your toes. It all depending on, you know, on what you feel comfortable with if you want to go halfway down, if you want to go all the way down, but you want to really make sure that you're putting that emphasis on that quad, that hamstring and that glue. The details of this workout are broken down on this page below. If you guys want to follow me, you can see me on Instagram, body space or Facebook. For more videos like this from the Muslim militia, come back to bodybuilding.com.

I'm Ross Bowman, I'm one of the HRT contest winners and I'm here to tell you about my experience with the HRT program. Well, Stephen I had already been doing the program prior to the contest actually beginning. We were talking at Tom and a lot of the other animal representatives on the forums and it was announced through there so that's where we originally found out about it. Initially I was actually very skeptical the program. It's very low volume which is not something I had done before and I was pretty close. I've always been pretty close-minded about my training techniques. I always just stuck to old school training principles and that's all I would ever do. I just felt like it worked then and we're working out. So this was a new thing for me. The program was laid out very thoroughly on bodybuilding background which also made me skeptical because whenever I tend to look at a workout program see the lifts and just go by that. Nutrition supplements are usually things that I just kind of throw to the wayside. It HRT that was not the case. It couldn't be the case. I needed to know what I should be eating. I needed to know how much I should be resting. I needed to know about stretches and injury prevention because this is definitely one of the most difficult training styles I have ever done and the article really laid that out very well. And the first time in the gym with HRT it was miserable. Actually it was pretty embarrassing. I had to lower a lot of my weights. I had never done something that was so challenging for me to do because the form is it's a difficult program and the reps are a health centric reps are actually very difficult to do. I would say it took us about three or four weeks to really get the technique down. We started to learn each other's training styles and Steve and I reached motivated different ways in the gym and we started to really learn that about each other and really be able to communicate and talk while we were lifting and the spotter would guide whoever was lifting at the time but it took us about three to four weeks to really get the technique down. I was definitely stuck at 150 pounds for most of my lifting career. I hit that plateau and I never was able to break through it for probably about a year. I was stuck at 150 and HRT was something that was completely different for me but it really helped me to bust through that because not only was I lifting at an intensity that I had never done before. I was also eating six meals a day and following the strict diet laid out for me by Tom and there's a lot of tips on the nutritional page on the HRT article and it was it was definitely something that it really taught me the importance of diet because it's absolutely necessary in this program where you might pass out when you're mentioned. True. But I would just say that I broke I went from 150 to 165 even though I originally just wanted to get to 160 that was my goal. My back has always been one of my strongest body parts so that's where I see always the most dramatic change. Now everything increased. From the beginning of HRT to the end of HRT all of my lifts were noticeably higher than where they were before I started doing the program. For example on my T-bar rows I used to do T-bars at 75 you know for a working set which is pathetic but then you're the individual of T I had 135 for my fourth working set. There was no problem. I saw a growth that I never seen myself before. I would recommend this program to anyone who's looking to make a noticeable visible physical transformation. You will be really hungry and really tired on your rest days if you're doing it right. That's my experience I could barely move. I would say read as the articles thoroughly as you can go into forums talk to the animal representatives and get information. Really know what you're doing when you go in there and check your ego at the door because you're going to lower weight that you're not going to be doing anything close to what you would normally rep it first. At least at first you're not and so if anyone you know if you get embarrassed by that kind of thing just lift the no one else is there because you will be dropping your pound of this. I would say for anyone who is skeptical about actually working with these guys and that will they pay attention to me and you know they actually contribute times to my success in this program. They absolutely do. They got back to me every single time I had a question and they would always answer relatively quickly and you're very helpful and time would post video explanations if we need them to and it really worked out pretty well.

Chasing the dream. Chasing the dream. Chasing the dream. It's incredible. 10 out of 10. That is the Mill with Beating. We too. Let's get after it this week. Today I've got my easy run. Five miles of conversational pace. So I'm going to try and live in that 7.45 world. Once we got track night once again which has been really really nice, I feel like on the track I've been finding my best strides. We now start racing for more than miles which is really exciting. We got four races that are coming up. On the hill, pinned to pin midnight mile and four by one by four. So stay tuned for all that information. So I've been going on a light sport so I've been busy and tired of that. I'll take you and kind of my editing flow and what I've been doing at work on the day today. And yeah, the coming into my nine to five this week. We've seen me teaching class and sub-studios on the partner at and more or less just coming to my day today. Alright, so we are on set today at LightSport. We had trained our Jill and Lisa come in today. I've been with LightSport for now almost four years and it's been an incredible ride. I love my job. I love working in the space. We are a augmented reality fitness product. We have a ton of different workouts from strength to boxing and a total body and more. And I run the talent and production side. My job is making sure that the footage goes from the green screen room through our editors through QC passing and then into the app. My job can be a lot sometimes but it's the best job in the world and I truly mean that. So yeah, today you're at work with me. You're ready to meet some of our trainers. I'm feeling energized, ready to go, set up for the rest of my day. I'm feeling good. Yeah, that's a wrap. Okay, a few reps in. It's hot, a few minutes but I got the work done. We are six, 600 meters down. So we're doing them in A, B, switch rolling 600 today. A tempo, B tempo. A tempo is about our 90% threshold. B tempo is our 70. So we started with that B600 meter. Did about 10 to 15 seconds of recovery that went into that A and then we're taking about a 30 second walk in between each set. So they're wrapping up their first set. Now we're going to have a little bit of fun. We're doing a little bit of 600 rolling relays and just get people encouraged and moving together and have fun and really take those breaks in between to connect with people. I'm chasing the dream. She's chasing the dream. She's incredible. She's 10 out of 10. It's what he tickles. Not a fraudulent. Oh, well. I feel like fraud. Well, he's actually. I don't know. I don't know what I can hear from like it's here. It's here. Are you running? No, no. Everything that you need for a 20 mile runs. We got 20 miles today. The biggest thing that we're going to be doing is going about 60% effort. For me, what I pack on my runs first is my gels. So these are my favorite gels out there. These are the cysts, signs, and sport. I used a 2D fruity flavor. It is the best gel I've ever used. It's not sticky. It has more of a smoothie like texture than a paste like texture. That is a little more sticky here. It gets on your hands. Super easy, really, really tasty. The variety pack that they have has a ton of different flavors. So I don't work with this, but this is probably the best gel that you can get. This thing I use is a hydroflast. So this is from on. I used this for the half marathon, and I loved it. It's really compact in your hand. The best part is as soon as you're doing drinking it. If you have some electrolytes in there. Super compact. You can literally fold this up. It's awesome in your pocket. I can continue to run. Or if you want to just hold it in your hand. It's really light at that point. I know that there's going to be water stations. I know you can run to every single water station, but I like having some electrolytes either in the front half of the back half. Foam roll. Which is kind of crazy that you're going to be like Anthony what? But I always foam roll before I run just to wake my muscles up. But also just a flush and you kind of lack the gas that might be in these trickier spots out of my body before I run. I used the cloud monster hypers from on. I have probably over 100 miles in these shoes. They are my favorite running shoes I've ever used. I race in the echoes, but you could easily also race in these shoes as well. The triton side I always encourage just eating maybe a banana and a rice cake or a banana and some kind of honey stinger or something. You can just get in your body, maybe a little waffle or something. But that way you're not running on an empty stomach. I think you definitely have some calories in you before you go for a run. And then last but not least, a watch. There's a ton of them out there from Garmin to Corros to Apple Watch. And whatever can give you the most real time data, I think is your best bet. I previously used the Napal Watch and I just felt like the data wasn't as accurate as my Garmin has been. This is a Garmin for runner. So I think investing in a good running watch is crucial as you're doing your marathon training. So yeah, we got 20 miles today. I'm going to recap it mile over mile. So stay tuned and let's get after it. 20 mile. We're going to get after it today. We're going to do this thing. Model one, 829, how to? 828, how to? 835. Well, 4 895, 815, how to? 6 817, 806, how to? 828, how to? 9755, how to? 10, 812, how to? 11, 820, how to? 12, 814, how to 13? 812, how to 14? 843. How to 15? 908? 916, 903. We're all 17, 917, 18, 1018, 19, 1016, 20, 858. 20 miles, overall pace, 839. Definitely feeling it. Oh, what's that? Candle. Good dog. I'm soroning. Yeah. I'm soroning. Good dog. Small lucky has been a good boy. This is like going to be sent out to franchises. Do you want to be on that? This is legit work. Wait, wait. What? Yeah, Michael, what's not on, Joe? Guys, Michael, what is it on, devil? Sunday AM, push, pull up, everybody. Focus, focusing to start on some try-speaks tensions. Let pull down, single arm rows, and some pull ups, which has been really crucial for keeping my chest nice and bright on these runs. Then we got into our Sunday Community 5K run with more of the miles. A great turnout, great energy, great vibes, we're growing week over week. I'm calling these driving boots out. I'm going to do recovery. So these compression boots have been a game changer for me at least. I use them probably once to twice a week. Easiest part is that it all just kind of comes together wireless because you can charge the normatech by itself. So you actually don't need cable plugged in at all times. I just kind of normally have this plugged in like this. Then I turn this on and they all sink. I normally just go at like a level 7, but this will start to fill up and then as these start to inflate, I get a little bit of compression, but they also have different settings where I can do a little bit of massage, I can do continued pulsing, I can target certain areas. So if I just want to do my feet ankles, I can do that as well. I'll do these recovery sessions and answer any kind of questions you guys have in the comments on YouTube. So next week when we get into this, I'll pull out my phone. I'll answer any kind of questions that you guys might have, whether it's your first marathon or recovery or nutrition or whatever that might be. Alright, so the session is complete. And to be kind to my wife, I'm going to make sure that I put all these pillows back and clean up this mess. But yeah, next week we'll do recovery questions.

Alrighty, this is the last time we were talking to the camera before the race so so Alright team, so we are getting ready to head out the door to go to Berlin. This is the moment. This is the marathon moment. Yeah, we're doing it. A lot of thoughts and a lot of emotions going into this but my bags are packed. Mission starts right now. Alright, so we are on the plane. Getting ready to take off. Got about eight hours until we get to Stockholm and then I got about two hours until we get to Berlin. So it's total, we got about nine hours on the plane. Plain is pretty packed but as soon as we get into Stockholm, shake it out. Soon as we get to Berlin, pick up the bib and then we're kind of off to the races. We are heading to the train now. Well, we're going to hide for a hot second. We're like, we're like, wait a minute. Why do we not know how to get to this train and there were little steps that say, train this way, literally, little steps. I'm putting all my trust in will. We gotta go. We gotta go. Let's do much shit. Get us out of here. Alright, so we are here in Berlin. We are at the check-in for bib pickup for the 50th anniversary of Berlin marathon. They've got a ton of great stuff here for today. Really, really cool. All names. They're just open everything up. We got a deetus, we got Abbott. We got BMWs, our major sponsors along with Morton. So I'll take you guys inside to the expo and we'll take a peek at all that on there. So we're at bib pickup. It's a little chaotic at the moment. Definitely. People sprinting all over the place, pick up these bibs. So we just picked up our bib, but we are now in the kind of merchandise section expo-wise. And there is a ton of stuff here, which is super cool. Day one is wrapping up. I am heading out to go back to the hotel for the first time. We see Coach Ben over there, which is going to be exciting. I haven't seen Coach Ben the entire time I've been here. Either way, go home, hydrate, rest. Oh, that kind of good stuff. And then we're off to the races from there. We are, we are in need of protein, right Ben? I think it's a bad day because there's no protein in the area. But we are on our way back home. So it's by a couple of the pop-ups today. We went to the band of pop-ups, the tracksmith's pop-up, shout out to Jerry, shout out to the tracksmith's fam. We went over to the pitters pop-up and then we tried to get Ben's bib. But that wasn't in the equation today because their printer was now. So... See situation nowadays? No, the glissio-jouacid. Not good at all. Also Ben hasn't had protein today, so Ben, how do you feel? I feel like my muscles are dry. So we're on a way to find protein and then grab something quick, maybe some chicken or something quick bite. Then go back to the hotel, do a little upper body body weight, push-up dips, stuff like that. And then grab dinner tonight and chill, drink water, sleep in tomorrow. We got some shake-outs. And I think he got bib big though. And he still has got to do his bib pick-up. So we got shake-outs, we got bib pick-up, and then we rest for the rest of the day. And not do anything. But Berlin, you have not let us down. It's beautiful here. And yeah, if you're going to come with us tomorrow to a couple shake-outs. So I just finished documenting the Adidas Berlin Shake-out. I'm going to head home. I've got to do a shake-out myself. So I'm about to get some miles in. I'm a huge shout out to the Adidas Fam. Everybody was great today. So I'm going to be heading home. Doing a little shake-out myself. And then, right into editing. I'm happy that I was on an electric bike today as well. I didn't have to pedal at all pretty much. So my legs feel good and fresh. So we are on our shake-out run. A little reflection, 24 hours before the Berlin marathon. I think a lot about the times when I started this journey. And I really didn't know what I was getting myself into. I come from the track and field space, 400, 800, 1200, but not really long. This is more in the speed space. And I think what I've learned over this marathon is that anything is possible. I think I've learned that you can grow and do things over time that obviously scare you or evidently scare you. But at the end of the day, it's kind of up to you on how you want to attack. I think the biggest thing looking into tomorrow is just holding pace, feeling good the whole time. That's the one thing that I think as I dive into the longer miles is where does the marathon start. And how do I get to that next level, especially? So we're doing it y'all. Little 5K likes feel good, likes feel warm. So I'll put this camera away. I'm going to show you guys some scenes and we're going to get after it. I'll see you guys as soon as I get done with the 5K. Alright, so as you can see I'm on the floor, when I'm going to use this little small cross ball, just to be able to get some tension out of my calves. I'll have to give you any kind of crazy feet picture right now, but I have really tight calves. I've had tight calves for a while. So what I'm trying to do right now is break up any of that muscle. It's really tight. We are 12 hours away from the marathon. 12 hours has been. 12 hours from the marathon. We got this. We got this. So we team. So game plan for tomorrow. The goal is 330, which I'm super excited about, just be able to run through it. But either way I want to have fun and I think that's the best advice I've gotten from people like Coach Ben and some other incredible, incredible people that I've been able to work with over a few weeks and even this week at alone. But I think the biggest thing is enjoying it, taking it all in, not just running as hard as I can right out the gate, like really taking time and pace and understanding that. Like everyone has said, first 20 miles. It's the warm-up. The last 10k is the marathon. Last six miles. That's where it really comes all together. Excited to just, you know, trying and hold the pace for 20 miles. And then from there really let loose since you would I can do and heading to negative splits on the way back. So that's the goal. It's not pushed too heavy. Not pushed too hard. Enjoy it and then take it home strong. Coach Ben, it's race day. How are we feeling? Makes feelings. But I know it's going to be a fun day. We did the marathon. We just showered. We got home. It felt incredible honestly. It's a gold medal. I ran seven minutes under my goal. So very happy about that. And I didn't hit a wall, which was really good. And it's a lot of thanks to this guy right here. Coach Ben. No, I got to give you the flowers. These are up. He showed up. You can show up. You reap the benefit of showing up. Yeah. Four weeks in New York and then six weeks we got high rock Chicago. Let's go. So this week I'll be living on the skier in the bike and the roar. Getting ready for that as I'm doing. Thank you so much. I see everything about Berlin. Everybody's so nice. So nice. So, you know, it's been great. It's been awesome. But yeah, six weeks. Four weeks in New York City, Marathon and then six weeks the high rock Chicago. So we got a lot of stuff going on. But yeah, stay tuned.

Lime the floor and place your feet under something that won't move. Your legs should bend at the knees. Elevate your upper body so it creates a V shape with your thighs. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you and perpendicular to your torso with your hands clasped. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and twist your torso to the right until your arms are parallel to the floor. Hold the contracted position for a moment. Then exhale and rotate back to the starting position. Finally, using the same technique twist to the opposite side.

Hey guys, I'm Samantha Ann Lee, Bodybuilding.com and Fitment Sponsored Athlete. And today I'm here to take you through my shoulder workout. So today's workout I structured it in the hypertrophy rep range. So we're going to be building those shoulders, making sure that we're rounding them out, hitting all angles of the dealt, front, middle, and back. We're also going to involve some bodyweight movements so that we keep your heart rate up through the whole workout. Today's workout has nine exercises and they're all grouped into three different triceps. Each tricep is composed of three different exercises and you're going to perform all three exercises with little to no rest before repeating that. And then you'll repeat each tricep for times each. For this workout we're going to be using a one to three tempo, meaning on the way up for every exercise you'll be doing one second and then you'll slow it down on the way down for three seconds each. This will really recruit all of the different types of muscle fibers and make sure that you're getting the best workout possible. Alright, let's get started. For the first tricep we're going to start with machine root out flies and then go right into upright rows and then handstand pushups. We're going to be starting with root out flies and the reps are going to be eight to twelve. These you want to select a weight that you'll be failing in that rep range and that you can really keep that tempo going the entire time. Because of the tempo you might have to select a lower weight but that's okay you'll still get a great workout. As you do this movement really focus on keeping your back tight and keeping the weight in your rear delts. Don't let it transfer into your traps. You can do this by making sure that you keep your elbows up through the movement and keep your hands at the same level as your shoulders. Moving to the second exercise of this tricep we're going to be doing upright rows keeping our reps between twelve to fifteen. With these your hand placement should be shoulder with the part and as you bring the bar up keep it close to your body and make sure to drive your elbows through at the end. And make sure keeping with the tempo we're taking three seconds on the way down. With this exercise we're really focusing on the mid-down. We're going to finish up this tricep with handstand pushups doing ten reps or until failure. For this exercise you'll just find a wall or somewhere that you can perform the handstand, place your hands a little bit wider than shoulder with a part and kick your legs up to the wall and then you can perform the regular push-up style only instead of targeting your chest we're targeting your shoulders because we're going up and down. If you're unable to do an unassisted handstand push-up I've also provided a breakdown of how to do an assisted push-up in the article below. So after you're finished with that first tricep take 30 to 45 seconds to rest and then repeat it three times. For our second tricep we'll be doing face pulls, side raises and walking planks. Face pulls will be doing eight to twelve reps and you want to set the cable machine to shoulder height. I get asked a lot where these should be pulling. You want to be keeping your elbows high and pulling them towards your face so that you keep the weight in your rear delts. The second exercise of this tricep is side raises. With these you want to make sure that you choose a weight that you can keep that one to three tempo that we talked about. So you'll probably have to drop the weight from what you're used to. We're going to be doing twelve to fifteen reps. With these you'll start with the dumbbells by your sides, bring them up to shoulder height, squeeze for a second and then take three seconds on the way down. This exercise targets our mid-dults. For the last exercise in this tricep we're going to be doing walking planks for twenty reps. For this exercise you'll start in a plank position. You may want to put more space between your feet. The larger the space between your feet, the easier the movement is and the closer your feet are together, the harder the movement becomes. With this exercise make sure to keep your butt down and your core tight and try not to rock from side to side as you perform the movement. This exercise may look easy but it's really hard because you're keeping tension in your shoulders the whole time and it will really cause your muscles to burn out. For a third tricep we're going to be doing shoulder press, front raises and shoulder taps. For the shoulder press we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. Again you may have to drop the weight because it's at the end of the workout and we're going to keep with that one to three tempo. As you do this movement you'll want to angle your wrists in a little bit, almost like you're dumping out a cup of water onto your shoulders and then as you go up stop right before you're locked out and then bring it back down. Angling your wrists in and stopping before you lock out makes it to where you don't get a rest at the top and you're keeping the tension in your shoulders. For the front raises we're going to be doing twelve to fifteen reps. You'll start with the dumbbells in front of your legs and bring them up to the 90 degree angle with a slight bend in your elbows. For this workout I am doing both of the front raises at the same time but if you prefer you can do alternating. By this time in the workout keeping that one to three tempo might be really tough because your shoulders should be burnt out. But just keep pushing through. We're almost done and you can rest after the last try set. The last exercise in this try set is shoulder taps and we're going to do twenty to thirty reps. You'll start in the plank position again with your feet either wider to make it easier or closer to make it harder. Again you want to make sure your butt stays down and your core stays tight to ensure that you're not rocking from side to side as you do the movement. Once in the plank position you'll lift one hand to the opposite shoulder and then repeat on the other side. I would recommend if you feel like your shoulders are lagging and incorporate this workout twice a week. Otherwise just incorporate it on your shoulder day once a week. If you have any questions about this workout find my body space or you can hit me up on my Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. This full workout is broken down in detail on the page below. And for more videos and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

My mind is going into this routine alone with any routine. I'm not just been all day in the gym, I have a job, no more things to do. I'll slide up, just working out. So when I'm coming into the gym, I'm hardcore, and that's what is work I've routine is designed to only be 15 minutes. You're focused on what you're trying to achieve. You know it can't let the gym in and you're done. My theory is if you want to really have a high performance in a particular exercise, you start with it. If I start with that every routine before I do arms, it's been times and I've done curls and I feel like my abs are going to create work out. Simply because I started with that routine first. The first exercise in this workout is to hanging leg raise. The second exercise is to decline ab crunch. The third exercise is to build a ball of transfer crunch. The last exercise in the days workout is to have roll out. My rest periods from workout are typically 30 to 45 seconds in between each set. Once I've applied the point out before we get started with the workout, I'll grab all the equipment, put it in one section, and let's go. The first exercise in the days workout is to hanging leg raise. I'm going to do three sets of 12 to 15. I'll start with that being the first exercise because it's a pretty difficult exercise. Once again, back to my theory of if you really want to attack a particular muscle and with the most intensity, you want to start off with it. I feel like that when to me benefits the most and depending on what you go legs out or knees up, really targets the whole abs. You can be doing all bleaks as well as the same routine and your hanging. It makes it a little bit different. It makes it difficult to make it. I don't really take time out to warm up abs. I'm using my first set and abs as normally doing just by weight. So, that's what my first set, I noticed that I felt like the next one I could have definitely had some weight to it and I did. The most important point to remember why doing this exercise is to keep the elbows slightly bent to prevent swaying. Also keep the abs constricted to prevent swaying as well. As you can see in the video, I'll switch up my technique in the middle of the sets. I do knee raises, I do legs straight out and I do sides for bleaks. This allows me to hit different parts of my abs. The second exercise in this workout is the decline at crunch. I am doing three sets of 15 to 20. This pushes up a different target on the abs now. I mean, the first exercise we're hitting more lower abs and now we're going decline is hit more upper abs. The first exercise is a little bit lower in rep count. This one I went up a little bit for more muscle endurance. The benefit of switching up the technique in the middle of my sets is to basically kill my abs. I might start with a medicine ball. Go 5, 10 total reps, drop the medicine ball and keep going. You'll see me do alternating side side. I'll do reach for the silins where I'm kind of work on more of the upper abs. That's just really how blessed I have. And I'm at a how tired you are. You still go right back into a 30 to 45 seconds left. If you're fatigued and you feel like you can't get to your ideal number, you can still lower the bench down to achieve total amount of reps that you're looking at. The third exercise in this workout is the stability ball transfer crunch. I do three sets of 12 to 15. On the first exercise we hit lower abs. The second exercise was upper abs. This exercise actually targets both at the same time. If you notice so far in this routine we never did the same thing twice. Upper, lower, not both together. So in this particular exercise we both rushed back down to 12 to 15. Once again we're targeting more strength. Slightly into endurance when you creep into the 15, but mostly muscular strength in the belly band as well. While performing at exercise I never let my heels or ball or hand motions hit the floor. The reason behind is to keep the abs tight and strict with the whole entire time. Flexibility is what I'm not so important in this exercise. I'm really glad. You slightly bend the knee to bring the ball up. You don't have to really crunch all the way up. A lot of people in gym make a mistake by coming all the way off the floor to crunch up. That's really not the idea. This is tight knee abs into a crunch motion and come right back down. The last exercise that is workout is the abs rollout. I'm doing three sets of six to ten. Freeze rep you're going to be doing a four second negative. As you go down to the floor you're going to go four seconds. Now you're going to count your head one, two, three, four and it comes back up. As you become fatigued throughout this exercise don't be afraid to just rep them out. That four seconds my turn is just one second. So just blast a kill him. I just want to about rep that fat point. I recommend doing this two three times a week and it's just a great thing to always throw into your routines. Once again I've never really designated a specific day for abs. But what I mean by that is that I'm throwing abs in them any day after workout. Before workout this is a 15 to 25 minute workout depending on your skill level. It's never changed what your normal routine is. Chest and back day. Boom 15 minutes abs. Arm day. Right after words. This 15 minute abs. You have any questions for me at all. You can find me on body space, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, all-air Rodney Razor. I'll be having to answer any questions you might have. From what articles and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Every one I'm Sean Sarantos. I'm here with ViBold.com. A little bit about myself. I'm an active student member in United States Air Force. I do physical therapy and occupational therapy. I was chosen to be part of the Lift Life at Campaign with ViBold.com, which led me to be part of the team ViBold.com. I'm also the first ever male fitness model sponsored by Sidersports. Today I'm going to be talking to you about some physical and mental road blocks that I personally had to overcome. And hopefully they can help you overcome anything that you're going through in your life. I'm also going to be talking about my nutrition, my training program, and any kind of supplements that I use that you might be interested in. Well, anytime that you deal with an injury physically, you're going to have that mental state that goes back into the rehab, getting back to being functional the way that you used to be. Basically, you have to have that mindset of am I going to let a break me down or am I going to be strong or fort? After that injury coming into the gym is more of a word I go from here for a thing. For me, when I was stabbed, it took away all functioning the wrists. Almost 90% of my functioning the wrists for any kind of exercise. It took away any kind of functions in the chest for a good month and a half also. So for me coming in the gym, I can't do legs every single day as much as I would love to do that and everyone else loves to do legs every single day. Now I have to test everything out. See if it hurts, see if it doesn't hurt. What can I go all out in? What do I have to go happen into? I had to go at different angles on weights and basically, just start from scratch is what I had to do. It was frustrating but exciting at the same time because people would ask me what I'm doing and it gave me a chance to try to explain exactly what I was feeling, what I was going through and how I was helping me out. The three biggest things to overcome, probably the acceptance of how I'm injured, I'm not going to be able to do things I used to. The second thing is coming back into the gym, taking that step and saying, I don't know exactly what I can do but I'm not going to let it slow me down. I'm going to go ahead and do the best I can with what I can do. And the third part is, where am I going to grow from this? Maybe I'm not going to be able to be 100% ever again. How is that going to affect me? You really, really have to take a step back, look at you surroundings and not be shy to ask for help to ask questions because some people might know stuff, they might have gone through what you're going through now. So now that you've learned how I dealt with overcome certain roadblocks, mental and physically, let's go ahead and get into my training program and what helps me out. For me, I trained for at least five days, up to seven days. I don't have a split anymore. I try to write it down and exercise on a certain day but you know what, if I'm feeling squirrely and I want to do arms that day and then by God, I'm going to do arms. I have a set schedule of workouts. I know exactly what I'm going to lift. I write it out. The day I do it on is never up to me. I just go ahead and go in there and whatever my body says, I will break it into two most groups of day. So say I do Monday as chest norms, chest biceps, chest or triceps does matter. Two days I'll go ahead and do back and opposite one so my sets are tri-sips. Leg down Wednesday and Thursday and Friday right back to the Monday. Two days schedule, I think it works best for me to go ahead and get all the as much power and strength that I can get in the beginning of the week when I'm fresh. That's my big movement. That's what I try to do. Later in the week I'll go ahead and do those isolation movements. Try to get those cuts that people like to get. Try to get that muscle endurance is what I try to work on. Plus it gives me whatever back burner energy that I have to go ahead and do the cardio and the high intensity training that I do. Carrier for me I used to run marathon to do tri-athlons but I would burn so much. So many calories I could make up for it and the food I was eating with the day and my busy schedule was working in the military. So now I've taken up CrossFit and it worked great and burns exactly the amount of calories that I need to burn in a short amount of time. And I still get lift weights so it's like a win-win for me. I try to do the CrossFit cardio stuff at the most three times a week. If I can hit it one time then I'll find but my workouts are usually so intense with such little rest in between that I'm winded during the rest. I don't know if that means I'm at a shave but I hope I'm hoping that I'm winded because I'm getting damn good workout. My workout changes every week. I stick to the basics. I stick to squats for legs. You gotta have a squat. You gotta have a leg press for a bench. You gotta have the bench press. Flat bench bar goal press. But with those two or three exercises that I stick into my training program I'll change to the next three exercises. So I will always have those staple exercises, those foundation exercises that I do. But the second half of that muscle group is totally changed. If I had to do plyometric stagger pushups with a clap in between or whatever I have to do to mix it up and be crazy then I'll do it. A typical rest day for me is just it just means that I gave that muscle group that I worked out at least 48 to 72 hours of rest before I hit it again. So we're coming flat toe. I have a rep in my head for a certain amount of weight and I say I'm going to get to that weight no matter what and that's where that's where I have an training partner really comes in handy because I can tell him that I can say look don't rack that weight until I get to that certain rep. Having that person there to help you out or even just writing it down say I'm going to do it no matter what. Put yourself in that position where you don't have an out so you have to do it now. Next, that's one way is a break in flat toes for listening, that's breaking flat toes for your mental state of mind knowing that you did to what yourself to that limit and you can go ahead and do those things so you're ready for the next challenge. So I hope you enjoyed that for my full training program. Go ahead and visit the page below. We'll throw it off to the side and let's go ahead and get into my nutrition. I'm smart, I'll eat clean, stay lean is my motto. I try to stay lean, you're around and I try to stay at least two to three weeks from any kind of goal I want. My diet basically consists of my carbs coming in throughout the afternoon. Anything past noon, carbs are coming from veggies and stuff like that. Hopefully by noon time and at the end of the day I've burned all that stuff so it doesn't go in the fast storage. So I'm not a huge number cruncher, what I do count if I do count numbers as ounces of protein in my system. My ounce is a protein per meal. I don't go any less than eight ounces from my meat. I don't go more than 11 ounces if I do eat a lot of meat. Everything with veggies is a serving, a handful. Can I grab it with a hand and place it on my tray and that's what I do. Same thing goes for carbs. It's proportion by eye, not proportion by numbers. So as I get at least five meals in, I'm a happy camper. I try to do my best to give it two hours to digest and eat the next meal. Sometimes I'm hungry after an hour so I run out of meals. That's the biggest thing for me. I pack my meals with me so I have to remember that I have those meals with me. If I get hungry in an hour and I eat that next meal, I might have 10 more hours at work. I might not be eaten for the next five hours if I ate every time I was hungry. If you want to see results, you have to be smart about your nutrition. When I blew my knee out, I wasn't able to do cardio. You really have to focus down on nutrition. If you want to stay lean, you really have to look at your nutrition and be smart about what you're putting in your body. I actually have a friend that's part of thebibillum.com team, her name is Jackie Kay. But what she does is she does this thing called the paleo diet. Basically if we didn't have a 10,000 years ago, don't put in your body now. We get our fruits and veggies and everything like that from the ground from the trees. We get our meats and our like that from the animals around. I followed it a hundred percent for about two months and I saw amazing results. But my brain got a little dumb and I needed my carbs a little more than I thought I needed. So I followed about an 80 percent paleo diet with a 20 percent whatever I wanted to eat, you know, brown rice and someone diet. Just like every day in the gym should be a brand new day and exciting. You go in the kitchen. It should be exciting too because that's stuff you put in your body. That's your feel for the day. I'm not going to put crappy fuel that I don't enjoy in my body for the day. I can't run on crap. I highly believe in females. I love them to death. I don't believe in cheap months. When your body gets into that state of mind of eating all those healthy things, it's kind of weird because when you go back to trying to put something that's bad for your body and your system, you might be excited for it. But one or two bites in and your body might not want it. And I've learned that when I eat a piece of cake or something like that, I take a bite in it. Hey, I'm happy. I'm satisfied. Push it to this side. I don't need the rest. Restaurant. I look at their menu. I look at something that I might have cooked at home. Chicken veggies mashed potatoes. Great thing to cook. Read what's on the menu. They should put it in detail. What's on the menu? If you would have put it on your thing at home, on your food at home, then why put it on there now. So I hope you enjoy that for my full nutrition program. Go ahead and visit page below. We'll go ahead and put it off to the side and get to my supplementate. Once supplementation can be done and build your muscles. All right, you can take it and just throw out your food. No, you have to get your foods and you have to get your diets and that's what's going to be able to build your body. A supplement is just that. A supplement. It's a helpful tool. Big ones. Obviously, you have to have your protein. Whether it be an RTD or a big jug of big muscle mass protein or whatever works for you, when you're talking about protein, you've got to remember that there's tons of protein out there. Proteins are going to be coming out new every single day. So, you have ones for what your specific goals. You're trying to gain weight. You want a mass builder. If you want to go ahead and just maintain it, you've got a high protein, minimal carb. And if you want to lose it, you've got your high protein, no carbs. You've got to remember that if you replace it with your meal, get the one that looks like your meal, get the one that highly resembles the nutrient content in your meal. I also get my BCA's, my glutamine. And my pre-workout is one of the new things I've been trying out. Pre-workouts are God's sense. I love them death, but I don't use them all the time only when I do need them. But they are like a secret weapon in the arsenal when it comes to the gym. But you've got to make sure that you cycle off any kind of pre-workout to the recommended dosage, finish the bottle, and cycle off for the amount of weeks that they tell you to cycle off with. We'll just tend to go ahead and use them. Their body gets used to them and it's unfortunate that they lose effect. The only thing I'll change during my supplementation of orphanage is my protein. Other than that, every other supplement I do take, you should be getting it 365 days out of your anyway. These are things to help your body grow, tell your metabolism stay fast. For me, supplements are just something to help you out with your healthy lifestyle, with your diet, with your workout plan. No way do I see it as an item that take over. For my full training, nutrition and supplementation program, go ahead and visit the link below. Feel free to hit me up on Body Space. My name is Rice 8-787. You can find that right here at the very bottom of the page. I love to talk to y'all. I love the feedback, and if you are going through something that you think sounds typically what I went through, tell me about it. I absolutely love going and helping out those kinds of people. For more content like this, go ahead and visit by Build.com.

In a world of clear plastics and stinky shakers, one cup will rise to rule them all. The bodybuilding.com Golden Shaker. Excuse me, sorry about that. From February 23rd to March 1st, every time you place an order for over $49 on Bodybuilding.com, US customers will have a chance to win one of 10 Golden Shaker bottles. In addition to being totally baller, each shaker includes $1,000 of in-store credit. You'll also have the chance to win one of 5,000 limited edition gym blender bottles. That's better than gold but maybe. But it's not all. 20 Global customers also have the opportunity to win a Golden Grenade shaker by showing us how you shake on social media. Tag your creative shake posts with hashtag Golden Shaker for a chance to catch a Golden Grenade and supplement stack to blow up your gains. In-stile Bodybuilding.com search for the Golden Shaker. Go for the gold!

Sit on a military press bench. Your grip should be wider than shoulder width. Once you've picked up the barbell, lift the bar overhead with your arms straight. Hold the bar slightly in front of your head. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar down to shoulder height. Then exhale and press the bar back up to the starting position.

Sit on a military press bench. Your grip should be wider than shoulder width. Once you've picked up the barbell, lift the bar overhead with your arm straight. Hold the bar slightly in front of your head. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar down to shoulder height. Then exhale and press the bar back up to the starting position.

Place two dumbbells in front of a flat bench. Sit on the end of the bench with your legs together and the dumbbells behind your calves. The palms of your hands should be facing each other as you pick the dumbbells up. This will be your starting position. Now keeping your torso stationary and forward, exhale and lift the dumbbells straight to your sides until both arms are parallel to the floor. After a brief moment at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.

To get into the starting position, first sit down on the machine and place your feet on the front platform or crossbar provided. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and not long. Next, lean over while keeping the natural alignment of your back and grasp the handles. With your upper arms extended, pull back until your torso is at a 90 degree angle from your legs. Your back should be slightly arched and your chest should be sticking out. You should feel a nice stretch on your lats as you hold the weight in front of you. This is the starting position. While keeping your torso stationary, pull the handles back toward your torso while keeping your arms close to your body. Pull the handles to your abdominals and make sure to breathe out as you perform the movement. At this point, you should be squeezing your shoulder blades back. Hold the contraction for a second and slowly bring the handles back to the original position while breathing in.

I'm Seth Faroci, I have PV Professional Body Builder, Team Muscle Tech Athlete, been a fans since I was young. I'm most importantly, I'm a father and a husband of two most beautiful women in the world. People said, Seth, you're having a kid now, you're going to get a career job, they're like you're never going to be able to continue to bodybuilder lift weights, just give up. And I said, no, I said this is something that I've always wanted to do and I'm going to continue to try. If I have to train at midnight or one o'clock in the morning, that's what I'm going to do. I said, just wherever you do, don't take the gym away from me. That's what PV made. And sure enough, that's actually what it turned into. My wife, she's actually the one who pushed me to say you need to compete now. She said, Seth, I'm tired of living my life like this. You think you're a bodybuilder but you don't compete. It's time to compete. And we did. I started competing in 2009. I did the Northern Kentucky from there. I went on to do the NPC Pittsburgh Championships. And you know, it's, it's, it's truly a blessing because this actually has given me the opportunity to provide for my family. I'm going to do the way to put food on the table. You know, I'm willing to do whatever it takes. It's pretty much been my main motivator, my family. Being a good father, being a good husband, you know, stayed home with my daughter and raised her while my wife works full time but I stayed home with her. And it's, it's pretty surreal. You know, looking back at it and telling a story, it's surreal that everything has worked out of it as it has. Everybody is different and bloody, but everybody knows that by now. You could give me your program and I could follow it to a tee but I'm not going to look like you. But the best thing is is to learn your body and to say, well, this is what he does and we look very similar. I'm going to try this and see how it works and perfect it to my needs. Intensity. That's kind of been my motto since I was young was just being extremely intense about everything. Of course, it's evolved from the time whenever I was 14 to now. During the eggs coined it best for me watching blood and guts to high intensity training. You know, one to two warm upsets and then just one or two sets where you just let loose and go absolutely crazy and do as many as you can. Failures, you know, the partials, the negative things like that. Whenever I go into the gym, I have a set idea of what I want to do. And if I'm doing the exercise and just not feeling it, I will move on and say, that's, it's just not working for me today. That's not to say it doesn't work at all, but right now at this moment, I'm just not feeling it, so I'm going to move on. I've come to realize that how I feel is the most important part of training. As far as the sets, I've been developing just a concept. Doing the exercise and say we work into the high intensity. I do two to three warm upsets, say I warm up, I'll do my work set, just go to failure with it. And then say I move up to my next work sets and this will be my final set. So I'll go, you know, my full repetition, my full range of motion and then I'll just keep repenet out, just keep pumping, keep pumping, get the partials and then drop them and say I got 16 reps. Well, I'll wait 10 to 15 seconds. I'll grab half the weight and do twice the reps. It's been working for me. I really enjoy training that way. I think that it's given me the opportunity to hit the heavy weights, but it also gives me the opportunity to focus on the isolation and the upper chest with the lighter weight. We'll see whenever it comes so time if my train of thought actually is proven on paper so to say. Right now I'm training six days a week. Typical bodybuilder exercises. I do cardio five days a week. I take one full day off, train chest and I should say side delts, train back, quad, shoulders or arms and then I'll do hamstrings on the sixth day and then rest on the seventh. Usually train around two o'clock in the afternoon that usually fits my schedule best. I do cardio anywhere between five and six a.m. Right now I do 35 minutes every morning on a set meal. My nickname was Chubs. I was a Chubby White Kid. So I need to do cardio. However, I've learned that we're not running marathon. Along those lines, it's like I could say I do 45 minutes of cardio every morning, but what type of cardio are you doing? You do an interval training or you keep in your heart rate above a certain number, right on a program that I'm doing. I'm just trying to stay full and trying to get big them, just trying to grow into the show so to say. Fat loss isn't my number one priority at this time. My physique is pretty much where it needs to be. I just need to refine it, go through the mature process. I'm 28 years old so things are starting to pop a little bit better. But I think in the next couple of years everything will come together and get a lot harder. Everybody says you get better with age and bodybuilding. I hope it's true. With my nutrition, it's obviously changed over the years. Whenever I was in college, it was zed everything in front of me and just keep lifting weights to get as big as possible. And that has a competitor you realize that you need to stay in some type of conditioning in the offseason to be able to get in the good condition for your contact as prep. The most important thing is not to get fixated on a number that's on the scale. To look in the mirror and say, is this what I want to look like? Okay, I look in the mirror and I'm like, I want to be bigger. Well, if you want to be bigger, you have to eat more. I look at things that's very simplistically rather than over-comicating your thought process. If I look in the mirror and say, I need to be bigger, I need to eat more food. Now the hardest thing is just figuring out what type of food actually works for you to get bigger. I've noticed for me that if I just begin to eat more carbohydrates and a little more healthy fats, I will grow. Probably the past four months I realized that red meat doesn't work well with me. It just doesn't sit well in my stomach, it doesn't digest well. So I've moved to all-pultry products and fish. I've never had better digestion. The one thing that I've really fixated on and I preach to a lot of young kids is digestion, absorption, elimination. We all know about having bad elimination. So if something goes wrong in the elimination process, then go back to digestion and wherever you wait, probably didn't sit well and you realize it didn't come out right. And along that process, the absorption is the most important part. So if you're not absorbing all the nutrients properly, if something goes through your body too quickly, then you did them so that it would work. And if something's sitting in your stomach for too long, chances are you're not really absorbing anything at all because you're just going to keep feeding yourself because you're supposed to eat every three hours. So if something's not a green with my stomach, I just don't eat this year as a first time for me eating like this. I've never eaten like this before. I cut out all the oatmeal. The oatmeal is it's like, it's very glutinous, but in body-building, why do you eat oatmeal? Because everybody else eats it. I've kind of got away from that. I'm doing my own thing to test it out. The only way you're going to find out if your theory's work is to put them in reality. And right now, like I said, I'm in the phase of just trying to eat very clean foods. No gluten, no dairy, no preservatives. Don't do all organic because it's too expensive. I don't have that kind of money here. So I pretty much do all natural things. So I limit the amount of starch that I eat. So I eat a lot of brown rice, sweet potatoes, sweet potatoes, five once a day. I've also realized that any type of sweetener, the artificial sweetener is just they wreak havoc on the body. I'm not a scientist or a nutritionist to go into great detail of the actual terminology, but I can't say it just doesn't agree with me. So I don't eat it. In that place, I use all organic sugar. And I've noticed that I haven't gotten fat from it. I actually look better than I previously did eating 20 packets of Splenda a day. Even though there was no calories in it, I just didn't look the way I thought I should. And I mean, I'm eating 30 grams of sugar in the morning with my cream of rice and I actually look better than I previously did it 12 weeks out. My theories are working, but I just have to see how it goes as I get closer to the show. Last year, I noticed that I just didn't have the look that I previously did. And I think it was because of the overabundance of food that I was eating. My body just wasn't processing them correctly. So I just eat anything that agrees with me. If it doesn't agree with me, I don't eat it. Cheat meals consist of sushi. No more hamburgers in french fries. Not a lot of sweets. It's very simplistic. Some people think, God, that's a terrible way to live, but this is what I do. This is what I have to do. And I just kind of train myself to like it. What supplementation, the word says it all. It's a supplement. It supplements what we do no matter what type of training we're doing, whether it's CrossFit, just being in shape, bodybuilding, whatever it is, we all need to supplement because we're not normal people. We usually take our bodies to a limit that not many other people do and sometimes food isn't enough. For me, with supplements getting down and bear to it, it all depends on what you like. Getting this raw reverts back to if something doesn't feel right, then you should be doing. A way protein post workout or first thing in the morning is very important because first thing in the morning whenever we wake up as body goes with so much muscle in our bodies is your body is in a catabolic state for however long you've been sleeping. So if you are in a grow phase, it's very smart to get some type of very quick digesting and absorbing protein such as way isolate. Again, after you're done working out, everybody needs to get their protein in high, prefer protein powder. First thing in the morning, I usually take a couple of scoops of amino acids. amino acids are the building blocks of proteins and muscle. So you need to stay consistent with some type of amino acid. A pre-workout is always important. A lot of people that have a full work schedule throughout their day and then they go to the gym at 5, 6, 7 o'clock in the evening after they just work 10 hours, you kind of need to pick me up to go to the gym. Who doesn't like to have a pump like that? I mean, Arnold pointed the phrase that I'm not sure I'm going to say right now, but everybody knows which one I'm talking about, you know, the pump having the pump. So that's what makes this fun. That's what makes the gym a dicking and for you to actually have that good quality feeling. I believe that a good pre-workout does create that. This workout depends again where you're at. Creatine is always good to have and I'm not trying to really grow that much show. Creatine would be an off-season thing for me and you really can't go wrong with that. There's a lot of products on the market and it's up to everybody to find the right one for that. A lot of people said I couldn't do it. Pretty much everybody except a select group of people said I couldn't do it. Having to wake up every morning to 5 a.m. Do your cardio to eat the consistently to stay consistent with everything to train hard. And to come into the gym with the same driving in your head is extremely difficult. Negativity has gotten me so far, but you always can't think the world's against you because it's not. It's a work in progress and bodybuilding, you're always just trying to beat yourself. You just want to make sure that you go out and consistently produce something better than you previously did. Make sure that you're better in your previous show. See what works best for you and trying to take yourself to the next level. Then result is just to continue to do this, continue to motivate people, continue to use the position that a man in our positive manner. That's it for me and my philosophy is on training, nutrition, and supplementation. If you have any questions for me, you can check me out on Facebook, on Seth Furrow C or Seth Furrow C fan page or you can check me out on my body space page. And for more content like we just did here, just keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Hey guys, Ali Rosin here, teambodybuilding.com athlete, I think you can eat pro. I'm here to show you my favorite workout and that's my shoulder workout. I use this for competing. I use this during my off season and to build muscle. For today's shoulder workout, we have three supersets, one straight set. Each exercise we're going to be doing three to four sets with rep range being 15 to 20 reps, minimal rest, which means it's going to be from 45 seconds to 60 seconds. The total shoulder workout for today should be about 45 minutes long. So now we're going to get into our warm-up exercise. For this exercise, I warm up my rotator cups. Very important for a shoulder exercise. So for my warm-up, I warm up my wrist first, 15 to 20 reps. After I do my 15 to 20 twists on my wrist, I'll go up and I'll do 10 reps per rotator cup. Just like this. Make sure you squeeze outside and inside, really working out that rotator cup. I use 10 weights right now. It's a little heavy, but it's good. I put some pressure on my rotator cup and my wrist so I get some pump. So it's too light. You're really not getting the value of warming up with muscles. If you've never warmed up your rotator cup before or your wrist, I would suggest warming up with about 3 to 5 pound weights, getting used to the motion. And then when you continue to do it, you'll see increased weights. For our first exercise today, it'll be a superset. A superset is two exercises back to back with no rest. I start with both arms up and I make sure I squeeze at the top. I do a little bit lighter of a weight with this one, just because it's my first exercise. And I want to get the burn started, but not fail right away. If you think this is too easy for you, you can increase it during your second or third set. For a second exercise of this superset, I do standing lateral raises. I increase the weight to help me go to failure. I want to make sure you squeeze at the top. You really get that burn. I like to tilt them at the top because they get more of the rear delts. In between the superset, I do about 45 to 60 seconds rest. And then I start with my second set of my superset. That's it for my superset on to the next exercise seated dumbbell overhead press. For my seated dumbbell press, I'm going to do four sets with 15 to 20 reps. When I start to get 15, I will drop my weight and go to a lighter weight so I finish my rep range. So as you guys saw, for my first set, I didn't have to drop my weight. For this one, I probably will. Okay, guys. That was it for our only straight set onto our next which will be a superset. This superset, I'm doing upright row, followed by plate front raises with a burnout steering wheel. A good trick to know where your hands should be. You put your fingers together and then you curl them back. You lift up and make sure elbows are above the bar and you go down. For the second part of this exercise, we'll be doing front plate raises with a burnout of steering wheel. So that completes this exercise onto our last and final superset which focuses on rear doubts. So for our last and final exercise, I will be doing standing, cable reverse fly, superseted with dumbbell bent over flies. I'll be doing about four sets, 15 to 20 reps. With these, it's really important that you squeeze when you pull out to really feel and activate the rear doubt. For these, I like to tip my arms up when I go up and I tip them down and up so I get more of the rear doubt action. Okay, so this is our last and final sets of the workout. Right now your shoulder should be on fire and burning and when you're done, you're going to feel like if a great workout. So that's it. For this shoulder workout, I recommend doing this about one to leave and I usually pair it with abs. It's a really great exercise. If there are some weeks where you're missing a day or two, it's okay because there's a lot of compound movements and a lot of reps to failure. The details of this workout are provided on the page below. You can print it out or look it up on your phone and take it with you to the gym. For more articles, workout videos and content, please come back to buybuilding.com.

I am Shane Raymond, I'm 30, I'm the natural bodybuilding champion and from hitching in Hartfordshire which is just north of London. I started training really just to get into shape and to look good really and I've always been quite into sports and stuff like this paper football and an again. So I've really started weight training until I left school around about 17, so I've been training now for that for 13 years. But I've been training for a number of years before actually, I started competing because to be honest, I think we need to know much about bodybuilding competitions. I just thought bodybuilding competitions were like a lot of guys taking gear and stuff and it's not something I wanted to get into. So I've already been building up this league for the stage, I was building it to look good. It's only when natural British championing come out to me and say basically I should think about competing and up for a softball, well it's not really my thing to me to suggest it like natural shows and that, and I thought yeah I'm lucky for that. First ever competition I took the overall at a local show as a central being the F also I'm a category and the later on in that year I took the novice British title the FIA as well. I wanted to have you weight title in 2010 and got run right through overall and in the British in 2010 as well for the being there I took second pace in the final. I don't look at training as just bodybuilding exercises. I believe as a bodybuilding a new to it, sort of like incorporate a lot more training with this into your overall training. I mean myself I do I do powerly of being I do like high volume stuff I do a lot of pre-exhaust stuff and I mix in it, it's sort of like a rotation in each week and my training is different. I believe you need all that in your training to build it all around thick balance for week. My typical week of training would be basically two days on and then one day I'll say I'll train the Monday and the Tuesday I'll have a rest down the Wednesday and the Thursday and the Friday and I do my training is a major and the minor body parts split so I'd always train sort of like a major part for example the chest of the biceps and then I train legs on my own, like hamstrings and put them Tuesday and the wings that have failed. Sometimes I wouldn't go down the gym at all but it depends on the good for competition I'll do like a kido and gym when I'm saying that I'll be it. And then on the first day I'd probably train delts and abs and I'm Friday's I do that in tri-sex and I believe that this split works well from the above because a lot of people I speak to, they tend to train like chest and biceps or chest and triceps together. I'm different I like to train chest and biceps together because you're using the tri-sits working just anyway. Then to go and do a like a tricep workout I feel that you're overturning your tricep because it's more of a muscle group. That's the sort of split I tend to use. When I come to like a sticking front I'll plateau my training. I tend to sort of like throw something totally different into the next something put quite random like um say I was doing like an approved zors week forever and I would do like a nice isolation reason before a compound reason. I would do sort of like the pre-exorse would be the same but when I'm going to lock a new compound new then I'd lift a lot heavier. So therefore the pre-exorse part of my routine is the same but the heavier compound part of it would be heavier so I wouldn't necessarily get more reps out at the time but I'd put the muscle under more stress and I'd un-offstick it that for a few weeks and then to see where it happens so it happens pretty much. The workout I'm going to be doing today is called GVT which is German volume training. It's pretty much just high volume training using this one exercise which is the normal compound exercise and it's basically short rest periods and you're using sort of like 6% of you have one rep max. It's a sort of like training method I use like once every every third week sort of thing and even though you're not in the gym for long performing the um workout when you leave the gym you feel like you have been in there for a while because it's really taxing on the um on the physique. The first exercise I'll be doing today would be um flat bench as it's going to be 10 sets of 10 with a rest period of um 60 seconds in between. One of the exercises I'm going to do today is I was going to be in incline dumbbell press which is performed with um a moderate sort of weight and basically it's the target the upper chest region. It'll give you that thick top part the chest you see like sticks out the top of the t-shirt. The third and final exercise I'm going to do today would be um cross over cable fly and that's to do with stretching the fascia so I don't normally go very heavy on this exercise but I do sort of like a higher rep range and also concentrate in more on stretch as well as the screws. After the chest I'm exercising that I've moved into a bicep exercise and this would be a B&E Z curl. I'll daily do probably around about five sets on this like the like a high volume and could you tell me a mine a muscle group you don't really need a lot to still make muscle growth in that region. The secondary bicep move I'll probably do would be um dumbbell hammers which targets the outer side of the bicep and it gives you that peak. You don't want to really feel like you're on a diet in my eyes you need to be feeling strong enough to train. It's no point being in a diet where you can't train strong or you can't train to your full potential. Dying in a lot of people think dieting you means basically being hungry all the time and I feel for me a long healthy clean diet is the best approach. The matter meals I a day depends on all if it's a weekday or when you can in a weekday is I'm getting up quite early so I'm getting up around about quarter to five in the morning so I'll start eating around about five and every literally every two and a half hours after that I'm having a source of protein or source of carbohydrates and sometimes a bit of fruit as well with that but you should have a balanced diet. I don't necessarily believe in like a zero carb diet or a high fat diet I believe everything should be within each meal of your diet which have your vaccination, your carbs and age, your proteins and then you should eat everything you need in each meal throughout the day and I'll find that work for me. A cheat day was just I'll put in here anything I want a protein closer to the competition like 12 weeks then I start monitoring my cheat meals more. I sort of like have a cleaner cheat meal and not a cheat day as such and at the same time I'll wait my food always measure my food I know is that in a matter of calories I'm taking every day each day and what they are so if I do need to make any adjustments I know certain things I need to adjust or think. I perfect cheat meal and being probably be a Chinese or something where you've got different tastes and different spices and stuff like that a lot of people just stick to pizza but half over a pizza I'll probably get bored and I'll eat it anyway but I'll get bored. Stufflementation is very important I think which I found because believe in I haven't been taking supplements for that long but once I did take start taking supplements I know did a big and I continue to do a lot of learning research into supplements almost the best I take and it's not only just taking supplements is important it's a time when you get a supplements in and what supplements you take of different supplements does that's the thing and well people aren't realise that sometimes different supplements care and react and they're clashed together and the body's don't absorb it as well so it should do so it's not just supplementation and protein it's also a timing and what supplementation you take to give up. In supplements I'll take on a data-right debate today basis would be a grenade back then personally in the morning for my personal and also take 10-ground-gill glue to me way I'll just look creative if a less star I find that creative if a less star you don't get the water potential is much and the creating blow is much and taking that. Pre-training I'll take 50 calibre I'll glue them in again, 8-and-b post training I'd have like a waxing maze with food and then again, a H&B I mean the acids try it a bit time I'll take 4 caps as well as the amazing thing make tricks I'll take a multi-gill in the and I'll also supplementation with food overall which is basically just a me the 36 and 9. And if someone came to me and asked me for advice and training and supplement the top three supplements I'll will suggest would be if you want to burn fat would be grenades definitely a way I'll definitely definitely help glue them because they're the most important supplements I feel need. If you want to know more about my training, my nutrition and my supplementation knowledge check me out good bait. dog ales landing the dead  Oh! Ah, I'm dead! Oh, oh, oh! No, no, no, no, no, no! Hey! 3! Oh! Ah! Hey! Oh! Oh! Ah! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh!

You are now to me is a blue print. You are an architect beneath your skin like the plant for your fastest, strong, and the longest, most powerful sound. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you may cut of your muscle and the mechanics of movement. You can create your best possible body. How my corroborate sin, this is built by science. Men and women alike want to build in a aesthetically appealing set of shoulders. Whether you calm cannonball delts, folder shoulders, or mushroom caps, the end of the day, if you want to build a great set of shoulders, you have to keep them injury free and healthy as well. In my field, one of the worst injuries you can have is a shoulder injury because it is going to keep you from doing so many of your favorite lifts in the gym. In this episode, we are not only going to cover the muscular anatomy, the bones and the joints, the movements and the key exercises that you are going to follow, but we are also going to show you some key things that are going to help keep your shoulders healthy and moving the way that you want for a lifetime. With us here today is WBFF Fitness Pro Gen Jewel. She has got a great looking physique, a great looking set of shoulders, and she is going to help both you and I better understand the anatomy and function of your shoulders. Let's go ahead and dive into the muscular anatomy of your shoulders. One of the best ways to understand this is to think of peeling an onion. On the outer most layer of your onion, you have what are called your deltoids. And these are the big shoulder muscles that most people are interested in building in the gym. So I am going to use a gym here, and just to give you guys an idea, you have got three heads to your deltoids. You have an anterior head, a middle head, and a posterior head. So the anterior head runs from your clavicle or your collarbone, comes down, and a cross, and ends up on your humerus or your arm bone. So it starts at the top or front of your clavicle comes down and a cross. The second is what is called your middle deltoid. So I am going to have a gym just to give you a little quarter turn here. And if you can imagine, this actually runs from the top of your scapula, or your acromion process of your scapula, comes down, and it also attaches on the outer portion of your arm. Last but not least, you have what is called your posterior deltoid. And I will show this on gynsopsit side here. But if you can imagine on the backside of her scapula, it is a scapula spine or that ridge on your shoulder blade, that is where your posterior deltoids start. And it comes down and across, and it also ends up on your humerus or upper arm bone. Now that we have covered your deltoids, I want you to imagine having that on you, right? The deltoids are the outside portion of your on you. And if you peel away that top layer underneath, you are left with a deep layer. And that is what is essentially called your rotator cuff, or your rotary cuff if you are from Indiana like I am. When you are talking about your rotator cuff, there are four muscles that I want you guys to envision. It is going to be kind of hard to see on gym because they are deep to your deltoids, but I am going to point them out to you anyways. The rotator cuff is comprised of your infraspinatus, right? And that is a big muscle that spans the outside portion of your scapula. Underneath your infraspinatus, you have a smaller muscle called your terries minor. The next muscle we are going to talk about is called your superspinatus. And it runs from the top of your scapula, comes down, and it attaches to the inside of your humerus or your arm bone. Last but not least, if you can imagine looking straight through gym and seeing the front side of your shoulder blade, you have got another big muscle there called your sub scapula errors. So the way I remember the rotator cuff muscles are the acronym 6. Superspinatus, infraspinatus, terries minor, sub scapula errors. Remember, we have covered two major muscle groups, the deltoids and the rotator cuff. Now that you have a better understanding of the actual muscles, let's take a look at the bones and joints involved in creating those movements around your shoulder. I'm going to have a ginger to give us a quarter turn here. And the first thing we are going to talk about is what is called your thoracic spine, or your middle back. There is 12 vertebrae here, and if you can imagine they essentially start at the base of your neck, come down, and try to get a little more of the strength of your spine. And I'll tell you, if you can see, if you can see, it's going to be a little bit more important. I'm going to tell you what you want to do, and if you can see, I'm going to show you how to do this. If you can see, it's going to be a little bit more important. I'm going to show you how to do this. And if you can imagine they essentially start at the base of your neck, come down, and they end about the top of your lower back. So you've got 12 vertebrae here, and while you may not think they're important, those vertebrae attached to ribs, and then you have your scapula, or your shoulder blade, which rests on top of that thoracic spine. So if you can imagine you've got your scapula right here, and it just kind of rests on the top of your thoracic spine. Last but not least, you have your humerus, or your arm bone. And if you can imagine, your humerus is this long upper arm bone. Now, when you're starting to create actual movements, you're scapula, and your humerus work together to create motion. And as you can imagine, there's a ton of freedom of movement. Your shoulder, like your hip, is a ball and socket joint. So they kind of move into each other like so, and then from that position, you've got tons of freedom of movement. You can flex your shoulder, or raise it overhead. You can extend it, bringing it back down towards your side. You can abduct it, or lift it away from your body. You can abduct it, or add to your body by bringing it closer to the midline. And then last but not least, you have external rotation, or opening your arm up, as well as internal rotation. So as you guys can imagine, there's a ton of freedom of movement at your shoulders. Mobility is absolutely critical, but now you guys should have a better understanding of how all those bones and joints work together to create more fluid movement. The next step is to show you guys all these movements with real functions so you can tie the muscles and the bones and joints together to see how it's going to look when you get into the gym. Now that you have a better idea of how you're scapula or shoulder blade and your humerus or that glino-humeral joint work together to create motion, let's take a look at the individual muscles and the functions that they can do for you. When we're starting off here, we're going to start with your anterior deltoid. And as your recall, it starts on the outer portion of your clavicle, comes down, attaches to your humerus, so it spans that glino-humeral or shoulder joint. So when you're in the gym, you're probably used to doing or seeing people do a front raise. So that's where you're really going to bring out your anterior del. It's not just your anterior del, though, it's also the clavicular portion of your pecs. So these two muscles are working together to create shoulder flexion. Now it only makes sense if you got your anterior del and it creates shoulder flexion, your posterior del or the back side of that muscle, it's going to do the opposite. It's going to create shoulder extension. Last but not least, you've got your middle del and it runs from the top of your scapula comes down and it attaches to your humerus. And if you've ever done a side ladder or something like that in the gym, that's where you're going to see that middle del being isolated. Now keep in mind, we've covered some isolated movements, but anytime you take your arms overhead as you would in a seated military or any kind of overhead press, you're going to be using all three of your deltoid heads synergistically to create that movement. Now that we've covered the deltoids, let's take a look at the individual functions of the rotator cuff. Now one thing I want you guys to understand, a lot of times, when we're talking about the rotator cuff, people want to talk about internal and external rotation. So when we're talking about the shoulder, you've got internal rotation and you have external rotation. Now that's not to be confused with if I've been gym's elbow just a little bit here, you can actually pronate and supinate your hand as well without necessarily rotating your shoulder. So keep in mind when you've got the arms straight and you're moving from the shoulder, that's where we're talking about internal and external rotation. So with that being said, you've got your sub-scapularis and that's that muscle that starts on the inside of your shoulder blade. It's responsible for internally rotating your shoulder or turning it inwards on a long axis. So if you've got your sub-scap internally rotating, you gotta have something on the back side that externally rotates. So I'm going to have Jin spin around here. And if you can imagine on the back side, you've got your infraspinatus and you have your Terry's minor. So if she's internally rotated and I externally rotate her shoulder, that's where you're going to turn on an engage, your infraspinatus and your Terry's minor. Now last but not least, if we're talking about ABduction of the shoulder, you remember you've got your super spinatus and it kind of runs along the top of your scapula or your shoulder blade. It's there to AB duct or lift your arm away from your side. And a lot of times if you read the research and I'm a geek, I read research, it'll tell you that super spinatus is responsible for about the first 30 degrees of ABduction. Now we've gotten kind of geeky and we've talked about internal rotation, external rotation, ABduction, that's all fine and dandy. But when we talk about your rotator cuff, arguably the truest role is to create stability throughout your shoulder joint. So if I just had Jin's arm hanging out here and I pull on her arm a little bit, her rotator cuff works almost like a tractor beam. It's pulling her shoulder back into the socket. So you guys think about when you do a dumbbell row or when you do a chin up and you get long through your arm, your rotator cuff is naturally turning on to create stability throughout your shoulder joint. So while you can do all kinds of isolated movements, if your shoulder and your rotator cuff are doing what they're supposed to, it's not going to take a lot of necessary isolated training to get the kind of result that you're looking for. Now that we've covered the muscles, the joints in the function of your deltoids in your shoulders, let's put it all together into a few key exercises that we selected to help you best understand how to do this. Now that we've covered the muscles, the joints in the function of your deltoids in your shoulders, let's put it all together into a few key exercises that we selected to help you best understand how to apply this stuff when you're in the gym. Now keep in mind, this is simply for demonstration purposes. Jin's going to make it look easy and we couldn't get the 100 pound dumbbells in here for the overhead presses. But overhead pressing is a fantastic exercise. It's really going to help you build all of those deltoid heads, so that's going to be the first exercise that we demonstrate here today. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and have Jin pick up the dumbbells. One of the things that's most important when you're overhead pressing is a good setup. A lot of times, all Q my clients and athletes to go with their feet about hip shoulder with the part, get their abs nice and tight and their butt nice and tight. When they do this, they've got a really solid foundation, which is not only going to help them move more weight, but it's also going to help them keep their lower back healthy as well. So Jin's going to go ahead and bring the dumbbells up to her shoulders, abs tight, butt tight, and then from this position, she's just going to push straight up overhead. Now, it looks pretty simple, but the devil is really in the details. Keep the abs tight in the butt tight throughout, nice control and motion throughout. And if for any reason you do have shoulder issues and overhead pressing gives you some shoulder pain, what I would suggest doing is turning your thumbs or your palms towards you, going to a more neutral grip. This is just going to give that rotator cuff a little bit more room to breathe, and it's going to take some stress off the shoulders as well. When you're overhead pressing, don't forget you're literally using all three heads of your deltoids to create the movement. The posterior del, the middle del, and finally the anterior del toy. Now, you'll probably see lots of people banging away with tons of isolation exercises at the gym. Trust me, I get it, I love those exercises too. But if you want to maximize the growth and development of your deltoids, you gotta make sure you're throwing a big compound overhead press in your lift. Last but not least, when people go overhead, some people have a tendency to have pain, dysfunction, or they just don't move particularly well into that range of motion. If that's the case, make sure you're getting that checked out, make sure your mobility, and your overhead range of motion is there before you go full steam ahead with your overhead press. So the first exercise we demonstrated was an overhead press, and that should be a staple. But the second exercise and final exercise that we're going to demonstrate here today is a bent over lateral raise. And I really like this because it helps isolate the posterior deltoid or the back of the shoulder. So, Jens is going to go ahead and set up with these dumbbells here. And what I like to cue my clients to do is soften these and hips back, like you would in Romanian deadlift or straight leg deadlift. And from this position, she's simply going to lift the arms up and out to the side. And that's where you're going to hit that posterior deltoid. Right? And you can see she's got great control here too often. When people do this exercise, they use way too much weight, and it's just all momentum. So she's doing a great job of holding that top, holding that peak contraction, and then relaxing as she goes back down. So these muscles are typically pretty weak. Don't worry about going super heavy when you're in the gym. Go lighter, do it right, and you're going to get way more out of the exercise. Now keep in mind, we've only highlighted two shoulder exercises in this episode. You want to see all the exercises we've selected. Make sure to download the full six week built by science program. In this video, we've covered the muscles, the joints, the function, and some key exercises for your shoulders. But if I can give you guys one takeaway point, it's awesome to have a great looking set of shoulders. It would be really strong through your shoulder joints. But the bad news is, if you injure these guys, you're in big trouble. Not only can you not train shoulders, you can't train chest, you can't train back, and even think about legs. A lot of times when you're back squatting, you're putting pressure on that shoulder joint. So it's not just important to build these for the aesthetic or strength purposes, but you gotta keep them healthy as well. So when it comes to your shoulders, make sure you're taking the time and energy to warm up thoroughly before you go through the workouts. So you keep yourself healthy and you can keep pushing the iron for as long as you want. With that being said, that's a wrap on this video. Make sure you watch all the videos because we go into the same amount of depth and detail to show you how all the different muscles in your body work. Run muscular and not too bad. Buy your mechanics, the calc. The skeletal system. It's muscle function, and the best exercises to build lean mass mass. Knowledge is power, know yourself to build yourself. Build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, masterpiece.

Hi, I'm Jesse Helgenberg, IFBB Figure Pro and teambodybuilding.com athlete. I am a graphic designer and also a competition coach and I have been featured in magazines such as Oxygen Magazine, Mascellan Fitness HERS, and Iron Man Magazine. My whole entire life I've had biceps and great calves and really great legs and I've had a six pack forever but my shoulders I just had little string beans. I had good biceps and triceps but I didn't have any delts and for me to compete and figure I had to take my training to a different level and actually kind of sculpt out a new look for my body and part of that was building my back, creating a VTaper and building big huge round caps to my shoulders and that's why I've been working on her for a few years. Today we are at Body Renew Fitness in Meridian, Idaho and I'm going to take you through my shoulder workout today focusing on big compound movements for that strength and size a little bit of medial delt work to build those big round shoulders so let's go. Our first exercise today is Incline Barbell Press. I usually use a barbell and a rack for this but today my only option is a Smith machine but it's totally fine I like to be able to mix it up ever once in a while anyhow. I pick this for my first exercise because it's a big compound exercise that recruits a lot of different muscles so I like to have the most strength for it in the very beginning of my workout. This is our first working set I've added 50% more weight than my warm-up set and I'm going to do three sets of about 12 reps. And if you see how my elbows don't totally lock out at the top that's how I'm keeping tension on my shoulders through the entire exercise. I use my rest periods to stretch the muscles that I'm working usually takes me about 45 seconds. The compound exercise that I chose for the very beginning is Incline Barbell Press because I don't train chest very often. It's a great one to get in a little bit of upper chest but it's also a great compound exercise for your front delts. All right this is the second exercise today and it's one of my favorite exercises. It's a 45 degree barbell shoulder press. You can do this in any gym all you need is a 45 pound barbell and you can just shove it into a corner or into a piece of equipment like I've done here. I'm going to do three sets of 12 to 15 reps on each arm. You want to keep your core tight and your shoulders square. You're cur'd a lot of muscle for this one. You're in a little bit of a squat so you're using your core, your legs, and your shoulder. I love this one because it's still compound exercise but I'm working my way around my shoulder. So I started with a little bit of upper chest front delts and now I'm switching my grip to a hammer grip and I'm pressing a little bit more overhead kind of coming to the top of my delts working my way around and to get a really good well-rounded shoulder workout. I take about 30 to 45 seconds rest in between each set and in between each arm and I stretch out the muscles being worked before I get going. The reason that I take a rest in between each arm on that exercise is because it is such a big compound exercise. If it was more of an isolation exercise like a lateral fly I could just kind of go back and forth really easily there without resting between arms but for that one it's such a compound heavy movement and I'm lifting it pretty heavy. I need rest in between and I want to stretch out that muscle. I start with the front delts just because I want to get the chest exercise out of the way in the very beginning. Being at that incline it hits more of your front delts and then I start working my way to more compound all over shoulders and then I start getting into the little isolation exercise like medial delts and rear delts. When I am confronted with something like that I don't want to lift weights because I don't want to get huge. I usually just flip it right around and say, do like the way I look. You're talking to me for a reason you're asking me for fitness advice for a reason and they said, yes I would love to have your arms. I would, you know I want to know I'll do whatever it takes to get that well it takes lifting heavy and it takes time in consistency and intensity and you know women we don't get huge we don't we don't have the jeans to get big we just get awesome. For a third exercise we're doing seated dumbbell shoulder press. As you can see throughout the entire workout I have very quite a bit from unilateral bilateral using barbells dumbbells and machines. I'm going to do three sets of 12 reps I don't walk out my elbows at the top and I also don't bring my dumbbells together at the top. Doing that helps me keep my traps out of it and just keeps all of that tension on the medial delts. I need to focus a lot on growing my shoulders as much as possible and rounding out and capping off my delts. So if you kind of look closely at the workout it is a very traditional workout. I don't do any sort of functional shoulder training. I'm focused on strength and growth and rounding that muscle out and you know forcing as much blood as I can into the muscle. So a lot of the moves are real traditional compound movements. I rest about 45 seconds in between sets and I use that time to stretch. Our next exercise is the rear delt fly on the reverse peck deck machine. I'm doing three sets of 12s here and I usually on this exercise I'll add weight as I go through the set. I love this one because I can brace my torso against the pad on the machine and really focus on just using my rear delts. So we're starting to work our way all the way around the shoulder working all the heads of the deltoid here. You want to make sure that on this exercise you keep a slight bend in your elbow during the exercise. If your elbows are locked you will incorporate too much tricep in the exercise. In between sets you want to make sure you stretch out your muscles being worked again. I always do that in between my sets and we're going to take about 45 seconds change the weight and go out of it again. The rear delt is a really great exercise to keep in your shoulder routine as it fills up the muscles in your back and kind of pulls your shoulders back a little bit opening the chest and appearing wider and broader on top. The most common question I get is how do I get my arms to look like that? You know how to get the physique like I have and I just always say you know lift heavy lift with intensity and create a lifestyle out of it. Eat clean and go to bodybuilding.com. Next exercise is side dumbbell lateral raises. We're getting to end of the workout now so I'm focusing more on isolation exercises and I pick this one because it really focuses on that medial deltoid and helps round out my shoulder. I do three sets of 12 reps here. It's not a big compound exercise so I'm okay with my rest being a little bit shorter and I just move from arm to arm and I take my 30 second rest in between set to after I've done both arms. I don't use any momentum and the movement is really slow and really controlled. One thing I want to point out with this exercise is you want to focus away from all the momentum. That's why I like using one arm instead of two so you're not inclined to use a whole bunch of momentum to lift the weights. I don't take any rest from arm to arm but I do take a 30 second rest in between sets. I think intensity is almost everything. Intensity to me isn't you know grunting and screaming and throwing weights. That's not intensity at all to me. Intensity is how heavy you're lifting how hard you're working, how shorter your rest periods and how effective was you workout? Did you walk out knowing that you chit-chatted you know five minutes between every set and you know just kind of did some cardio and left or do you go in the gym and you get you get it done and you get out and you just know that you're going to have changes. Your body will change if you go into the gym with intensity every single time. I like leaving the gym knowing that I absolutely destroyed my delts so on shoulder day I like to pick a finisher exercise. One of my favorite and most effective techniques is what I call running the rock. It's really similar to a pyramid style of exercise. I start with 25 pound dumbbells and I'm going to do Arnold presses the entire time. 25 pound dumbbells are picked for me because I know that I can do at least four to five reps with them. So I do those four to five reps with the 25 pound dumbbells. I drop them. I grab the 20s. I do as many reps as I can with that. Drop those, pick up the 15s. Do as many reps as I can with that. Drop it, grab the 10s as many reps as I can again. Drop that and I finish with as many reps as I can with the five pound dumbbells. Then I take a 60 second break. I stretch the muscles being worked. After that 60 seconds has passed. I start all the way at the bottom with the lightest weight. I do as many reps as I can and I keep doing that all the way back up until I've done as many reps as I can again with the 25 pound dumbbells and then I'm done. With Arnold presses you start with your palms facing you, ground your feet and keep your core really tight. Don't let your elbows drop too far down and don't walk out at the top. By adding a finisher like that to my shoulder day it really just gets the job done for me and just completely exhaust the muscle and I feel like I have done my job. I can't hold the steering wheel in my car my way home from the gym and there's all sorts of techniques for finishing. When tip that I would give that I think is really important to anybody starting out is to choose one source. Whether you have a personal trainer, a nutritionist, whether you're just following a program on bodybuilding.com, pick that one thing and stick with it the whole entire time. That's the end of our workout. Typically a workout like you watch today should take you between 45 minutes and an hour. If you have any questions about what you watch today or any other fitness related nutrition motivational tips you can find me on body space. My username is Jesse Fitness. You can also follow me on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram and for more content like this, check out bodybuilding.com.

I used to be a shy skinny kid. Then I found bodybuilding. Now I am an IFBB pro in Mensozy. I am Jake Alvarez. I can help you build your best self. Today's workout we're going to be working on shoulders. However, we're going to be emphasizing a lot on the posterior delts or rear delts. Your shoulders comprise of three heads. Your anterior, which is a front, your lateral, which is the side and your posterior. In my opinion, I feel like a lot of people emphasize so much on their anterior and their medial heads. And they neglect their posterior head. Stracting your posterior delts will help with your overall shoulder development and help prevent injury. Today we're going to be doing four exercises. The first exercise is going to be shoulder double press. The second exercise is going to be bent over side raise. Third exercise is going to be cable face pulls. And the last and fourth exercise is going to be reverse pectac. Today's workout is only going to be tick about 30 minutes. We're sitting about one minute between each set. All right, let's start this workout. Exercise one, we're going to be doing shoulder double press. We're going to start with one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. For a working set, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps to failure. Sour of this workout, what I typically do is I get the dumbbells. Put them on my knees. I kick one dumbbell at a time towards my shoulders. Stabilize it. Get the elbow on up and then push up both together. I do this because I want to prevent any injuries and safely get them up to perform this workout. Once I get the dumbbells up over my head, I drop the weights down until I'm about 90 degrees. It brings them straight back up. When I do my burnout set, what I typically do is I go back to my warm-up weight. Then I try to hit pretty much as much as I can to failure. Exercise two, we're going to be doing bent over side raises. Just like exercise one, we're going to be doing one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. While working sets, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. To set up to do the bent over side raise, what I typically do is I sit at the edge of a bench, bend over so my head is down. Try to pop my shoulders out so I'm trying to activate my rear delts. And I do the reverse fly with my fingers up. When I do this, I only go up just as far as I feel my posterior delts contract. I do see it over standing just because I have a lot more control isolating the rear delts. For a third exercise, we're going to be doing cable face pulls. Just like all the other exercises, we're going to be doing one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. We're going to be increasing the rep range for these working sets to twelve to fifteen. What I like to do is I like to do it on the ground. By doing it on the ground, I'm not activating any of my other muscles, I'm not using my back. I'm just isolating my posterior delts and focusing on the contraction. When I start off this workout, I grab both ends of the rope with an overhand grip. I try to keep my lower back on the floor. I pull both ends of the rope straight to my forehead. And I try to hold it for about one and a half seconds. Let go slowly and repeat the process. The fourth and final exercise is reverse pectech. Just like the other exercises, we're doing one warm set, four working sets, and one burnout set. For working sets, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. When you set up your seat on the reverse pectech machine, what you want to do is you want to make sure that your shoulders and your arms are aligned. The only pivot point is going to be at your shoulder. Each person is going to be a little bit different. You want to just make sure that at the top of each rep you're squeezing your posterior delts. For the burnout set, I jump back to my warm up weight and try to hit 15 to 25 or to failure. In general, as far as any workout, I just like to make sure that I try to keep my muscles on their toes. So they never really know what to expect. So if you want to take a little workout, I could probably do maybe once a week focusing on the posterior delts. And then maybe on another part of the week, focus on the anterior medial. The full workout breakdown is on the page below. If you have any questions for me about this workout, you can contact me on my body space, which is J-A-Y-K, or on my Instagram, which is at drugjake. For more free videos and articles like this, come back to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you for watching.

To start hold a dumbbell in each hand and stand up straight, the dumbbells will rest at your sides at arms length while the palms of your hands face you. This will be your starting position. Now maintaining a stationary torso, exhale and lift the dumbbells to your side with a slight bend in your elbow. Your hands should be tilted slightly forward as if pouring a glass of water. Continue to raise the weight until your arms are parallel to the floor. While spurred brief moment at the top, then inhale and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position.

Line your back in place your feet firmly on the ground. Your legs should be bent at the knees. Place your hands beside your head. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your upper body to create a V shape with your thighs. Once you feel the contraction hold for a brief pause, then inhale and lower your body back slowly to the starting position.

First, set the bar to a height that best matches your height. Once you've selected the correct height and loaded up the bar, step under the bar and place it on the back of your shoulders. Hang on to the bar with both arms at your sides and the palms of your hands facing forward. Unlock the weight and lift it off the rack by simultaneously pushing with your legs and straightening your torso. Position your legs in a shoulder width stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Be sure to keep your head up at all times and maintain the straight back. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and begin to slowly lower the weight by bending your knees while maintaining a straight posture with your head up. Continue to lower down until you form around a 90 degree angle with your upper legs and calves. Be sure to not let your knees pass your toes while lowering the weight. Finally, exhale and raise the bar back to the starting position. Use the balls of your feet to press the weight up while simultaneously straighten your legs as well. When you're finished, lock the bar back on the rack.

It's a sales broker.

Soye protein is actually extracted from soybeans, growing all over the world, and the way that's extracted or fractionated gives you a very high percent protein by weight with a lot of the other things found in soybeans like carbs and fat greatly reduced. In that islet or soy protein concentrate can be used as a protein source to support training especially for vegetarians. Soy protein becomes because it comes from a plant source can be used as a preferred or primary source of protein if you are vegetarian or a vegan who doesn't consume any animal protein sources or any animal foods. Because soy protein is easily digested and absorbed actually better than casing, you can use it as a protein source after intensive training to support recovery and promoting animal response. Soy protein has also been shown to be a very health or heart health promoting protein source because of its unique amino acid makeup and perhaps other ingredients called isopflabones that are found in soy protein. When you're looking at a soy protein look for the percent protein or look at the number of if it's just a protein powder by itself from soy protein the number of grams of the serving and the number of grams of protein you should have around 90% protein from the outchop powder because soy protein is not 100% protein. So the higher the percentage, especially if it's declared the higher the quality of actually getting protein from soy protein. For some people the isopflabones which are like flavonoids that are found in soy protein can be important especially for women that are seeking their effects on bone health and look there for the amount of isopflabones and there are two names for them, daydzing and genistine and that will tell you the amount of the isopflabones preserving if that's an important thing for your soy protein and choice. Protein from soy just like any other protein in amounts more than 20-25 grams may not lead to any additional antibody response muscle after intensive training. So if you consume a soy protein dose more than 20-25 grams, the additional amounts will likely be burned as a fuel or potentially could be going into making fat. The other thing to consider is what to combine it with. As with any other protein you can combine soy protein with anything else you want to, carbs, creatin, branch-chain amino acids, gloomy, anything else even other proteins to stack it up with.

Hey everybody building.com. It's Liam McIntyre from Spartacus War of the Damned here to tell you about the guy that changed my life changed my training changed my shape So his Tyrone Bell tell me a little bit about yourself. I am the official Spartacus trainer and I am the man responsible for what you see here Yeah, no Tyrone and I had an interesting little journey so We did How we meet? It was an adjim funny enough. Yeah, yeah Yeah It was an interesting time for me because I just lost all this weight for another film like 45 pounds So I was in the works for maybe getting this role and and and head of Stance our popleton was putting me through this crazy bootcamp training Which was Soul crushing but amazing and learning all you know really fundamentally amazing things, but we had to assess at the start Yeah, your skills are up-to-scratch for fight scenes for you know We had to know you had the enjoy the last the entire season, but unfortunately there's not the best You know as when it comes to packing on muscle. Yeah, so I got real fit Yeah, despite myself and as soon as you got the role then you know we were thrown the brief that you needed lean muscle mass You needed to be ready which went against all against our bootcamp training and we had taken to another sort of form of training Yeah, well, and ties the the master of hypertrophy training because I suppose you'd call it all there So the the hard task master of hypertrophy training. So I was I don't know I felt like I was in this I was in this room and working out that I had never trained up for the season and and ties I could only imagine so let's not make it It's gonna be a big job We met like once at the end of gods that you read it when I was test it goes that big yeah, yeah, and I mean I have the first move. Yeah, I looked at you and I was given the brief and Yeah, I was good. I know I'm good But I don't do miracles But you know not you don't argue with our problems because that guy's the business and he's like tight You know like making this and I'm sitting there going he was massive so it's gonna work out great This guy's built like a pretty she knows guys. I had it probably not You know this guy's massive so if anyone's gonna help me out with this guys good Meanwhile, I'm thinking ties broken on this excited design Like I said I know we it was a challenge because of the time frame Not only because we had to get you in peak form before shooting, but we had to you know We had to be training the entire time throughout the seasons and with the time frames who were given for training You know the workouts not only had to be effective But they had to be very very time conscious. Yeah. Yeah, so what we had to like we had shoot days when we started five We finished up at you know seven. Yeah, yeah We hit Jim it's the eight thirty and yeah those with those Yeah, and then there was times where it's like okay with your schedule you've got 20 minutes Yeah, it's like okay. This is our only chest session for this week We've got to make 20 minutes work. I'm sorry for two of the chest sessions But that's that's where we developed and We need to develop the 19 minute workout Yeah, where you had to get hypertrophy Results from 19 minutes. Yeah, we had to develop that and it worked not only for you Better for other cast members, but yeah, sure. Well, it's funny by the end of it Everyone just like lining up like I started off there and they're like are you training with fire? Okay, sure. Good. Have a good time I'm going down to my gym by the end of it for more of the day and everyone's like yeah Number taking a little bit of a threat. That's right. That's right. Yeah, I was like stay away from my dude It's my time. This is my time you should come here earlier But yeah, early days that was that was fun because I was like oh, this is gonna be great You know how high can it be right and yeah, yeah Time is all about hard and then then I introduced Liam to a reality yeah, and nutrition and nutrition. Oh yeah, I got a nickname the card Nazi for good reasons God, yeah, I would count and watch every calorie that went through your mouth Yeah, you mean at times that I'd be like I'd be at At the lunch table and like on Thursdays that something for decision watching you literally that Well, I just be staring at me like I'm like That's that's messed up. I got to get a new trader this guy This is gonna be a long season Just appear and I'd have like I'd have some latinos or anything that I was like just a potato. What's wrong? It's not tight proof. That's off. Yeah, it's not waterproof that yeah, even now Like it happened in happened today I'm like a Spartacus just finished, but he will pass the like a few Plates roll This is good But that that was probably to be honest that was 80% of your results was what you were eating I'm so tired right absolutely and especially when you were scheduled a so full on and then I'll work out So intense for that short period of time Recovery nutrition was paramount Yeah, I could understand because I just spent so long training with our populton who probably at the time very rightly was like more is more Just just worked to you can't work anymore That was then for where I was at was a really good mind state to get myself into Make you mentally hard. Yeah, yeah, yeah really tough and jump for when you know you have to do the work But times like all right, so if you want to grow some muscle mass we're gonna have to change this I don't like but no, no, no, I've got this worked out I know what to do. I'm gonna just gonna lift more. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's do it It's like if I put it into some training sessions like what are you gonna do now? I'm like I'm you're gonna sleep on you You got sleep. Yeah, I'm like yeah, so I'm gonna sleep So I own you for two seasons. Yeah, it was great Please And you know we'd I'd been early days. I'd be training and then I'd like I'll take a funny exercise I'll start doing some other things I already know what you're doing. You're wasting luck at your men So I think I eventually came around to it because spark as scheduled was hard to get the sleep in but Yeah, my good. Well that's that's what supplementation came in we had to do jale gloomy going You know, make sure your BC double laser in there Because yeah, you were a lot of the time to sleep the product which was unfortunate because you know You would have made even greater gains if you had more sleep on it Yeah, which I'm excited to see yeah, because you are gonna stick with it Excited to see You're gonna beat yeah Yeah, yeah, well me too. Yeah, that's the thing But that's what I mean like you actually changed the way I look at training and changed the way I'd died I changed the way I lived my life because you know I was a computer game nerd I don't know I know I still find that That's what makes it But you know, so I was weird like a week ago I was sitting in a hotel room going oh finally I got some time to play some games I'm sitting there with with a game I was playing and it was a great fun I looked at the clock going I really trained session in good. I've never had that thought But it's not with you. It's ingrained now. It's a lot of me now I'd play I'm like, I'll just put it off for a little bit I couldn't I couldn't do it. I was like and for the first time my life put the game down walked into the gym hit out a quick, you know 30 minutes dash and and and You know blew the chest apart so it was great and and I've just never been like that so proud now. I'm proud Thank you But it's a life-changing thing. I think that's the important thing that you got through it I was lucky enough to have you for because you would you would it like change Like change my perspective and that's the thing because like anyone can do a diet and anyone can just wait for a week But but you have to really change the way you think about training and I think that's what you absolutely You need you need to adapt that lifestyle It's not I mean, hey, you could have blown it. We could have got this done. You don't have a Spartacus in that So but now it's ingrained and it's a lifestyle now and you are always going to be busy Whether you're on a feature film or another TV series But you know now how to fit and effective workout effective training nutrition plan everything in Because you've adopted that lifestyle. Well, that's the gift though I mean, that's that's the benefit of having a guy that just isn't isn't very nice to you There was moments we don't need to talk about that in a school I got the nice guy thing going on Yeah, that doesn't that doesn't train kill a body Yeah, you're gonna be hard on yourself too, right you do you do you do you got to be honest because I sit there And I sit there with the chocolate cake going you and you know what I would say if you were here you know what you say See, that's good. You're not talking to your food. That's You got a connection. I'm like I'm just looking at all those empty calories. He's like oh there's sugar This fatty all those you know what those and But you know makes it makes it it's results. That's right. You know what so what's um What's your favorite session because I think I think we're on the same page with this Well, I can oh well I just remember when we were doing you know our 19 minute workouts because sometimes we're thrown I can't go as you got 20 minutes so that's where we developed that 19 minute workout I purchased for different muscle groups Cheers was always a challenge That's my challenge my challenge. That's right, but I think the you know that the most rewarding was always the arms I mean it's the beat myself about you in 19 minutes with that recipe I used to pump up huge Yeah, we used to do that before you had promotional shoots and stuff like that As well, we just fill them and you know, it's it's Insanely rewarding It's certainly turned into a head case. It was always good for time because you know I'd be like look nothing's changing. I can't see anything in times like do you bodies like in a totally different place? Yeah, you look at the before and after and and the progression shots and it's like we can literally see the changes happening month to month Yeah, it ties in early on that yeah, you're over. You tell me like Well, unfortunately the bad news is you'll never be big enough now like you'll always look at yourself and go Well, I could fix that yeah fix that I could fix that in fact total sense We were doing the same thing and we were both getting back into training and he was like oh I don't know the shoulders like this is big enough like it. I might do a massive look at the And I'd be so I don't know I feel like I feel like I'm not I'm not a side-size See it's important to be happy where you're at but there's always that it once you want you can tend Then it's over So maintaining is boring. You know always looking for constant improvement Just for finding it. Yeah, just pushing it just making the quality better Yeah, I remember you want to be about that. I'm like, oh, I mean, you know in my head. I was like I'll be happy at this way You stop doing the work that way man. Yeah, but yeah, I know I always look I just was my satisfaction Because I felt it always felt really really really rough in the morning which you which I'd learn to accept is the best way to feel when you're just like Oh, I can't move properly. So obviously I think a job That was serious But no it was Yeah, and safe training that was the good thing because I mean it was so good having a spot on someone You what they were doing. Mm-hmm. Lift the white could tell you how to do it So you didn't just waste your reps and stuff like that. That's right When when time is that's valuable every rep counts and and both phases the up phase and the down phase You know you don't cheat don't bounce, you know because you only have a 90 minutes you have 1,142 So you literally every second counts every rep and math. Oh, mate. I'm good If you're thinking you're shrinking what's that really? No No, it's totally man. I know it's You're against it and it's hard to make big games Your time time call but you mean but it is possible. Yeah, that's right. That's right. I know it was only in The best thing you know, you've got to it's a long-term game You're like near the end of four of the day and I started to go you know what I do see what you're seeing I do see the change. Yeah, you know I could it had been happening for a long time But I didn't want to believe it because I was used to being the other guy and that's the thing too As other people were seeing it You know, but you yourself you see yourself every day so you don't don't see no change Yeah, but it wasn't like you said it wasn't until the end of the season. It's like you know what I'm looking all right Yeah, you know you saw a few cupbers of magazine you saw yourself and a few things. It's like Have a heart you know what I'm okay Yeah Yeah, man. I was that was that was seriously life-changing But then you know I wasn't always good news because for those covers and things like that you You had a new system for me which was something was very well You know we we had to peek you and that was the hard that was the hard thing You know during like guys who can peat you're gonna peek a few times during the year But you know would be dropped on you have a promotional shoot in a week It's like and I used to like prepping you like it was a competition Oh, yeah, we would drop your carbs out completely then we would carb like you would dehydrate you all that and it was it was how for you And show it amount of time but you know you look at look at the results Yeah, I worked. It's again if I wanted to feel good about myself We do that they do an arm exercise That's right. I'm training and be like yeah, all right. I could do this I'm sure who took this all the time, but man those are some of the hardest days I know yeah, I'm not I'm new at this So I've never really flown a lot of business class for they flew me business class to this photo shoot So I'm like oh all this food Of course My own decided to put me into like this this massive carb depletion phase because I was basically gonna walk off a plane into a photo shoot And so there was free chocolate cake. There was all this amazing food and like you know chicken beef Pro what do you want like and I had to bring a box of boiled chicken And um, Kumera and egg whites that are depending on the meal times and I had to tell the kids Is you and I like can you just bring this cold chicken out to me at like two hour intervals in this amount exactly please and he's like Seriously yeah What about all we've got all we've got food and like yeah, you know, we can make a chicken I'm like you can't make you chicken the way I have to have the chicken He's like but it's just chicken. I like no, I don't have as I have seasonings. Yeah, so yeah See man, I'm proud that's maybe really Yeah, I'm just watching through this horrible chicken, but exactly you know It's that that's that's what you can teach me doing this since that The Liam from three years ago couldn't have done that at all like I couldn't even think like that Yeah, you do it. I do it for two days and be like last student Yeah, it's surely won't make that much difference. You know surely these they were that's that's that's I guess that's the lesson of this whole training I was like I don't know all of it does make that much difference if you do it all the right times They're right that's right It all has to work together. You can't do one part. You know They're training you're stressing all works together. And the rest yeah, this is a well Yeah, rest of course, but you're getting I was still even by the end of season I'm like oh no I saw a reckon that's gonna be the one that we're gonna have disagreements on yeah, that's okay Well, no, I do agree with you. I just you know, I just I get lazy about it. Yeah, you're stopping to the right kind of like yeah Stop it. Yeah, sorry about that. Well, you know, push you through it. Yeah, I remember he was like Too many people will give you out like to me other trainers that I've had in the past give you like a little wiggle room Tyrone a little wiggle room. Okay. You know, so I was like he's like well you chuck a little you know I'll betray his might be like talk a little bit of salt on there. Well, you know look have a bit of this have a bit of that and I was like oh cool. Well, so you know I had to sort of get a little put a little sauce on there Something like that but when it was especially when it was coming down to cutting you know you were like exactly this match Many milligrams of salt exactly this many grams of protein if you get that wrong by an ounce You've ruined the whole thing everything I'm like that's kind of possible Everything That's what we were working with though. I mean Every you know every day normal people you know day to day they can afford that wiggle room Yeah, but you were put in front of the world. You know you were Me to rebellion you're a sex symbol, you know you meant to be this warrior, you know So there was no room that the milligram could be out. Yeah Oh, that's that's part of it. You know, I think you know there's a lesson in that for everyone that's like Training and for me now like I know that if I'm you know not having to be that guy on camera every day I've got a little more wiggle room, but I already know that because I didn't have the wiggle room and I can Yeah, you know my body a little more from that process, but it's been I've been on hell with you It's been exciting And it's not over yet mate. Well, no, sort of just like now. Yeah. Yeah. What is the thing you know I like the hard path for me every day was looking at you training huge weights that I was always trying to like match even though I had this Not experience body, you know you'd be lifting these huge like you know you'd be doing three plates But that's that's that's great as well though is like um You know normal people as well. You have that goal somebody you know you follow might not be your training partner But you watch training videos these guys and you know that's what I want to be this what I want to be lifting stuff like that So but you know you had that in your corner every day which I've just helped Yeah, but this guys just massive I had to look at that every day which is kind of like the psychosis like I was like Why's tolerance a big but um you know, I guess that's that's Keeping it up for a little period of time. That's right. That's right. All come on. Oh, so you know like so what I made you do was what I was doing as well Exactly, which is amazing and you know and so like long term is how you go start setting it mind up suddenly people are at short term diet Short term training cycles short term this where is this stuff that you do is all about You know really changing a life which is what I got definitely I mean you can get fast results if you do everything To the gram you know to the pound You and to the second you can get fast results, but then like you said it becomes a lifestyle and that's where you start making you great Getting this is like it's a million days it took a while it did yeah, it got faster and faster and really started to take hold and when it got In grain it was yeah, man look I'm excited for you to be able to do like this workout with somebody's people for body I can't wait to show you know because these are the actual workouts that I made you do Yeah, you know and I do personally as well So to be able to show everybody what we did you know So it's great for people who push for time massively Yeah, and it's achievable and it and just it takes discipline, but it's it's a realistic life change Yeah, I think that's what that means what you brought me I appreciate that so much so you're welcome. I'm not gonna dead, man. Thank you. We'll do

Thank you!



Position yourself into a staggered stance with the rear foot elevated and the front foot forward. Hold a kettlebell or dumbbell in each hand letting them hang to the sides. This will be your starting position. Begin by descending, flexing your knee and hip to lower your body down. Maintain good posture throughout the movement. Keep the front knee in line with the foot as you perform this exercise. At the bottom of the movement drive through the heel to extend the knee and hip to return to the starting position.

To perform this exercise, first set the bar on a rack that best matches your height. Once the bar is loaded up with your desired weight, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders under it. Now lift the bar from the rack by pushing simultaneously with your legs and straightening your torso. Step away from the rack and position your legs to a shoulder width medium stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Keep your head up at all times and maintain a straight back. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and begin slowly lowering the bar. Sit back with your hips as though you were going to sit on a chair. Maintain the arch in your back and keep your head up as you descend. Continue lowering the weight until your hip and knee form a line parallel to the floor. Now exhale and lift the bar back to the starting position leading the movement with your head. Push the floor with the heels of your feet as you use your abductors to push your knees out so they stay in alignment with your feet.

Connect a standard handle to a tower and move the cable to the highest pulley position. With your side to the cable, grab the handle with one hand and step away from the tower. You should be approximately arms length away from the pulley with the tension of the weight on the cable. Your outstretched arm should be aligned with the cable. With your feet positioned shoulder width apart, reach upward with your other hand and grab the handle with both hands. Your arm should still be fully extended. Now, in one motion, pull the handle down and across your body to your front knee while rotating your torso. Keep your back in arm straight and your core tight while you pivot your back foot behind your knees to get a full range of motion. Maintain your stance and keep your arm straight. Return to the starting position in a slow and controlled manner. Repeat this motion to failure. Then switch sides.

With the pad of the calf raised machine at the appropriate height, place your shoulders under the pads and position your toes facing forward. The balls of your feet should be secured on top of the block with your heels extending off of it, push the lever up by extending your hips and knees until you can stand up straight. The knees should always keep a slight bend and should never be locked. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your heels as you breathe out by extending your ankles as high as possible while flexing your calves. Ensure that your knees do not move and there should be no bending at all during this movement. Hold the top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly lower yourself back to the starting position.

Stand straight up while holding a dumbbell in each hand at your sides. Place the balls of your feet on a sturdy and stable wooden board that is around 2-3 inches tall. You can point your toes in different directions for different emphasis. Your heels should extend off the back of the board and touch the floor. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your heels off the floor by contracting your calves. Hold the top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly lower your heels back to the starting position.

Grab a dumbbell in each hand with a slightly less than shoulder width overhand grip. The dumbbell should be resting on top of your thighs. Your arms should be extended in your back straight. Keep the dumbbells close to your body as you move them up and the elbows should drive the motion. Continue lifting the weights until they nearly touch your chin. Slowly lower the dumbbells back down to the starting position.

Stand with a loaded barbell in front of you. Grab the barbell with an overhead grip wider than shoulder width. Clean the bar to shoulder height. This will be your starting position. Now press the bar overhead taking care to move your head out of the bar's path. Exhale during this portion of the motion. Then inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to your shoulders.

I'm Stephanie Tumie. I'm an obstinate nutrition sponsor athlete. I'm on the other of a very active six year old boy. I'm a cross-spirathly. I was a former United States Marine and I'm a motivational speaker. I've been in sports my whole life so I became a sponsored softball player so I traveled ball and I started traveling all over the state of Florida which is really good because I had a really big passion for sports but my mother was diagnosed with brain cancer so you can find me to practice but my coaches would come and pick me up and maybe I said I need it to practice so I really believe that athleticism was my gift. In high school I went to a really big school in Jacksonville, Florida where a six-day school over 4,000 students and I was in hopes to make the division one softball team. Going into my senior year my mother had another brain surgery, another tumor and it got put in the impatient therapy. My father who was never around came home and ended up emancipating me and left all those scholarship offers behind. So after I graduated high school I ended up in listening in the United States Marine Corps and didn't play any sports. It wasn't active other than my training for the Marine Corps. I wanted to really challenge myself physically with weight training. So I'm in our before deployment and bought Arnold's encyclopedia of modern bodybuilding and I had all my seat bags, my pack, my rifle's long and we're manifesting on the airplane and I had Arnold's encyclopedia in hand. Every single day was training weight so I would just read. I had no really included in the train or or isolate body parts or groups and we were very limited on equipment so the I demanded that they brought me a barbell and some weight so I had 45 25s in a barbell and I just needed creative with doing reverse hyper extensions off of front of a Humvee or I did a lot of pull-ups. Anything with the barbell that's how I train and I came back pretty strong from that. I was 21 years old. I got a phone call that my mother was having that hospice came in. I was taking over with her hair and I went to see her and just saw me down, told me that she was going to die and I had dealt with her being sick my whole life. Three months later I showed up and she was in our living room and I told her that it was okay and she died in my arms. That's where you're after that I found out that I was pregnant. So I took the news when the doctor told me that I was pregnant and I felt my life was over. I didn't tell anybody and continued to do all my duties as a Marine. About five months into my son's bi-locked mother showed up and said he wanted to be a family and moved into my apartment and I fully did everything in the house by nature. In one night he didn't come home. He showed up my house, choked me and poured a hot coffee over my head and he said I know everyone you asked me where I've been for what I'm doing and I'll come here when I feel like it. From that day on I lived in a house. I was captain in my own home. I could not love the pregnant I could never tell him that I still had my son moved. I was very detached from the motherly little elements of being pregnant. In my third trimester pregnancy I was in our shop. I had that nesting feel but I was the one where we're going to paint the shop. So I was on the 15 foot ladder painting and my water rokes. I saw my doctor like you need to come in here in labor. So I called my son's father who's like I'm not a doctor. Go to the hospital then. So I drove myself to the hospital. I didn't really have anybody to tell and I'm giving birth alone. He never came and I was with my new infant who I didn't even know really what it meant to be a mom. All I knew is that I had a big responsibility and I was going to do it alone. My promise came that no matter what I would do whatever I had to do to give him an opportunity. All I could do is promise to give him a chance to do whatever he wanted to do in life. It really took me having my son and seeing him to realize I'm not just responsible for my own reputation, my own health, my own anything it's all about. He's such a great little boy. He's active because with the everywhere he trains with me at the gym. He's been doing it just TNI and trying to make it happen and I don't want people to see my pictures or see me stage perfect or whatever and think oh I could never do that because I'm going through this thing. Everybody has a story. Everybody. Life's hard. So if I could be an inspirational voice or tool for them to be better than I wanted. I want to use that. I don't want it to go unnoticed. I competed in figure three years ago and ever since then I've just been really training a lot heavy weights and my quads are over to Bella from the figure and I've liked to train that way. So I wanted something that would really embody how I trained and that was real. I didn't like me restricted when I trained as like a figure athlete in bodybuilding where you did sets and reps for a nesthetic purpose. I wanted performance. I've recently within the last three months transitioned completely into CrossFit. But if you talk to me four months ago you would have thought I would never happen. Now I don't go anywhere without my nanos, my Olympic lifting shoes, across ball, my straps. Once I finally looked into my CrossFit really is I had to do it. I walked into Blackburn CrossFit in Jacksonville, Florida and I walked up to the owner and I said I want to do CrossFit. I want to compete in CrossFit. He's like well how long have you been doing CrossFit? He's like you look like you've been doing CrossFit and I was like never done CrossFit. But I want to compete in CrossFit and he's like okay let's see what you got. In 70 pounds I can snatch. I look like like a four-year-old trying to do something. I was humbled quickly with I thought I was strong until I tried to do CrossFit. So my training now is a program training where I do several workouts through the day. I go in really early in the morning. About three to four or three or four days a week I do a long row. I'll row anywhere from two to K to 10,000 meters. I do a lot of running. Those are my forms of cardio. I'll do long runs. Anywhere from six, eight, 12 mile runs. I do a lot of skill training. I'm really kind of learned. The Olympic lifts. In one lift you can do it from several different positions. So just trying to master those from every point. All the spots are a big lift. I do that separate from and I want to several different ones. I try to get a program into something I'm very weak at in the middle of a wad to highlight it. CrossFit's great for me in my personal opinion. It was great to show my strengths but it definitely highlights all my weakness. I think the constant challenge of CrossFit made me really just love it. Every day I want to lift heavier, move faster, jump higher, more pull ups. There's never like I've made it in CrossFit. I think no matter where you're at, CrossFit you can always be better and you always want to be better. Your competing against the clock, leaning against yourself primarily, inner competing against everybody else. CrossFit changed my life. It gave me a competitive aspect that I wanted again. It gave me that sense of camaraderie with the other Crossfitters anywhere you go. You see Crossfitters or the box that you train at. And it also gave me new goals every day I have a new goal. In my opinion fitness is strength, flexibility, endurance, all those things not just a picture that says I'm fit because you might not be. I want something to say. Put that 400 pounds and pick it up or 300 pounds in your back and stand up. That to me is beautiful and it's strong and it's and nobody else can tell me that. I only eat to either fuel or refuel for my workouts. I don't say six times today I'm going to eat. I plan what I'm going to eat off of how I trained. So if I'm not training that day of course I still eat but it's just very limited or try some smaller scale than when I would eat if I wasn't training. Also I believe in that 80-20 roll, 80% of the time you mean eat for functional purposes of refuel or for hunger and a 20% of time nutrition is a social thing. You go up to dinner with friends there's something extra yummy and you want to try it like 20% of the time unless you're really like dialing into to compete in something. So my son I let him every time we go to grocery store. He knows he gets to pick his one treat and I call that I don't like that dirty filthy word of cheating. Like you can cheat on a lot of things in life but I don't think that nutrition should be something associated with something with your mind. Therefore if you ever fall off that wagon and to eat something that looked so tempting then you feel like you've just failed. I just cheated. Instead I treated myself to the company office party that had those nice yummy cupcakes and then you just say oh I guess I can't treat again later in the week. I think people go away from good intention when the convenience is there for something that's a little bit more handy and they drive through and they don't want to go home and they got out of the kids in the car and they just rather just make it happen one trip they pull in and all the kids are fed before they're they've even eaten before you got home. So I don't ever leave house without food ever. Things I pack in my bag and I have chickens I do tuna. I do nuts. I do Laura bars. I do carrots and baggies stuff like that. I cut celery up I chop up a bunch of vegetables and put them in avocado. I like to eat they're not very handy they have to care around avocado but I do like to put in my favorite recipes cucumber salad. It's just still lime sesame seed and cucumbers and it takes literally like three minutes. If you can always control which put in your mouth. Always nobody forces you to eat poorly. So if that's one thing that you control when you have all these other uncontrollable elements in life you should take the time to 80% of the time to eat the right things. I like to use the analogy DTS diet, train and supplement. Supplement should fill in blends. I think supplements are definitely things that should be used by everybody. So the biggest thing is to figure out what your body is naturally not producing enough of or where you might be using during your training and supplements that back into your nutrition. So for myself what I I supplement I supplement quite a few things. I take in fish oils. I take in way away I sleep. I normally take that post workout immediately after I'm done training or I take it when I'm on the go. I like to use it in cooking too. I like to throw away scoops into a pancake with almond flour through way to have a complete meal. I take in H and B's. I do Z and A's at night. CLAs. And of course I take in all my microminerals so I do a multi-bidamin. I make sure I get enough sinks and saline. Some of those microminerals that you need. Now I do so much of performance stuff so I'm not just training for strength. I train for endurance. So there's different things that I need to take in fast absorbing carbohydrates. So products that have fast absorbing proteins and slow digesting proteins fill me out or to continue to fuel me through those long workouts that I have. So it has changed and also I did a lot of more pre-workouts like caffeine stimulants throughout the day. Now I really try to cut back when I'm not training so that when I train so much and so hard with the process that I try to use this stimulants definitely around the time so I'm gonna work with um pacing pros and a nine I love to make ice cream with it. So I take all of my milk and pacing and I mix it. Sometimes I only make it to the pudding stage and I don't get it into the freezer because I'm in that hungry but if I can I leave it in the freezer for about 10 minutes and it's just perfect consistency to eat it like ice cream. And supplements can be expensive so make sure you're taking in what is good. That can balance into your budget. Why can balance in for specifically what you're doing for training? Or call me and I'll send you whole bunch of free stuff. I never want anybody to look at my story and I never feel sorry for me. I don't see myself as this incredible person or somebody that has even done anything extraordinary. I just feel that I am a normal, very normal person that has challenges that I've been through and challenges that I'm are still unseen to me. Just like we all have. When I was in the rain course I sat in this class and there was this crusty first sergeant and he sat up there and told us motivation the worst word I've ever heard. It's like a shot. You take it. Everybody's happy. Runs around and then after it's more off here. There's worse than you ever were or you had to really have that hang on from it. And I was like this guy just likes to run his mouth. Like that doesn't make any sense. When he came back with when he said instead look for something that inspires you. This is the inspirational that can last a lifetime. It could be listening to someone talk for five minutes and be like they did that I could do it too. So I try to find things that I'm inspired by and I try to you know, send an example of things that are inspirational but achievable. I'm definitely achievable and I'm not something to think that is anything beyond beyond that. It just take your goals. If you've got to write them down, stick them in places that you see them and remind yourself often of why you're doing what you're doing. You know, it's a day true that I'm Stephanie Tune in if you want to contact me further or follow me and follow me on body space. My body space name is ST14 Supergirl or Twitter, Stephanie I'm square Tune or you can find me on truestrength.com on the Optiutrition True Strength website or you can follow my personal blog site which is just steffanytube.com and for more videos and content like this, come back to bodybuild.com. Holy. We just got dropped kick by the earth. That thing came.

I'm Steve Chub. Bodybuilding.com, Stokes Model, Optimal Nutrition Athlete, 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner, 2010 muscle and fitness, metal model winner, NIFPV Pro, Men's Physique Petitator. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I majored in biology psychology, integrated studies. Today, on the Big Man on campus 12 week trainer, where we be tackling back and biceps. Grab your no-pad, class and session, take your seats. This packing bicep routine is typically taking no longer than 45 minutes to an hour. You're in there to lift weight, not to socialize. You have your rest period, don't go longer than those. Do what you have to do to get in the right mindset. Throw those headphones on, turn up the volume, and let's get to work. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. Now that you've got your five-minute warm-up, you're now ready to tackle a back and bicep workout. For the first exercise, we'll be doing a wide grip pull-up. We'll be doing four sets to failure. Now you have to get ten reps. Now if you need a spotter, or if you need to take a little bit of a rest in between, that's okay. Make sure you get ten reps on each set. This is a great exercise to do first, because it's a very functional movement that's going to create work. One thing I like to point out when doing pull-ups, keep the elbows as wide as you can, really concentrate on the squeeze at the top, and just lower on the way back down. Make sure you're getting at least ten. I a lot of the time shoot from 12 to 15. If I'm able to get 15, I add on weight through a weight belt. Two more sets to go. Are you feeling that back get big? You have to go into the gym with your game face on if you're going to get the maximum results. Take ten minutes and really think about what you can be doing. Sing yourself with that back you really have always wanted. We're ready to move on to T-Barrow. The second back exercise we're going to do is a bent T-barrow. Make sure you get your belt when performing this lift, which you want to do is you want to keep that back flat, nice and straight, keep the butt lower than the hips. We're going to be doing three sets, and on that third set we're going to do a drop set. The nice squeeze in that lathe, this time coming up full contraction to both stitches. That one right there, get you that big barndool back. All right, time for that third and final set, what we're doing this time, drops it. So as you can see, I've increased my weight each time. What am I doing here? Let me go to failure. Shooting for about ten to twelve reps, but I'm just going to go. It's like I've nothing left in the take. I'm going to strip off two plates, and continue going. That's it. You can see, it's real tough, but my form never suffers. That's it for T-bar. Next up, got a little co-scritch pull down. We're going to get on that lathe length. We're getting after it. This is really to activate the lower part of the lathe. Get a good squeeze. We're going to be doing three sets, and after that third set, we're immediately doing a drop set here. We're going to be keeping the reps between ten and twelve. We're going to increase the weight for our third set. Finish off with a drop set, and that'll be it. Really, increase the weight. That's it. The co-scritch pull down. Next up, we're going right into single arm dumbbell rows. Now, one thing to remember on these, keep that elbow as close to the body as possible and pull back. Not just straight up, but pulling back to your hip. Really isolates that lower lathe. We're going to be doing three sets. We're going to be shooting for eight to twelve reps. Always like to incorporate two rowing movements. It's really good to get that back to thickness. Now, if you feel the knees to start using straps, don't. The only time you should is if you can no longer handle the weight at all. We have to build some forearm and wrist strength as well. We're set out of the way. Time to go up and weight. You shouldn't feel it as much into your arms. If you are going to need to light the weight, it should be all flat. 60 seconds. Got the bigger dumbbell. Last set. Let's do it. Let us it for dumbbell row. We have one more back exercise to top it off. For the final back exercise, we're going to be doing rope lap pull downs. Now, this is going to really target the lower lathe. Use a light enough weight that allows us to about 15 reps. We're going to do five sets, 30 seconds break. One thing to remember when doing these is really keep the chest high as you bring the weight down. Now, remember on these the stretch. This is important as the contraction. Get a better contraction further than the stretch we do. Also, in between sets. To stretching up those lower lats. Alright, my step for back, make it your best. And that's it. Now that we've blown it back, we're moving on the blast and some bicep. First exercise we're going to do is a standard barbell of curl into a cheek curl. Now with this you want to take a little bit wider than shoulder width grip and concentrate on the last two-third movements. You want to watch you lock it out on the bottom, keeping it right here, all the way up, elbows down by your side, pure bicep contraction. We're going to be doing four sets, two sets of strict movement and two sets where we cheat a little bit. I throw in biceps with my back days because you work so much of the bicep as a secondary muscle when training back. Our second set, we're going to shoot for about eight reps. That's it, get to there, strict now, let's get into the cheeks. Now a little bit about cheek curls, the name's a little bit deceiving. You cheat to make it harder, just enough to get up that weight. It's going to be kind of the compound movement for biceps and one that builds math and we're going to be shooting for about six reps. And like they said, cheat to make it harder, not to make it easy. As you can see there, I was throwing my back just enough to get it up and control on the way down. Because we did add some weight, we're only going to do four reps. Next up in our bicep routine, we're going to be doing a little incline dumbbell curl. Now with this, you're going to want to make sure you're stretching all the way down, not quite to lock out, but getting a full range of motion and a nice squeeze up top. This is a great overall bicep builder, as well as when you come up, turning that wrist out, getting that pinky higher, really going to help bring out that lower cut. Four sets, 10 to 12 reps, rest period 30 to 60 seconds somewhere in there. All right, third set. And on that, you can tell I brought my legs up and crossed them. The reason I do that is to take any kind of momentum, I have my legs are anchored to the floor. It's got to be pure bicep contraction. Now that our two mass builders are out of the way for the biceps, we're going to be moving on the spider curls with a supersetted dumbbell hammer curl. We're doing two sets of each and we're going to be doing pretty much the failure. Hopefully it's around 10 to 15 on each, like I said, just go, go, go. Super setting, these two exercises really hitting that peak straight into the hammer curls, working on the brake yallas. I'm going to get an unbelievable pump, it'll be sure it's going. Paul, my 30 seconds rest, quick drink if you need one, right back. Time to get after it. And that concludes our back and bicep portion of the big man on campus trainer. One thing I like to do is keep a record of all the weights I use. Now you don't have to do it every single time you work out, you're making sure you know that you're increasing weight each time you lift is important. Reverse to bodybuilding.com for more content like this. Sure check out the rest of the videos.

I'm Steve Kofl, BodyBilling.com spokesmodel, Optimal Nutrition Athlete for 2010 BodyBilling.com Fit Body Winner. For 2010, muscle and fitness male model winner, as well as a IFB Pro Men's Bicycle Predator. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I earned my bachelor's in biology, psychology, and integrated studies. This is the Big Man on Campus, 12 week college trainer, Lake Dave. This grueling Lake workout will typically take you 45 minutes to an hour. Today we're hitting hamstrings and quads. I like to start off with an active five-minute warmup, whether it's jump rope, treadmill, followed up with some leg extensions, just light enough to get the blood going. Also one thing you'll notice in my leg workout, I'm always wearing a belt. I like to lower back, keep things tight. First exercise, straight leg deadlift. We're going to be doing three sets after our first warmup set. It's going to be sticking between eight to 12 reps. Really concentrating on form, keeping things nice and tight, legs not quite locked out, a slight bend, back straight, driving through the heels. First, this is just going to be the warmup set. Here we go. After our warmup set, in between all sets, we'll be taking about 60 seconds, 60 to 90 seconds to catch your breath, get some water, leg training is really demanding, so also remember to stay hydrated. Now for our first working set, we're going to be increasing the weight. A lot of times, you might not know how much weight to go up each set. You can't learn that by trial and error. The rule of thumb, I always like to stick to, if you should always be progressing in some form of weight. If you're shooting for 12 reps and get it easy, you know, next time you need to go up more, keeping a journal also really helps you can look back and make sure you're making progress. 8 to 12 reps here, I want to be shooting for. Pour it around that 12 reps because it is my first working set, keeping good force. Legs make up some of the largest muscles in the entire body. For this reason, the mind muscle connection needs to be greater here than any other body. All right, our 60 seconds is up. I've stretched out a little bit in between, just to keep things loose, we've increased the weight, we're still shooting for about 10 reps on here, never sacrifice your form. All right, for a third and final working set, increase the weights and I've also got my straps to use here. I don't use my straps on many things because I like my forearms and my grip to be strengthened as well. But when you get up in this kind of weight, you need them. Motivation is key on life. You're going to be using a ton of weight and if you're not mentally right, it'll tear you up. Like a jump on bodybuilding.com and watch some late training videos before I go. Seeing other people going through the hell of a leg day always excites me. Also having a training partner in your ear, pushing you, not letting you give up, keeps you accountable. Met it. Hit. Straight leg dead lifts. Stretch out the hamstrings a little bit. It's next up. We have standing leg curl. Now, if you don't have a standing leg curl in your gym, a lying leg curl works out just fine. Since we've already warmed up our hamstrings, three sets will be doing eight to 12 repetitions with rest periods being 60 seconds. The most important thing, whether you're doing a standing or a lying, is to keep the pelvis flat on the bench. This ensures that you won't be swinging, no lower back will come into it, you'll have peer hamstring movements. And that is it. Next up, for our third hamstring exercise, it's a seated leg curl. We're going to be doing five sets here. We're going to be doing three rounds right around 12, but I want you failing on each one. Only 30 seconds rest, this is really going to force a ton of blood into these hamstrings burn it out. Here we go. See you see, even as the way it starts getting heavier, the form never gets soft. It's a nice squeeze at the bottom to a full extension. One thing you'll also notice, I never lock out my knees at the top when I'm lifting the weight. It's important to keep a slight bend, keep those joints healthy. Alright, you made it to the fifth and final set. Hamstrings should be on fire right now. Last set though has to be the one of the most intensity and concentration. It's where we're going to get that growth. And that concludes our hamstring training. Take five minutes, stretch out the hamstrings. We'll be contracting them for the last two exercises, time to lengthen them out. Then, we're on the quads. Now that we finished up with hamstrings, we're moving on to quarter steps. The first exercise we're going to be doing is front squats. Now the reason I like to do front squats is to really work this fast as media hours. That tear drop muscle, where they're going to the beach, wearing a little bit shorter shorts, show that off. We're going to be doing one warm upset, followed by three working sets and a drop set in which we're going to burn it out. As far as rest goes, taking 60 to 90 seconds, just enough time to recover, get back under the bar. The reason we're going to be doing quads and hamstrings on the same day is because they're opposite opposing muscles. If you think about it, when you contract your quad, your hamstring stretches and vice versa. This is my opinion, is the best way to train legs to get the most growth out of them. For our first working set, we've increased the weight. Now you might not be able to increase the weight like you would on a backsquad. The weight is a little bit more uneasy in the front squat. That's okay. Just the hang of it. Second set. We'll be shooting right around that 14, 15, 16 mark. Rip range on our second working set, 10 to 12 reps. For our third and final set of front squats, we'll be performing 6 to 8 reps, fall immediately by a drop set. So after I get done performing my 6 to 8 reps here, I'm going to immediately strip off weight until I just have 45 on your side. I'm going to continue the set and really blast the quads. And strip off the weight here. Quad's right now we're going to fire. So you're in the set like this. There's just one way to take the pass failure. And a great way to really blast those quads. Now we are done with front squats. Not too much time to rest though, as we head over to perform leg press. If you don't have this machine in your gym, find something similar to it. We're going to be doing 3 sets of 10 to 12 reps, fall by a drop set immediately after the third set. Also, one thing, changing up your foot placement, you can really keep your feet close, we'll help you work the outer sweep of the quad. Why do you need the feet? We'll really help you work the inside. I like to switch it up, hit all the areas. After your 60 seconds rest, we're on to our second set. As you can see, I was performing the concentric and the eccentric at about the same tempo there. It's important to switch it up just like you would rep range to keep the body guessing. Alright, time for our third set. This is where we would perform a drop set at the end of our 10 to 12 repetitions. We'll extend it. We're going to start burning. Immediately, decrease the weight. You can continue the set. First two exercises are in the books. Now this is time where you get a dig down deep. Get through that leg dance. It's got check time. Your legs right now should be feeling a little bit rubbery. It's time though for the last superset. We'll be doing a leg extension right into a jumping lunge. Once you complete both of them, you get 30 seconds rest. We're going to be doing three sets of each. Let's get after. I'm going to be shooting at the 12 to 15 on the first one. So I really help coordination as well as just trashing the legs. Like 30 seconds, you're back to do it all over again. Your legs are probably screaming right now. They don't want to be doing this. Go through this pain and the rest of the day everything else seems easy. When I do leg extensions, I concentrate more so on the way down. It really helps stimulate all sorts of different muscle fibers and bring out the pads. If you're going fast on legs, you're not getting a result that you could. Definitely got the Gyeongby legs going. They weren't screaming before. They probably are now. One more set, your leg day is over. Watch it just be blown up right now. Your gas, you got nothing left. Third set. Final exercise with a big man on campus leg workout. You're almost there. Increase that weight. Leave it all in the gym. You're spent nothing left. Have a buddy carry over to the stretching area. That was the big man on campus leg day. The three exercises for hamstrings, smashing quads. They should be doing a little wobbly legs. It's a good thing. There's no way around it. If you want a serious physique, you have to train legs. My philosophy on the legs is that they have to be trained heavy and with more intensity than any other body part. All content like this and the rest of the big man on campus trainer. It's all at bioblion.com.

Today is International Chest Day. So we're going to be talking about how to build a awesome chest. There's a difference between having a strong bench press and that's typically the first thing people think of when they think of a chest, they think of flat bench press. How much do you bench press? One thing people don't understand is that so many other muscles come into play when doing a bench press. So we're going to be taking those muscles out of the equation. We're going to be pre-exhausting, building an amazing chest. Let's get after it. So the first one we're going to start off with to pre-exhaust is going to be an incline cable fly. We're going to be moving next into an incline dumbbell or machine press. Finally, we're going to be moving onto a flat dumbbell bench press. Lastly, we're going to be finishing off with a tricep to absolutely annihilate the chest. The first, let's start up with that pre-exhaustion on the incline cable fly. We have two warm upsets and then three working sets. We're going to be doing 12 to 14 reps. Now the reason we're doing this first is because we're going to be pre-exhausting. We're trying to take the triceps and the anterior delts out of it. So you're going to want an incline bench set up, no higher than a 45 degree angle. And again, find a cable apparatus and center your bench to where you're going to want to be pulling down, keeping the elbow, shoulder and wrist all in the same angle. On this first set, just nice and easy. We're not trying to prove any once anything right now. This workout, you've got to check your ego at the door. Because we're doing those heavy compound movements second and third after we've already pre-exhaust, you're not going to be a strong. This has always been one of my favorite isolation movements. And then when I say isolation versus compound, isolation, we're only using one joint here. We're using our shoulder joint to move the weight. Whereas in a compound movement, you're using your elbow and shoulder. So that's a compound exercise. I use the cables because it's allowing me to keep tension on the pec throughout the entire time without using any anterior delts or the triceps. The bench was a little bit off-center there, so that's what warm upsets are for. We're using the lighter weight and then I'm able to adjust my bench here. We saw my hand position. I wasn't in a parallel grip here. I'm using more of a pronated grip. That's because I just put the angle of my upper chest. I'm more of an advantageous position here. We're using the cables and then also gravity to really give us that resistance on the way down and then a full contraction on the way up. Main thing to remember here, that elbow joint, we're not pressing here. We're keeping that elbow joint locked in the same angle throughout the entire time, focusing on that nice chest contraction there. Rest period on this, about 60 seconds is all. I'm not actually seated all the way down. I'm actually on my feet, but in back as against the pet. The reason I do this is this, to me, it's going to be easier for me to arch my back off of the pad. And again, we're not looking to put our core at any risk. So I'm actually going to keep my heels on the ground, push up, keep my butt, and that's not going to allow me to arch as much. It's going to allow me to keep contact with that pad all the time. All right, we've got three working sets, 12 to 14 reps, really concentrate on keeping that elbow angle the same throughout and squeezing at the end. Give it a good squeeze, control the weight on the way down. Now we're not looking to stretch it past 90 degrees. I put more of a risk on our shoulder joint, drop the pen, and get the second set. Now you can never isolate 100% fully one area of your chest, but by doing this at an incline, we're using a little bit of anterior delt, just a little bit, and then that upper pack. Here we go. Ah! Ah! People are such a good way to start off. I work at it for a little bit of pre-exhaust. All right, third and final working set on this exercise. Drop the pen one, go up and wait and crease that weight. I'll set best set. Here we go. Ah! Little rest pause at the top here. Ah! Ah! Ah! Oh! Test is on fire, and that's just exercise number one. Should be feeling it on that top down, really that inside of the pack too, with the cables. All right. That's it for the first exercise. Let's move on to the second one. Our second exercise we'll be doing in this chest workout is going to be an incline to Smith machine press. So, one thing we always talk about in body building and fitness is having a balanced approach. And that means top down from your physique. Your one body part shouldn't overpower another. We started off with a cable. Now we're moving to a Smith machine press. We're attacking it from all different angles. So in this exercise, we're going to be doing three sets and then throwing kind of a nasty little drop set in there. We're going to be shooting for eight to ten reps. And on this one, we're going to be changing up the negative part of the movement. On this, we're going to slow down even more to four seconds down and then exploding up. So we don't need to warm up. The chest still has a little peck pop in it. We're not going to want that by any end of it. We're going to want so much blood in those packs that we can't bounce them. Our grip is going to be a little bit closer than what we might do in a normal flat bench press. Thumbs wrapped around the bar. And the Smith machine is nice. If you're working out alone, you can racket at any different place within your bench press movement. That anterior delt is coming into play, especially because we're on an incline here so that anterior delt and chest. But because we've already fatigued the chest, the chest is still failing before the anterior delt. My elbows aren't flared out all the way here and that next to my chest either. There's somewhere right in the middle there. Getting a nice press, nice squeeze, almost a scoopy motion. All the way to the top. As it starts getting tough or you know, I keep my feet pressed for me on there. I don't want to start raising my hips and raising my feet in there so the feet set the base for the rest of the lift. Here we go. Get to set that mind muscle connection. If you can stay connected with the area that you're working out, you're always in good better work out. Come into the gym, half-assing, you know, just going through the motions. Become into the gym with a purpose. You come into the gym, knowing what you want to achieve. The chest is already getting super filled up with blood because we've done that cable work beforehand. We've put in the pre-exhaustion. The last one, we're going through a little wrench in there. We're going to drop set in with it. But again, this is Utah. Come into the gym for you. Now what you put in is what you're going to get out. So turn off the cell phone, limit the distractions. Here we go. Set number three, straight into a drop set. Up, up. That's why we use the Smith machine there. Seven, seven and one quarter reps there. But again, that's where I wanted to fail just. Right about that seven range, I'm going to strip it down to the point where I only have a 45 on each side. What we're going to do is going super wide here. Doing five to seven reps, then bringing our hands in closer, doing five to seven reps. And then finally, finally with a close grip, bench press, five to seven reps. So here we go. Three, four, five, six, six. And then finish it off with a close grip. And that is just taking it past one of the techniques that take it past failure to lighten up the weight, switch up the grip. Again, that's going to bring them more triceps as we go closer. But it's hitting just a little bit different area each time we change up that grip. And next move, what we're doing is the flat dumbbell press. Now the reason I like to use the dumbbells is because we're going to be doing some isolateral work. Everything else we're doing both arms at the same time. So we're going to be working with one arm while the other one's resting and then switching up. Again, concentrating on the negative side of things and then we're really going to explode out of there. So my right arm is just going to stay put while I'm using the left press up. Three, four, and then we just switch it back. So we've increased the weight for our second set here. We're going to be shooting for at least eight to ten reps on here. Last time I held my right arm while I did the left first. So this time I want to be alternating and switching it up. Nice, it gets trolled. Again, our set here is going to be twice as long. So the time line is tension. We're holding it even in that offhand. Some of that peck is working, the anterior deltives working while we are actually doing it, the exercise with the other hand. So again, take that 90 seconds, full recovery back at it. All right, we got set number three here. A lot of good work has gone into this workout already. We're going to finish strong. So last set, best set on this. And then we're going to jump into a tri set. Here we go. So I'm back to using your arm. I started off with since we're only doing three sets here. That right there is a killer isolation work. Making sure each side gets the same amount of work as the other. It's so easy if you're doing barbell work to let one side start taking over. It's natural. Usually one arm is dominant. That'll take over if you let it. So over time, that's happened to you. Or maybe you've had an injury. Get back to doing some more isolation work. All right, that is it. Now we're just going to go for it and then seeing pump to finish it off. So we've done our warmup, our pre-exhaustion, our incline, our flat. Now we're going to be attacking it for that lower outer pecks. We're going to be doing a decline type of movement here on the dips. So we're going to be on straight from dips to a T bar press. And then we're going to go on straight to a modified pushup just to exhaust. It completely annihilate the chest. Just force as much blood into your pecks as possible. So we're going to be doing these nonstop and then a minute rest, nonstop, minute rest, and then one more. So by the end of it, heart rate should be up too. So first and foremost on the dip, we're going to be doing a dip for chest. Now most of the time when we're doing dips, it's for triceps. The way we make it for chest is by keeping the hips back and high. The chest we're not going to round our shoulders and concave it. We're going to be keeping it out. It's going to look something like this and then bring the hips high. You can see I was almost parallel with the floor there. Straight into our T bar press here. Again, I'm just going to wrap my hands around the bar here at the top. Get a nice angle away from the bar. Almost like we're creating a triangle here. Down to the top of the peck, back up one. One, two, three, four, five, six. And the last thing, straight into our modified push-up. Now this one might look a little bit weird. You might get people in the gym telling you you have bad form, but again, it's working the muscle and that's all we're carrying about. This isn't any ego workout, so we don't care about what people in the gym are thinking about us. Our butts are going to be high in the air and as you come down you come forward as well. And then push back. Maybe get as many as you can there and then just switch it up to a normal press and a normal push-up. As long as I got a little peck pop in there, I know my chest has not gone as a failure. I got a little bit left, so I got two more rounds in here. We're going to try to get it to the point where I can't contract those pecks at all. Chest dips are very underrated exercise for chest. Get a great squeeze on there. We're going to be going down just below parallel or just below 90 degrees and then all the way up just short of locking out. That's going to keep tension throughout the movement on the peck. We're using that bent over movement. It's almost like a press, almost like a fly movement. Pretend you're hugging a tree as you are doing your chest dip as I hit failure. I did some partial reps there. It's a wave extending the set. Spin and shawth. It's our modified push-ups. Get failure there. Now get a couple more. Check your peck. Your peck bounce. It still's just a little bit damaged. All right. For the last round, everything you got. Let them left nothing left in the tank when you walk out of the gym. You should know that there is nothing else you could have done. Last set, best set. Here we go. Full range of motion now on this. We just did some partial, stuck-stended. Now we're back in the full range. Two. Three. Three. Can't do any more full ones. There we go. Buck those in the air. By doing your workout, by pushing it, we want to quit. By forcing out one of those, those one or two extra reps when your mind doesn't want to go on, but you push your body a little bit past to that point. That's going to flow over in every other area of life. Let's start right here right now with you in the gym. Just because it's not leg day or back day. Doesn't mean you should leave gasped. The peck pop. Nothing. Nothing left. Nothing left. That's good work. Again, it's a balanced approach. We hit things from every different angle. Cables, machine, free weights, and it's all done without working out your ego. Just your chest. Like always, if you guys want to see the full workout written out, check out the page below. Go ahead and leave comments and questions. Also, if you're looking for more workouts for me, there's plenty on bodybuilding.com. Also, on my website, Steve Cook Health, my YouTube Steve Cook, and then follow me. Steve Cook, underscore, 32 on all social media. If you guys want more free videos and articles, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Warning. So ut. Close your eyes. You gotta move your head to the helicopter. I went to Russia and I thought you don't ya? It's always there. Remember that one other day? When the hats go up, when the party's over, at the start of your new life. The iron is there. Ready to teach you. Its weight doesn't change. Its lessons are timeless. Its a lifelong friend. One of the best. When you're ready to quit, the iron will tell you. One more rep. When you're on the brink of cheating, the iron will tell you. Do not give in. When you're about to fall, the iron will whisper. This is a plan. Confidence. Power. These are the things I have given you. Take them everywhere. To class. Work. And life after. Listen to the iron. The iron will teach you. It will make you strong. Better than you were before. The best self. Could ever be.

I'm Steve Cove, Bodybuilding.com Spokesmodel, Optimal Nutrition Athlete. 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner. 2010 Muscle and Fitness Mail Model Winner, as well as a IFBB Pro Mint's physique competitor. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I majored in biology, psychology, integrated studies degree. For the next 12 weeks, I'm going to be your fitness professor. This is Bodybuilding.com's Big Man on Campus, 12 Week College Trainer. Take your seats, class is in session. Today, we're going to be hitting chest and triceps. You're going to be performing eight exercises. So take your anywhere from 50 to 70 minutes. It's going to be super intense. I don't want you in there for eight ton of time. It's getting smashed. I think you'll get back out. Grab a pen and then no pad because you're going to be working out with me today. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. All right, we just got done doing our five-minute warm-up. She feel ready to go. Now we're onto our first exercise and climb barbell press. We're going to hit a warm-up, eight to 12 reps, and then we're going to do three working sets of eight to 12 reps. All the continuation of that third set, we're going to drop the weight. Doing it set at 21, I'll talk more about it later. That is it for our warm-up set. Let's get serious. Time to start adding some weight. Everything I do is based on progression. Adding weight is crucial. You have to learn how to each time you come to the gym, focus yourself, add the weight to the bar, decrease rest time to ensure your intensity is always staying at a peak output. We're going to go to the center on each side. We can go to the stretch, keep ready for that set number two. Let's get after it. All right, this is the third set. It's time to get after it. We've up the weight, don't let that form get sloppy. I hope you've set up a little bit for this one. Now what you learn in the gym each day is something you can transfer for your school studies and to the rest of life. The discipline, the focus, as soon as you step foot into that gym, it is all business. All right, from there, we're going to immediately keep off the weights, taking it down just a 45 on each side. Go with a little bit, this is a technique I used to extend the set and take it past failure. We're going to be doing here. I'm going to go in 21 and I'm switching up my hand placement to really isolate the different areas of the chest. First I'm going to start in close. You'll notice that when I do these, I don't go down all the way. That is really to save my shoulders. I stop generally three to four inches before my chest and I continue pressing it all the way up. We're attacking it and a couple inches wider. This big man on campus 12 week old trainer, you're going to have to schedule time for workouts, class, social life. That's the only way to succeed because we're going to be pushing you to your limits. It's going to get a little more time. Yeah, I stopped through that. Get a good pump. You ready to hit the rest of that chest. Moving on to our second exercise, incline and dumbbell fly. The reason I'm doing two incline exercises is to really work on my upper chest. It's always been a week area of mine. So I've used a priority principle and I'm training it in the beginning of my workout. What we're going to be doing here is three sets, eight to twelve reps. We've already warmed up our chest and on that final third set, we're going to drop the weight, extend the set with a drop set. Let's get after it. I know you might not be used to doing back to back incline exercises in a couple weeks. You'll be thinking for me. A couple things you might notice on this is I'm not touching the weight at the top. I'm keeping constant tension underneath that chest all the way down. Coming up, stopping about six inches apart, keeps that chest working. Six seconds is up onto the second set. All right, moving on. This is our third and final set on dumbbell incline fly. We've got a drop set here. So we're going to be using our heavier weight, eight to ten reps. Going straight from there, no rest. Back down to what the weight we started out with. It's going to really force that blood. Get a great pump. Big down deep. One thing that I want you to really do before you ever step foot in the gym and do my trainer is get your mind right. Get motivated every day, prepare yourself to go through a fell. This isn't going to be easy to guess what life and color is in easy. All right, now that we've got a great burn for that chest, moving on to flat dumbbell press. This is our third exercise. We've already done two for our upper chest and it's super swollen right now. What this is going to do is really build our mass and thickness through our middle chest. We're going to do four sets here, six to ten reps. Go a little bit heavier and because it's a compound exercise, we're going to go 60 to 90 seconds rest, catch our breath a little bit. Get after it. All right, rest time's up. Time to get back to work. This is our second set. We're increasing the weight. Time to get serious. Now you might have to use a little bit lighter weight than you're used to using. Don't let that bug you. You're still working that muscle. All right, it's our third set. We're starting to get a little bit of heavy here. Form can't suffer though. Keep that chest expanded. Really focus on keeping the elbows tight. Don't want the anterior delts to start working or the tricep. Focus it in. Go land the chest up. Hold one to see it head rocking. Bees crunch on the b-boys up by the hip-ing. The base drop show for sounds like a drum. Everybody's in the club getting the fly. However, hands in the sky you're moved to the floor. Leave your stress and go and hop on this. And that's the bring the way up. Don't press straight up. I bring it a little bit up over my head. Just concentrate on squeezing everything together. All right, fourth and final set. Last set, best set, time to dig deep. Got about six reps. Time to put your game face on. All right, this is going to be the fourth and final chest exercise we do. We're going to be doing a modified dip as well as a push-up. It's going to be supersetted. We're going to be doing three sets of each. No rest in between. Your chest is going to be on fire. But after this, we're done with chest. Getting into this is a little bit more technical. As you raise up into a like you would a normal dip. You don't want to lean forward a little bit. Keep the chest over the knees. And as you come down all the way down and it's really squeeze with the chest. Going down all the way stretching the chest and coming up just short of lockout. No pressure should ever be on the triceps. It should almost be like a fly movement. Immediately, no rest down and two. Almost like a yoga downward dog position. And going to rock forward. Push up. Push back. Doing these back to back fashion allows you to just get a massive pump. It is great for finishing up a chest. It leaves your gas. But chest, on fire. Alright, 30 seconds is up. You might not feel like you're ready to go again. It's not. Toast it. Alright, this is going to be the last and final chest exercise. So it separates the tenders from the contenders. Here we go. My chest now is spent. We are finished with chest. We did over four exercises. Getting all of the areas upper, middle, lower, inner and outer right there. Next, tricep portion. We are going to start off with school crushers. Coming at you. For our first tricep exercise, we have school crushers. Supercetted with a closed grip bench press. Now this is going to be the basic mass builder for the triceps. We are going to be doing one more upset here. Followed by three working sets of eight to 12 reps. And each one is going to be a super set. Going to blast these triceps right off the bat. We are using the eye train chest and triceps together because when you work out your chest, you are working your triceps as a secondary muscle. So what I like to do is after hitting the chest, throwing a couple extra sets to really blast the triceps. Anytime you are doing a pushing exercise, you are usually hitting both. That is it for the warm-up set. We now have three working sets to go. We are going to take you 60 seconds rest in the swing. With the warm-up out of the way, we are now moving into the first working set. I am going to be doing eight to 12 reps. Let's get after it. One thing to keep in mind in between sets, grab a drink, flex a little bit, stretch out some muscles, and keep your eye on the clock. 60 seconds is all we are taking here. This is the second working set. This is now the third working set we are on. I have increased the weight each time to where it is getting heavier. My reps are going down. Next includes the first exercise for our triceps. We did a compound movement in school crushers, close grip bench press, really working on the mass of the tricep. Next up we will do more of an isolation movement. Rope extensions. For our second tricep exercise, we are going to go with an isolation movement, rope extensions. It is a great one to bring out the details. And because it is an isolation movement, we are going to bump up the reps. 12 to 16, still keeping it at three sets. As you can see, there is not a lot of movement in my shoulders. Elbows rest down by the side, all triceps. We have increased the weight a little bit, still keeping the reps a little bit higher. Rest time has only been 30 seconds, so we are still going to get a lot of blood in there. If you notice there at the end, I did some partial movements. If you have an upper or lower area of the triceps, that is a little bit weaker. Doing a couple extra partial reps can really force blood into those areas. Now look at the triceps on fire. We are going to move to our final exercise, dumbbell overhead extensions. Now this is one giant set with four drops. Starting off with the heaviest weight, as many as you can. Immediately, dropping to a lighter weight as many as you can. Do that two more times, you will be blasted by the end of it. No rest. You are all fired now. That's it. After that, you should be able to move your arms. We know it's working. And that is it. You made it through. Chest and triceps portion of the big man on campus trainer is finished. In this big man on campus 12 week college trainer, you are going to have to schedule time for workouts, class, social life, really to do it all. And that is the only way to succeed. Knowing when to play, when to work is crucial. So by really harnessing that mental toughness in the gym, you will be able to use it out of the gym. Make sure you check out the rest of the videos and bodybuilding.com for more content like this. Class dismissed.

I'm Steve Tucker. Bodybuilding.com's postmodel, often nutrition athlete. The 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner. The 2010 muscle and fitness male model winner, and the IFPD pro men's physique athlete. Before I was in the event, I was a collegiate athlete, earning my bachelor's in biology, psychology, integrated studies. This is the Big Man on Campus, 12 Week College Trainer. Today, we're going to be training shoulders and traps. Just like for all other body parts, we're going to be using both compound and isolation movements. Compound or multi-joint movements, take 60-90 seconds to rest. Because we're able to use a little bit heavier weight, you're going to need the extra rest period. When using an isolation movement, keep it to 30-60 seconds. Grab a pen and a no-pad. Classes and sessions. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. First exercise, dumbbell press. When we're doing three sets, 12-16 reps, moving down and reps as we increase weights. And a final set is going to be a drop set that we do. Getting ready for this intense shoulder workout. You're going to want to take some time, close those eyes, visualize, and get motivated. You've gone up, in weight. We're dropping the reps a little bit. Still going to failure. My belief on shoulder and traps training is that they've got to be hit hard with a lot of all you. You're going to be doing over 20 sets for shoulders. It's going to be demanding. It's going to be tough. We're going to get through it. You get 60 seconds. Grab some heavier dumbbells. You're at back. Time for the third set. We've gone up to our heaviest dumbbells. I think it pumped up a little bit for this one. We've got a little bit of a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. You got to go over it. You're going to be doing over 20 sets for shoulders. It's going to be demanding. It's going to be tough. We're going to get through it. heaviest dumbbells. I can get pumped up a little bit for this one. All the way, completely failure. Moving right into our drops, it's a continuing. The drops set, it's typically trying to hit the same number of reps as I did on the previous set, usually around 10. Next up, we're doing some side dumbbells, we get that nice dumbbell cap. First set, we're doing about 12 reps and there will be increasing weight as we decrease reps. After our third set, we're performing a running the rack. It's a triple drop set, super intense, but it really gets a butt pump in there. This is the help build with and give you that nice wide shoulder look. The shoulder and trap training is a great way to use many different techniques. One that I always use is progressive training. I always try to beat the weights that I used last time or decrease the rest, increase the set, and shock the muscles in many different ways. For our third and final set of dumbbell lateral raises, we'd be shooting for about 8 to 10 reps, immediately dropping the weight to a lighter dumbbell to get 10 new for 8 or 10 reps, and then dropping once more. I call this running the rack, because usually the dumbbells are on the rack and you just go right down it. Just hold it, just burning away right now and just staying there for as long as you can. And that's it for dumbbell lateral raises. Next up, we're doing a reverse pectech, working that rear delt. We're going to be doing five sets of 10 to 14 reps, only taking 30 seconds in between. One thing you might not be able to tell is I never let the machine go back to its resting point that way the tension is always on my rear delt. We're going to increase the pounded, for our second set, 30 second break right back here. I've increased the weight, shooting again for 10 to 14 reps. We got our fifth and final set of reverse pectech, really striving to shoot for that 10 reps. And that's it for our third delt exercise. Next up, we have a superset, a front raise and an upright row. We're going to be doing three supersets. We're going to finish with one, go straight into the other, rep range between 10 and 14. Now the front raise I want you to do with your palms facing up. This is the best way to activate the muscle fibers and tie in that anterior delt and pecten surfaces. Get that nice separation. Now we're going to straighten that upright row. It's a little bit wider of a grip than maybe you are used to. And then after this, we have 60 seconds break. You've increased the weights. We're going to still go for that 10 reps. This is our third and final set for delt exercise before we move on to shrugs. Shoot for 8 reps. You still love how we have traps to do. There's a misconception that you have to throw a ton of weight to increase your traps size. It's about good form, squeezing. We're going to be doing a warm up set here, followed by four working sets of 8 to 12 reps, increasing the weight each time as we decrease the number of reps in this set. I also have my straps. I'm not going to use them until the weight becomes too heavy to hold. 15 reps is enough just to get the blood full and get that warm up in there. We're going to take 60 seconds, increase the weight. You're ready to go. For our second set, we've added a 45 on each side. Still don't need the straps quiet. Shoot them for 12 reps. Never is the mind and muscle connection more important than when training shoulders and traps. The reason I train these two together is because they work very closely with each other. Anytime your hands go above your shoulders, the traps come into play. That was working set number one. Now we're going to increase the weight. Take that 60 second break. Now this is when the felt and your straps come in handy. As a weight, it's too heavy to hold on your own. Strap it around the bar. It allows you to keep good form. We're not bouncing here. All the way up, holding all the way back down. Shoot for that tid red mark. I've added the weight. We're going to still shoot for 10 reps just because it's our heaviest. Doesn't mean we're going to get sloppy. And that is it for our deltories and traps. Getting into the gym and training shoulders is one of my favorites. If you really take it upon yourself, take work hard. If you want to be honest. Don't forget to watch the rest of the big man on campus training series. And for more content like this, check out BodyBilly.com.

Hi, I'm Steve Cook. I'm the 2010 Bodybuilding.com Fit Body Winner. Also the 2010 Muscle and Fitness Mail Model Winner as well as a professional level in GA Body Builder. I'm here to talk to you a little bit today about how I achieved my physique, through diet, nutrition, my training and my supplementation. I really want to help those out there that are with the transforming themselves from high school or collegiate sports, looking to get more into the fitness world. I myself put college football and high school football as well as track basketball. And that's really easy when you have coaches and you have other guys around telling you and pushing you. What do you do once you're alone in a gym? When I got out of high school, I get them playing college football. I looked at it, still in the same way. I was going into the gym with a goal online, whether it's to compete on stage, just to be healthier, have little goals to get set for yourself, whether it's two weeks. I'm going to max out and see where I'm at, two or after getting stronger. But I'm going to test my body fat. You have to go in there with something that's going to keep you motivated, keep you on track, or else you're just going to be going through the motions. There's so much of a parallel between sports and lifting. You can keep in sports, you add the final, you're going to be measured against other people. And bodybuilding, there is that competition between other people you can have. The more employment, I think it's between yourself. Every day you're going to wake up when you're in the mirror and see results. You're going to see it happening and kind of setting those goals, going into the gym, and just seeing, getting the pompous, Arnold described it or whatever, it is an amazing feeling. And going in there with that competitive mindset, just like competitive attitude, it'll take you take you a lot further. Even if it's just competing against yourself, because really when it's all said and done, the goal is to be healthier. And that's just something that's personal. When I go to the gym, it's 100% business. I don't go there to socialize, you see a lot of people in the gym, you know, run in the mouth, whatnot. For me, after the iPods and then I get like to get after it, whether it's, you know, heavy lifting, or if it's more of a circuit training depending on exactly what my goals are, I like to switch it up. I do a lot of resistance training with heavy weights, where I'm doing heavy squats, basic lifts, one thing that I do like to do is if I'm doing a basic movement, whether it's a bench presser, I do like to go fairly, fairly heavy. Down to, you know, those four reps up to about 12. I'm doing more of an isolation movement. I'm going to do a little bit more in there. I'm at the end of my workout or whatnot. But I like to switch it up, keep things interesting, and that's how I've got my best results. You know, I want to build big, big chest. You know, I saw everyone in the gym being flat bench. A bench press got real strong, but it didn't do a whole lot for my chest. And I had to kind of sit down and it was kind of a hard thing for me to do. I just say, hey, you know, bench presses and working to build my chest. I started to be more of an incline building my upper chest. For a beginner, go in in there and just doing the basic stuff will be a great foundation. You can then, you know, set your goals. Some people have, you know, genetically your disposition to build big arms. You know, I have to work on their legs a little bit or whatnot. But just just getting into the gym, starting out basic, just doing your basic lifts, really doing them proper. You know, good form, you never throw their weights around. I always change it my rep tempo. Some days it's rolling, you know, slow deliberate. Always under control other days it's more of a power, you know, training a little bit faster pace. If I'm training for mass, you know, I'm going to take a little more time between my sets. If I'm training more for a show or to get cut up, you know, it's more of a cardio basketball workout as well. I typically train on a four on one off when I'm getting ready for something, whether be a show or for the, you know, the spring trying to get a little bit more cut up. I like to go in and hit my back and buy steps one day, chest and triceps, legs and shoulders. Shoulders, I find I get the best results when I do just a shoulder workout. Cardio for me is something that, you know, I think it's very important when I'm trying to maintain or get down to a certain body fat. Or, you know, it's also very important. And, you know, if you're in a bulk, you still need to do some form of cardio just for your heart. I like to do it in either in the morning. Before my workout, I don't, I don't ever do cardio and then work out very close together. It's, you know, a couple hours apart. Or, I do cardio if I'm in a pinch right after. Cardio is one of those things you just need to, if you need to get it done, do it when you can. Platoes are something, you know, everyone's going to run into. When I hit a plateau, the first thing you do is, I look in my training logs, my body space, so what I have been doing. Obviously, it's not working for hitting a plateau, something needs to change. You do it, you need to hit harder, maybe back off a little bit. Maybe take a couple days of rest and just totally let your body look great. Maybe you need to also look at your diet. Also, sleep. Sleep something, you know, you're not going to be able to go into a gym form like you should if you're not getting out of good enough. So, you get to look at everything. And then, kind of, you know, back to the drawing boards, maybe add an exercise or two for a couple weeks. If you've been doing more of a volume, drop your sets down, show it up, you work out, train for intensity. You know, really heavy weights and, you know, just track your progress. Well, that was how I train for the full content on my whole training routine. Check out the page below. Now, time to talk a little bit more about nutrition. People ask, you know, what's your diet? And I always tell them, you know, it's not really a diet for me anymore. You know, I've made a decision to live like this and it's a healthier lifestyle. One thing that's going to definitely become apparent as you start your training is that diet plays a huge role. You know, growing up high school or whatnot, you can pretty much eat whatever you want. As long as you're in the gym, you're going to grow a little bit. As we get older, you know, our bodies are going to be changes and you're going to need good nutrition, whether you're in a bulk or cutting, feeling your body with the right sources of carbohydrates, proteins and fat, make all the difference in the world. You have a plan of a gym. Why don't have a plan on your diet as well? That's something that goes hand in hand. You can't have one without the other. I eat seven meals a day. I know that sounds a little bit extreme. My metabolism's a furnace and I'm always stoking it with fuel. And I'm always feeding it, giving it good sources of energy. Good carbohydrates, good protein. And it's always wrapped up ready to go. I try to eat every two and a half to three and a half hours. You know, when I wake up, I give something and I'm eating then until pretty much to go a bit. My meal is consistent protein and carbohydrates and good fats. A good protein source for me, you know, chicken. You know, you have the hottest cheese, chicken. You know, you hear that. I also like ground beef, really lean ground beef, good, you know, sirloin steak every now and then. Eggs, I eat a lot of egg whites. And then I also, you know, post workout. I look to get a shake in or if I'm on the go and can't grab something. But just make sure that you're hitting at least one gram for pound of body weight. Good carbs sources, you know, I like sweet potatoes, yams, obviously vegetables. People, you know, what we mean sometimes think I'm a rabbit, because I'm a mountain vegetables and what do you think? Other, other good carbs sources, I get ground rice, king law, oatmeal. I also like to carb cycle, you know, keep on the top of those and then I'm on a body guessing, you know, one day go really high, fall by, you know, a medium and a low day. Also depends on my activity level. You know, if I'm, if I'm out there skiing, you know, being very active, I can afford to, you know, more grand, grand, carbohydrates or whatnot. So I'm a little bit less active, you know, if I'm at home watching the football game or whatnot, you know, I'm going to back off the carbs and the most of my calories in the form of fats and proteins. That's a very important to test off-stream production, your body. You know, nuts and nut butter, you know, I eat a lot of almond butter, almonds to me, tastes like canyons, I love it. I also like avocados and olive oil and whatnot, but it's, you know, it's important to remember that fats are more calorie dense than the carbohydrates and the proteins. So, you know, it really does come down to calories in versus calories out when you talk about losing weight, but it's also the quality of calories when you talk about, you know, body composition. No one can go all the time without having any cravings. So, things you can do to really help out. I love the thin calorie sugar-free jellos that, you know, that gives me a, a set of size of my craving for, for a lot of speeds when I'm on a strict, strict diet. But one thing that, you know, I really, I'm a big, big believer is every now and then, you know, pro-achievement, you know, whether it's once a week or if you're just starting out once every three days or what not, then you have to allow yourself to have a break, you know, you have to allow yourself to just pour your glitters, pizza or hamburger, pick one meal and get after it. Now that you know about how important nutrition is, you can check out my full meal plan on the page below. Now, let's get into another important topic, supplementation. One other very important aspect of training and dieting is supplementation. It comes in when you can't get all your meals or you're lacking vitamins and whatnot. Supplement something that you can take advantage of and really see the gains. It's something that I like to do with it, right? I mean, a bulkying or cutting phase. The reason something that I can't do without, definitely going to be the glutamine. The branch changes me no acids and then the protein. These things no matter what cycle I'm in in my life or where I'm at, you know, I have to make sure that I get enough of. I'm really feel like the glutamine really helps repair, you know, my, my damage body from the workouts and it's something that I really can get everyone to benefit from. You know, for me, I make sure that if I get a new supplement, I always read a label. I see exactly when I should take it. Usually I take my, my multivitaminants or my thermogenic, a little before I eat breakfast. There's a lot of supplements you should take with food on an empty stomach. That's one thing that you really need to look at and see. Folded directions. Protein shakes are essential for me as soon as I can get on with my workout. There's so many supplements out and they're always coming out with new supplements and they're always are claiming things. Now you need to go, you need to check out bodybuilding.com, check out the reviews on them, make sure that they are, our, our parallel with what your goals are. I mean, not going to take a mask-aining carbohydrate protein drink if you're trying to cut. There's so many, so many great companies out there that make supplements that you really can't go wrong. But the key is to really know what you're putting in your body and know what you can expect out of it. You know, supplements, like I said, are there just a supplement case? You can't have a poor diet and poor training and take supplements and expect to have a near course. Now that you know what I do for my training, nutrition and supplementation, check it out on the page below. Or find me at Body Space. My username Steve Cook under score 32. Ask me questions anytime, I'd love to get back to you. Further content like this, check out Bodybuilding.com.

Hey Steve Nash here. You can find my one body products right here at Bodybuilding.com. I use one body from my performance, recovery, clean energy and overall health. Our holistic natural product line specializes in food vitamins, plant enzymes, patented keylated minerals and stabilized probiotics. I use a lot of the products with my favorites, our blend, flow and recover. Check us out and enjoy. Thank you.

I'm Steve Shier, I'm one of the HRT contest winners hosted on Bodybuilding.com. Well, at first I'll send you a show for myself at least. I can really speak to the fact that they were very eager to flating. I mean, that's what I found right off the bat. I mean, I was doing a lot less weight than before. And also, it really pointed out when you were doing form incorrectly, because it was really difficult on the stabilizer muscles. When you were working with partner assisted resistance. Oh, the first time, it was embarrassing. I mean, it was painful. We were going through there. And you goes for hurting. We could not even complete. All the reps that we were supposed to do. I mean, when it got down to the health metrics, we were burned. We don't have any trainer partner. He really calls you out on your shirt. You know, there was some days where I just wasn't feeling it. And having a loss there, he made sure that I did the weight that I was supposed to do. You know, I was on a cutting diet. So I had very low energy. So we got very difficult at some points. But having a partner there, he really called me out. And I was acting. And he wasn't acting the last, both. We have a different training style. So I had to work with him in various ways. I know that I was going to push up a little hinge as well. I would say we were competitive. But the way that we were competitive is we both really wanted. We had certain goals that we wanted to meet. We wanted to make sure that we met the goals. And our goals were different. My partner was putting on weight. I was losing weight. So really the competitiveness was just making sure that we held up our end of the deal. We did what we needed to do. I started at a tooth 30. I ended up, I believe, around 2014. And it was actually interesting because before I started the cut, I gained about five pounds. First four weeks that really was bulking up, I was putting a muscle in strength. The last day of weeks I started a cut program. And what I will say is I actually had strength increases while I was cutting. I just did not expect. Before I started the program, I couldn't even do a dip with body weight. I was kind of embarrassed. I'm a big guy at 230 pounds. I still couldn't do one single dip from body weight. At the end of the program, I was able to comfortably do eight reps of body weight plus 45 pounds. There's a lot of programs that promise you, gigantic gains, or huge cuts. Get ripped real quick. Things like that. I was very skeptical of any program that I saw, but I'll tell you by the end of the program, I was down to a routine. We got them in general. We were machines. We did what we needed to do. We were in and out of there. We made it work. By the end of it, we had a pretty personal contact with a couple of the guys at animals. We were getting help from all different sources, which was extremely beneficial and actually took a lot of our weightlifting to the next level. The people that I would recommend it to, I guess the earlier stage would be somebody who's looking, who's actually beginning to take bodybuilding seriously. Because it's a very painful program. So if you're not committed to it, you're not going to do it. So you need someone who's already started seeing some benefits and knowing that bodybuilding is working for them. Who really has a goal in mind and they want to meet that goal. I mean, that's the first time I would tell you, use HRT, reach that goal.

Hold a couple of dumbbells by your side. Stand up straight with your legs based apart about shoulder width. Your knees should be slightly bent. This will be your starting position. Keep your knees stationary and back straight. Now exhale and lower the dumbbells over the top of your feet by flexing your hips and setting your butt back. Keep moving forward as if you're going to pick something up from the floor. Continue this motion until you feel a stretch on the hamstrings. Then inhale and start raising your torso back up again by extending your hips until your back at the starting position.

Grab the bar using an overhand grip. Stand straight up with your legs spaced about shoulder with the part. Your knees should be slightly bent. This will be your starting position. Now keeping your knees stationary, exhale and lower the barbell over the top of your feet by bending at the waist. Keep moving forward as if you're going to pick something up from the floor. Continue this movement until you feel a stretch in your hamstrings. And inhale and start raising your torso back up again by extending your hips and waist until you're back to the starting position.

Stand up straight with your feet shoulder with a part from each other. This will be your starting position. Now slowly inhale as much air as possible. Then exhale bringing your stomach in as far as you can. Hold this position and try to visualize your navel touching your backbone. One contraction is around 20 seconds. During a 20 second hold, try to breathe normally then bring your stomach back to the starting position. Once you've practiced this exercise, you can work your way up to 40 and 60 second contractions.

Stop doing your leg extensions like this. Non-sense. All right, a couple things I want to show you. So you have a couple dials you can move here. First dial is you want to get this pad as far back as you can so you get greater range of motion. All right. Second thing is you want this pad to be at the bottom, essentially close to your ankle. All right, you don't want it up your arms or your chin. That's going to take a lot of people make it. It's very uncomfortable movement. And the third thing is to see, you want to see to go far and also that the back of your knee is snug with the pad. Once you have that, you have a couple things you need to take into consideration here first. Grab the handles and with the handles you want to drive your arm. Into the pad. Make yourself a stable as you can possibly be. So that would look something like this. And the last thing is you want to point your toes up and you don't want your feet to be out like this. Or inwards like this you want them to be straight lined up with the hips and the bones. Pointing up this one. You got a better contraction in the VMO. That part of the quadricep that we're isolating. All right. So lock yourself in. Now don't swing the wings. A lot of people do this. It's terrible. This is where a lot of knee pain comes in. You want to control the movement because this is isolation. And when you're at the top, you're going to spend some time because this part of the quadricep is fully short. And a lot of people don't spend a lot of time here. So you really want to control this contraction. Really own it and control it down. This is not an exercise where you want to put in a lot of weight and get your ego in it. No drop your ego. Go for higher repetitions 10 plus and really control it and own it. If you really want to develop the quadricep, especially that tear drop part of the muscle. That's your best intention. All right guys. Like and follow for more. And if you know a bro or bro let that does this incorrectly, please share it with them. All right.

Start by grabbing the bar from the top pulley and stepping backwards a few feet. Next, bend your torso forward about 30 degrees at the waist. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you with a slight bend in your elbows. If your arms are not fully extended then you need to step backwards until they are. Once your arms are fully extended and your torso has slightly bent at the waist, tighten your lats and you'll be ready to begin. Now keeping your arms straight, breathe out and pull the bar down by contracting the lats until your hands are next to the side of your thighs. Then while still keeping your arms straight, return back to the starting position while breathing in.

Alright, now jump in, let me show you something to look good. This is too high for you, so you have to step all the way back in order to pull. You want this to be like right above. I level, so it's easier to control. So this is the weight, right? So we're here instead of sitting back, stand here, bring it up, just come to the stretch. Your upper body comes down, then you bring your torso up, squeeze up here. Alright, step back slightly, not too far. You're going to lean forward into the weight, lean, and then push the bar down. And then four stretch one. Good, and then up comes up. Yep, when you stretch, bring it up, your body down, so you can get that stretch in the left. Nice, right there. Down, stretch, stretch, stretch. Very thick. Good job, you know. Come on, come on, come on. It's starting to shake already. That's how you know you're using your back, now your legs. Come on, one more, one more. Up, up. Nice, let it go. How does that feel? Exactly, exactly, alright? Good job.

Start by grabbing the bar from the top pulley and stepping backwards a few feet. Next, bend your torso forward about 30 degrees at the waist. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you with a slight bend in your elbows. If your arms are not fully extended then you need to step backwards until they are. Once your arms are fully extended and your torso has slightly bent at the waist, tighten your lats and you'll be ready to begin. Now keeping your arms straight, breathe out and pull the bar down by contracting the lats until your hands are next to the side of your thighs. Then while still keeping your arms straight, return back to the starting position while opening this entry, just like an a seah ihrin side of your leg. A corner of your head stitch must stay between your floor and floor.

Hey guys, I'm Lise Dileon and I'll leave for her athlete and today I'm going to show you how to make my strawberry lemonade amino popsicles. This recipe is super quick and easy. First we're going to start by filling a shaker bottle with water. Then we'll add four scoops of NLA for her pink lemonade amino's and the juice of half a lemon. Then just shake it up and fill the popsicle molds about three quarters of the wafel. Next slice and add one strawberry to each popsicle mold. Last just cover and put them in the freezer overnight. In this recipe I use strawberries but you can use any fruit you like. Just have fun with it. I love this recipe because it's a fun summer tree that's guilt free and I can keep on hand for whenever I'm creating something sweet. The step-by-step guide and macronutrient breakdown for this recipe can be found in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me you can find me on Instagram at Lise Dileon and on my website at LiseDileonBitness.com. For more free recipes and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

Lye face down on the floor or an exercise mat. Fully extend your arms in front of you. This is the starting position. Now simultaneously raise your arms legs and chest off the floor and hold the contraction for two seconds. In the fully contracted position, you should look like superman when he's flying. Slowly lower your arms legs and chest back down to the starting position. Slowly lower your arms legs. Slowly lower your arms. Slowly lower your arms.

I would love to tell you that I came in here and I ticked but week number one. That would be a lie. I barely lived through my first workout and that hurts me to tell you because I didn't think it was going to be so bad. I saw the workout on paper and when you look at it, it's really not a crushing workout. I got through the first few lifts. I'm going along, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, we're doing a bamboo bar overhead press and the first set we did on it. I feel like the ball was going to come out of my hands at the top of each rep. I'm thinking wow. Either Tom is kind of soft and the programming is soft or I am just, oh, that good. Second set of bamboo bar presses, I barely finished and it was only downhill from there. As I went through the workout, things got worse and worse and by things, I mean me, I started deteriorating pretty significantly and was dropping IQ points probably every couple seconds. I can't remember a lot of what you're seeing from that workout. Once I got into a certain point in my, and my de-evolution over that workout, I have no active memory of any of it. I was talking to some of the guys afterwards, they thought I was like stalling or kind of by time because my coordination was off, I couldn't get a belt on, I couldn't get it off. I genuinely don't know what happened, but I do know that I am in much deeper water than I expected to be. And again, I didn't come in here with a big ego. I didn't think I was going to crush everything, but I also didn't think I was going to get completely steamrolled. And I did. Where's the rounddown workouts? Now this is the most physically uncomfortable training session I have ever done. I got that journey session more emotionally stressful. I think it turns out it's a weight in our, or what I've tried to do. I've got to have some of this physical that I've had the wall. This is like this deals like super credit, super setting, like truck balls. Like, you know what truck will deal off, you sit down right. You know what? This is like, too truck ball, relax, too. Imagine who would go, who actually truck, but that's I both. I can't get away from the ticket, can't you? Yes. He's just fucking anti-tag needle of the fucking workout. Yes, good. Like, yes, good. You're going to try it. Yeah, you can. So from here, I can't cut any corners. If I intend to live through the next three weeks of training here, I need to get everything nailed down. So my food is going to be perfect. Every meal, every day, the same couple things, I'm going to take every single supplement I can that I have with them doing multivitamin. I'm doing a postwork out. I'm doing a pre-work out of a book. Approaching out, I am doing everything. Everything I could possibly handle, or everything I could possibly include in my routine, I'm including. I'm doing the sauna, I'm doing the cold point. I'm doing normatech boots. I'm going to sleep as much as I can. I'm going to drink a lot of water. I am trying to nail every single aspect of this to the point that I've decided to move into the store room at the gym. And be here 24, 7. To give this undivided, monk mode levels of attention. So here is the plan as we move forward. I've got three significant workouts per week. One of the whole body day, that's the one that almost led to my untimely demise. Then I've got a heavy upper body day and a heavy lower body day. It takes into that week. I also have three light workouts every week. More extra workouts. We're doing some postural stuff, some sled work, some recovery work, overall. I'm going to be using the armory for body work to stay together. I'm going to be eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight every single day drinking. Five liters of water taking all of my supplements, including the multibitamin. The recovery shape, the pre-workout, the protein powder. I am taking every single measure possible to make sure that I am not the reason that I've below this month and do not represent what results are possible. Despite the fact that after this first hard workout, I think there's a chance I just die. There's a chance that this ends with my funeral. That'll be the next episode. If I have another workout like that, it might actually kill me. And that's how this project could end. Hello, the week. This week's getting absolutely obliterated. But now I'm genuinely understanding that this is even more serious than I thought at first than I have to be equally as serious as I approach this. Not only to get the most out of it, but to live through it. So I'm hoping when I see you next week and tell you about what has been happening, I've got some good news. As opposed to the news I had this week, that is I am barely alive, but I am going to be spending the next week getting as serious and as consistent as dedicated and disciplined as possible. And I'm hoping the next time we talk, I've got some good results to show you. Scent prayers.

A just the straps so the handles are an appropriate height below waist level. Begin standing and grasping the handles. Lean into the straps, moving to an inclined push up position. This will be your starting position. Keeping your arms straight, lean further into the suspension straps, bringing your body closer to the ground, allowing your shoulders to extend, raising your arms up and over your head. Maintain a neutral spine and keep the rest of your body straight. Your shoulders being the only joints allowed to move. Pause during the peak contraction and then return to the starting position.

The tasteiest, high protein cheesy beef taco potato balls. All four 520 calories packed with so much flavor, perfect for weight loss, and incredibly easy to meal prep. Slice your potatoes into small cubes, then add this taco seasoning mix with olive oil, give it all a good mix, then oven or air fry on the settings listed on screen. Next, make the Chipotle spicy sauce with low fat yogurt, light mayo, chipotle chili paste, hot sauce, squeeze of honey, salt, paprika, and garlic powder. Blend it all till completely smooth and creamy just like this. You can bought all the sauce up and store in the fridge for weeks. Next, make the first sauce I would chop tomatoes, red onion, bell peppers, coriander, the spice blend, and lime juice mix to welcome buying. Then get a pan on high heat, add grass fed butter and cook the beef for 8 minutes before adding tomato paste and more taco seasoning mix, mix and cook till golden brown. Add low fat cheese, then all that's left to do is equally distribute into four servings and your high protein meal is ready to enjoy.

Remedies for Lotus Dostrum. First and foremost, I would say to seek medical professionals guidance. This is stuff pertaining to your hormones. You want to blood test. You want someone who's educated and can guide you in the proper direction. But there are other things that we can do that can make a decent difference. You can focus on your sleep, your habits, and your nutrition. Sleep, and extra hour goes a long way towards improving your testosterone levels. As well as focusing on getting better quality sleep, billet-beder sleep habits. Abit's in general, stress. If you can approach life with a more laid-back mindset, not stressing over small things, that will do worlds for your testosterone levels. And lastly, nutrition. When it comes to nutrition, ensuring that your diet is comprised of good, whole food, micronutrient dense foods is very, very important. There is nothing wrong with having a treat here there. Everyone's in a wild, junk food can be fantastic. But, too much of a good thing can also be very, very bad thing. So it's important to make sure that you're limiting your intake of that and focusing on the foods that are really going to make a difference.

We've talked a lot about the signs and symptoms of a list of sauce drum. Enough that you might be thinking, well that's not good. What if that's me? How do I know? Luckily, let's get checked calm, offers you very easy to use at home test kit. They send you everything that you need in this little box. All you have to do is take five minutes of your time, go through the steps, and then mail it back. They also send along a return mailing address so you have nothing to worry about except for doing the five minutes of work that is required. There is a video on their website but to walk you briefly through it, you will have a saliva swab that you put in your mouth for two minutes. Do not chew it. If you don't have enough saliva, leave it in for a little bit longer. You place back in the tube, you're good to go. Next, they will provide you a number of lances. You just twist this little tap off. Push it flush against one of your fingers, any finger except for the ring finger, and then you will then take the cap off of this tube, push your finger up against the lip, and you will let your blood fill until the fill line. And you're done. Once everything is all taken care of, you package your back up, put in the box, take it to you. Yes, you're good to go. They also have a very, very detailed walkthrough on every step of the process in addition to how to take the actual test on their website. Here's the closer look at what's included and then let's get check.com test kit. Results are available in two to five days after your test is received. You can consult with an LGC nurse to discuss anything about your test and answer any questions that you may have. And you can also save 25% off by using the code Bodybuilding25.

I look at each of you and I see the marks of this long and terrible war. If we die tonight, mankind dies with us. I'm always in a pretty good shape. From one to ten, I will consider myself always in seven and eight. But for this movie, obviously I had the first to gain the weight back because as you remember, the skeleton of 1984 and the body, I remember I think it weighed around 228 pounds for that movie. And so I wanted to get that body weight back and have the same kind of size, so it's believable. So I went back to my kind of system of drinking protein drinks twice a day in between meals. So it would be breakfast and lunch. We had a protein drink and then between lunch and dinner. I had another protein drink. And then the food supplements, you know, the great thing now is you have those packages. And so it was easy to be reminded all of that. I'm okay. They're this in the morning, they're this at night. So it was no problem to do that. But I think it's very important to do it. Because it just can't get enough in the unendertrition and protein with just regular food. Number two, it was important to really train the cardiovascular system. Because I know with stunts, it's not just in the actions, not just doing it one times of two times or five times, you do this stuff all day long. And so it'd be really ingrained at letting an infysical shape for those kind of things. Because the punishment is already hard enough, but the endurance is to keep things there. I don't think that this terminate is more special than the first terminate of the second terminate or the third one. I think the disease is just an ongoing kind of a story. And what this pedigal movie has done is it has set a read on some of the rules. We were very fortunate that we had really a producer like David Nelson and Dana. They were really close attention to the storyline and they do have the best script writers involved with it. And also to hire director Alan Taylor, who is an assistant extraordinaire, job. And we thought of it to move it to the movie just before it did terminate. And he was fantastic. He really has a great vision. And so I think by having talented people like that and the talented cast that this amount of time makes the movie really, I think a great movie and the great entertainment. It's amazing to kind of visual the knowledge that is available. That you can recreate me from 1984 with that body. Exactly the way I was standing there naked in front of this punk and asking for their clothes. And they have me then standing there, not with split screen, but all on the same screen. And having this fight since it's really fantastic. So this is what makes this movie kind of unique that we now have additional kind of technology available. We'll entertain people even more. So if the big action seems to be also after the magic of the visual effects. I would say that without sport, I would have never really learned the lessons that are so important for life. Coming from the body building background and from the lifting background and having this done before was really the foundation to everything that I've done without that that wouldn't be sitting here today. You know, I think every one of you out there know that terminate is coming out on the true life for a weekend. And I know that all of you will say, I'll be there. Watch it. Run! Where is he? I'll be back. What?

What? Hey everybody, it's Terry Cruz from the new movie, the best action movie ever summer. The expendable. With the best of the long jet-league Jason State of Randy Cotour, Mickey Roark, myself. It's going to be great and you might know me from the old Spice commercials. And I'm glad to be here with Bodybuilding.com. Let me tell you something. You will never ever ever see a cast like this. Ever, in movie history, it's the Haley's comment of action movies. I'm trying to say, dude, you're just a stock-skilled level. Will jump when you get into theater. I'm a hot guy. I play a guy by the name of Haley Caesar. The best movie name of all time. Okay, who's a long, very old weapon specialist. I'm passionate about my weapons. I have a gun that I'm literally called my girlfriend. You know what I mean? But that's my character. My specialty is always been my guns. You know what I mean? It's kind of like, that's my deal. And this is what we've survived. So I put me in. It's that, you know, he knew that I had the look. You know what I mean? It was like, to guide a hold in the gun. And a lot of military guys were like, wait a minute. He wouldn't have. He wouldn't wear anything sleeveless, but I was like, hey man, this is the movie. I'm here to show you an exercise that I do to get ready for most of my films, TV shows, projects, especially the expendables. It's called the 24s. And basically, it's four different exercises with six reps each. And I'm telling you, this thing will work your core. It works your shoulders. It works the lower body. You are totally done. And because you do so many reps, it's almost like a cardio workout. Let me show you. First exercise in the set of 24s is an upright rope. I'm going to show you how to do it. Three. Grip the way. Make sure your grip is close together. Bend your knees. Come up into it. Set it in it. Make sure you have your balance. And here we go. We're going to lift the bar all the way to our chin. Six reps of... And then we immediately, we widen our grip. And we go up, do six power clean. Without banging it on the floor, with metal weights. If you have some rubber weights, go ahead. But with the metal, you all got to be conscious of the floor. So here we go. You got to get down and explode on every jump. And we're going to jerk when we get it up to the top. Explosion is what it's all about. Make it come from here. Come on. Your hips. And you set it in you to six reps. Right after those six power clean, we close our stance a little bit. And then hit a Romanian deadlift. You don't have to go past your knee. Just enough so you feel it in your back. You're working your back. And you're fulfilling your hamstring. And then you're going to pull your hips up. Now, directly, we're going to Romanian deadlift. We're going to do six jumpswalks. Take it to a clean, get it up behind your back. Rest it on your shoulder. And then you get down and explode. Right up into the... Keep it in your back. Right. Close. That's it. Drink it down. Hey guys, as you can see, 24s has you winded pretty quickly. So you have to be careful. Make sure you start with very, very small weight. The whole thing, this is not about how much weight you have. It's about the explosion. Even if you start off with just the bar, that's real cool, man. As long as you get the movement and make it correct, and do all the reps in the sets, you will get burned. And it's one of the things. This is exercise I do every time it's a shoulder day for me. It's best you with the jerk, and I started out with this. So now, come on, engines run it. I'll go right into my shoulder exercises. And it's got me warm, it's got me ready, because the shoulders can be a really sensitive area. I work out very, very hard. My thing is to always be as hard and as cut as possible. But within parameters, you don't want to be just starving and having no strength. And with a role like this, I knew I was going to take a lot of energy, man. Just to get through the days and make the physical stuff work. My workout that goes through the week is pretty much cardio every day. And I usually get on the treadmill, and I'll do half an hour at 7.0, with me running 3 and a half miles every day. Monday is a shoulder day where I have a lot of power queens, I work my shoulder. Tuesday is a back day, everything we garden back. Wednesday is strictly cardio, and I usually double up my cardio that day. Sometimes I do five miles instead of 3.5. And then call it a day. Thursday is a chest and arms, and if Friday is a big, big, big, big day. I go in endurance and heavy weight. So it's always a good balance of doing, I get to the gym, consistency, always. And if you have to not do exercise for a while, just leave it alone, but work on other things. You know what I mean? It's always something you can do. I train very, very hard. I train as if I'm still in an NFL in a lot of ways. I mean, I use a lot of NFL style work out. Tons of power queens, lots of explosive movement. Get up, I pull in the morning, just to wake you up, then I take my vitamins, then I work out, I mean, pretty much on that. Then I had a protein shake, like right after the workout. And then about two hours later, I'll have some yogurt, granola, that kind of thing. And then for lunch, I usually hit get a salad, chicken salad with the beans, the lettuce, no rice, nothing like that, but with the meat and the whole thing. Then I might grab another protein shake. And then for dinner, it's a good chicken breast. I'm always adjusting whatever I see. And it's always like some chicken breast you can grab and that whole thing for dinner. And it's a call of the day. I'm not opposed to having some bread or some tortilla chips. And because I really burn it off, I have a very, very active lifestyle. To be here and to be in this position and to watch yourself on a screen, and the movie looks great, man. It's just, it's like, man, it makes all those years, not that pain worth anybody who trains. No, it's 100% pain. It's kind of like the theme of this movie. You know, you know, then the expendables, it's like people try to retire you. They literally, I mean, I look as a stilom, man. They try to put them out the past, you know, like, do it, you're done. You did your thing. Now, we got to give it to somebody else, and, you know, you should be over. But you always have to come back. It's always about rebuilding. You always have to say, I'm not going to stop. And the thing is, why? Why stop? I'm going to never give it. I'm going to always stay in shape. At forever. You see me, I'll be the best looking 90 year old guy you've ever seen. That's my plan. Let me tell you, for more content like this, you've got to go to bodybuilding.com. It's the place of eBay. Expendables. August 13. Bye!

Hey everybody, my name is Terry Cruz and you might know me from the expendables from everybody hates Chris, my brand new show, how we dare yet. I am here right now with you with BodyBuilding.com to show you the number one back workout that I do, my favorite one. On a time we can go have one of those co-op effects. I'm just now in a thin, ah, this is you and me. We work it out together today. Burn the music up, turn your jazz up because we bought the hit it. Everyone focuses on the push movements, but you're really to get your back together. You have to focus just as hard on the pull movements. This is what today is all about. All right, ain't no bacon on this one y'all. Let's do it. Ready? Ready? First thing we're going to do is start with a 5 minute warmup on the bike. All right, here we are. I cannot stress the importance of getting a good warmup because man, it gets everything the blood flowing, the whole deal. You can't run a Ferrari test to the road to straight from zero to 100. You can kind of guide your way up. So here we go. We bought the juff on this bike man. We've got our warm up on. And you know, you should set the resistance a little high so that you can warm up your legs. If you have a bike where the resistance is between 115 and 115, one being an easiest, 15 being the hardest, I say you set it between five, six or seven. You don't want to go too fast because this is not the workout. This is all about this warming it up. Okay everybody, our first exercise is the Romanian debt lift. I brought my straps. We're using heavier weight and not going down so far so we can really focus on what this is about, which is your back. I usually start out like 135 as a warmup set and then I go into four sets of 10 with heavier weight. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and keep your back arched. You're not want to roll your back. Time to get a little break. You just have some good O-d-H2, man. It's the way to go. All right, our next exercise is a good old fashioned pull-up. I use straps just because I want to focus on my back. The first set of our pull-up exercises is the behind the neck and we're going to go all the way to failure. You're going to get about a minute rest and then we're going to go right into a one-arm pull-up. You're going to take each arm to failure. You basically have a grip on both of them but you're doing them focusing on one arm at a time. Switch. And then go to the middle and even it up. Burn it up. All right, the next move and our pull-up exercises are the close grip pull-up. Again, it's all the way to failure. There's it there. Here we go. Really get an extension. Nice. The last set of these four pull-ups that's two failure is just a standard pull-up. Just the same ones you have a gram popper used to do. Woo! That's it. Okay, we just got down with our pull-ups. We're headed right over to the squat rack and this is it. I usually use an underhand grip. Some people like the overhand. It depends on what's comfortable for you. All right, this guy's down with the first set. I'm going to add some more weight. So we're going to hit the second one right now. We're going to add a little more weight. We're going to hit the third one. All right, now we're headed over to dumbbells. We can get those rolls over there. Now we're moving on to the bent over dumbbell rows. You want to be really careful, you want to keep your back straight and you want to really feel the squeeze at the top. We're going to do four sets of 10. I'm working with 100's here. I stay with one weight the whole time. This is all about concentration. You're trying to work on the detail. That's one. We're going to get a 30-second rest and then we're going to hit it again. That's two. One more set. Now we're going to move on to the hammer straight high row. You're going to hit a hole in another section of the back. You want that cover? You got a paper to cover. All right. Now we're moving on to the hammer straight high rows. We're going to work the lower section of your last. The idea is to get four sets of 10. The last set is to failure and I add weight each time. Another thing I want to stress is that a lot of guys use these hammer straight and they keep their feet on the floor. Here you want to make sure that you get your feet up on the post here because if you're feet on the floor, you have a chance of rocking and then not going to this thing over. Especially when you get into heavier weight. This keeps you secure and keeps you locked down. Really stress the back and concentrate on where you want this thing to hit. That's the first set. Trying to put some more weight on. Forget about 30 seconds rest. I'm going to put my last set on. I got five plates going on. Now I'm going to failure. This is it. That's failure. That's failure. Okay. We're going to do four sets. Try to get 10 reps. We're going to add a little bit of weight each time. And this is pretty much the last heavy kind of exercise you're going to do on your back. I don't go heavy weight on with this because we went heavier but I really want to focus on what you want to hit with. Which is that middle of your back. Make sure you keep your feet up. Good grip and here we go. So I'm going to add a little bit more weight. About 30 seconds rest. We'll hit the last one. There we go. Now we're over here over at the back extensions. This is basically a warm down. I do four sets of 10 because we've already done a lot of heavy heavy motions with a lower back. So now it's all about warming it down and making sure everything's still in place. You know, after you've already hit it. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. We're going to do some sit-ups because with your core you want to keep it balanced. You've been working your back so hard. I like to use a ball today because right now my back is pretty tight. We're going to do four sets all the way to failure. I like to keep my arms in front of me across and we just crunch it up. Oh, oh boy. I got a little cramp. I just got a cramp on my first set. And you know when you're cramping that might need failure. That's the good one. We're going to keep going. Oh, I actually started to drill a little bit. Oh. Woo. One more. The last one of the day, y'all. This is where all the games happen. Four quarters. Five seconds left. You get the ball. I got it. Here we go. Let's take it all the way in. All right, y'all. That's it. You did it. You made it. You got the cobra back. You got the bite somebody with it. I'm telling you, thank you for doing this with me. And if you want to incorporate this workout into your journey routine, please check out the page below. I'll share your cruise. And I'll tell you. For more content, just like this, check out Bodybuilders.com. Oh. Guns are going up. Oh. Oh. What? What?

I think a lot of our negative connotation comes from the 70s and the 80s and the 90s were guys. I mean, this is the term juicing where they're high alpha antibiotics, steroids, stuff that we don't even prescribe, that we don't even have access to. And there's a whole black market, even though TNT exists legally. But the key differentiator is there's a dangerous low end of it spectrum, which we talked about hypogonatism, secondary hypogonatism. There's also a really dangerous side on the opposite of the spectrum. Where guys are taking antibiotics, steroids, well beyond what even a lab core or quest test will pick up. I mean, that's 15, 16, 700 nanograms per decilator. You're running risk on both sides of that heart disease, autoimmune issues, cancer, stroke. And that's why you're seeing in the body-bidden community, guys are dropping. In some cases, like FIs, and they're not taking what we consider replacement. And that's the key word. We were replacing what we think should be there at a healthy level. We're incorporating labs on a significant basis. Yes, about how often guys should get labs. When you're on a therapy, it's even more. For me, I'm getting anywhere from four to six comprehensive labs a year. Sometimes when you're in your first kind of round of treatment, it might be six to eight. You've got to be measuring things outside of just testosterone. PSA, your estrogen levels. There's so many things that go with that.

Life happens in time passes, and then we're stuck with little time who exceeds like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need to three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a bad diet. It's a crash course in achieving a rip-a-zique, you can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, workout videos, and even more. No gimmicks? No hype. Just 21 days. 21 days to look your best. 21 days to get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you? Hey, what's up, guys? This is Corey Gregory. Senior President Co. I'm a founder and muscle farm, but I'm also a certified personal trainer and nutrition coach. I'm here today to tell you guys about the busy diet. I've worked with some of the busiest professionals around. All the way from soccer mom at the gym, the whole time job, up to the professional athletes. I'm not having grand-page jacks in the Michael Bay. I'm here to help you build a body in three weeks. Most people are used to 12 weeks, but the busy diet is a condensed version. Sometimes you get caught with your pants down, you get to find a way to pull them back up. Currently, I'm in the same situation you guys are. I've got three weeks to get ready for a photo shoot, so I'm going to help you reveal that muscle, lose that body fat. Think it's impossible. You better think again if I can do it so can you. It takes three weeks to get a life change. Three weeks to lose 15 to 20 pounds, and if you give me three weeks, I'll give you that body. This three week course puts your body in a state of super confusion. You put your on a time clock to raise your metabolic rate naturally for your food and for your supplements. And what I love about the bitten diet is that I've seen it firsthand in the gym. Men, women, it doesn't really matter, it doesn't discriminate. Whoever follows it, it always works extremely well for. Even after three weeks are up, you've created a habit. What's exciting about that is now you're in a frame of mind that you can do this lifestyle of looking lean and being in shape. In my opinion, every day light, somebody needs something that's going to jump start their body. As if you need mostly what is maintenance planned for some people to diet, your body's not going to do anything. When people come to me, they want results now and the best thing you can see is when you get on the scale day one, two, three, four, whatever it is and that your body is changing. I believe that you've got to put some serious work in the beginning to raise that metabolic rate and then go on living a good lifestyle with the higher metabolism. This specific 21 days is to get everything jump started, get you ready for that special event and make it happen right now. The weight loss that you can expect on the busy diet from a guy like me all the way down to just a very beginner person is usually from the low end of 10 pounds but the high end of about 25 pounds. So it really depends where you're at personally. For me, whenever I just hit it, I'm looking at a 20 pound weight loss and that's what I'm going after. The busy diet basics were a plan a specific way for your nutrient timing, for your time in the gym, which is only four days a week with some optional cardio if you like, two days of upper body, two days of lower body. I really put this plan together to keep your hormones in check, to keep your body on a time clock and to make it convenient. It's all thought well out for the busy diet to make it all works synergistically so you can have good results. Now those are the basics, let's get in the specifics about training. I have workout A and workout B. workout A is upper body, workout B is lower body. The way I've created this is that you start out with the interval system of cardio. I created this really for people that worked out in their own because a lot of my online clients were home clients. So whatever piece of cardio equipment you have, whether it's treadmill, elliptical, bike, doesn't matter, I prefer the treadmillness. You do like one minute fast cardio, one minute a little bit of slower cardio. You alternate that back and forth for 20 minutes. When I say do a minute intense, I mean all out for a minute. When I say you know just kind of, most of the long for a minute just kind of keep it let your heart rate come down for a minute, then right back and tense a minute. Then when you go into the upper body, you're setting up a circuit that's hit all the major muscle parts and you just rotate through it two times at 20 reps each. Then you go right back to cardio. So your body doesn't have a chance to really rest the whole time. The other thing is the workout takes about an hour to an hour 15 minutes. Now when you go into the legs, I had legs twice a week for a couple reasons. People don't like to train leg usually. And that really hurts your hormone profiles, especially when you're dying. I'm not really concerned with how much weight you're lifting on this workout. Make sure that you challenge in yourself, but also don't worry about a certain number that you should be posted. What I want is that your burned out, that you're pushing hard and that your body's at a heightened level so you're burning fat. And that's the biggest key about the plan. You might experience a little bit of soreness, but that's just part of the game. And that's why you also only training four days with a couple optional cardio days if you like. Make it fast and easy on yourself. Like I've always told my clients, just follow it to the tee, just head down to the bottom of the page, print it off and make it happen. Now you just got done putting all this time in the gym. Don't mess it up in the kitchen. I chose the foods and set up the diet the way I did because of the practical application that I've seen the gym for over 10 years. Those foods are optimal for fat burning and for retaining muscle. The intervals that are set up in the meal plan is one, eat within an hour out of bed, because you want your body to come out of that starvation mode from what you're just going to sleep in. The other main rule is eat every three hours to your body expects when it's time to get food. So that timing is what triggers your body into a metabolism spike. If you've got everything on point with your nutrition, you should feel really good. Because honestly, anytime your insulin is stable, your body feels good. So if you're coming from a lifestyle that was kind of all over the place, you might have a couple days where you're a little bit off. But for the most part, you're going to be feeling better and then when you're looking in the mirror, you're going to look better. The advanced person that tries to busy diet just have to be a little bit careful that you don't burn too much muscle. So I would just recommend to slightly up your protein and make sure that you're utilizing your amino acids properly and you have no problem doing this diet also. The commitment level, remember, I'm only asking for three weeks, which is 20 days. I need tonal vision. Don't think about other foods. Just think about what the plan is and what your goal is. I need you to only see start and end and nothing in between and just work hard. I wouldn't even want to step further for your convenience. I've set up a grocery list so all you have to do is print it off below and take it to the grocery store with you. So you have unlimited types of options for the plan that has you set up for success. The way to tie it all together, we went through the training, we went through nutrition, now we go through the supplements. When I envisioned the person that was at their desk and they kept missing meals or they weren't from meeting the meeting or the travel on a plane all the time, they're on a train and New York City. However they're at, they're just missing their meals which is messing up their metabolism. The key to the whole plan was based around one of the main supplements which is muscle gel which is an extremely convenient way to teach your protein intake. The other key ingredient is the shred matrix which helps with your appetite suppression, helps with your fat loss and help keep your mind clear through the whole process. We also set up an extremely high level multivitamin and BCA's for your post workout. For some of you that have never taken supplements before or maybe even never done anything this strict before. I believe this is a great entryway into getting your body in shape really fast and put yourself on extremely solid time clock with supplements with food to get your body extremely responsive. You can't get one right, you can't get two right, yeah you get all three right for all three weeks. I've given you the meal plan. I've given you the training and I've given you the full supplement plan. Everything that you need for this 21 days of your successful is right below. 21 days, I'm Dona with you too. I'll be posting front, side and back pictures. You can go to my Twitter and ask me any questions you have. I'll be there to help at muscle farm pres, PRES, whether it's your high school reunion, or your wedding, family reunion, or your go on spring break the equation.

Life happens in time passes. And then we're stuck with little time. What seems like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need to three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a fad diet. It's a crash course and achieving a rip physique can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, workout videos, and even more. No gimmicks, no hype. Just 21 days. 21 days, look your best. 21 days, get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you?

Hey, what's up guys? It's Cory Gregory. I'm here to go over work out one of two for the busy diet. We're going to be going over our upper body work out and cardio. It starts out with a cardio interval. We're going to do it on the treadmill of one minute intense, one minute a little bit moderate for 20 minutes. And we go right into our upper body movements. We'll do one chest movement, one back movement, one shoulder movement, one bicep and one tricep. What I try to do when I put this together is I try to keep it real basic movements. You can even do this at your house if you didn't have a gym membership. We'll use a dumbbell, flat press, breathe chest. We'll use a one arm row for your back. We use a military press, dumbbell for your shoulders. We use a bicep curl dumbbell for your bicep and we'll use a tricep take back for your triceps. It's set up as a circuit program. So you're going to get 20 reps of each movement in a row with no rest, two sets. So if you have a workout partner set them two exercises ahead of you in the circuit so you don't run in each other. And it just moves real center just like that. The way the circuit's set up is going to be 20 reps. So you want to pick a weight that's challenging for 20 reps. But not too challenging to where you can only get 12 to 15 because you got to remember there's no rest. And essentially you're hitting 200 total reps really quick for the whole upper body. So set yourself up to where you can be successful but it's still challenging at the same time. We're going to get in more specifics as we get into workout. So let's get started. Now we're going to go over the cardio portion of the busy diet workout. What I'm going to do is to do a one minute walk and I usually do between 3.5 and 4.0 and a one minute run anywhere from 7 to 10.0. You alternate that for 20 minutes, put your heart rate in a really good zone, to really burn some fat. You can also apply this to the elliptical jump rope, fight, whatever you have available to you. This is exercise one. So let's get started. Alright, it's in my one minute, 8.5. Now I'll do one minute, 4.0, good fast walk and keep alternating. And I'll keep pushing myself in my run, each time and make it as intense as possible. Studies have shown that interval training will raise your metabolic rate faster than in for a longer period of time. Rather than just doing a consistent cardio. Up and down with the hurry is way better for what we're after. It kind of goes into the whole thought process behind the busy diet concept, where you can maximize your time that you have available on the treadmill. So instead of wasting a much of time, you get right after it. Any new to utilize your time to best. I got to go because I got run. Let's go. But we just finished our first exercise, which is the cardio portion. Now we're moving on to the weight room. Come on. You want to have your elbows kind of at an angle like this, up in the squeeze. You want to have them flared out too wide, so keep it kind of tight. We're ready to go one arm row. Grab the front end of the dumbbell, so it hangs down like that to stretch your back. Keep your head up to your back tight. When it comes straight through, just like that. I have 20 reps here and on. Just look at that arm. Which one do these? This have. I'm going right to your legs. Your legs are not. You're all basic. Start here, up in twist. You twist them out so you can get a peak on your bicep. Now what you want to do on the triceps is try to keep it good then. You're going to take them and push them under like that. So it's going to keep your head underneath. All right, it's got done. It's all five exercises. We're back to the top. No rest. All right, now we're at the cardio. This is the middle portion of your workout. So, now it's different than the first cardio. You go five minutes. I just a steady pace. And then five minutes all out. Then back to the weight room for two more sets of weights. And then it's a wrap. So this is our middle cardio. Let's get after. We just got done. With the Monday and Thursday workout, which is up a body. Make sure and check out the page below, which has the Tuesdays and Fridays, which is lower body workout. It go get busy.

Now we're on the busy diet workout number two. We're going to go upstairs and hit the treadmill. We'll go 1 minute high intense and 1 minute low intense for 20 minutes. So as we're done with that, we'll come back downstairs and go right to the legs and act. We'll hit a circuit of squats, lunges, cab raises, regular crunches and then legs of a cross crunches. We'll rock that two sets through and then head back over to cardio again for five minutes low intense and five minute time intense. Then you'll come back over to the squat rack. There are two more sets of the legs and absurke and that'll be your Tuesday and Friday workout. So let's get started. It was up. Now we're going to our first exercise. I would use to do a low intense and a high intense interval. Meaning I'll do a one minute walk around 4.2 and then a one minute run. Starting around 8.5-9 and working all the way all the way up to 12.0 so I can basically barely stay on the treadmill. And that high intense workout really burns a lot of body fat. Let's go! Now we're all warmed up. Time to get to the workout. All right so the first exercise of the low-body workout is squats. The way that I do squats, I'm not going to go super heavy. I'd rather go a little bit deeper so I really hit some muscle fibers which helps spark the testosterone and GH in the body. So we'll take a medium stance, ride the bar kind of high on our back and just take a deep. So let's get it! Second leg exercise is lunges. Stationary lunges. We're going to do a step in the step back. Just go down and in. Make sure that your knee is at a right angle like this and that this knee touches the ground. So don't be slack in and try not to go down all the way but make sure this is at a right angle and your knees are fine. Just like so. Keep it posture on. Especially the other way. Same thing. Make sure you get the angles right. Third exercise is just good old standing cab raises. Like I said when I put this together I want to make sure that you can do it easily around your house or at the gym. So just find a ledge or you can use a couple plates at the gym whatever you want to do. Good down to you get a good stretch and then just up on your toes. So you want to do 30 to 50 reps. You can move your toes in or out too if you want. You can go this way. You can spread them wide. It doesn't matter. Whatever you want to do. If you do the toes out, you get a little bit more burn on the inside. You get a toes in. Get a little bit more of a burn on the outside. Then you can just switch the angles if you get bored. Just want to get a little different feel on them. Exercise 4 or 5 is crunches down here. So what we're going to do here is go 30 to 50 reps of a normal crunch like this and then 30 to 50 reps legs up across 90 degrees. Now I like to use a 10 pound plate. That's a little bit more resistance to me. You want to make sure that you just, you don't pull with your neck that you just raise up nice and easy. Get a good squeeze and right back down. Now when you go into the next exercise, you put your legs up at a 90 degree angle and you want to try to take your elbows to your knees. So it adds a lot more resistance. Alright that was the first set. Now it's time to get back up and do the second one. No rest. Now it's time to do my five minutes, low intense and five minutes high intense cardio and then back to two more sets. Now that's the end of our number two workout for the busy diet which is lower body that you're Tuesday and Friday workout. Make sure you check out all the information below for workout 1 and 2 and check out all the videos we are coming on the busy diet. If you have any questions hit me up on Twitter at MuscleFornPres, ERES and for all the information that you're interested in, make sure you check out BodyBlood.com and that's a wrap.

What's up guys, today we're going to be going over a full shoulder and tricep workout. I'm going to be going over some of the common mistakes you'll see in the roast split. So let's get after it. When it comes to an effective workout, today we're doing shoulders and triceps, you really want to prioritize your weaker underdevelop muscle groups first. A lot of guys when they start their shoulder workouts, they're starting with shoulder presses or overhead presses. Now I get it. The compound movements are going to require the use of more muscle groups. You're going to be able to lift a little bit heavier and have a little bit more mechanical tension. But here's the problem with overhead presses. When you're doing overhead press, your anterior delts are mostly engaged in neglecting your lateral and rear delts. If you really want to work on your underdeveloped muscle groups, for a lot of guys, it is those medial delts and the rear delts. So what we're actually going to do is we're going to flip our sequencing of the exercises. So we're actually going to start with rear delt cable flies. And then we're going to superset that with a lateral race. Here's what everybody gets wrong with the cross cable rear delt fly. They're squeezing their scapula together at the top of the movement. The rear delts are not involved in scapula retraction. Keep the shoulder blades relaxed. Squeezing them together would only be beneficial for targeting the rhomboid, but since the rear delts only insert on the humors and attach on the scapula, shoulder extension and abduction would be what targets the rear delts best. What I want you to do is protract those shoulders, pull apart. And this is where you're ending. Anything further, you're not really isolating the rear delts. You're just getting the rhomboids and maybe a little bit of the traps involved. We're going to drop the cables. You're going to perform four sets until technical failure. After your fourth set with little to no rest in between, you're going to perform a drop set, where you lighten the load anywhere from 10 to 30 percent and proceed again to technical failure. I also want you to notice that I am not using momentum and I am controlling the eccentric portion of the movement. Alright, so now we're going to be moving into an overhead press. The reason why I didn't want to start with an overhead press is because I think you're going to get a much greater stimulus to fatigue ratio during these after you've already pre-exhausted the lateral delts. Slow and controlled reps on the way down, keeping it as close to my face as I can. I'm coming all the way down to the top of my chest, near my clavicle. And then I'm going to hold there for a second and get a nice pause. Push straight up. Again, guys, the goal here is to work until technical failure through a full range of motion, especially the bottom portion of the movement. Oh, doing a lot. Yeah, that's how you work to failure. And no, see, I'm not using a lot of weight, but getting more of a hyper-trophic response stimulus in my muscles by lifting that way. Alright, so now we're going to move on to triceps. I like to do some variation of an overhead extension or a skull crusher. You're going to give the shoulders a little bit of a break because I plan on finishing off this workout with dips. So, let's give this a go. Hold it at the bottom post for a second. Come up. Notice how I'm keeping the bar belt back. So, I'll go in my head, keeping it tension on the tricep. For this particular exercise I am using a straight bar, you can use an easy crow bar or you can use dumbbells. Use whatever piece of equipment you need in order to connect with that movement and that muscle group better. I'm going to do my third and fourth set. I'm going to do two drops at the end, so I'll be doing an 8 to 10 reps with the heavier weight and then I'm going to drop and do anywhere from 15 to 20 reps with a lighter weight. Alright, so we're going to finish this workout off with dips. Now, if I'm fresh, I can probably do easily 20 to 30 dips. When you do them like this, I guarantee you're going to have a hard time doing 10. Here's how we're going to do this. Starting out at the top position, I'm going to slowly lower myself down, slow the control at the eccentric. And I'm going to get as deep as I can. Get a nice deep stretch on those triceps. Press up. You can make this more challenging by adding weights with either a weight belt or chains, or you can make this easier by using the assistance of resistance bands or using a variation of a dip machine. Okay. Oh man, I felt that in my spirit. I got to do two more of those. That's how you lift folks. That is how you work out. Comment below if you found these tips to be helpful. And as always, don't forget to like and share this video with a friend and enjoy the plump.

Life happens in time passes, and then we're stuck with little time, who it seems like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need is three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a fad diet. It's a crash course in achieving a rip-fazique, can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the confidence that you can do this. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, work out videos, and even more. No gimmicks? No hide. Just 21 days. 21 days to look your best. 21 days to get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you?

Huh. Why do you ask? Ah... Wrong. Time in! Who are you? I'm here for you guys. Hey guys. I think this might help. Welcome to BodyGlory.com. Everything you need to know, the master. Your core, your legs. I put this in some energy. I'll provide you size and strength. Stamina, endurance, speed. I'll buy stuff for you to be very pretty soon. Are you ready? Build your body. Build your body. Build your life.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what you doing? What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners, we're back for another episode of the B.B. Com podcast. And today we are joined by Dr. Dan Jordano. Dan is a doctor, physical therapy, certified strengthening addition in specialists and co-founder of bespoke treatments, a sport and orthopedic rehab clinic with locations in New York City, San Diego, and Seattle. Dan, we are excited to have you on the B.B. Com podcast. Today, I think we have a great combo prepared for all the listeners out there. Thank you for having me. I'm super pumped to talk to you and try to help the listeners out there and give some knowledge about the rehab industry. Yeah, before we get into it, I do have to say we have just signed bespoke to an annual partnership here at Bodybuilding.com. We'll be bringing all of our body fit users with preventative exercise care, movement prep, all the way to core recovery for postpartum parents. So look out for those programs releasing once per month for the rest of 2023 and you'll get to know a little bit everybody from the bespoke team across the country. Nice. Let's dive into it, Dan. So tell us a little bit about yourself. What prompted you to get into the sports medicine field? Take us back to day one where you start in and how do you get to where you are today? All right, so day one, okay. So my interest in physio came from an injury, right? So I was a promising high school athlete looking to play a division one sport level. Got injured in my senior year and it actually prevented me from playing football in college, right? So that actually led me to going through physio and really taking the physio into my own hands and really educating myself using the use of bodybuilding.com back then, which was wild, that it comes full circle. Another magazine is in such a sort of best-dressed conditioning. And then what happened when I got to college, I started, you know, a kind of I had that itch of Y-min, I'm playing a sport at that level. And I injured my shoulder and I made it a goal of mine that I'm going to walk onto a team. So then I wanted walking onto the wrestling team, which was wild because I didn't wrestle in high school. And then I walked on to division one wrestling team. So it was a very humbling experience because I didn't even know the rules, which is wild. I remember my first match was actually at a Brown University and I didn't know the score because I didn't know how to keep points. My coach was just like to yell on that, me telling me what to do. Just to make sure I didn't get pinned so for the team, right, for points. And it was a, it went to being a very humbling experience. But then I learned so much about rehab because I was kind of like at the end point in my rehab. And I really got to learn more about anatomy and from there I decided, you know, I'm going to go to grad school and get my doctor in physical therapy. And that's what really kind of pushed me forward to that. And then what's NYU, New York University got my doctorate there and started to work in physical therapy. Start to learn more about athletes, started working with medical teams, USA track and field, the World Championships, IFF, got me into some like CrossFit World Championships and then working with Nike Elite Basketball leagues. And that's when we started to spoke, right? So we started to spoke to try to basically improve the quality of care. So we saw a lot of problems with the industry. And then when we came together, we started to spoke, you know, at Bizpark. And now we've developed a great team. And we're really trying to just change that quality of care. So people actually know what physical therapy is and how it can be useful for anyone in the industry or anyone just training or health wise. So, you know, that's what the spoke is and now we're in three different cities. And we're really just trying to push it to the next level. So physical therapy has a whole improves. The spoke treatment is not your ordinary physio experience. Tell us how you differ from the traditional physical therapy experience, not only for sport patients, which for all patients who come through your doors. Yeah. So we work with everyone from everyday athletes to, you know, Olympic level athletes, pro athletes, CEOs, all different types of people. We're really just working with people that are trying to better themselves. So our treatments are what we say research driven and tech enabled. We use a lot of technology, which is very different from physio field, right? So we use a lot of technology because what we do is we start to gather data. And if we can gather data, we really get to learn about our patients. And from there, we can develop hypotheses, all right? So we can retest our hypotheses, change our hypotheses. And that in turn will allow the patient to get better faster. And one of the biggest things that we do is we work with the individual not just on the acute injuries, but also on longevity aspect of it, right? So if you come to us with an injury, we're going to help you get out of that pain, but then also look at you as the individual as the whole and see how we can help your performance. And that's great because we've been able to really help people prolong their healthy lifestyles and improve their performance, which as you know, if you improve your performance in the gym or in your body physiologically, you can help you everything from mental to your work. And we just see people improve. So we're really helping people. And that's been the best thing about what we do is we see people change and improve their overall quality of life, which is, I mean, it just makes us feel so great. And as a team, as a whole, we have an awesome team. Honestly, our team is great. And our team really comes together to help each other. So that's one of the biggest things that we do. And we all work together so that we all learn from each other, right? And if we all learn from each other, we can improve together and improve as a whole. Tell us a little bit about that testing. Tell us how you dictate which testing you're going to conduct for that patient. Is it every test of the sound that you do once they come in as a new patient? And tell us how this information not only helps you as their provider, tell us the value of information that gives someone as a patient to take home with them and apply to their daily health and wellness. Yeah. So in the medical field, basically, there's subjective testing. And then there's special tests that you do to diagnose injuries, right? And create prognoses. So we're diagnosing injuries using what we learned in school and using subject testing to see how patients feel to really understand how the patient feels from their side of it. But then what we do is a lot of objective testing, right? So our objective testing allows us to gather data like we said, these tests can consist of forced testing, metabolic testing or motion analysis. Everyone, when they come through a door, get some sort of motion analysis and forced testing so that we can really evaluate the entire body as a whole physiologically. And then if they want to improve on certain things like if they're in a door and to actively just someone who wants to work on their heart health, we'll put them through a metabolic test. And with those metabolic tests, we can get some information that can help apply to their training programs or to their rehab program. So we're really just gathering all sorts of information that is measurable, not just subjective objective data. And we pull it together then to create our hypothesis and then create the program from there to see how we can improve. And the best part about having objective data is that if things aren't working or, you know, they're only getting better to a point or the 90% better, we can go back to that data and then look at it again and see if we missed anything. And because we have that objective and measurable data, we can see where there's falls or fail-flail failures. And then we can change it and change the program to help them get the extra 10% or the last 10% of them raining in their rehab. Tell us how the level of the test that you're performing at your facility differ than maybe what people can get somewhere else, right? There's many different types of VO2 tests, for example, right? But tell us about the one that you do and how that may be different from maybe just your standard Bruce Protocol. So it kind of breakdown the differences of kind of what your generic forms of these tests are, but really how you guys get granular with what you're doing at this book. So for the VO2 and RMR, we'll go into that. But we use Pinoui. Pinoui is a gold standard VO2 max testing in RMR, so they'll take all the data and on the back end they'll evaluate that data and then send us a report and then we'll then break down the report with that individual to see where we see differences or our team and our experts, Cameron Yuin, leaves that and Sam Chan and what they do is they really break down everything and then work with the individual to find what they can improve on or what gathered that data that was collected and how it calculated and see where those issues, right? Also we work with evolved performance, evolved performances of four testing company and the same thing. So it's measured by Newton to the commedier amount of force that someone is producing and it could measure median force and peak force. So we can actually see, because a lot of the times when you're measuring just force like over two seconds, everyone looks good, right? But then there's a failure that occurs at four seconds. So if we can see these on grass, we can see what the failure is coming from or if it's an endurance failure or just a strength for a force production, right? We also use force plates to see when people are jumping, how they're jumping, if they're pushing off one side or another, that's also evolved. And then motion analysis, we work with a company called Kinotech. Kinotech uses a 3D visualization through a Microsoft Connect, I think it's called Cameron, and that uses motion analysis to then to see how the individual is moving, so it measures range of motion, but then it also gives us an avatar. And if we could see that avatar, we can slow down, move forward zoom in, and you could see where failures are actually occurring. So it's really cool technology. We're hoping that this technology would become more accepted in the medical field, so that the medical field becomes more objective and measurements so that we can actually see things rather than just subjectively, which the medical field has been for a hundred plus years. It's also objective data, so if we can use this and hopefully more people can start to adapt this and then we can improve the industry as a whole, as we start to grow too as well. Yeah, and someone doesn't necessarily have to come in with an injury to get this done, right? Someone could purely be curious where my imbalance is living, how can I perform as better as an athlete, despite whatever sport or modality that I'm chasing after? So tell people the importance of just kind of having this data, you know, injury aside, maybe you're not injured yet, but tell us how this information can apply to you, preventing injuries, or let's say, lowering the risk of injury for future cases. Yeah, absolutely, so it's very interesting. A lot of people actually don't come to us originally with an injury, so people find us because they have injuries or they've been injured in the past, and that's how they come to us, they find out that we do more than just tree injuries, right? And that recreates just an organic referral source where people start coming in and wanting to do testing and objective data, right? So when we do this testing, especially with, let's say, evolved, as you've all of this, an example, so the forced testing, human bodies are not symmetrical. We know that. There's a big argument about that. Everyone's like, oh, you're not symmetrical. Yeah, I understand. But if you're showing a 20% deficit from left to right, you know something's going on, right? And if you have that issue where you have a deficit on, let's use your glute, 20% deficit on your right side. Over a period of time, your left side is going to be overloaded, right? So then your right side can, you know, have an issue for this prolonged period, or your left side can be overloaded, and, you know, what's the cause of most injuries is overload or increase in volume, or increase in intensity, and that left side can create an injury, you know, after X amount of time. So let's use, I have actually someone, let's use someone for an example. So I have someone who just had a total need replacement. And years ago, he told me that my left side is just, you know, he was a high jumper in college, a division one, high jumper, and he's in his 50s, late 50s, he's like my right side has been beat up my entire life, my entire life, my entire life. And then we look at, you know, the data now for about a year ago, we started using force analysis data, and we see that there's a huge difference inside to side. Sure enough, like, you know, six, eight months go by and they look at his joint through imaging, and it's completely degenerated. And it just shows that that side has been compensating, and yes, that was a stronger side for his entire life, but most likely because he didn't compensating his entire life. So there's, you know, there's that up and down of symmetrical for say symmetrical, but really just gathering all this data to create hypothesis to help people. So preventively, we can see where fillings are and start to work on that so that it can hopefully reduce the risk of injury in the future, or help them prevent from getting the surgeries and really just work to rehab and, you know, avoid those surgeries, a good boy going out of the knife. So talk a little bit about VO2 testing. Right. What information can that give someone, how can they then go on to improve their heart health and their cardiovascular health after receiving a test like that? And why do we test VO2? What is that actually doing? Just educating people at home with this test is? So VO2 max measures the amount of oxygen you can consume during exercise and how efficiently you can actually use it. Right. So during the test, you go through stages of exercise where they we increase the intensity during exercise and we have that measurable data of how you're consuming an oxygen, how you're using efficiently. During that as well, we measure your heart rate. So when we get the calculations after and the data after, it shows you where you are with your heart rate, a certain peaks in your VO2 during the course of that exercise intensity. From that, the calculation shows us basically your RQ, which is, oh no, I'm sorry, I'm talking about RMR. So basically this happens is when you pull that data, it shows your level of your heart rate during different training zones. So you have five training zones, five heart rate training zones. Right. Zone 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Zone 1 is like 50 to 60 percent of your heart rate. Zone 2 is 60 to 70, 70, 80, 80, 90 greater than 90. Right. And then it'll show us what your exact zones are. So for you, you let's say your zone 1, you want to work on fat burn. That would be your zone 1. So it'll tell you the exact goal, standard numbers of you need to be between this heart rate and this. So X and lot. Right. Zone 2, same thing, it gives you that nice breakdown of whether it's 110 to 120 heart rate, BPMs. It's showing you where you need to be for your enduring. So zone 2 would be in door, in certain reason cardio output. Zone 3 would be kind of that middle feature. So that middle man that would just have that VLT max increase. Zone 4, which is higher intensity is more at aerobic. So you can improve your anaerobic. And then zone 5 is max. So for zone 5, not a lot of people get to. It's more for power output at max and a lot of lead at level athletes get there because you're heart rate so high. So you're using that VLT max. You're seeing how you consume action, how you use it efficiently. And then giving you gold standard data of what heart rate zones you need to be into start working those different systems. So it's a great way for endurance athletes, aeroday athletes just to work on what they need to work on. So if you're like for me, for instance, I'm terrible at zone 2 training. I was a sprinter, you know, growing up, I played sports like football and wrestle the very high intensity for short periods of time. So I have a really hard time working that zone 2, sure enough I take my videos from max, and my zone 2 is terrible. So I need to do low intensity, cardio-applic work to improve my cardio-vascular system so that my cardio output improves and as a whole that's an athlete I improve. Because we don't do that, right? You don't really see exactly what numbers you need to be in using gold standard heart rate training data. Right, and just to show how vastly different two people can be, I mean, I've had my test done at bespoke as well. And as a triathlete, I was doing tons and tons of that zone 1, so into work, for me, I get 0, 0, 5. So for me, if I report, it was, you need to go get some zone 5 and your life and you need to start maxing out and getting to, you know, that 1, 9, 9, 1, 95, heart rate a little bit more. So it's really great just to see the differences and just to, you know, across the board, it isn't just as simple as looking at a chart and applying that to everybody. Everybody is different and testing can help establish where you need to be. Yeah, that's, and so I mentioned RQ, rest of the story, I can't say I can never say it, right? Quote and so it's basically your, that's from the RMR test, so the resting metabolic rate test, and the resting metabolic rate test is what you do when you're just sitting at rest. So it just sees how your body's working at rest. That's a great thing also to test where I'll be listeners out there. It really shows how efficiently you're working and really it measures your, you know, oxygen consumption versus your carbon dioxide output. And then it shows you what you're burning with your fat carbs or both. And then it shows you a number of way you should be certain what you should work on, so if you're consuming some of your carbon hydrogens versus fat, it'll give you some numbers on that. I think it's like 0.7 below fat greater than 1 is carbon, but in between is that 0.7 to 1. And as we're at rest, we usually use fat as a storage, but if you have someone who has some issues in your like diabetes or something, and you're consuming to make carbon hydrogens or burning that, it's a way that you can actually kind of manipulate or change the diet slightly to modify it, so it proves as a whole. So I always recommend doing RMR plus the VO2 together at once. That's probably the most interesting piece that I think came out of my test as well, especially for endurance athletes out there, you kind of kind of show you how often you need to fuel based off of what heart rate or what zone that you're living in, so for me, and it made total sense that camera and shout out to camera and at the spoke, I was burning through glucose at a very fast level. So to me, I'm under fueling almost for a lot of these, these races that I'm doing, which makes sense because I am hitting periods of kind of the they call it bonking, right? So for me, I need to make sure I'm keeping my glucose level because I burn through my glucose very quickly and I'm burning through my, excuse me, my carbs very quickly as well, whereas I'm not actually getting into that fat burning stage. So that's something I'm working on right now in the off season, just don't too fat burning to kind of manipulate my body so that when my next race comes up, I'm not ripping through my carbs and my glucose is quickly. Exactly, and then you'll save some energy for that race, so you'll improve as a whole. So if you just did that to change during your training, and when you get to that race, you'll be able to work more efficiently, right? So you'll save energy during your race, and that will, in theory, improve your race. Yeah, absolutely. Let's segue into types of injuries. Let's talk about, you know, most common injuries that you're seeing maybe in the sport of body-building versus the sport of running versus the sport of a hybrid cross-fit athlete who probably has a little bit of everything going on when they walk through your door. So let's break that down by sport and modality. So we'll start with five building, right? Most people that are weight lifters or looking for strong and competition, things like that, lifting very heavy, they usually comes with low back pain. That's like the number one thing that occurs, low back pain, knee tendonitis, or even just some strains and sprain. So running is a little different. Running will be more low-extremely injuries. We'll continue to even go to stress fractures, things like that are shin splints or Achilles problems or plants are fasciitis, right? And then that hybrid athlete that cross-fit athlete is kind of a combination of both, right? Because they're mechons and they're my ball condition days and things that they're doing. So it's a real mix of injuries. The weight lifter body building type athlete usually comes to us with some sort of pains or strains in the lower back and it's usually just because they're increasing volume or intensity too hard. That's kind of the same across all sports. Usually if you increase your volume, you're intensity or if you're running, increase your speed or your volume, the amount of mileage that you're doing just too fast, your body doesn't adapt properly. So you always have to give yourself time to adapt. So gradual increases always the way to go. And it's the same thing when you're lifting. If you're not warming up properly and you're just throwing the weight or like, oh, I can do a little more. I can do 50 pounds more. Maybe go for like a 20 pound increase for a certain amount increase and just gradually get your weight up to that because if you increase your loader, your volume too fast, you're kind of just not allowing your body to adapt and you're asking for trouble, which creates injury, right? So if you gradually increase whether you're a runner, a bodybuilder or a cross-ordatheat, you'll probably help yourself in a long term by not putting too much stress on your body, right? Your body's stressed enough when it works out. If you increase the stress levels too high, there's a strong probability that you're going to start to injure yourself. So just be careful and just gradually increases you get there. Talk about types of injury in terms of overuse injuries and things like soft tissue versus skeletal and kind of break those down for people at home who aren't familiar and also kind of how can someone at home dictate what's going on with their own body when they are experiencing pain? So what does the sharp pingo with was the dull pingo with that those type of breakdowns? Okay, so that's interesting. So there's the difference between being hurt and being injured, I always say, right? So let's say, let's say being hurt, okay? So if we start with being hurt per say, being hurt is not really being injured. Let's differentiate those two things. Being hurt could just be soreness, string the tissues or just kind of being super fatigued, right? Usually being hurt is not a heavy amount of pain. It's pain that goes away with some sort of self-care, whether that's icing, heating, stretching, using a foam roller or massage gun. If you can just use that and use some passive modalities that's out there these days and you feel better, you're probably just tired or fatigued and you need a little rest, right? Injured being injured is totally different. Being injured means there was some sort of injury to your soft tissue. So your soft tissue is damaged, okay? And if your soft tissue is damaged, per say, you have injuries that don't go away with self-care, okay? The pain also is usually very different. When you have an injury the pain could be very sharp or very intense, whereas when you're hurt it's just kind of like a dull or an ache that's occurring. If the pain sharp pains intense or it creates loss of range of motion, like your joint range of motion actually decreases, could be from inflammation or it could be some damage in the joint itself. But if you lose joint range of motion you'll lose functional ability to do daily activities, daily living or things that you normally do without any issue. If that is the case you have to seek help from medical professional because if you prolong this and you don't attack that injury right away, this can lead to more damage or damage that requires you to get different types of medical treatment. And like we say the worst thing could be some sort of surgery. So if you have a pain that's under four under three kind of tired fatigues, self-care usually helps, great, you just hurt, right? Take some rest, work on it. And by rest I don't mean completely shut down. We'll put that out there. Move. Moving is usually the best, right? Motion but pain free range of motion or low levels of pain range of motion. Get on the bike, walk to your thing. Don't just lay in bed. That's not been shown ever to help people. But if you're really having that sharp intense pain or shooting pain as our pains that are causing you to avoid or modify your daily activities then seek medical help because you want to make sure that you get that in the beginning of that acute phase before it turns into something else that's too intense. So it's fair to say, go for more of that low impact, low impact movement, you know, until you start to figure out what things are going on. But why is maintaining that blood flow so important for something to not totally shut it down? Well because blood carries oxygen, right? And if blood and oxygen come together it will help to tissue heal itself. So that's the main concept of, that's the main concept of physical therapy is like how do we get blood and oxygen back to its issue so the body starts to do a thing and heal itself. And that's that motion motion is lotion, right? So the more you move, the more you increase your circulation and the better you'll feel if you're just shutting down, that's not good because you're not moving one so you're decreasing circulation. You can cause pulling or inflammation to hit certain areas and then you're going to create more harm than good and it could lead to a ray of problem. So move, circulate, increase blood flow as much as you can. And that's why all these modalities that are out there, right? All these past modalities that we have access to now that you and I didn't have access to when we were college athletes, right? Our treat made, I should laugh. Our treat made, it was like, it's a world pool. We had a full life. I didn't have full molar. I had a PVC pipe at my university, right? So in that hurt and that was also a phone rolling shouldn't hurt put in that out there. Okay, itself massage would be easy on it. PVC pipe could be to intense for a lot of people. So we didn't have this stuff. And now there's modalities out there that are either passive but they're main concept of the majority of the modalities are chum crease blood flow. And if we can increase blood flow to the area, it's just going to speed up our recovery process. These aren't the things that are going to fully heal us but it'll help. So it's like a tool that can help us speed up the process so that we're not just sitting there and resting like bed rest that was recommended back in the day to everyone, not just you know centering individuals. This is recommended to athletes for a long period of time. So just get moving, offload a little bit. If you're like you know you can't have pain walking but you don't have pain on the bike use the bike, things like that. So just offload a bit, increase blood flow, rest, hydrate, eat well, sleep well. Those are the key factors a lot of people forget about all those other factors but you have to sleep as high-biter covers, you have to hydrate so your body gets you know more blood to the circulation to the tissues, your joints and you have to eat well because if you're eating poorly you're going to increase chronic information about it and then if you have too much of relationship about it, it's not going to adapt and not going to recover faster. So this all comes. This is all everything comes together so many external factors. Yeah so finding that middle ground between full stop, full rest and then the mindset of no pain, no gain. Yeah you get it. So school mentality and I think I think there is an industry shift happening now and I think to your point you know collegiate athletes are in a much much better spot than you've been five, ten years ago at this point. I mean they're getting access and you have been major schools now. They have nutritionists, they have you know dedicated strength and conditioning coaches, they have the resources that a lot of you know athletes prior to not. So it's great to see that shift and it's also just great to see that shift in the general health and wellness industry now you know people using to hot and cold therapy more people doing you know at home massage whether that's with a gun or even the self-myel facial release things of that nature. He said something indiscene that we might have to go into the foam roll and so why foam roll like why should foam roll not hurt what area should you avoid when you're foam rolling? How can we foam roll with you know other tools not just the roller itself but peanuts and balls and the intensity of the ball so you can use dope could dive into that a little bit and break it down by the areas of the body. So foam rolling is just a form of self-myel fascial release. Do we need more research on it 100% but it is in massage right so the main concept of it is to increase blood flow to the area and to try to relax tissue itself. You don't want to hurt yourself okay so with anything just like getting a really tough massage if you if the mesus goes too hard on you you're bruising your tissues so you're slowing down the recovery process right so a lot of people are like oh you know like I put more body weight on the area and hurt so good and that would be a little easy on that right offload your body weight because you wanted to just be a massage to be what it's used for to increase blood flow to the area and decrease some tension to modulate pain right and that will then allow you to get into your rehab or you're exercising you do this strength in the tissue long term with the foam roller per se a lot of people ask me about vibration do we know what it's exactly doing no you're talking about let's say massage guns right well I'm actually talking about vibrancy foam roller yeah so everyone's like talking about vibrancy one and we don't know you know I use the vibrancy one we actually did a study at bespoke using our biometric device via and we use the ferro body foam roller which is called the wave which I love it's a great foam roller and we did a you know a quick study of 20 people so it's not really you know it's a great study but we're using a case study 20 people and we checked to see if it helped improve our sleep thinking it would right so because of mesages the area relaxation well didn't improve our sleep did the complete opposite and we think talking to the team over timmar verse over at their body is that possibly was due to the vibration or the change of movement in your body positioning and so we don't really know right we do know that it increases most likely increases blood flow and acts as self massage so if you have some soft tissue restrictions or you're feeling tight in certain areas it's a good tool to use like using massage gun as well right so to self massage the area to decrease some tissue restrictions improve blood flow relax the tissue most likely with certain things or with the vibrating one in case it did the opposite it actually oddly enough so we tested reactive strength index so the way we jump and didn't get time on the floor and how we act and when we use the vibrating foam roller prior it improved our our our our our our our our our so we're active strength index so it did the opposite we were thinking but it just kind of shows that we need more research and that's where we are in 2020 30 is now we have all this technology and we're learning more about it and we're getting what research but people forget science isn't black and white it's gray so maybe what we're talking about right now maybe a year from now we've got a podcast and we're like yo foam rolling does the opposite of what we thought it did so use it for what it is just keep an open mind you know don't get tunnel vision on these things because it is science and we're learning more and more as we go now yeah you may agree point I mean with the emergence of all of these tools and and then you know obviously comes most likely the data to follow unfortunately right so a cool new shiny toy comes out everybody runs out and gets it but we're not entirely educated on how we should be using it when we should be using it what is in in your um in your head what is the ideal kind of use case for these tools should I be foam rolling before I'm working out should I be more static stretching dynamic stretching what is the order of events when it comes to stretching and foam rolling and recovery modalities kind of when when should I be doing them how to do this it impact based off of the activity that I've about to set out on one of the running or weightlifting session kind of bring that down a little bit for us okay so we'll talk about how to warm up right but let's let's let's touch if you have a soft tissue restriction or tightness or you're recovering from injury or something like that I always like to use that foam roller or massage gun to just loosen the tissue just in self massage the area don't crush yourself right you just want to for you know 30 seconds to a minute our an area just start to release any tissue restrictions that you're feeling an area have that self massage for you to get into your warm up when you're getting into your warm up I like to use the ramp I don't know if you've heard of ramp our MP so it stands for raise activate mobilize potentially so what you're doing is you're raising a heart rate okay whether that's via jumping jacks walking biking jogging anything just increase your heart rate get your body moving get your body ready to go activate you know add in a couple bodyweight squats lunges or pushups ready to provide a lower body where you're doing just to try to just activate your tissues a little bit then you go to mobilize so that's when the dynamic stretch and comes into play so dynamic stretching I like to dynamic stretch prior activity so it's an active stretch with dynamic stretch kind of moving the joint through the full range emotion having active stretch on the tissue just to activate tissue increase blood flow circulation and truly get your body starting to warm up and then potentially means the sports specific activity so if you follow that ramp protocol and that could be jumping sprinting or striding you know if you're running warm up would go into strides prior to a run just very sports specific type movements itself but if you use that ramp it's a great way to hopefully reduce your risk of injury but really just prepare your body for the activity or the sport that you're doing and then I like to like I said before just use the soft tissue restriction stuff prior to get your body into it or if you're feeling like super tight maybe use the raise you know whether that's walking just increase blood flow and then you know substitute that soft tissue mobility right in between before you get into the the AMP acts of it so just move that way passive modalities usually for recovery whether you can use the boots the compression boots which are great or I'd like therapy and for a red sauna cold hot kind of contrast use it after there's a place in time for everything you know sometimes a lot of these pass-msalities get a bad rep in a way because people say oh it's not going to help no it's not going to help cure an injury but use it where it needs to be used right use it for what it's good for it's not going to you can't use it for everything it's not going to make you feel better at your injury but you know let's we can use any of these I'll say intermittent compression boots compression boots increased blood flow you know compressively so increased blood flow drain your fat access them and just help pump all right there's also some research to chose a really bad jiff one growth factor which is basically growth factor come from a liver that helps tissue repair itself so there's all different ways these what these things do but the real thing is we have to educate ourselves on all of them you know talk to someone in the field or someone that does research on these are rejoin research is a new coming out all the time just read about it and understand where you incorporated into your recovery or into your training so it's used for what exactly it's used for what the research shows it's been helpful for really no matter how much let's say pre-hab rehab etc and how many no matter how many preventative measures you do take injuries do happen right whether you're kind of just a weekend warrior and every day gym go or all the way up to the highest level performing athletes injuries happen small minor it's just a part of life take us through kind of your gold standard process when someone comes in with a new injury and tell us where you start and tell us about the manual process that you put into place all the way to how strange training also plays a part in that recovery process okay so let's use for it was someone comes in as a healthcare professional and as a practitioner the number one thing we should do is listen ask as many questions as you can one of the best things that about the spoke is that we have one-on-one treatment there's no assistance aids trainers there just one-on-one with your doctor physical therapy and we also have private treatment rooms so we don't have tables out in the open so people can't hear what other people are saying those private treatments allow us to really ask questions you'd be shocked at how much we learn from asking questions who what when where right how did the injury occur when what happened what do you feel explain it and over periods of time spending more time with patients you could be you know day one you could have x and y and then on day three they're like oh actually this is what happened or this is what I feel and that can really determine what's happening or the diagnoses and prognoses right so as a healthcare professional that are one thing we can do is listen and really listen to the individual and talk to the individual because the more we know about what's going on the more we know how we can help or exactly how or what this injury is because we're not always right you know that's a hard thing that a lot of people have is the they can't accept that they don't know right and if you don't know you don't know it's pretty standard like you can't you're not all of a sudden you'd be like oh actually it's this but that doesn't happen don't get wrong but sometimes like I don't know what's going on and that's when either a further into one of my colleagues at spoke or refer them out to and orthopedic doctor for something or you know sometimes we have to refer for imaging so we actually know what's going on I know you're not your MRI but sometimes to actually figure out what's happening we need to see with underlying causes right so number one thing is listen listen ask us many questions as we can and then we have an assessment where we go into the forest med bulk of motion testing once we get the data from there we can see what's going on and visually obviously with the motion testing you can see where restrictions are and they can turn in it once we find out of what we believe our hypothesis is then we can go into see if there's any tissue restrictions so we could do manual therapy to help modulate pain or really just have that therapeutic effects so that we can improve range motion or decrease restrictions using manual therapy right which then will allow us to get into strength training and that's how we stabilize our tissue long term is that you mobilize the tissue you increase blood flow in circulation to the area and then you stabilize it through the full range of motion so that the tissue adapts and understands that full range of motion right if you're just doing stretching I don't recommend just doing one you have to combo everything together if you're just doing one verse the other you're really not getting that full effect of your muscles to adapt to create that change right so that we can become better and our muscles can become better that's how we grow and then obviously strength training is progressive load um progress through that load or increase load and volume or time so you get stronger and then after most likely let's say we did manual therapy we did our strength training and then there's recovery process and that's where those passive modalities come in so that if we could help increase the therapeutic effect or increase in blood flow to the area post it can help your body recover faster or just improve your recovery time overall and that's when that all comes to play and that's when all those modalities come back into play and like we said you're not using all the same modalities and every you painted a really nice picture of of the process really and and how you bring it full circle so it really starts with that manual therapy you go into that strength reinforcement and then it's about recovery let's break those three down a little bit um pagan injury right pick an injury and tell us how you would approach it in each of those three stages so let's start with them and that manual manipulation that you typically start out with a patient and how you apply that in different tools that you can use steam was one of them what else are you using in your toolkit okay I'm gonna I'm gonna use somebody example and she's gonna hate me for saying this but I'm gonna use Kristen as an example Kristen's one of our physios of our bespoke that you know and Kristen is a power lifter and she's super fit and very recently she's heard her back right she knows what she's doing but she lifted very heavy and it happened and she's dealing with a string right now so you know we work together as we do as a team well if someone is hurt we're gonna use each other right for physio so she's having a lower back issue and what we'll do is start with some manual work or some joint manipulations and mobilization so we didn't talk about this so what we'll do is because she has a low back injury we want to assess the area above and below as well so not just the lower back you want to go at the hips and the thoracic spine right so with her we'll do some joint mobilizations we're using an SI joint belt and I'm really distracting the joint and moving the joint through the neat range of motion so that we can restore the proper range of motion over our hips so that I can take pressure off of her low back properly right also we're using steam on her lower back and her glutes try to increase more blood flow to the area it's relaxed the tissue right so we'll go through that manual process for that lower back and then after we get through that manual work and you know we use instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization as well or grass then to try to increase blood flow so there's some research out of a journal body work and something else I'm sorry I'm blanking on that but there's some research on grass and instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization that shows a localizing increase in blood flow and increase in fiber blast activity or the increase in collagen production which helps muscle repair and reform to the area so right that what is grass and for those you don't know at home so it's instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization what it is is those tools that you see people scraping themselves with and what it is shown to do is just low-class blood flow like we said in circulation more blood flow to the area can help some research in my I believe that increase in fiber blast activity which goes into repair fibers but we do know increases collagen since it's an and basically collagen production which helps muscle repair and remodelization collagen so muscle so we know that it can help so if anything we can do we're using these tools but what we know they do to improve blood flow circulation common with other forms of manual therapy and then with her it could go right into mobility program right so we're going to mobility program we're working to mobilize the hips the thoracic spine as well because the lower back you got to look above and below and then we'll go into strength right with her we realize that she has a decrease in strength and end range emotion on external rotation of her hips right so think um think like a clam shell activity lying on your side lift the leg up all the way she actually doesn't issue with that end range so we're trying to do a stabilize in that end range and by doing that she's getting pressure off her lower back and we realize that that may be what the issue is is our external rotators are very weak all the that end range positioning right and as you think about when you're going to your deadlift or certain types of squats or movements sometimes at external rotation your feet are turned out right so we have to make sure that she's strength strong through those entire ranges so that there's no compensation a lower back and she's just stabilizing through so you know for it's with different with every injury obviously but you want to use all of these things together into one and then remember to strengthen throughout the entire range emotion you know there's a time in place for like time under tension or pulsing to get more activation but you want to make sure that you're really strengthening through the entire range that tissue adapts to that range emotion or periods of time it becomes stronger is it very say that you're essentially retraining that area of the body once you kind of get it calm down once you get some blood flow in there and we're kind of almost reprogramming it maybe is a better way to put it um of how it should be operating on a daily basis when it's out of the information and kind of that that gripping phase right yeah you're adapting so your body your body's resilient first off our bodies are super resilient and we want to adapt so whether we you know put stress on that tissue or restress in different ways your body is to adapt to it's just like anything the we there's good types of stress and bad types of stress right and those good types of stress are lower bodies to adapt and become stronger whether that's mentally or physiologically it's just adaptation and when we learn these stresses and improve on these stresses our bodies just kind of become better and more resilient so that's exactly what we're doing is we're just stressing the tissue and making it more resilient and stronger and adapting and then over periods of time the tissue will become high-partury stronger and just more resilient to basically protect your body on everything else and hopefully reduce your risk of injuries in the future and what's the importance of that recovery stage so why why do you not typically allow patient to say okay I did my manual I did my my strength but I got to head out of here like none of them I need to stand for 20 minutes what's what's the benefit of that so for us it's after our treatment right so it's time that's separate a lot of people like oh don't put that part of your treatment no we're not charging people for this so basically what we're trying to do is just create that therapeutic effect so that the patient has more blood flow to the area that they can do on their own so we spend our 60 minutes with them and then if they have 20 minutes or 30 minutes and we have times well to set them up we'll put them on because it's just a pass in modality one you almost like a cooldown right so you can't skip your cooldown so if you just go from training hard and physione we do train hard to bespoke we're not just a physione that you sweat you're gonna work I can a test for those yeah I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do not you maybe some listeners think is like oh if you know we're working hard we're we're performance training we're training hard we're getting people back to whether you need to be and after was you need to cool down so you need to a part of basically let's say a cooldown cool down cool down is your body is gonna retain go back to your pre-workout phase so whether that's decreased heart rate decreased body temperature you need to bring yourself back down if you just stop and basically your blood pressure will drop and you can faint or get dizzy right and then your body won't get the proper um basically recovery aspect so you're gonna be more strain more says little strains or strains or strains or strains and such like that so we need to cool the body down let the body adapt and relax using these passive modalities can help increase blood flow so the area to increase therapeutic effect to just enhance that recovery process so if you have 20 minutes at the end of your session leave their put you on boots stay in red light infrared sauna just anything that is particularly that injury that can help that patient relax their body decreased stress before they go back to work right so we're in your city and as you know patients will they have 68 minutes alright they'll come in they're like I beat me in some remaining before they need to run to the next meeting get in the next call and there's anything we can do to help them you know prolong that therapeutic effect or increase blood flow and relax tissue relax the mind they're gonna perform better they're also gonna go back to work with a better sense and they're gonna be clear in their mind right so because if you're caught up on things like stress it can affect everything from the way you're reacting how you're thinking your coordination your everything can be affected by stress so if we can relax the body in the individual it helped them recover faster and we've done our job as well so they're recovering from injury and then their mindset is right to get back to work or either go home to their family or whatever they want to do after work yeah we have thrown a lot of terminology out there in the last couple minutes and we've talked a lot about the different tools that the you guys used but really what are universally being used even by people at home just the pure access that we now have to motion compression guns to compression boots red light therapy you can get one of those and put on your desk and that during that day you can put treadmills at your desk as well you can have standing as right there's there are all these things and I think it's pretty overwhelming as a consumer at home and as an individual at home how can you begin to understand what tools might be best to start with to build your tool kit how does that pertain to maybe the sport you're doing so if you are a triathlete for example I am someone who originally loves to travel with my compression boots wherever I go because I know when I get off that airplane I need to get the information out of my legs I need to get the blood flow to start back to those legs in your head kind of when someone's sitting at home and especially looking at the prices to some of these tools right it's not it while they're accessible in the sense that you can go online and purchase them they may not be accessible from a pricing perspective so for you at home kind of what are your barebone necessities of what you like to have when you're home when you're traveling what's kind of like your go-to kit okay so my go-to kit is when we're in right now my compression socks I love my compression socks the increased circulation decreased vibration force just helps through the recovery process so a work compression socks whether they're performance compression socks recovery probably every day so you're in your feet all day long right so you want to make sure that we're compressing that way so that's definitely you'd go too far away especially when traveling airplane prevent pooling your legs compression socks right I travel all the time with compression boots a massage gun and then also stem so those are my favorite there's tons of research on electric simulation over the years and what it can do and how it can help you with increased blood flow or if I recruit men so different ways you can use it those that's my go-to so if I could pick one it probably be EMS or normal musculetric simulation it's probably also the cheapest set of those besides the compression socks those are obviously cheapest but boots they can be pretty costly and so can massage gun I know you can find massage guns in different types of boots on Amazon but I personally I'd love the compression boots right and you could travel with them you can bring them everywhere you want and they help you with recovery so they're going to basically compress release compress release some increased blood flow drain effect system some research shows I believe in increased an IGF on growth factors well which helps muscle repair and tissue repair massage gun it's easy to use so that's the benefit of the massage gun you also let the gun do the work just say that right here don't dig into much it's just like getting a really aggressive massage or of going too hard in the foam roller you don't want to beat yourself up but it can help decrease tension in certain areas so especially because now they make the massage guns a smaller versions of it you can just throw it right in your bag right so if you get one of those smaller ones percussion therapy massage gun just increase in blood flow decreasing tension it's a great thing to travel with so I would say top four compression socks compression boots massage gun EMS or stem great for travel with and then also your number one recovery tool no matter number two ones that you don't have to pay for or sleep right you gotta sleep and you have to have good quality sleep is not just about laying down you know when I started tracking my sleep I realized I wasn't having good quality sleep I'm kind of going to something else here but I actually moved me my wife moved apartments in our same building here in New York City because we went from an apartment with more windows to a apartment with less windows because I wasn't sleeping well because of the sun like great cool apartment you see the city awesome but I was waking up every day too early when the sun came through so for us it was a great way just to create a better sleep environment we've tried to keep our dog off the bed borrace but he weighs 85 pounds and yeah dude so stop there's no stopping him exactly so he's just in bed but you know sleep is free make sure you sleep well I'll recommend cold dark quiet environment put your device like in the kitchen or something buying a long clock do something like that and then hydrate if you're not hydrated not only can it you know decrease blood flow in circulation but if you're not hydrated well your brain goes haywire right and you can't think well you're gonna be more stressed and if you're not hydrated your body's just not going to recover so make sure you're hydrating make sure you're taking enough that doesn't mean water always that means electrolytes as well so hydrate and sleep are free those are the best recovery tools and then add those past modalities in as well hydrogens a huge topic and actually I think we have this conversation pretty often just the sodium deficiency that we're now seeing I think we had this discussion when James knew very as well shout out to James but you're always harping in as well you know you need to get in that magnesium potassium and sodium mix as well it isn't reaching for those sport drinks those classic sport drinks that have a ton of sugar in them it's not reaching for you know those baby formulations as well which is typically people's go to whether it's a hangover all the way through may be making myself a case of the toms right so what what what what of the what's the magic formula here with those big three okay so as you used to baton this but the research is showing that if you have too much salt or too little salt it's the same it can increase cardiovascular disease is everything there's a sweet spot in the middle right so you want to make sure that you are taking in some a lot of the studies back in the past yeah included like processed foods things like that with our high and sodium so that's which show people's levels are too high but the research shows that if you're too high or too low it's the same thing it's negative right so there's that sweet spot so what I like to do because my diet is pretty clean for the most part I'll add in some sort of salt into whether that's a supplement that has sodium in it or just taking like sea salt flakes so this is something mean camera and started doing in 2020 we started talking about it just gushing it before I went to bed I would just put sea salt flakes in water and some put some lemon to have a digestion and then I would just drink it there so then I get my electrolytes from the sea salt I'm not overly saturating with too much salt and I'm just saying in that sweet spot to then use the salt to help hydrate my system itself so really most people have too little or too much if you're diet super clean you're probably too little if you're diet's terrible and probably too much so you can get your your levels your measure your levels measured per say but there's really a sweet spot so adding and usually more salt is actually somewhat better to be honest from what the research is showing so just add some salt into it as some electrolytes into it yes there's some companies like you know that have these drinks that are super high in sugar is also a negative aspect of that as well right so any added sugar really is not that great for you so make sure that you're staying clean on that and avoiding that because there is some research to show that could dehydrate you actually a little bit yeah so we're saying essentially sleep stress what was the other one that we said sleep stress hydration hydration those are huge those and those are free those are all kind of we call them controllables right those are the things that you can really wake up and and be determined in the sense that I'm not going to not allow my stress levels get too high I'm going to really focus on gaining a bit early tonight and getting a good eight seven hours sleep whatever it is that you require I require eight that's just how I'm programmed if I get less than eight I'm slightly off of my game the next day and then hydration you know hydration drink you know they long and it's not just about that water talk about the actual physiological repairing that's happening during your sleep cycle talk about how your muscles are physically recovering during that time period talk about also spacing out workouts appropriately if I just got if I just went extremely hard at a marriage class eight o'clock on Monday night why should I not turn around and run six miles on Tuesday morning so first off you need to recover let's talk about that right so if your body's too stressed you're listening to cortisol levels so when we work out of a body becomes stressed so if you're taking your blood work right after you work out it's probably going to be terrible your body is way too stressed and your body needs time to repair itself if we're not repairing ourselves and then we're going into a work out the next morning you're literally like going in with a half a tank of gas right so your body is just not prepared to go and to move to that position so you need to recover properly you need to make sure you take enough time to recover and you need to get your sleep so sleep is interesting and I say quality of sleep more than quantity because once I started measuring my sleep maybe I was in bed for nine hours but I wasn't sleeping for nine hours right there's different stages of sleep you have light immune deep sleep right you don't release your growth factor your IGF1 or your hormones that repair our tissue unless you're in that deep sleep stage so that like medium to deep stage so we need to make sure that our quality of sleep is good so that we're releasing these hormones actually repair our tissue so when you release these hormones they come in and they like IGF1 growth factor let's say it helps with protein synthesis right helps repair the tissue itself and just remodel our tissue so that's what's happening there and it's the training effect right you when you train you rip your tissue apart and the tissue comes in and repairs itself and comes back strong or in bed or right so sleep and hydration have a lot to do with that if you're constantly stressing yourself you're not allowing those levels to drop and you're staying at a high level of stress if you stay at a high level of stress it could create irritation one um I always say that if you have irritation or too much stress it leads to your mind being elsewhere which affects your focus and affects your coordination which can lead to poor form um which can lead to injury right so that's a chain reaction that occurs from now make sure you're taking proper time between each workout if you're doing a workout at 10 o'clock at night like I do maybe don't work out the next morning maybe wait till the next evening to work out um if you go to that do that workout and your super sore and you had a leg day but your legs are crushed listen to your body don't do legs that day you know switch the workout up like switch it up because if you overstress your tissue you're also just not allowing every cover face to happen so the tissue's just never actually fully recover calling you an out in this room right now but we looked at programs you know I was like just do less sometimes less is more don't overstress your tissue let your body recover self let your body go through that entire process and phase so that you feel better and then you'll perform better and you'll lift more you'll be stronger you'll be faster but your body needs time to repair itself so less is more I tell this to a lot of my athletes as well it's just take a day off like sometimes you need that day off make sure you take at least one day off for a week sometimes you need to sometimes you need more but your body needs to relax and repair and recover in order to help as your performance on the next workout especially as you get older you know we're not 22 years old anymore I think I told you about one of our athletes shout out to a Maori out there I was shooting with him for about 8.5 o'clock on shoot and this kid was in absolute jack rabbit with the box jumps that he was pulling off and I asked him how old he was and he yeah he's in his young 20s and I was like wow I felt that for a second you know talk about you know the importance of everything that you just said especially as you get older you know when you turn when you really round that let's say 30 or even around that corner of 30 is it old by any means but you also aren't 20 anymore so why does this become increasingly more important as you age? I've probably just doesn't pair itself as fast as it did right I'm 37 and man I'm sore after work out so like I played basketball I was telling you I played basketball the other day and I'm not sore I got so kid just ran into me and my calf is sore like I feel bruised right and I think about that when I played football and I was younger I wrestled I just got beat up every day and never feel the sore so it's just our body going through a process as we age right and that's why we're doing everything we can to improve our lifespan longevity and we're using all these other outside tools and such to help that process curse so that I've got to talk about a couple other factors that can have a high impact on recovery so firstly it's going to alcohol intake so we're actually seeing a huge wave right now with a younger demographic they are opting out of alcohol use just based off of the knowledge that we're now seeing devices such as a lot of these wearables that we're wearing right now that can really measure your daily habits and your daily behaviors and then show you as a result what you did the day before how that impacted you for the next day talk about alcohol impact on the physical recovery of a body okay so bad that's the best way to put it I stopped drinking I wasn't a big drinker but I would drink my buddies on Sunday I'm a well-watching football whatever playing golf and I stopped drinking about six and a half years ago and I feel so much better okay I stopped drinking because the next day I would notice that my mental state as at that point a non-chip anymore was just delayed my processing time for my brain was delayed and I wasn't fully there I wasn't showing up the way that I should be until like midday the next day and I wasn't drinking a lot of it like a couple of years but that was it but my body really did not react well to it so the issue with alcohol intake is it could affect your immune system and your recovery process for all different ways basically what happens is that when you drink alcohol your body has to process everything that's in there whether sugars everything that's inside of that alcohol all the alcohol all things like that so your body's processing that so when you go to sleep your body actually doesn't get into that full deep sleep and that's why all these wearable shows that you're poor sleep like you think you're in bed for 10 hours or you think quote unquote you pass out no you don't pass out your body is up working to process all that alcohol you just took in so it affects your sleep and if you affect your sleep it affects your recovery like we said we don't get to deep sleep a body doesn't release proper hormones and both factors and our muscles don't repair ourselves right also a big issue with alcohol is it can re react with your coordination your reaction time in your mental state so if you're recovering from alcohol a day of drinking and the next day you go to work out your reaction time is going to be lower your coordination is going to be poor your focus is going to be less so those are all the things that prevent injury is being hyper focused be coordinated and really react time being there so there's a chain reaction that occurs in drinking alcohol so your body's not recovering there's also a lot of research shows that alcohol can impair your immune system so it could lead to more stress on your immune system so you're being more successful to being sick per se as well if you get sick you don't recover so it's just like a full circle right if you're not if you're drinking you're not sleeping well it also dehydrates you that's another huge thing is alcohol does the hydrate you so if you're not hydrated you tissues aren't properly fueled or hydrated your joints you know have less circulation and everything is basically impaired so alcohol is a big no no if you're serious athlete you know some people like oh stop or lower your alkaline take to be quite frank just don't drink you know there's a non alcoholic beverages that people can have now if you want that taste of beer or such there's non alcohol coins I saw recently that rock fell Simon's a store there non alcoholic alcohol right that is that so and I tasted one of the wines and you know it tasted like wine to me so maybe real wine drinkers would argue but I'm not a big wine drinker or never was yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so just just limited if you can I would say don't if your series athlete don't drink it will really improve your recovery times because it's not affecting other aspects of recovery so your tissues are staying in optimal state and your body is allowed to perform the way it should in your recovery process is a close to impairing it's basically you're doing your just impairing your process every time you drink and also you know this research that shows it kind of destroys your DNA a little bit as well so I'm sure alcohol this probably will be tons of new research coming out in this future because we're doing a lot of research on it now because not alcohol drinks are becoming so popular is that probably also affects your lifespan and your longevity so you know limit your alcoholic or say no to it if you can and rather hydrate your system and properly fuel your system yeah awesome now we're not here to talk necessarily about nutrition and obviously we don't have a dietitian in the house here but we are talking about the impact the human body and how your body is recovering on a daily basis from one that workouts as a daily life so let's talk about under fueling let's talk about under fueling I just had a massive mass of strength day maybe I didn't refuel properly how is that going to play a role and how my body is is feeling the next day and continuous cycles of under fueling how that can also set you up for a higher risk of injury as well okay so it's just vitamins minerals if you're not taking the proper vitamins of mineral like said I'm not an nutritionist on a physical therapist so if you're taking and not taking the proper vitamins of minerals your body is not getting the fuel that it needs right or if you're taking in the wrong vitamin minerals right so a big thing that I see is that people are like oh man I ate a ton of protein after I worked out but what types of protein did you eat and they'll say things like oh I had a you know fried chicken sandwich is a protein yeah but you're using fried foods which can cause more information your body one let's say that's it the condiments that you put on most of these foods have high sugar things like that or not the best whole foods per say that if you can say so really proper fueling is huge right so a big thing is make sure you eat enough as well a lot of athletes are under fuel I've realized I had this conversation with my buddy key last year two years ago when he was training off season for the NFL we were talking a lot about fueling and it's really just taking in the proper things right and people their entire lives can work on athletic ability and they can eat whatever they want and there's some athletes that argue oh I can have McDonald's I'm you know I'm calling out Chad Ocho Sinko over there but he is one of the greatest athletes of all time but and his body is that like one percent or that his body restilled reacted well and recovered well but a lot of people if you increase inflammation or taking the poor nutrition your body is going to basically fight against that and it's not going to properly heal right or you can increase inflammation your body possibly through the use of like fried foods or poor oils right that's another thing a lot of people don't get is that when you eat out a lot of the times restaurants cut costs right so they're going to use cheaper oils these cheaper oils have been shown like an oil to increase inflammation your body so we need pure oils that you know sometimes costs a little more but if you cook at home that's okay get that extra virgin olive oil things like that just be clean I say whole foods be clean get your protein intake after you work out whether that's through a shake fuel or whole foods itself but just make sure that you're getting proper vitamins and minerals as opposed to what most athletes do is just leave the gym and go grab a beer or something like that because we want to make sure that you're feeling your body properly so it has the efficient nutrients, vitamins and minerals to actually repair itself. Great stuff we're going to transition into our final topic here and it's a big one and it's probably one that's gained a little bit more attention as of recent years and that's really the mental health impact that injuries can have and now this isn't just the mental health impact of a professional athlete who's you know living is to play that sport right this is everywhere from you're again I'm going to say it again you're a weekend warrior in your everyday gym goers to your amateur athletes all the way to your professional athletes whatever disruption that you experience in your daily routine is going to have an impact on your mental health talk about the patterns that you have historically seen in individuals who become injured and who's daily life does become distracted because of an injury and what is sort of the advice that you you you know give them to take home okay so negative reinforcement is bad let's put that out there right so if you don't think you're going to get better you're possibly not going to get better okay your brain is a very strong thing it will affect your recovery so if you're saying like oh I'm doing bad I'm not going to do better yeah you're limiting your ability that's it performance right so negative reinforcement is terrible if you have negative reinforcement in your life finally to get rid of it okay I've just put in that out there step one step one get that out right so positive reinforcement is you you have to tell yourself you're going to get better you need to train your brain and your mind to understand that you're going to get better and you're going to do better you're going to perform better right you need to be positive with yourself and you need to have external factors that are positive um one of the biggest things that I talk about with athletes especially Doran's athletes is Samuel Mercos Bio psychosocial model of endurance right so he's a researcher I've actually gave you that book to read about it and he talks about this model his model is saying that there are different types of external factors whether that's physiologically through our individual selves you know where affected by like a VO2 Maxis how much oxygen we can consume, our bodies can function out properly, you can function we're also affected by social factors external factors support groups support people support individuals right and then we're also affected by our own psychological aspects so meaning are you motivated are you not motivated do you have a lot of stress in your life do you have a lot of negative impact in your life this can all affect one another so yes you're physiological performance body will affect your performance but if you're having issues with all these other external factors they will affect your performance and they will come down to impair your performance in a way right so one of the big things that I like to tell everyone is that you have to practice your mental fitness if you don't practice your mental fitness you're not going to all of a sudden like walk into the gym and be mentally prepared to work out right you have to practice this at home at work and in the gym okay you need to understand that your mental fitness can be affected by all these other external factors social factors as well so if you're having a stressful situation at home or stressful situation work you're not going to be performing at your best during the gym and vice versa right so you have to practice positive reinforcement and that's positive self-talk so it's not just you know external factors of seeing like a nice photo that makes you happy which research shows that if you flash a smiley face this is San Wilmer Co's research on a personal treadmill they will go longer and stronger on their treble runs right as opposed to flashing sad faces like this actually does affect our brain but we want to make sure that we're giving ourselves positive reinforcement and positive self-talk talk throughout this entire process you need to tell yourself you're going to be better you need to believe in yourself that is a huge thing if you do not believe in yourself you're not going to do as best as you can right so that goes kind of into his 60% rule um you're saying that you're 60% when your body you know feels fatigue some people call this like the navy seal rule things like that um you're actually 60% you know done you still 40% left in the tank and your body needs to understand that you're going to get better and you're going to be able to get past that point but if you don't train yourself to understand that it's going to affect you in a negative aspect or impair your performance or limit your performance in a way so I think the biggest things that people need to take away from this is that mentally be positive practice positive reinforcement in the gym at home at work all the time because you're going to be affected by each one of those and if you are sad or unhappy in one of them it will affect your performance so be happy you can also do meditation work mindfulness work yoga you know breathing techniques things like that or if you're just feeling super stressed when you get to the gym or something you're lifting sometimes stop what you're doing take 3D breaths that's what I always say take 3D best and go for a walk walk around the block one time clear your mind if you can clear your mind you can get back to the performance you want without these external factors affecting your performance our brain is undoubtedly the most powerful organ of our body right talk about the mind muscle connection how that plays a specific role in the injury aspect of this cycle right so someone just got an ACL reconstruction right how do they how does the brain play a part in helping someone walk again and helping someone run again right how does the mind play a role in that in that process so mind body connection right you have to connect your brain to the muscle you want to use that sounds crazy for some people but it's true right so if you're doing let's use like a quad set or a knee extension or something like that where you can track your quadricep muscles you should actually think about through your brain contracting that muscle more that will show that the muscle will contract more you'll have more activity of that tissue itself so that mind body connection is huge if you're doing your bicep curls and you're you know a way lift or a cosmetically trying bigger biceps think about that like squeeze your biceps think about your mind squeezing the biceps yeah if you flex between sets it's research that shows that actually can decrease your strength on the next set but if you're just looking for high part of your squeeze away right if you want those biceps to be bigger connect your brain to it between sets squeeze as much as you want you might have been will lift as much because it'll affect your training for performance I don't recommend flexing between sets disclaimer disclaimer you want to get stronger don't flex between sets but if you want to just connect that brain but when you're doing the the workout itself whatever muscle that you want to contract or the muscle that you want to focus on working connect your brain to that muscle and really try to hyper focus on that muscle contracting itself and this research that shows that will help that mind body connection to help that muscle gets stronger and grow in itself absolutely so throughout our entire chat we've talked a lot about longevity and what we're seeing today is a lot more emphasis on just that when it comes to health and wellness goals why are we seeing that shift right why are we seeing people you know moving from I'm gonna go really hard in my 20s and then I'm gonna kind of dwindle out from there whereas now no I want to keep doing Iron Man's until 85 right so why do you think that's become such a big shift in our culture well first off we're living longer right generationally we're living longer through the use of medical advances in technology and the research that we're having supplements and just medical as a whole is allowing us to live longer people are living longer so people's mindsets are shifting to I want to and also people having children later in life so people want to be prepared to you know interact with their kids later in life but we're shifting to that aspect of let's live as a spoke we say live better longer right that is what our true that's what we go by that's where we want every patient to be is to live better longer and we focus on longevity and lifespan so as we age we want to age more gracefully we want to make sure that we're aging properly so that we can play with the next generation in our family or you know interact with all those people we're just in general if you don't have and we just exercise longer and be really focused on bettering yourself and improving this actually all comes through everything we spoke about today so there's all these different factors that play a role in our life span and longevity whether it's exercise sleep nutrition hydration all these things affect one another and it's showing us that all of this that we're working on if we do these properly or work on all these individual things we should be able to live longer right bottom line through technology through research through the medical advances that we're having right now is we should be able to live longer per se but we want to live more gracefully longer we want to be able to perform an our memory you know that's my goal and generations before us did not have that and they weren't living as long right but we're also as a generation more focused on things like exercise exercise as a whole as you if you move and you stay moving not only will it make you stronger but will also increase your blood flow your circulation and all your brain to be better right we have to make sure that we're also playing that mental fitness game we spoke about mental fitness earlier but we also want to make sure that we're training our brain right don't let your brain just stop working especially those that retire early you want to make sure that you're still challenging your brain because your brain is like a muscle we stress it to then let it to strengthen itself and become stronger so it's not decreasing as we age right think about all timers it's a very big issue in our society now to mention things like that we want to make sure that we try to avoid these things and usually through what we know in research it's exercise exercise helps everything exercise is the key to longevity okay if we can stay exercising exercising and staying moving our bodies and our brain will be stronger and we should be able to age more gracefully and improve our longevity in life span awesome doctor Dan Gerda and I thank you so much for coming to the BbCom podcast we have an exciting 2023 coming up with you in the bespoke team just really pumped for this conversation to come out for our users thank you for having me look forward to hearing this and I look forward to working with you guys more thanks for tuning in to the BbCom podcast stay tuned for more stories along the way

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Ebenezer Samuel. Eb is a certified strength and conditioning coach and the fitness director for Men's Health magazine. He has 10 plus years experience as a fitness trainer and has worked with pro athletes from Terrell Owens to Charles Way, along with everyday athletes from marathon moms and New York City firefighters. Eb specializes in training techniques that build strength and enhance the mind muscle connection. He's put together numerous workout programs for men's health, including the best-selling new rules of muscle, and his modern approach to training is built around fundamentals while delivering new and unique movements that keep workouts exciting and fun for all. Samuel also helped create the strength and diversity initiative, a men's health and women's health program that provides trainers from marginalized communities with the mentorship, certification, and platform to jumpstart their careers. Prior to arriving at Men's Health, Eb was consistently around athletes working out as a sports columnist for the New York Daily News. Very often he found himself working out with pro athletes and he's trained with the likes of sprints or adjusting gattling, Cowboys pass, pressure, democracy's wear, and many others over the years. And welcome to the B-becom podcast, excited to dive into everything that we have planned today. Yeah, no, I'm really excited to be here. So I actually grew up a little bit on Bodybuilding.com in the Greg-Plit era, that was the guy who I wanted to, or among the guys who I wanted to really look like. So it's kind of cool to be here because it's something I really grew up with. Nice, nice. We're always happy to hear that. I mean Bodybuilding.com has been around for 24 years at this point. So some people come in here and they're like, you're here where I got my first training program. You're where I got my very first editorial article, and it's really cool to see. So I appreciate you noting that. At a high level today, we'll be covering the evolution in Men's Health from Physical Mental and Emotional Wellbeing. We'll be talking about muscle building, rep schemes, breaking up your program, programs splits, training for your goal versus high-perchrophy versus sports performance versus endurance. And then we'll be wrapping up. We're not only with Men's Mental Health, but also training for your specific decade. So we'll be talking about the differences of training for your 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, and even 70s plus. So really excited to dig into this today. Yeah, that's going to be fun. So let's kick it off with a hot topic with our audience. They always want to know how to build more muscle. So the goal of building muscle, specifically fueling and training with the goal of building muscle at the forefront. So let's talk about fueling because I don't think we tend to lead with that one often enough. We always hear the saying ads are built in the kitchen, right? Well, do an extent muscles are built in the kitchen too. So all around, let's talk about fueling and someone who has the number one goal of building muscle, what they should be fueling with. Yeah, it's wild because for a long time in my training coming up, I followed all the bodybuilding that come, workouts. But I didn't handle my nutrition business for a very long time. And part of the reason was because I thought I'm training, I can eat whatever I want, and that's going to cover me. And then I got into a stage in college where I was literally just drinking protein shakes. They're the most cost-efficient way to get protein, but they're missing a lot of other things. And so that probably wasn't the smartest way for me to go about things. It wasn't until I think I actually moved here. I think I was 24, 25 years old, still struggling to kind of get where I wanted to strengthen my muscle-wise. And I remember asking a bodybuilder, I was like, what's wrong? I trained really hard. I trained every day. But I'm not kind of achieving it. I can't barely, I can't bench 225. I can't get a lot of the things I want. I was basically like, well, what do you eat? And I was like, well, for my first meal, I have a protein shake. And then a couple hours later, I'll have another protein shake. And then a couple hours later, I'll have another protein shake. And he's like, well, there's your problem. You're not eating real food and you're not getting your protein from the right sources. And once I made that transition, I was able to start making the gains that I needed to. And I think that's the biggest challenge for people is kind of understanding one that you need to, you do need to hit your macros, but it's about so much more than that. Both from like a longevity standpoint and from a muscle-building standpoint, also from like a tendon and bone health standpoint. And so it's about getting your protein, getting one gram of one gram per pound of body weight at least being in that region. But then at the same time, trying to get that protein from natural sources and trying to eat from natural sources. I do not think diet is as complicated as some people want to make it. I think it's crazy because all the stuff my mom told me that I never listened to would de-exception the probably like drink milk. But most of it was true. If I'm not drinking soda, if I'm drinking a ton of water, if I'm eating like being vegetables, if I'm eating my protein, I'm kind of going to be right where I need to be. So I think we can keep it simple in general. The only macros I really tell people to track is protein. Make sure you get one gram per pound of body weight a little bit above that. There's no there's there there there are diminishing returns to some extent. Once we exceed, I think around like 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. But at the same time, there's no downside. Right? And so it helps it. It's a really good start for to build your your diet around protein. And then to try to get it from diverse sources. So I'll like, I'll have a shake every single day. But then throughout the rest of the day, I'm trying to make saying, you know, chicken, I do a lot of salmon, shrimp. Try to get your protein from various other sources because then you're getting a lot of other micro nutrients covered instead of just having like a, I mean, the protein shake thing I was doing was really, really on intelligent. But if you if you diversify those protein sources, you're covering a lot of your other nutrition too. Yeah. And the just of it really being starting with whole foods as your primary protein source. And supplements, you know, we say this every day, even here at bodybuilding.com, supplements are made to compliment that. Right? They're to give you that that essential extra edge and that little bit of bump of what you may not be wholly getting from your diet on daily basis. But thereby, no means to replace, you know, that steak, that chicken, that tofu, whatever it is that it is that you're choosing as your primary protein source. So I think that's a great point. You know, for you specifically, what, you know, take us through a daily day for you of eating and what works for you when you're really trying to pack on some muscle. Yeah. I mean, you know, I try to, I try not, again, I try not overthink it. I always make sure I want to get my protein in every single meal. I'm going to try to get a complex carbon. Some kind of like a brown rice. I do a lot of white rice on Asian, so I can't, I can't help it. Potato, I do a lot of sweet potato. But I'll start my day early, because generally I try to be awake by 545, 6 AM. That's the only way I can make it to the city and survive the commute. So I'll just have a protein shake there. I usually mix in, you know, I'll go like 25 grams of one scoop of my protein. And now I'll add a little collagen protein to that as well. That gets me started then two and a half, I try to eat every couple of hours on one of those people. Two and a half hours after that, I'm usually getting, I'm at the office, I'm kind of settled in. I'll usually do like three to four eggs with spinach and some potatoes. And then I usually get two of that. So I'll eat that again a couple of hours later. I try to, you know, always make sure I have some level of fuel in my body, because I know I'm going to train hard and I'm going to want to train a lot. A couple hours after that, usually around like two o'clock, I wind up having four to six ounces of salmon. They do the guy downstairs at the cafeteria knows me really well, because I would do the same thing. But I'll get four to six ounces of salmon. Usually, the leader have spinach or the half kale down there. So I'll grab some of that. And then I'll do another two to three ounces of rice. And then I'll repeat that meal one more time throughout the day. That brings me home. Once I get home, I try to, you know, I'm going to head out to my work. I'm going to have to work out after I train, you know, I may do a pre-work out. If it's, if it's a really, really aggressive leg day or something like that. But after I train, I'll come back and I'll have, I'll usually have another four to six ounces of the salmon. Usually, some starting curry. My mom makes it and it makes the salmon taste a lot better. And then off, I'll finish it out with, you know, three to four ounces of white or brown rice. And usually it's white rice. There's been a lot of conversation around starting your day with a very high protein meal. Why do we want to do that? I think it's mainly because your, like, protein is, is the building black, is the key building black of, of muscle, right? And one, it's like, what else would you start with? Right? If you start with a complex car, or something like that, you're potentially, you're, you're playing with your insulin level. Then you don't need to do that, right, in the morning. But protein, it's, it's a key building black. Your, your body is completed from night before. So it's a good thing to start with. I think that's what. Great. And then what about, what about nighttime? What about winding down at night? What, is that something, and we, do we still want to be protein forward there? Do we want to go, is that the more, a more appropriate time for a complex car? What are your thoughts on, on nighttime routine? I think it depends, it depends a lot on when you train. I train it. Again, I try to, I think some of that, it's over-complicated when people say, oh, you shouldn't have carbs after certain time. There are, to something, there are, you know, insulin effects to that. But I also think for the majority of people, we're not training necessarily at that level, where that's something we need to over-focus on. I think if you, if you're coming off it, if you train at night, which is what I do, then you want that carbon there. Because, you know, you, you had a hard work out just, and you want to, we know how important the post-lift meal is, and we don't want to take that for granted. So if you have, if you train at night, you definitely want to have that carbon there. Protein to me is something we should, you know, we've, there's a lot of discussion about, and I feel like the guidance on this gradually changes every couple of years. But there's always a lot of discussion on how much protein can you metabolize in one meal, right? And in general, I feel like they usually say, you know, between 25 to 35 grams. In general, you want to make sure somehow throughout your day that you're hitting your protein bar. Whatever it is, 100-day grams, 200 grams. So that's a lot of protein period. So it makes sense to, it makes sense just beyond the, the diet perspective of it, and beyond what's best. It makes sense to space that out throughout the day because I don't know many people who can sit down to eat, say, 60 to 70 grams of protein in one sitting and do that three times in a day. So it makes sense to space it out and based solely on that, it makes sense to start today with, you know, 25, 30 grams of protein and end it with 25, 30 grams of protein because that, that just makes it, it allows you to get your numbers without having to eat a massive lunch date. That, you know, I mean, intermittent faster is do a bit of that kind of work. Absolutely. I'm with you. Now that we've really broken down how we should be feeling with the number one goal of building muscle in mind. Let's talk about training and I think that's going to be the nugget here, right? And this is where you're going to really come to life, I feel. Let's talk about training with the number one goal of building muscle. Give me all of the details. Should we, how should we be breaking up our week? You know, what are the types of workouts we should be doing? I know we're going to get into making the most of a rep in a few minutes here. We talk about reps, reps, schemes, and e-centric versus contract, concentric, and things of that nature. But really, just give us the high level what your number one piece of advice for someone going into building muscle in the gym and how they should approach that goal. I think there's two things. One, you have to train legs. You can't skip it. I think that's something I did when I was, when I was younger too, like they, like they as vicious is going to hurt. It's going to leave each, a good leg day to some extent is going to leave you a little bit of pain tomorrow. If you're not struggling walking down the stairs after like, did you didn't, you did something wrong? Exactly. It's surprisingly satisfying though, struggling to walk down the stairs after like that. But you have to train legs. There, there, your largest muscle group. There are also, and this is going to go into the other key thing with trying to build muscle and also build strength. And there are also, because their your largest muscle group and because so many other muscles are just involved from it, an isometric standpoint. And in every single leg motion, there are the muscle group where you're going to lift the heaviest possible weights you can. Your deadlift, regardless of what implement you're using, should be your strongest lift. And the fact that you get to subject your body to that kind of load is going to send the hormonal signals required for you to grow. So my first thing is going to be you have to train legs. And it, not once a week, that's like 52 times a year. It doesn't feel like a lap, but try to get it in twice a week at least. The second key thing I think is just making sure that you build your workout around multi-joint motions. I think you want to look at, I like to divide the body into, or I like to divide motions into five different groups. You've got six different groups actually. I can't count. You've got, you've got an e-dominant move. So that's going to be any kind of squat or lunge. I would put in that category too. You've got a hip dominant move, any kind of hip hinge, and we want to make sure we have that. That's going to be our deadlift. And then we have four families of upper body moves. We've got vertical pull and vertical push. Vertical pull is going to be any kind of pull-up or chin up concept. Vertical push is going to be any sort of overhead concept overhead presses. And then we've got horizontal pull and horizontal push. We want to make sure it's critical for everybody. Before you even touch the vertical pull, vertical push ideas, the first upper body motion you've got to be able to master is the row. The row should be one of your strongest upper body motions. It's going to keep you healthy and it's going to help build your back. That's a really, really large muscle group and it's also a really key muscle group for shoulder health. And then you've got obviously horizontal push. That's the fun one for guys. It's bench presses, push-ups. And I like to, you want to make sure that you cover all of those bases. You want to hit at least every single week. You want to do at least one of those motions. The way I like to break it down and the simplest way I think and the safest way I think over the long term to break things down is to treat this either like a four day or a six day split. Your first day you're going to train legs, get it out of the way. Second day you're going to train all your pulling muscles. That's going to be your horizontal rows, your vertical pull. If you can get, if you're at that point where you can really manage pull ups and you can handle pull downs and your shoulder health is good. And then you can get in a little bit of biceps. Your date three would then be push. Right? And that's going to be, that's going to be driven by your bench presses, your overhead presses. You can get a little bit of triceps in there as well. And then you can repeat that cycle. That's one way to do it. The other way to do it if you only want to train four days a week, if you're a little bit more of a beginner, then we can go lower upper lower upper upper. Right? So my day one is going to be my leg day. I'm going to make sure to cover my hip hinge, my knee dominant move. My day two is going to be my upper body day. I'm going to cover my, I'm going to basically go through a horizontal push motion, a horizontal pull motion. I'll get in a pull up idea. I may get in some kind of shoulder idea. And that's going to be my workout. I could take a day off and then repeat that. There are a lot of different ways to do it. All of them can be effective. I think over the course of your training, over and that's, you know, talking like decades, you should play with all of them and utilize all them because they're going to fit different phases of your life, which I'm sure we'll get into a little bit later. Yeah. Absolutely. You touch on something a second ago. Lifting heavy. Yeah. Right? Lifting heavy weights. And I think that's something that we need to emphasize here. I think more women are lifting heavier weights. I think just more people in general are understanding that you need to lift very, very heavy. If you want to see the progress you're looking for. And you mentioned a hormonal signal being sent. And I want you to expand on that a little bit more. Basically, in terms of the hormonal signal, what we're, when you're lifting heavy, your body is going to wind up producing more testosterone. Testosterone winds up being a key, testosterone is driving so much of how we grow muscle. So it just makes sense to try to push that as much as you can. Yeah. And we want to be doing this in all of the six or seven fundamental movement patterns we want to be doing this for all of our major lifts as well. Right? Yeah. It's something, Stan. I think it's going to, again, when we hit our legs, right? We're going to just be capable of pushing more. Right? We may not be, like, I think you want to be a little bit cautious of vertical pulling, vertical push. Because when we go overhead, so many, there are so many little issues that can happen in terms of our shoulder held. But I think, yeah, as much as you can, on our multi joint moves, we want to be pushing as heavy as we can. And that can mean diving down into, I think we get caught up in feeling the burn too often. And thinking, okay, let's keep this around eight to 10 reps. Because that's what I'm going to feel it the most. You don't have to feel it on, you don't have to feel it when you're lifting heavy. You're, you're, you'll feel it the next day. Just get the lift done. And you can kind of focus on the burn a little bit more of the my muscle connection. When you get to some of those accessory ideas later, that doesn't mean your form should be horrible. And you should be arching your back and your butt should be sky high off the bench when you're bench pressing. But it does mean that, you know, it's not necessarily about feeling it fully in your chest. Right. There's going to be a time in a place for low rep, high weight. And then vice versa. So there's going to be a time in a place for your program. No matter what kind of goal you're training for at this point. The, the, just of it is, everybody should be lifting heavy at some point in their program during their week. And then there's a time in a place for your higher rep lower weight accessory work. Yeah. I think it's too about the relationship between muscle and strength. Right. When I am lifting a little bit heavier, when I'm lifting a little bit heavier, I'm going to not only develop muscle, but I'm building strength and I'm building power. And if I can build, if I can enhance my strength and power, if I can, if I can take that to another level, then when I get to those kind of pump exercises or those moments where I'm going to focus on the my muscle connection, I'm going to be able to use a larger load and still hit higher reps, right? So it makes sense to play in a lot of sandboxes in terms of in terms of the, the, the reps game you're using. And in terms of going very, very heavy and challenging yourself. And at the same time, having those moments where we're not going as aggressively. Yeah. Absolutely. What is your number one piece of advice for someone not to do when they're trying to gain muscle? It's funny because I'm almost going to contradict myself. I think it's not what I said you should do. We just talked about lifting heavy and I think that's really, really, really important. But the number one thing not to do when you're trying to build muscle is I think thinking of motions at, like, just lifting almost, like, I think the number one thing not to do is let motions become point A to point B, right? What happens, I think very often, I think this is a, is a, is a flaw or an issue, especially when you're beginner in the gym, is you're, you're going to, okay, I'm going to do a Biceps curl. So I've just got to get the weight up, right? Well, I'm just, I just got to get the weight up. And there is a time in the place for that. And we, you know, that that's kind of the heart of a deadlift. We want to get the weight up with proper mechanics. And we've got to learn those mechanics first. And we've got to understand the muscles we were engaging first. I think not enough people take the time to understand the muscles that they're supposed to be using. And none of people take the time to understand, you know, a deadlift is, yes, fundamentally it is, I'm just picking a weight up off the ground. But it's mainly driven by my hamstrings and my glutes. And I need to understand that those muscles are working, I need to be able to feel it in those muscles. I've got to master that before I start lifting crazy heavy. Yeah, absolutely. So, so a little bit of what we're going into in a little bit is I'm developing that mind muscle awareness and just overall that body awareness. So, something we always hear people say is I'm trying to build muscle. Should I do cardio? Well, yeah, she should do cardio, right? We need to keep our heart healthy, right? But how do we keep it at bay in the sense that we're not going to affect muscle mass when our primary goal is building muscle? Cardio, I think, is Cardio is very, very underrated from a strength perspective. I think people tend to, I am a very big believer overall in making sure that you don't, I think when we get too caught up in one modality and we forget everything else, we're short-circending the gains that we may be trying to make in that in that one area. And I think that's what tends to happen with cardio because if we can make our heart stronger, if our heart can more effectively plump blood throughout our system, right? Then when I go to, when I go to sit down to the bench press or to any of my strength exercises, I'm going to have a little bit more in me to get another couple reps on top, which provides more muscle building stimulus in the end. So I think we should all have a cardio component in our workout. How we piece that together is sort of the riddle and I think there are a couple ways to do it because you also don't want to, you don't want to say go through like an hour long strength workout and then sit on a treadmill for an hour or do something like that because then you're just wearing yourself out, you're not giving yourself a chance to recover. I think there are a couple of things that people can do. One, there's, there's a lot of increasing research on zone two, right? Zone two cardio, just the idea of being 50 to 60% of your heart rate and living in that area and how that can help build your engine. And that is also a little, that's also not necessarily body taxing cardio. I would contend with zone two too, a lot of the reason the research is coming out and a lot of the reason we need it more is because humans are moving a lot less than they used to and zone two is literally me walking my dog or me going to the grocery store except I don't go to my grocery store anymore because I just ordered for man's on it. So we can get that zone two in and I think if you can make time for an hour of that a day, there's nothing wrong with that. And hour of taking a walk, there's no harm, right? The more active we can be the better. I think that all this sort of counts as as very base level cardio. I also think there's value and kind of in revving your engine up a lot more. When I sit down to a really, really hard set of like six reps on the deadlift, my heart rate will wind up pretty high. Especially if I'm doing three to four sets of that. So there's no harm in training that level of cardio and getting in like you know, eight ten minutes of hit on the back end of your of your strength workout or as a stand alone workout if you have that kind of time. So I think it's just it's making sure that we're smart about our cardio but I think it needs to be a part of your training. I would probably limit it if I'm going to do like a hit style session or some kind of interval session on a rower to twice a week because I don't want to kill myself and then try to but try to get in that other zone two cardio as often as I can because it's just gonna help. Yeah it's a great point. Cardio diversity is such a big topic that you know so many people think just walking and inclined on a treadmill you know is cardio right you can get on the skier you can get on the air by you can get on the road you can you can do cardio with weights you can get a kettlebell and you can do some complexes and you can really get your heart rate up and you can do some metcon conditioning with weights so you really stress you know cardio diversity getting out of the mind set that you need to be on a treadmill to get cardio done and finding you know new and unique ways for you to really spike those heart rate levels for you to ensure that you're staying healthy and fit all around. Yeah and it's just so good to support your strengthening so much because our heart rate if we are strength you know our heart is going to wind up high so let's get comfortable with that that way I believe you have to get comfortable when you are trying to build strength that's about that's we have to progressively overload to something's done and we're going to be able to take that much harder when we're in our strength work. What about timing do we want to do our cardio before or after strengthening? I think this is this is all about priorities and I always say it's interesting I like to try to I love trying to do two of these I think it makes me feel like a badass even though same even though like it's not really a two of the I just broke my work I'd up in a smarter way right um I think whatever I think when I think of two of these though and I think of you know how I'm going to fit strength and cardio together I think it's based around what my priorities are I want to build muscle so that needs to come first that does not necessarily mean that needs to come first in my day though because I'm you know we all kind of have slightly different rhythms like lifestyles work stresses and stuff like that and I'm most optimized like I am most on when I'm in in the evening and therefore I do my muscle stuff in the evening that's when my that's when my strength training happens my cardio I do you know early in the morning or I do it you know at like one in the morning but that we're not talking sleep habits so I call that myself killer with that and say well leave that we'll throw back to Dan for that one yeah but the key the key to me is whatever your primary goal is that should live in your most optimal and focus training window and whatever your secondary so for most of you guys obviously you know strength training so that should live in your optimal window and you get your cardio done in that secondary time where you're not as focused because it's not as important to you but you do want to make sure to hit it. Yep absolutely yeah so let's talk a little bit about program splits right let's talk about the difference between programming for I have a hard to feed basic school a performance basic school and endurance basic school and how we would go about you know creating a program for each of those three athletes so for those out there listening hypertrophy let's say a bodybuilder for performance let's say football baseball and for endurance let's say triathlon or marathon runner right and let's talk about strength program structuring and the differences between those three types of athletes. Yeah I happy to and that it's something that excites me to because I've moved between I feel like when the more you're in fitness you we want to be everything and I've moved between the different pieces and tried to find different ways to put them together. I think the thing I want to start by explaining a little bit is just it's all three athletes are kind of on some level training in what I say three different spaces and you want to make sure you have those spaces you have those spaces covered one is obviously cardio which we we talked about everybody should be should have some kind of a row of component in their training um the second is kind of the hypertrophy style lift that's going to be your slow traditional um the slow traditional way we're going to approach you know a bench press a biceps curl um a dumbbell curl we're really focusing on the muscles um really trying to make your our performance tight we're trying to lift heavy but it's all about going almost as heavy as we boss we can is classic progressive overload um and then I think there's kind of a third family of moves I call them momentum transfer moves basically it's going to be anything explosive in athletic that's going to be like your kettlebell swings snatches power cleans um high pulls exercises like that where we have to you you can't really isolate your entire system winds up involved in it and what we're trying to do in general we're never really going our heaviest because it's about not just a muscle creating force but the muscle creating force incredibly quickly and it's our body's ability to we're combining our body's ability to create that force and our body's ability to our muscles ability to stabilize and control those forces after we've created them and I think throughout the course of our training we want to have mastery over all three of those over all three of those styles of movement it's how we dose them that differs between the hypertrophy athlete between the the track athlete and between the and then between the more long endurance athlete. All right let's talk through the differences in strength training you know sport for specific goals you know muscle gain hypertrophy sports specific and endurance let's talk about the reps game that go into those programs right so let's talk about the difference between three to five reps five to eight and eight to fifteen and the best use cases for those based on goal. Yeah I think for I think for muscle gain again I think we're living in all three of those blocks right in muscle gain the first thing we're going to do our first let's say we're going through let's say we're going to limit this to a four days a week program and it's going to be um you know five five exercises right my first three motions are probably going to be if I'm focused only on solely on muscle gain and hypertrophy my first you know three to four exercises and that workout are going to be in that eight to ten rep range right I want to I want to um I want to be able to really feel the muscle I want to be able to create time under tension and I want to be able to create that force repetitive repeatedly right and so if I'm focusing on muscle gain I'm going to make sure that my first three to four motions live in in that eight to ten rep range that's going to be that is kind of what we consider our standard hypertrophy rep range right um I'm also I'm still going to make sure that I have an explosive component within my workout so later on in the workout I may want to do a kettlebell swing I may do because that's going to allow me to have to deal with the load of momentum transfer and then I may end with a little bit of cardio just so I get a little bit of ruby in there and what's the difference between you know let's let's for those listening out there let's distinguish the difference between hypertrophy and then just building for strength right and how does the reps scheme differ there between hypertrophy and just pure strength building if I'm if I'm a little bit more pure strength building I'm going to go a little bit lower rep because I'm trying to I'm trying one night I have to cash in a little bit more power and explosiveness on my lips and that power response expires far earlier is going to expire you know within eight to ten seconds and a normal hypertrophy set is going to take you around if you're doing eight to ten good quality reps it's going to take you 30 to 40 seconds to get through say eight to ten good reps of biceps curls or squats right those first three to four reps in that set are going to feel powerful and explosive eventually what you what's going to happen after those first three to four reps if you've chosen if you're working with a challenging weight you're not going to be able to be as explosive and suddenly you're going to have to grind out a couple reps those grind out reps aren't necessarily the best way to build strength but they're the really good way to help you build muscle and they're really good way to kind of stimulate that hypertrophy response and on the other side of the spectrum endurance athletes someone who is participating in triathlon someone who's training for the marathon someone who is a cycling athlete obviously all these are respectfully their own sports within themselves but they're long distance endurance events right how do they go how do these types of athletes go about sport our sport specific strength training for these events without constantly having heavy legs and feeling fatigue right obviously they're putting in 20 30 40 50 sometimes 60 plus miles if you're a biker right I hope you're not running that much in a week but for running maybe you're logging 25 plus for 100 mile months right you know preventing injury is going to be a huge part of that and by preventing injury strength training needs to be at the forefront of our program but how often should they be implementing that to stay in cadence with a heavy duty endurance program that's a really that's a very unique front or the way I see it's a very it's a very different situation because it is all about what is the role of of strength training for them so for the hypertrophy guy it's obviously just to build muscle right the athlete is using it we want to be a little bit more explosive we want to focus on a little bit lower reps it's all about moving that way fast because that suddenness is what makes a great athlete so you're almost never training heavy if you're if you're focusing on that and that's especially true now if you look at if you like 100 meter dash runners I don't know I used to follow this a lot if you look at the 90s 100 meter dash runners all those guys were I mean jacked right if you look at the guys who would not have 100 meter dash the last couple of years and the post you say both era they're kind of skinny normal looking guys and it's because they're really just focusing on they're focusing on quick ground contact time on being explosive and that means they're probably never doing by subs curls they're also staying lighter yeah exactly because because it makes sense right the lighter you can be as an as an athlete who needs to move quickly change direction whatever it is from a sport perspective the lighter you can be while being strong the better so you prioritize I'm gonna hit my power cleanser gonna hit my jumps I'm gonna do all those I'd like things maybe I'm gonna get strength the strength work for those guys is specifically injury prevention and building just a little if I can get stronger without getting bigger I'm the best athlete out there so that's that's the key for those guys for for endurance athletes I think it's it's literally just injury prevention right with a little dose of especially you know if you're running a triathlon if you're a cyclist if you can build again without adding size because those athletes want to stay as light as possible because upon miles upon miles upon miles of running the last thing you want to do is have two on it's have you know 25 extra pounds of muscle so you want to stay as light as possible but if you can build strength in your lower body then you're winning right because each stride you have you can if you have if you're glues or that much stronger than your opposition if you're quasi that much stronger each pedal that you have is is that much more useful right so I think those athletes one we have to be very very careful with how often they are training because they have so much mileage on them so I think you're limiting your strength work to two days max maybe a third day but even that's probably pushing it we want to make those two strength days too very very productive and very very focused I think you're choosing one explosive concept because we want you know the more we can make our body explosive the better right it's not necessarily easy but I think we're choosing one explosive concept like a kettlebell swing maybe it's an explosive trapbar that lift maybe it's some sort of squat maybe it's it's a I love I love lunges so maybe it's some kind of lunge but I think you're choosing one explosive move like that and then the rest of your work is going to and the great thing with that is you're you're not going super heavy on it you're just focusing on moving fast right so that's like four sets of you know three to five reps high intent on those reps so the goal is to move fast on every single bit and then I think you're choosing two other exercises that are maybe in that eight to twelve rep range because you want to build a little bit of hypertrophy in your lower body and I think this is all you know you want to build a little bit of hypertrophy and you want to be able to injury for your body and that's going to require you know we get back to the beginning of this discussion that means building a little bit of muscle you don't need 25 pounds of extra muscle but you want to wreck you want a solid requisite amount of muscle in strength and you get that from choosing two other exercises that he key functions maybe that's you know a row maybe that's an overhead press maybe that's you know something else for lower body and keeping that in the three to two to three set range eight to ten reps quality reps focusing on time and your attention right a little bit of a higher volume nothing crazy but just getting the muscle used to you know standing with standing that stress a little bit more you know as opposed to three to five rep range yeah I think it's key to don't go to create like you know even if you're an endurance athlete it doesn't mean you need to train this kind of crazy endurance range like 20 reps right eight to ten quality reps you need to build requisite strength you'll cover your endurance with your endurance training yep absolutely all great stuff how do we distinguish what should be a single rep movement or single set movement or other what should be super set and what when we should start exploring tricets so what what's the time in place for really structuring within that workout itself now this got to be general for all that let's talk about hypertrophy first let's go down the same three that we just did right so if my number one goal is is muscle building you know should I really just be focusing on four sets of a lap pull down before I move on to my next movement or should I be pairing that with something for a super set or a tricep I think super sets and triceps are in general for the hypertrophy athlete are best reserved for two situations one is arm day we can play with those on in accessory ideas very best and so I love doing like biceps triceps biceps triceps super sets I think that's one context the other context is if you're really really tied on time then it's it's very useful to go to like a super set or a tricep you know we can string together say three different you know if I if I only have a half hour maybe I'll string together three different back exercises one after the other after the other um that's one setting right in general if I'm a if I'm somebody who's trying to build muscle and strength I don't really want to go to I want to focus I want to get the most out of that means not not necessarily doing a set of something and then jumping to another motion then jumping to another motion because then I don't have the rest time I need to be able to lift heavy and lift hard on be and be truly productive on my sets so I would actually avoid super sentences and triceps if I'm if I'm a hypertrophy athlete if I'm somebody who's chasing hypertrophy and I have the time and I can get through it the drop set is a different thing and I'm a very big fan of drops that's because I think for the hypertrophy athlete because I think what you get to do with the drops what you're trying to do on every single set if I'm really trying to build muscle what I'm trying to do on every single set and this is again within reason in their cycles where you're going to do this and cycles where you're not but what I'm trying to do on every single set is push as close to that point of complete fatigue as possible without going over the edge and if I do drop set if I do say 10 reps of bicep curls at 45 pounds I'm going to make myself something like a badass and then I can't do anymore I can't do anymore at 45 pounds but if I pick up at 20 I can probably squeeze out a couple more reps so I get to push my muscles closer to muscular fatigue without going over by using drops that so I think drops that should be integrated more heavily and there are so many ways to do them too I think drops that are something that more hypertrophy athletes should be looking to implement the other two approaches again aside from arm day because arm day is a little bit of fun go chase and pump but it's not actually the day that's really building a muscle for you aside from arm day I think hypertrophy athletes should just price straight away for those I think the conversation is lending itself in this direction anyway making the most of a rep so let's talk about the mind muscle connection we had a great conversation myself and Dan Jerdana on our episode check out episode four if you haven't how do you best describe the mind muscle connection to a beginner weight lifter or gym go or who really doesn't have the experience to understand what that should feel like yet and it's it's really really hard the key thing it actually goes back to something I think we we said earlier and that is point A to point B and exercise is not simply point A to point B you should feel it in the muscles that you're working and to me the mind muscle connection one it's best and this is my background in training how I got into training how I got into fitness is a little backwards because I feel like a lot of people wind up starting with kind of functional ideas and then at some point maybe they kind of gravitate towards bodybuilding ideas I fell and I didn't even fall in love with bodybuilding it was kind of all they had where I grew up in Pennsylvania so it was a bodybuilding gym so before I did all the stuff I said people should actually do I was doing you know biceps curls and skull crushers and the great thing with those exercises is you can if you're doing them right you're really gonna feel the muscle working right so the mind muscle connection is about the mind muscle connection is about kind of you should when you're doing exercise correctly when we do that kind of standard hyper-to-fee exercise correctly whether it's a bench press whether it's a biceps curl whether it's a squat or a deadlift we should feel it in the target muscle and we should also be pushing to feel it in the target muscle it's not gonna happen you know I can do a deadlift and I won't feel a thing especially if I'm working it like a weight that isn't necessarily challenging me but what we need to do to foster the mind muscle connection is one understand the muscle groups that we're trying to train on any given exercise and to try to almost squeeze those muscles extra hard at the top of every contraction at the top of every rep that way we that way we are kind of feeling it if I if I do a biceps curl and I can't squeeze my biceps right I mean I don't know if I'm really working the muscle right so I should at least be able to kind of flex my biceps when I'm doing that biceps curl absolutely let's move into the difference between concentric and eccentric right obviously I feel like more people know and perform concentric based exercises right it's the main aspect of our lift but not too many of us are adding in eccentric specific movements into our programming and that's kind of a problem right if we're if we're not adding those in let's talk about why so first distinguish the difference between the two and then talk about the benefits of eccentric movements yeah um you're right it's a it's a huge why I have a whole I have a whole speed around that one let's do but yeah so concentric movement the concentric portion of the contraction and I think a biceps curl is a really really good example that everybody can can stick with we're all doing bicep curls at the end of this episode you guys too everybody you know it's funny every time I ever have a conversation with anybody on it winds up gravity it's the first section it's a single joint motion and so it's really really easy and we know how we know what everybody knows what it feels like to to squeeze their biceps yeah the concentric portion of the contraction occurs when the muscle is shortening and it's shortening and we're creating more force than whatever we're trying to then gravity can apply to whatever we're trying to lift and thus the weight winds up moving upwards so that's the concentric contraction there's a lot of other little pieces that go into it too and that in order for me to get that really clean biceps contraction I have to have tightness throughout the rest of my body I've got to make sure shoulders my shoulder blades are tight my abs are tight my glues are tight and that allows me to really get the most out of the concentric contraction that's what everybody knows we all squeeze we all can curl something up and squeeze our biceps that's the concentric the eccentric contraction occurs when basically we're lowering the weight but we're not passively lowering the weight so we're still applying a level of force we're just letting the force of gravity on whatever load we're lifting exceed the force that exceed the force that we might be applying that's kind of a standard concentration contraction and it shouldn't the thing people miss about the concentric or I said concentric I'm an eccentric wow yeah you're good yeah the thing people miss about the eccentric contraction is that it doesn't just happen it you mean we need to think about it if it takes you one second and this is where tempo training I think can really help people in assigning a tempo so if I'm doing that biceps curl I'm going to think about curling it up as fast as possible while using only my biceps that may take one second pause at the top very briefly one second and then try to lower make sure that lower takes two to three seconds that's going to ensure that my biceps have to eccentricly contract because if I just if I just all of a sudden stop contracting my biceps at the top of the curl the weight's going to fall that's one not really good for my joints and it's a mechanism for injury and too I'm leaving a lot of gains both in the short term and in the long term on the table because I haven't appreciated the time on the retention those two extra seconds of work that I'm going to get with that eccentric contraction yeah absolutely so we always want to to display some form of control coming down from a rap same thing when you're deadlifting is what I like to use when you're coming down from that the if you don't want to let your shoulders slump forward you don't want to lose slack in your and your spine in your and your stomach and you want to put that down the same integrity that you picked it up with so that's number one just to prevent injury and keep number two the eccentric can really help with that muscle growth with you getting stronger in that movement so something I've done the past I've I've added a lot of eccentric um pull ups into my routine a lot too just because pull ups are very difficult for me to get better I can't rep pull ups out but when I add eccentric pull ups into my routines so I'm pulling myself up and I'm going down for a three count I'm feeling those lats so much more than I would by maybe using a banner and assist pull up machine and just kind of getting you know the eight to ten rap sin so um you know to expand a little bit more of how eccentric training can help with the growth of a muscle but also just growing the strength of a muscle as well and where it should be used because I don't want people to say to go to their next gym session and then they're going to be doing eccentric training for every exercise right how do we implement it um and what are what are really the benefits that we're going to see out of this type of training yeah I think and I love eccentric I think they're highly underestimate overall I could I've been implementing them a lot more than my training I hate them when I do them but absolutely you will be sort of a disclaimer yeah I think the the the big distinguishing factor I because some muscle it's interesting I feel like when I got into fitness I really miss understood the eccentric attraction there's no such thing as an eccentric power queen which kind of didn't make sense to me at first which is probably why I had a labor-imissue at very early in my fitness career but um yeah it doesn't work for explosive movements it's I eccentric attractions are best reserved for either isolation exercises or very any exercise that you might see a bodybuilder do in general is one where you can really take advantage of eccentric's the thing that people or the the thing the thing that really helps with strength from an eccentric or why eccentric's work really well for strength is because you're stronger on the eccentric than you actually are on the concentric it's a lot harder if you once you get into eccentric's you'll you'll people will start to understand this it's a lot harder to it's a lot harder to lift something up then it is to lower it down slowly that means we can use eccentric in a couple one we can say do a set of biceps curls with those 45 pound dumbbells hit as many reps as we can and then we can kind of cheat up for two to three extra reps and lower down slowly and again that's another kind of mechanism by which we can prolong the set so we move a little bit closer to VT or we can use eccentric's actually there are three there are three ways I can think of eight million things to do with the eccentric's or we can use eccentric's to expose ourselves to heavier weights and then we could lift in other circumstances so for example I can do you know I could go to that biceps curl I can I can load extra weight I can grab 50 pound dumbbells 55 pound dumbbells cheat them up and kind of tighten up my entire body that way I'm still using my biceps and they're the driving force and they're what's you know what's taking that eccentric contraction tighten up my entire body and lower that was weights super slowly for three to four reps and then that's a great way to expose my body to expose my biceps to that heavier load that is more than I could curl that is more than those 45 pound dumbbells I know I can do and then in a couple weeks after doing that that will help set the stage for me to be able to play around with full 55 pound biceps curls the third thing I think with these centrics I think eccentric's are really really good for beginners because it's a lot safer to lower something with control once we understand that tension to lower something with control then it is to then it is to try to pick it up so a really really good it's also a really good way to force really good mechanics because we're going to do those eccentric slowly if I'm taking three to four seconds to lower down I'm going to feel everything that's going on and there are fewer I'll I'll notice the points where my body is off and I also can't hide from anything if I do you know a sloppy deadlift rep picking it up I can around my back I can get away with the couple things because it's only for a moment right but if I do I can't really do a sloppy eccentric deadlift rep because I'm going down so slowly and the whole object is to go down so slowly and if I can't maintain good positioning I'm going to know it I'm not going to be able to control the rep. Yeah absolutely speaking of beginners what's the best way to check on on your form when you're working on a loan you know for someone who maybe hasn't developed the body awareness they don't they haven't familiarized themselves with the mind muscle connection how how are they what are some tips you have for someone who's working on a loan and they want to ensure that they're squatting correctly they're deadlift and correctly everything's looking on point so that they aren't injuring themselves at the beginning of their wellness journey. It's funny because I think we have a weapon that we didn't have years ago for that it's it's sometimes a dangerous weapon but it's a very useful one if done smartly and that's we have phones now right and so everybody that means can the more you video yourself the more you watch execute a movement the more you're going to see one the inconsistencies from rep to rep that you might have if you're a beginner and two you're going to the more you watch yourself you'll see okay that doesn't necessarily look like what I've seen somebody else do now there are 8 million reasons why that might not look right but and some of them are just you know going to be based on lever legs and based on on your physiology and so you don't need to look like anybody else but at the same time I think intuitively the more we watch ourselves move the more we can kind of say oh you know on that fourth rep I felt a little bit more and it's because you know I squeeze my glues a little bit harder when I was doing my biceps color my overhead press so I didn't feel it in my lower back on that last set because I squeeze my glues when I was doing my overhead press so I think watching yourself the more you video yourself and you can delete it afterwards if you hate it but the more you video yourself the better I think that's the the other thing too is if you ever get with the trainer then you can eventually send that video to the trainer and it gives it gives you both a really good starting point so I think that's thing one the the other thing I think there are two ideas that you want to think about one is that there are two ideas you want to think about if you're a beginner to make sure that your form is tight one is eccentric right we can learn every exercise you know before you do before you do a standard deadlift from the ground you should be able to execute a Romanian deadlift that's what's going to teach you what the hip hinge feels like what it feels like to push your butt back before you bend at the waist so you should if you're ever struggling with an exercise try to add that tempo to it make sure you're you know you can lift it however you're going to lift it because if you're a beginner that might not be perfect but take four seconds on the way down it's going to force you to go lighter and that's you know going to be a little bit humbling but it's also going to help you lock in really really good form the final thing I think is the idea I believe that especially on our hypertrophy motions on those non-explosive ideas if we're really in control of the weight we can pause at any point during the exercise so that goes for a biceps curl if I'm in control of the weight I can pause you know when my elbow is at a 90 degree angle I can pause when it's at a 60 degree angle I should be able to have that kind of control especially when I'm learning early on if I'm doing a squat I should be able to do the same thing and if I can't pause at any point during the motion one I may be going to heavy or two something may be off of my execution so when you're going through your basic hypertrophy exercises if you're not sure if your form is tight almost like think about can I can I randomly pause at two to three points in the exercise because if I can then I'm probably doing okay if I can't if suddenly I you know if I'm midway through a squat and I'm trying to pause and I can't do it that might be because something is at a position yep great stuff we'll be linking a link to a phone tripod in the set for me to start practicing some let's transition to one of our final topics and I think one that's highly anticipated by both you and I training for your decade so we're going to be talking about the training structure and the difference is from your 20s to your 30s your 40s your 50s and even you know 75 plus and I think you have some exciting insight there so let's talk about the biggest difference between training and your 20s versus say your 50s you know what kind of occurs in between those decades at high level it's interesting because I I don't tell you how well they am because I don't want to even but um I um the older I've gotten the more I think there are two kinds of populations and they're both and they both deal with slightly different issues along these lines I think there's kind of a new generation of person we're more focused on longevity and fitness these days and those of us who are more focused on that I think there's going there's a lot less diminishment than people realize you can train at you can train very very hard in your 40s and 50s and you don't need to see a whole ton of job off but then there's this other group of people who can't be as obsessed with with fitness as you and I might be and things are a little harder for them because you know it's basically life stresses right like kids more gauge all this kind of stuff and for for because that stuff happens they either can't spend the same amount of time in the gym or they can't so you know they can't spend two hours in the gym anymore or they can spend the same hour in the gym that they were spending when they were 20 but the the mental focus is no longer there because the gym serves as a distraction I think both of those populations face slightly different challenges I think if you are somebody who um has been able to stay committed to your fitness routine since you were 20 years old and now you're into your 40s or into your 50s you're probably still going to be able to train hard the thing that the two things that have changed are one you need a little bit more recovery time your body doesn't recover as fast you probably felt that and so you just need to that means a little bit less volume overall in your training I think the other thing for that group is you have to be a little bit more precise with the exercises that you're doing because if you because certain characteristics that weren't your focus as we get older we tend to stick with say okay I've decided I'm going to be a runner and that's the focus of my training and all the other qualities are gradually dropping off if you haven't been monitoring them and that's especially true of power explosive explosive at less of is one of the first things to continue to on some level gain strength and gain muscle as we age into our 40s and 50s but our ability to be explosive if we don't maintain that starts to diminish so once you're into your 40s I think it's really really important that you make sure to have that explosive component you make sure almost at least three days a week you're doing at least three to four sets of kettlebell swings box jumps sprints something that's going to force you to move with power and move and create force quickly so I think that's the biggest difference for that group if you're in that second group and if you're in that second group and you haven't been able to apply yourself to the gym and you dropped off then you have a different issue and that's when you get into your fitness you have to be a little bit you have to be a lot more cautious and you have to be kind of thoughtful you're essentially you have to think about starting over whenever you you you haven't been able to be a has consistent I think for that group you want to start with some basic hypertrophy exercises um hit the key movement pattern so again go back to kind of the template we laid out at the beginning and you want to stay a little bit away from the explosive because one that isn't as important to you on some level um and two it's the hardest it's it's going to be hard for you to get that back eventually we need to reintegrate that into your routine but we can't do that too early on so focus on the hypertrophy list and focus on the core list you don't need to have an arm day but you do need to make sure you're dead lifting you're covering your your basic lung and squat and you're hitting your your upper body your first point was interesting it kind of hinted um to what you said earlier on we're just not walking enough right we're just not kidding up but we're also just we're not playing enough either we're not moving literally enough we're not changing directions enough we're not doing everything that we did when we were younger and that just decreases with age as well so I mean just get out there and and play a little bit right aside from putting in your foundations in the in the gym every day there is evidence out there that promotes building your aerobic engine and younger in your life and I really having that set to continue on and I'm not to say that you go crazy and become a marathon runner in your 20s and 30s and then you're set you don't need to do that in 40s and 50s right but why do we want to really focus on building that engine when we're younger as opposed because we quite often we see the opposite right we see people lifting when they're younger then they become they start lifting less as they get older and they start hitting the elliptical for 40 minutes every day right so why do we want to actually do the opposite of that I see I wouldn't actually say that we want to do the opposite of that and maybe that comes from because you know all I wanted to do my whole life was be was be jacked but I think we do want you do want a little bit of balance um it's more important I think it's I think it's more what we more want to do is you want to start with that basis strengthening when you're in your 20s and I I still think it's really really important that you hit your aggressive with your strengthening when you're in your 20s you're so many of your home hormonal levels are going to be at their best in their 20s so that means you get to build this reservoir muscle we know some of the soccer penny research out there I think soccer penny is a real thing I believe it's more it's more because of those life style issues we mentioned before then it is because we just all of a sudden see some diminishment of muscle after we're 40 I think if you strengthen if you build that reservoir muscle you're good but what I think we we want to do when we're in our 20s because we can build so much muscle is go ahead and get strong right it is going to be easier and that means we don't need to spend as much time it is going to be easier because our hormones are a little bit more optimized and that means we don't need to spend as much time necessarily you don't need to do 15 sets of biceps curls maybe fun but you don't need to do it so you can do say 5 to 6 sets of biceps curls your body is going to respond really well and that time that the rest of that time can be used to you know enhance that aerobic engine because it is going to lead to a much stronger heart which will one serve you a lot better in 20s and two that that stronger heart will then serve you a lot better as you age I think as we get older once we're into our 40s and 50s you know we just we can't necessarily we don't have as much volume or we can't necessarily take as much volume we don't we can't we're going to wear down a little bit faster so that's when you back off on cardio and that's when you really really got to focus on strength training what starts happening when we hit the 40s right what what do you think in your opinion is the biggest difference between training and your 40s versus the 20s I think it really it is that it is that overall recovery time you need a little bit more recovery you can get really really strong in your 40s I think the one thing I try to do especially because you know because I met men's album because so many of our readers are in there is I don't want to I don't want to scare them away and make them think I don't want to scare myself away from me I don't want to scare them away make them think 40 is somehow the end um the I think the things you're facing though are you do need a little bit more recovery time you're not going to bounce back as well from injury and you need to make sure to to protect your joints that's um you need to make sure to protect your joints so I think that's one thing um I realized a couple so our our latest cover guys on a shorteninger and when I was training with him you know he's a guy who's lifted and insanely heavy for years he's 75 years old now which is kind of nuts and saying yeah um an election exactly and he needed to you know he um the thing he complained about the most so we talked a lot um after we worked out together and then we talked we had a great interview but the thing he complained about the most in his interview was his joints right um and I think that's the thing that um that plague once you're over 40 you feel those a little bit more um the way to offset that is and it sounds kind of basic but just you need a better warm-up you need to take your time to ramp into your need to take and the truth is you probably should be doing that in your 20s too but you need when you're in your 40s when I was in my 20s I could get away with not warming up and that the truth is I probably felt like the same little things in my shoulders that bug me when I was in my 20s or that bug me now I probably felt them when I was in my 20s I just didn't need to react to them because I have this great recovery response. You're like I'm fine. Yeah um that I'm fine not once you're into your 40s you're paying an increasing price so you need to be a tune to that and you also and you need to um you need to warm up better and you need I think it's really really important once you're into your 40s and 50s that we do not just kind of a dynamic warm-up but that if we're going into our strength motions we we take very we're very very attentive to our warm-up sets. This is actually something I learned from Chris need the uh giant when he was with the giants he was a uh offensive lineman for them and I used to ask him he was probably about 35 34 35 like his last year in the league and I would ask him a lot about the bench press like how he warmed up how he did everything and he would literally start with I started doing this too and it works on so many levels um he would start with like the bar and I was like why are you venting the bar there's nothing there and he's like because it helps me one the explosive um because it's it's it's a super good way to like get in a groove of okay I'm gonna be powerful but too it lets me pay attention to my joints right so I think it's really really important that if you're going into a heavy lift if you're in your 40s and 50s take three to four sets of warm-up set it's before you actually move um a serious load it's gonna take a little bit more time but your body will thank you and you'll probably honestly have a better workout too. Let's up the ante here and talk about 75 plus right so um I think we're gonna start seeing more generations um and more people working out at that age and I think we're starting to see that shift now I'm that's my goal I still want to be going at 75 plus and I still want to be going in the gym a couple of times a week and getting my runs in right um so let's talk about that and let's talk about you know we're in that that third shift so now we're 50 plus but now we're now we're 75 plus what's your recommendation there for maintaining strength and just muscle just for functionality right and that's what it's about when you get to it's funny because I've always when I went down to interview Arnold I definitely envision myself at 75 it's like I'm gonna be jacked in the superhero and that's just the way it's gonna be right um not negotiable um I think it is um the one that was the eye opening thing about Arnold because um that's not what he told me I assume you know in some way he was gonna he was still gonna be a superhero and he is on you know TV but um he basically said now I he basically said now I live to to stay healthy and stay alive and um and to make my movies um which kind of you know I mean at first it took me a while to wrap my mind around that I think because I am not somebody who wants to change my goals but hearing kind of you know 75 year old terminator do it I think um you know I think I think it is a little bit as you and I get older um will shift our goals a little bit and will shift how we train because it does become muscle becomes about about living when you're at 75 I need to strengthen you you know I need strength to to get up off the ground and I need strength to you know the basic strength to like open my refrigerator to get in my car um my dad is 79 and sometimes you know I look it I look at him and you know it's like you know he needs a strength to pick up his granddaughter you know and so we need it for that purpose so I think our our training shifts our volume is gonna decrease even more um and the reality is there's a very very good chance at even if you know we're gonna I feel like I'm gonna work my ass off to stay super healthy but I'll probably have you know a couple aches and pains that's I think when when we get there I think we still want to folk we want to do everything we can to hit those same movement patterns I laid out before so we want to you know have kind of a squat motion hip motion horizontal vertical pull horizontal vertical push but I don't think we necessarily have to do it with freeways I think one of the things that changes as you age when your joints can't create as much stability we can shift to machines and I think that that was the interesting thing about Arnold um everything every exercise we did we did shoulders and arms because if we didn't do our if I didn't do arms with Arnold I think I would die um fair but it was all machines right and that's gonna allow for a couple things one is gonna allow us to still move a relatively heavy load um it's gonna allow us to work through any injuries we have because we can kind of customize our form a little bit um and it's gonna allow us to pile up some volume without necessarily you know it'll be great if I can do you know 315 pound deadless for for max reps when I am 75 years old but it might not be the safest thing and the breakdown that might happen if I miss on my 15th rep is gonna be a lot more it's gonna is gonna take me out of the commission for longer than at 75 then it would now and so I think shifting to machines um and shifting to a little bit of volume is something that's gonna help us a lot and it's gonna help a lot as we get older machines um bands bodyweight movements etc all this to say that string turning does have a place in every decade it's just how you go about it that will shift and transition over the years yeah um let's transition transition to our last topic today so a mental health specifically men's mental health um it's not talked about enough not nearly enough um we just wrapped um may which is mental health awareness month but going into men's health month here in June you know let's talk about your experience with mental health let's talk about how fitness and working out has helped with mental health um and just take us on your journey with it a little bit yeah it's and I feel like I was probably the generation before mental health became something you could talk about um and so for for a very very long time especially in the newspaper business so I started it's a New York Daily News the newspaper business is hard you show you show up you go write your story you do um you do your work and they don't want to hear you complain they want your story because you have a deadline and it's tomorrow um so it wasn't it wasn't discussed um and to be honest that created a lot of you know my mind played a lot of games with me at that time um but I think it's evolved and I think it's it's evolved very very positively and I think you see the fact you see it you know the athletes I was covering also weren't talking about it but now to I think it is two years ago Ben Ben Simmons from the from the six years at the time or might have been the net you know basically took like half a year off because you needed to monitor his mental health you had to some onbiles thing a couple of years ago um where she was very open about about it and I think as we're having the conversation it's it's changed for the better and it's kind of helped me like I I think for me working out has always been very much my safe place um I go in there and I want to I want to I want to work hard but the cool thing with working out for me is um it's something where I control everything right I control all the variables how many reps I'm gonna do what weight I'm gonna put what weight I'm gonna put up am I gonna do the fist set or do I want to sit it out and I think because of that um working out sort of helps my mental health because all I think your mental health at least for me my mental health struggles with all of these factors that I can't control right but when I stepped into the gym when I pick up a weight I chose the weight I'm picking up and I'm in control of that and so I think I think that helped me a lot and I hope that in the long term people can I guess hopefully get something out of working out like that where it isn't some kind of burden that they have to assume but it can be kind of a place where they can understand that yes they're subjecting themselves to work but they're in control of that work yeah great stuff tell us what's next for you tell us how people can fall along on your journey where they can fall along online um we've got a lot of cool projects that we've got a lot of cool projects going on it men's helped all the time um can't say too much about what's coming but um definitely read the cover story we have with Arnold Schwarzenegger coolest project that I've ever done and we've also got a really cool program in terms of strength and diversity for men's health and women's health this is a program where I work with eight to ten trainers a year um we try to develop them we get them certification we get the mentorship um and then we try to get them into into into the men's health and women's health programs so we're trying our best to just um open up who can be a trainer and create more opportunity for a lot of young trainers out there so we love to be able to um pay attention to that I'm at Ebenezer Samuel 23 on this program and our YouTube channel at Men's Health Men's Health Muscle is a really really great spot that we're trying to grow and we're trying to provide people with a lot of good fitness instruction great congrats on all your success so far we look forward to falling along on your journey awesome thanks for tuning in for another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what you doing? What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners, my name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Gabe Snow. Gabe is a New York City strengthening addition in specialists and performance nutrition coach who focuses on new ways to gain strength, speed, and durability through movement. His programming expertise promotes control, stability, and playability with a goal of challenging the body using time under tension techniques. Gabe has an earned-de-green psychology with an emphasis in neurochemistry and is deeply embedded in the evolution of the human mind and its abilities to emotionally connect. He's a believer in allowing the brain to lead the body and stands by the motto, do it light, do it right. Gabe applies his learnings to coaches clients to view their body as the vehicle for their mind. Through this practice, we can learn to live life through meaningful relationships and experiences. Gabe's in future in in publications such as Men's Health magazine, GQ, Vice Pop Sugar, and his work with global fitness brands at cross-dination to deliver firsthand educational content to millions. He has a passion for travel and believes experiencing every facet of the earth is a key to staying grounded. Gabe, welcome to the BB Kong La Pocast. We go back quite a few years now starting. Think over at Spartan 4 or 5 years ago, pleasure to have you on today. I'm really excited for this deep dive into your mind. It's such a pleasure to be here. Thank you Danielle. Thank you bodybuilding.com. Yes, we do do way back multiple brands. It is an honor to be here. Very excited to chat even though we have our phone calls that sometimes turned into a solo podcast themselves. Absolutely. We're just going to start recording those and releasing them soon. We have a great episode up for you guys today. We're going to start our first half really breaking down some physicalities here and talking about physical health. Backhaff will be focused on more mental and emotional health. Really great conversation, Q, up for you guys. Let's get into it. We are going to start off with time-under tension as our first topic. Gabe defined the practice of time-under tension, the use cases and the benefits, and why this pertains to every level and not just beginners. Just high-levelics plan. The definition is create, so everybody's only no tension. How we create that tension, whether it is through a large heavy load, a moderate load, a small load, that is the first choice. How are we going to create the resistance? Now it's up to us as to how much time we can put under the concentric and eccentric phases. A lot of times you see beginners on a bench press, maybe you have the first thing that you see where they're just trying to bang it out as many reps as possible. Very rarely actually hitting their full ranges of motion. Not understanding how their scapula is working on, not understanding that they actually need to lock their elbows out. Trying to get as much done as possible. It actually has quickly as possible when you could create more tension being as our bodies a lever pulley system. You don't need to just lift up one large crate. You can hold one large crate or even one smaller crate and create more time in that lever pulley system to create more adaptation to tear more muscle fibers. Also to confuse the central nervous system so that your body doesn't just get used to banging out as many reps as possible. In terms of how a beginner should approach, I always start with time to centrics. If we're doing a bench press, three seconds to get to your chest explode off fast on the concentric on the shortening phase. You can do the time to centrics and you can do time to pause it. It's a down quick hold at 90 degree level, press back up from there. Just finding ways to increase as much tension as possible rather than trying to add as much load as possible. I found in terms of sustainability is most beneficial for joints for ligaments for tendons and then also just to not burn out your CNS because me as a college athlete, we had our test which the one was 225 pound bench press as many times as you could do it. You can get under it and do it like 39 times with this sloppy form. Create a lot of tension because you're using a lot of weight and you're doing it fast or you could take that 200 or 25 pounds and do it as slow as a rep on the eccentric phase on the stretch and as slow as a rep on the eccentric phase because all that tissue actually knows is strain and then that strain is what's going to cause that temptation. So it is, I'm going to say it's lazy because you know good old fashion have you lifting definitely works but if you're constantly stuck in that facet and you're not finding any progress that's where then for the higher level athlete you know I want to know what their program is looking like and if they're just trying to bang out as many reps as possible you know I challenge them unlike why don't you hold a pause at the bottom you know find where your strength is at at your end range of motion rather than you know your shortest phase and I think that's where a lot of people kind of sell themselves short is you know whether it's you know the push ups whether it's you know even like bicep curls guys that are kind of just going you know from 90 up like you have this full lovely eccentric phase of completely lengthening the bicep and if you're going to fully lengthen you're going to create a larger stretch which is going to create a larger contraction so then again for a similar amount of adaptation well also just not you know getting stuck in the same routine so you know there's there's a lot of ways to do it and I just find the easiest to be for beginner to just time there are centuries like how long the phase takes for them to go back to full range of motion you do this a lot with bands I noticed you do it with body weight so this it doesn't just require weights I think you know from what you're saying and what from what I've seen and noticed as well maybe for a beginner this helps develop a little bit more that mind muscle connection and for them to really understand hey I really want to target the glute right while one I have to think about what part of my glute is that could be the glute max the glute meat etc. what am I actually targeting during this exercise and to how am I going to slow down enough so that I feel it working both in the eccentric and the concentric phase right on the other side of the spectrum for maybe a more seasoned lifter let's say a bodybuilder in this instant right it's going to help with hypertrophy it's going to help with growth by gaining that full lengthening of the eccentric phase as well in the concentric both you know equally so you know that just proving that it's placed to both sides of the spectrum here. Yeah absolutely in the glute bridges honestly I think out of all the exercises the glute bridge and the plank right so my goal is a training is to teach people how to create as many points of tension in their body like how many people can just hold a plank hold a plank with their you know spines sagging like you know their chest is up their shoulder blades are you know retracted and they're just hanging out and they're just dumping all that way into like their lumbar will teach somebody how to you know pelvic tilt so that they can actually use their glutes also to hold them up flex and knees create a contraction that glutes pro-jocally they're shoulder blades so then you're getting a T spine and a little bit a lot and then also drag your forearms down so then you're also getting oblique and abs so like that's one of my tests my first kind of new clown like show me show me your glute bridge show me your show me your plank you know and the biggest thing that you see and you go to a big box gym there's people doing glute bridges and you know they're flying up and down off the floor and the first thing you see is the low bat their low back is still arched right and their but their butt is you know a foot up in the air you only have 15 degrees you know of rotation you know or excuse me of hip extension from the floor so if you're not talking your pelvis underneath creating that tension finding your glutes before you raise rather than you only feeling your glute at the top of the glute bridge after you've just used like your extensors in your lower back to raise you up then you're not really understanding where the tensions built so I do go as far as like we were mimicking a glute bridge for them to even push their hands their palms into the floor as hard as possible so then you're creating tension the obliques you know have them think about dragging their heels towards their fingertips so then they're finding their hamstrings and then learning how to do that pelvic tuck so that low back makes contact with the floor then when they raise from their heels the lower back is not active at all you've got hamstring glutes and a bleak being the main you know points of tension in the body and I think that if you can teach people how to create tension in their body rather than just load their body that's what you're going to have a more sustainable program you're going to have people understand what they're supposed to be feeling when you do then progress that to a lift or a full body movement so it really is you know using time under tension I find you allow people to empower themselves more by understanding what they're supposed to feel versus how many reps they completed. Yeah absolutely you know when I when I think about these exercises too it really puts an emphasis on the core and I don't think some people out there understand just how integral your core is and that that doesn't matter if you are a runner a swimmer a biker and I say that selfishly from triathlon over here but if you're trying to do the 500 pounds or run the fastest mile you can right core is so extremely important to any athlete any person walking around I heard someone say one time I really stuck with me not having a strong core is like biting the middle out of an apple and at any moment you can just break and I really resonated with me and made me want to do core every day and my weeks every day the weeks since then you know but where does core come into play for a lot of these time under tension movements that you implement? I mean that's just time and attention with everything just like not being able to control your ribcage like you're just standing ribcage just what you see especially in the bodybuilding community like you have all these guys holding hundred bandun bells doing these you know these overhead press you know and if your ribcage is descended and your core is not active then your spine is actually what's holding majority of that weight so like I have some of these guys that are you know they they're built beautifully aesthetically but as soon as you give them a bench press or any of a movement the core becomes completely inactive it's just completely elongated so like sure and the goal of raising something over your head like you know the hundred that becomes like a 50 because you're done me on half that weight into your you know into your spine so if you have people learn how to pull the ribcage down pull their hips underneath to keep the core active you know then you're also learning how to use your diaphragm as a place of stability and then that's also going to increase your strength you're you know you're testically you're not going to feel very great because those dumbbells you have become a lot smaller but then you're actually earning true functional you know strength in the muscle group they are actually trying to train so you know with the bodybuilders I would say it's really rare to watch a bodybuilder put down the hundred pound dumbbells grab 30s and like sit there push the ribcage down and press overhead where then you know with runners because like you know cores also not just like your abdominals it's your hips as well it's your abductors your ad doctors right that's your hips stability so like the hips aren't stable the knees aren't stable the knees aren't stable like when you run you're wearing tires also you know kind of increase dramatically so for me you know the kind of you know mantra or with the comparison I use is you wouldn't build a skyscraper in a swamp right like you know try to sink you know this big monstrous strong building in a I don't know weak foundation so your core being your hips and your abdominals and your bleaks that's going to be your foundation so no matter what you're trying to do in terms of longevity you know not loading your spine and allowing your core and your abdominals to hold that tension is just going to keep it's going to keep you health here it's going to keep you safer it's going to keep you you know being able to go longer so you know the core is something that I think people have to isolate you know they want to do their planks they want to do their ab wheels and stuff like that but in my programming it's you know it's using a symmetry so like doing your overhead press right but found only if one dumbbell and I press over here well now once I my body's loaded and this one's to happen so now this this oblique has to then shorten to keep me upright so there's a lot of ways time you know that's not so much time under tension but there's other ways like you know training asymmetrically to be able to access the core without you know just keeping in an isolated and the side plank or plank you know making it more intricate that way that the body also learns that you can have overhead movement you know horizontal pushes and pulls while you know keeping the core active like and like when someone does a push-up same thing they do their little sway back in the plank if you can tuck your pelvis find your abs and come up as one versus you know your your chest and then your hips coming up you're going to be able to hold out more push-ups now it's going to in terms of intention and using your mind it's going to take a lot more neurological load which is another thing I say like training with me it's more of a neurological load than it is a physical load because I've seen that you can make equal parts even not you know more progress just having more intention behind your exercises rather than just going and grabbing a bigger dumbbell or a bigger kettle though so you might you I always like to use the front squat as a great analogy to you sure you can load that bar up and you can use your quads and you're hampering your glutes and you may able to get 200 pounds up if you think about pulling your belly button to your ribcage and really engaging that core it is going to feel like a completely different exercise that I guarantee you're going to want to take some weight off your two in the back and then just with that like even people does not understand like for moral attraction like pulling you know pulling your femurs into your hip socket like that's kind of come from like you're so as in your hip flexors so when people a lot of people do front squats are just like all I'm going to train quads and it's like no like you're smashing that co-can now and you're you're using your core as you're you know your main point of stability and then learning how to use your legs you know secondary to your core where I would say you know 90% of the population are just you know they're targeting so they look at an electrosizing and I'm thinking that they're going to do any core like like you said with you know the back squat you people just folding in half and I'm like if I could do Leonardo DiCaprio inception you're just on a leg sled you know what I mean like if you can keep your chest upright keep your ribs down through your elbows forward and come down vertically what's keeping you upright your core is right so there's you know a lot of misconceptions everybody you know learning these things is going to take a distance so you know but he's going to squat like that you know naturally take us through a progression take us through maybe a warm update for yourself let's say it's squat day right are you starting from the floor are you moving to bands are you moving to bells I see you do a whole ton but what what what is what is step one and what are the steps that you take before you even start loading up that bar for myself which is interesting because for myself you know if we were talking years ago it would be as opposite of what I have my clients do now that I'm having a lot of old injuries plague me from you college athletics and just life and whatnot I'm doing all the same things that they're done you know which is you know as a trainer probably should but it all starts with FRC so like functional range conditioning right which is you know people feel like they're in a stretch right but you know the stretch is the feeling that you know the brain it's only even the only thing our brain can can make sense of in these you know feelings of tension so like a 90 90 stretch you know stretch again like I call them drills I call them like activations you know it's started the 90 90 my left hip you know it protrudes I have it's anterior it's it's forward because my left hip is weak so you know a lot of people think that like oh my my left hip is tight so I need to you know go into my couch stretch and like really open up my hip or my my left hip not it at all I need to actually do the opposite and I need my hip to understand that it's comfy and cozy and a hinged position you know into single like hinged position and then that's what's going to allow me to have that hip allow me to access my glue in my abductor more so a lot of the times people think that they're tight you know tightness and usually it is in essence weakness or it is a neurological little disconnect with the brain says if my hip goes that motion I'm going to create some type of bad news for myself so whether it's me it's my clients it's all in the floor it's all I would say functional range conditioning you know which is like the 99th stretch learning where your ad doctors learning how to turn your ad doctors and abducters first putting your hips into a deep hinge you know for a lot of people my first step is always pain mitigation you know so if we've got one person who doesn't have very much dorsy function in their ankle and when they squat their heels come off the ground and they feel tension you know in their in their Achilles tendon you know we're going to work like debankful flexion driving the knees over the toes some people do it loaded I don't really think that's that you need to do it loaded you know squeezing your toes into the ground lifting your toes off the floor so that that you know your shin that your calf everything in your ankle or or prepared for that deep ankle flexion which is another thing I see so many people not prepare for in a squat so you're sending these signals to your central nervous system is prepping it yeah and that's you know because we don't use these things like you know because you know sitting up and standing down like the perfect example like how do you sit down plop down okay every time you plop down you just did yourself a disservice to teach your hips how to hinge lengthen your hamstrings use your hips to lower yourself into the seat but we don't do that we just plop down but every time we get up what do we have you got a lot of the hip extension and we got knee flexions so the quads are quads are going quads are going quads are going so there's all these things during the day that we're just like we neglect these parts of our hips on our hamstrings are supposed to your chain that just don't get any love so you know whether we start with the joint stuff finding you know finding hip mobility if we're talking about squat a lot of people it's also shoulder mobility because people don't have the ability to pull the bar underneath just because you know that they're extension their shoulders are so poor and then from there it would be more like of an activation technique so like creating stability in the hip you know waking up the glute waking up the ad doctors making sure that they're not just going to just be doing knee flexion just you know bending the knees straightening the knees because that all we're really teaching there is you know your myso being your bodybuilding you know just doing a leg extension so for myself because of all the pain torn knees torn hamstrings it's always going to be you know accessing mobility first then from accessing mobility a little bit of you know isolation doing isolation to make sure that I got blunt phone the right places and then I go into dynamic so that's like multi-plane or movement you know literally literally literally reverse transverse going up and down turf creating proprioception so like my body knows where it is in space and then you know getting the heart rate up so that's really getting warm is good and then from there that's you know I'll get into a load you know using the back squat as a you know as a as a prime example but it in doing that also making sure that the core is active you know so I like to do like a plank a low plank from my knees and then creating a hamstring contraction by squeezing my heels so it's my butt so learning pelvic tuck getting glutes getting hamstrings on and getting out getting abs on because for myself those are the last three things that I ever activate my butt rarely turns on all quadz over here hamstrings need some love abs always need love so that would be like my final kind of move and then I get under the bar but it comes with a lot of tedious work but I back squat seven days a week then I don't have any pain and I make progress you know there's the days when the ego does get there and I'm like oh I get to go a little bit heavier today but I can say I've been back squatting six to seven days a week for over a year and a half now and that's all thanks to mobility and stability training. With the conversations certain in landing itself to our next topic which is creating mobile and stable joints so you know first let's talk about the difference between mobility and stability and if you fall along to our newsletter the catalyst which comes out every Sunday evening subscribe on bodybuilding.com we just spoke about this topic but tell us in your words the difference between mobility and stability. Yeah so you know I've got I've got my written version which is joint stability is the ability for a joint to remain in a fixed position and resist movement okay and then mobility is the ability of a joint to move freely through the range of motion so you know stability would be more of like an isometric you know holding like you know if you were going to do an LRDL get rid of the way like get into your single you know your single like deep hinge right and then have control over your hip with the adduction the abduction so understanding you know that the hip is what's holding you up or a lot of people can get that hip deep enough behind them and they start driving the hip forward and then it's all the quad so that you know the hips ability is what's going to make the knee feel stable and a lot of people have knee pain and a lot of people have lower back pain and in my case 80% of that is all coming from either weak slash tight hips you know we don't have nearly as much of a neurological response and like our receptors and pain to our hips as much as we do our lower back just because of all the nerve endings there so you know people are coming oh I have a bad lower back it's like no you don't have a bad lower back you have weak hips that neurologically don't know how to move because if you're not you don't know how to hinge you know not to get your hips behind you you're just and you're just trunk flexing just folding in half those extents are muscles in your back and I've built for that so of course your back's going to you know light up so I can bind the two I would say I start with the mobility right which is getting people neurologically to understand you know internal external rotation whether it's the shoulders you know extension flexion pro traction retraction and if you're listening to this instead of watching it he was doing some superb demos doing into our YouTube for the visual yeah so you know people that's you know just a row like how many times you see people take a row and they'd be there already started retracted and they're just doing a hammer-crowing a shrug right like you're not going to be able to understand your own physiology unless you understand that like the lat starts from a protracted position and you're actually retracting the shoulder blade in order to activate that and scapula to then bring the elbow back so that's where you know a lot of people I start with retrit-excuse me protraction and retracting on the floor then you know for doing a push pull day because in essence you know a push in a pull in terms of your scapula are the same exact thing it's just where the tension's coming from right so like if I'm pushing the weight I'm going from retracted to protracted if I'm pulling I'm going from protracted to retracted we're so many of us we don't you know finesse with our skeleton we just pull it or push it you know and then you're just you're getting half of the rep and you're not getting any of the neurological benefit for you know your scapula your shoulder blades actually learn how to move things with with your skeleton you know a lot of us are just like how to make the muscles bigger for you know bigger faster we're like yeah sure if you like do a bunch of half reps you're going to have you know a lot more concentric phase the muscles are going to have a lot more blood flow in it but in terms of like your endurance and how much longer you're going to go and how long you're going to be able to complete these movements it's going to be minimal so yeah for the moving from shoulders to spine you know so we've all been taught this like flat back thing where like good posture is upright and you know if as long as you can hold that you have good posture and then in lifting like keep your back flat like for me now like just learning as much as I have like your spine is one of the most high tech pieces of equipment that exists in your body like the spine is resilient but the thing is it's so resilient it's so smart that if your hips don't work appropriately your spine is going to be the first thing that's going to learn how to move instead and that's why people have a lot of back issues in these lower back issues because what's connected to your hips you lower back so if you can't move your hips appropriately your spine's going to try to do it and that's one of those muscles you're QL and your labor and your QL and your extensors are going to you know are going to go to shit like they're just going to be overusing over warned so QL is going to be the exact one I start calling out but I'm going to realize the QL is when the only muscles in the body is it the only muscle in the body that extends upper to lower body so if your hips are at a whack that is attached to your spine and you're going to feel pretty unhappy if that's happening you know I think it also comes from people just not understanding that there is a difference between a mobile and a stable joint and you know walk us through the skeletal system in terms of a mobile versus a stable joint so yeah I mean like that's for instance like what I just talked about like my hips it's like me playing football my left hip again being you know not hinging not having you know proper external rotation or internal rotation served me in my sport because I was an outside line back at defense events all of my body weight was on my left leg so all that all that leg ever was served as was a platform for me to push off of but then if I had to make a lateral movement it always had to be off of my right leg so my my right hip in terms of like internal and external rotation moves significantly better but if I'm going to sit there and hold like a single like an hinge all those years of just leaning into my left hip has now created in essence you know a more stable joint the joint is isn't stable and it's correct you know range of motion but I can hold the weight there much longer because that must that tissue that tissue integrity is now built more for holding in one place where my right hip you know if I'm going to step off of a curb and jump off you know to like do a lay up for a basketball this one is how to get out of the way this one is how to move so it also sometimes you know does come down like people's like dominant side and non-on overtime just that neurological pairing behind you know if I tell you to go reach for door you're going to reach with your dog and a hand you're not going to like slowly reach across with your left hand so you know a stable joint does have the ability to resist more force right but that also doesn't mean that it's end range of motion it's going to be the same so you know if we use like you know shoulders friends since like maybe I can you know I can internally rotate my you know my right shoulder much more than my left shoulder but if you push against it it's not going to have as much stability in that fixed position where you know look my left shoulder which is the case not having any Jenny like I'm in love to make you join my range of motions limited but now I've had to learn how to build strength because I don't have mobility in the shoulder so now this joint is an SNS stable but it doesn't have the full range of motion and you know the big thing with training is like you want to be you want to have both you want to be stronger your end ranges and get your shortest range but a lot of people to understand that joints you know internally rotate actually rotate abduct you know an abduct so if you're just kind of skipping those points you or you're not you know your strength is no longer functional and those but that's what you'll see you know people who use machines you know for training versus people who use free weights you're going to have a much more stable joint using free weights than you are using a machine because you're not putting that joint to compromising positions where you know maybe that dumbbell goes overhead or goes in front of you or with the machine it's just guided straight up so you can build all this great soft tissue but you can join it you can be a building and on a joint that is probably not very mobile and you know that's why when you take these bigger guys who you have a lot of muscle mass the joint are in essence stable because they have so much soft tissue around them to protect them but then the second you have you know you're doing end range motion test as an injury rotate push against my hand oh really drop right away right so it is about you know what type of strength you have in your end ranges and in your you know in your rotations and abduction and abduction right rotation is really the key word there to you know explain how important it is to train rotation on movement patterns right because you use the perfect example machines you're usually in flexion extension flex extension maybe that's great for a lower back with a lower back your your lower back doesn't like to to rotate your thoracic likes to rotate right so we need to get the rotation in for for your thoracic for your hips they love to rotate so how are you implementing that into a routine um that's so I mean it's it's with people are so used to linear training forward backward up and down you know it for some of the bothersome just because they can consider themselves a high level fitness but not many people are doing rotation um what makes it fun is when you do like to implement it is when you kind of if you get a golfer if you get a tennis player like get a bodybuilder and make him sweat like swing a tennis tennis tennis racket like you're not really creating much power right and that's where like understanding that your body is not just made up of separate muscle groups that is you know it is one organism that works together and like you can't turn your body into a whip or if you're gonna throw something overhead you know unless you learn how to rotate flex and extend your you know flex and extend your spine you're not gonna be strong so teaching people that you know whether the client is more like strength performance driven is like a lot easier because it's like you know let's see how much of a whip you can turn your body and so you can see how far hard you can throw this med ball or how much you know better golf swing is gonna get or how much better you know you can swing a racket stuff like that and then for people who are less performance focus and they are more focus on their longevity you know people who've been sitting in a car for you know or travel which I have a lot of clients like and they're like my hips are tight and I'm like no you know no poo of course they are we know that right but like so is your back and what it's so interesting is because like we've been especially in fitness like it's almost been taboo to move your spine in all these different ways people have they don't know what it actually feels like to feel good and I find that you know so many athletes we're so you're feeling shady all the time so we don't know what actually feeling good is and like for me specifically like as soon as I learn how to implement spinal rotation in my training I mean everything became easier you know because like whether it's a you know a single arm press you're going to your bench press like just having you know your shoulder blades understanding that they can rotate so much further behind you you're increasing you know your ranges of motion you're feeling better about your training but then just overall like in your body because you don't have this systemic you know issue going from your either your shoulder or steer your spine or your hips it's keeping you less hesitant and you know that like I said so many people just don't even think or function you're thinking to increase function others to make their spine until it's like oh no I can't do that I have a bad back right where we're in theory it's actually going to help with injury prevention it's good and it's going to prepare you for those moments where you do need to move fast you need to be on your feet especially here in the streets in New York City like you know both know very well stepping off a curb like your car is going like exactly your hips are pointed this direction but your body needs to move that way like yeah you'll see you know there's a million times a day you know I'll tell a little bit of sad story in my dad had when I had a full spinal fusion he was for extra facial athlete we guy was built like an adonis I watched him throw a coat can out one time literally slight rotation hips in the seat and this guy like he did not show pain and the grittest teeth sat there gripped his grip his you know his own fists for like 15 minutes because he went into a full spasm just from slight rotation and that was just that was 2001 so like people not understanding that like the spine needs to rotate needs to flex in order to be fully operable unfortunately is like new information but if you've been looking at anything greatest athletes anything created is quarterbacks and greatest pitchers you know those guys can basically point their hips at you and pull their guys to pull the exercise they do the exercise that's like look behind them so you know if you're trying to increase your power in any way you know and create longevity of your life you know the more spinal rotation you have the longer your problem you can you live because the quality of movement is just going to be so much higher yeah I mean I'm just decreasing the pain that you're experiencing on a daily basis as well if you're if you're someone who's in an office all day or even if you're working from home and you're seated most of your day go outside do some rotational movements I guarantee you're going to feel better just with five minutes of doing that and injecting those into your daily routine you know why is this important to do at a younger age why do we not want to wait until one we're feeling those daily aches and pain and two you know we don't want to wait until we're 15 60 year old to to start doing quote unquote some of these more boring things right we're adding in mobility work adding in our activation work wise it becoming inherently more important for people of younger age to add this to the routine um I think the reason being is because the information wasn't as accessible and understood so I think that's why like right now we're kind of in the pinnacle of people actually understanding you know when you just look at like people with their back surgeries like so many people so many less people are getting cut open now than like 2000 to like 2005 you know for a multitude of reasons but you because people are actually understanding that the spine is durable and that you know if you cut something open you're basically you know if you have a six cylinder under and you know engine and you pull out one cylinder like the car's not going to run the same so now you have to teach this car how to you know drive with one of the cylinder so you know I think that you know using like more of a pre-hab technique and teaching people that you know using their spines daily and you know whether through sport or just daily life is going to create a longer pain-free life which you know if you're in pain for less amount of time and you don't hesitate with movement you're going to move better longer that's going to keep you alive longer you know you see especially in the lower East side you see these you know elderly women doing like these crazy Tai Chi exercises but they're in their 80s and their 90s and they're moving around better than most of the 30 year olds in Equinox so you know there's you know there's a lot of you know cultures and societies that have like kind of figured it out but I also believe because there's not you know when we first get into this stuff when we're younger that's we're lifting because we're invincible we're invincible we're working because we're invincible we're working because we want to be the biggest most shredded the fastest the strongest we don't think that you know it's going to end at some point and then if it does end you know it's not going to be because I didn't do my mobility drills so you know I think that ego is honestly you know it's just so prevalent in fitness and in a gym culture people don't want to be on the floor for 30 minutes doing these things they want to get up and get after it because that's being really like another great part especially the mental the health part of training is to make yourself feel better right so unfortunately there's not a lot of people until they've already had an injury where they actually go through these drills and it actually feel accomplished and feel fulfilled by doing them so it sucks that it usually comes with you know putting your hand on the stove first to learn that these things are going to serve you you know whether it is progressing your performance or if it's just keeping you out of pain or if it's just you're longevity so I do think that it is a little bit of an ego thing you know I have my guys who come and I don't want to go on the floor I don't want to go on the floor I don't want to get in the rack let's go and I'm like cool we can do that but like do you want to be able to do this for like the next 10 years or the like the next 25 years right and then they're like oh okay I also you know I also think we don't I've said this before and I think I've said I've also said this in recent newsletter the catalyst but we don't play enough we don't we lose the element of play and we may have gotten to this at a later part in the podcast we can talk about it now we are not moving the way that we move when we are seven years old and I I'm even guilty of that for me I am I do train a ton um linear but you know I'm purposely adding in those lateral moves in the gym but when I think about it am I really getting that much lateral work and throughout my day without doing it intentionally probably not right so we need to start you know go join the softbally go play this recreational soccer go out and play whatever it is that you like to play as a kid because we are losing so much of those skills the older that we get and we're losing it a lot quicker than a lot of people realize absolutely I just had this conversation the day um and it was originally pertaining to play and then I guess my rotation like went back and do what I was with some of my buddies that we put in college football with and I was like tell me you can throw a football at 32 the same when you did when we were 19 and everyone was like no I was like an idiot when I football now and it's like it's not you know the neuromocular connection yeah it may have faded that you know neural pathway maybe isn't there anymore but like what's more you know what's diminished more is that ability of moving your spine if you're sitting in a desk all you know all day and then you know in terms of play yeah why do you think you know you take a 30 year old and you tell them to go quadripe on the floor they look up at you like are you fnc areas like you want me to go on the ground because something happens it like 18 19 years old the floor is just the enemy it's like we don't go down there anymore like my youth is over and the thing is when you're down there you are moving dynamically like if you look at like a toddler like a three or four year or five year old get down and play on the ground if you watch how they actually lower themselves to the ground or how they reach for things like it if it if it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it should inspire you it was an adult you know you're not like rolling on your side and they're like pushing yourself up like the way that their hips move the way that their spine's move you know and people like oh that's because they're young yes and no like if you've committed to those practices from age five years old to 55 years old there's no reason that the integrity of the soft tissue in the joint and that you that neurological connection would go away the same way that if the 32 year old is throwing a football today capstone and a football every single day you know we graduate college we stop playing our sport or if we don't you stop playing as kids those with those pathologies don't those practices me pathways no longer need to exist because ultimately our bodies are lazy because ultimately our bodies are just here to keep us alive as long as possible so if there's a way to conserve energy you know using less muscle mass using less energy using less movement our brain is going to reward that it's going to say stay seated don't move your spine like that but the thing is is like that's where you know we're at this point of evolution where bodies are so smart and our jobs and our daily lives are so stagnant that we're reaching this point of like you know yeah sure we're living longer because you know form of suitable is and you know hopefully understanding a little bit more about the nutrition but does that mean that the quality of life is high like you know if I'm going to live to a hundred and from seventy to a hundred I'm stuck in a chair I will trade that for living to sixy and meet moving freely so you know I think that there's just a lot of things that go into play as to whether it's we're not playing anymore you know we're so work of so work driven maybe you know we're a little shy we don't want to go join the softball team but you know play is the first thing that you know is going to put your body into multi dimensions in terms of movement and you know that's why training you know training with people like me and a lot of the people I work with that's like I don't care if you're doing a body building show like you're doing a lunge of the rotation you know what I mean like you're doing your moving your spine because you know ultimately it's if it's about longevity and if it's about life it's like do you want to be doing this for a little bit of time or a long time right you know we're certainly not naive to the fact that yes you know we're in terror and your joints happens you're not going to be able to be the all-american quarterback that you were when you were 18 when you are at 60 but can you come pretty close probably between nutrition and recovery and the movement patterns and you're instilling to your programming you you can kind of stay right there your energy levels may decrease etc but I don't think we're giving ourselves enough enough credit especially in this country as we age I think this I think we've already started topic three for today but decreasing pain through mindfulness and movement you know whether this is dealing with acute injuries or chronic pain I think you touched on it before people saying no I can't run anymore you know my knee suck or you know no I can't I can't get on a bike or you can't even I just was in a car for six hours you're like no that's all the more reason to be going on a bike you're listening to it join up right so break down how you approach both sides of the spectrum there you know and how the brain plays a crucial role in healing not only for acute injuries you know breaking a pinky or you know dealing dealing with chronic back pain that someone's you know on the brink of of going to that surgery you know how do you how do you say hey no hey let's let's take a step back here and figure an athre movement I mean that that would be an I could go like so deep dive on the tangent just because like I work with physical therapists and I've seen so many doctors and like I just had a crazy shoulder injury and you know I hate to say this and there's my cats and flock but like I think we do live in a society whether it's doctors surgeons and a lot of physiotherapists like they and our food everything this country because of insurance they want you to stay sick they want you to stay and some shape or form in need and some form with an ailment you know to believe that you need to keep buying you know whatever it is you're joined supplement your pain killer you need to come back for your ultrasound and your little stretch session like you know that is the way that a lot of the industries working our country to say oh we have no obesity problem okay like let's just invent a drug that you know plays with your you know insulin and blood sugar levels rather than us just fixing and teaching nutrition like you know so the the quick fix and then I think also just like a lot of people want to have some self-limiting belief in like a bit of like a victim case because but that's what we've been taught you know like especially when it comes to PT like you know oh you spraying your ankle put a boot in it don't walk don't use it like that was the old school way of doing things well what happens when you stop using it you're losing your your losing your mobility you're losing your rotation you're losing the integrity of of the soft tissue surrounding the joint so if you're not moving it on you're just booting it in that ankle and that calf and then that quad is just atriffing because you're dragging your foot around like you're not you're not gonna get like you you know the the spring will go down physi inflammation went down but now you got a like that's completely a symmetrical in terms of its strength and you've got an ankle that doesn't move compared to your right so now you're working with you know some severe severe asymmetry and over compensation and then that's just gonna lead it might go from the angle and that's just gonna go to the knee so you know I just think that there's there's a lot of people who started with an acute pain and it just wasn't handled it right why and I'm lucky that I work with some of the peat knee and the the the leading physical therapist in the city where it's like sure like let it calm down but also like do not stop using it like even if it's as much as just squeezing your toes and like pulling your toes off the ground like keep blood flow keep the neurological connection paired because that acute injury is gonna turn into a chronic one because you want a boot or a cast for six months so you know when it's when someone comes to me with with you know with a chronic injury it's usually finding out like you know the epidemiology like where did it actually start and again if we keep using like knees and lower backs it's because no one looked at their hips you know and it's like how could you expect your lower back to ever get better whether you had an injury or not or you just have a weak hips and a weak core like and that lower back is just trying to create all this movement because your hips don't even have if they don't have the neurological connection or they don't have the strength and do it like of course your back's gonna hurt so I can't tell you the amount of people and this isn't me like tweeting my own horn but like guys who were like 29 like women who were 56 years old I've got one incredible client she was like fan of the opera Cirque du Soleil New York City ballet like incredible athlete but has one hip that causes her to you well pain and then if that you know driving traveling if the ql goes bad then it makes it way down her knee and it's because her left hip does not hinge it just doesn't hinge you know like her left glute doesn't activate the glute doesn't activate because it doesn't think that the integrity of the hip is gonna put it in a safe place so like that somebody that like has all the systemic stuff who she's doing you know whether was medication whether it was acupuncture whether it's massage like that's a chronic pain whether that existed from you know in a q injury we don't really know her having such an extensive dance career but like she gets to the point to where she's like I'm just gonna go in for surgery and have her cut and it's like when you do that then just what happens same as the boot on the ankle you don't use it you don't get blood flow yeah you do your P.T. but like you're starting even further behind so like if we can find a way if your brain to become dis sensitized of putting this hip in the right pop in the proper place not having an impingement and then strengthen the glute strengthen you know the abductor ad dr so this thing shows comfortable moving then guess what happens the q l pain goes away the lower back pain comes away then the knee pain goes away so that's somebody I've been working with for not even two years now and you know this is this was a chronic pain that she had had you know she's in her 50s she's had this and she was like 30 like 30 something especially something like the hip as well I mean that's just it's not a path you want to go down the amount of work you're going to have to do to quote unquote you know re-ignite those glute muscles create that connection again get those firing properly the glutes are just such an impressive system that you have to work with 24-7 right so to get those turn back on a such a hard job and I know it because I experienced it you know and same thing the amount of people that I can recall that are so quick to go into a I'll say low back because that's probably the biggest one that we see across this industry because they're trusting the the physicians that they're working with and I think that's also part of the not the problem I'm not going to say it's a problem to trust your physician I'm going to say that as a healthcare system we need to do a better job at educating people not only for things like nutrition but also how they need to move their body and why are we not you know recommending them to not only physical therapist but physical therapist that can teach them other ways to alleviate these pains and take things that's up further than just the standard six-week protocol right go take PT for six weeks if you don't feel any better we're going to surgery that there's got to be more of an elaborate process that's put into place but in my yeah just the back point on that is like when you get these people you know and they have poor hip extension or shoulder extension I don't like that when I don't want to do that one probably because it's exactly what you need to be doing so and I think that is just the hard truth that a lot of people are afraid to face they get to that point and they're like oh I'm going to upset my client they're not going to work with me anymore you know luckily I've been to the point where like I you know my clients have the trust and rapport with me and we're all like let's just try this because like if every it's the same as like you know we get into our personalities like you get into a new relationship and like see you got some trust issues from your previous relationship right and like you know you don't get a phone call for like a day or two and you immediately jump to conclusions like I'm not doing this I'm not supposed to be in a relationship it's like no being the relationship but work on what it takes in order for that chronic pain or that acute pain whichever one how you're feeling in that moment work on that to be able to become regular and normal and culpable and functional so you know anytime I have somebody who's like yeah I don't think that I don't want to do that one it's like okay we don't want to do that one but let's do a regression of that one because that tells me if you're brain you know conscious or not you're saying not to do something it's probably the exact thing you need to be doing and what that tells me too is it's that individual may not have ever been taught to work through pain right they were taught or they had developed the behavior of this is painful I'm going to stop now there's a different there's different levels of pain of course you know we're sympathetic to that but there does come to a point and I think I think if you or someone who has an athletic background maybe you're kind of used to working through those areas of discomfort I'll certainly say that from experience I'm sure you can as well and you know what I even find with you know I'll use my parents for example like you know this doesn't feel good I'm like well what doesn't feel good about about it right we're not asking those follow-up questions and I think I see we see that a lot in doctor's offices as well well what does it feel like and when you move this way does it hurt when you move that way does it hurt we're really not kind of doing that due diligence of understanding where it's really stemming from all we hear is this hurts go to PT here's a pill if that doesn't work here surgery so we've come a very long way I would say the last five to 10 years have been extremely transformational in this field but there's there's still miles to go for sure I want to move on to our fifth and our fourth and final topic excuse me you know what I will say before we move on we're we're going to be moving on to discussions around PTSD and depression if these topics are not where you're seeking today we thank you for listening in and we will see you next time on the bodybuilding.com podcast so game you know you love to say mind leads body follows it's in your Instagram bio you've been saying it since the day I met you I see and I'm as any interview that that you sit down to take you know let's let's I'm I'm really going to turn it over to you I want to know what what prompted you to pursue a degree in psychology specializing in neurochemistry and I want to know you know what personal experiences led you to the journey that you're on today yeah mind leads body follows you know that is has been my motto in a lot of ways you know it almost moved people that didn't want to warm up so much the you know the vulnerability in psychology and it was more just like you know do it light do it right form base fitness over just like you know crushing your body like having intention with your mind and then allowing your body to follow that but that was that's like scratching the surface but you know for me what mind leads body follows is that like as somebody who is competitive bodybuilder as somebody who grew up borderline morbidly obese barrier over weight 275 pounds in college never looked the way I wanted to look you know I had to find solace and peace and self respect and confidence in my process and you know so many people are obsessed with you know if we're going to call their journey like you know climbing the mountain to the sunset right to see this great sunset well what happens when you get to you know the top of the mountain you get to the peak and the sunset's got clouds and overcast and front of it how are you going to feel that right so like if you don't find joy and confidence in efficacy in the climb right which the what's getting you through the climb is your mind like you know if the sunset is that dream body that you wanted like in my history like it doesn't make a difference you know what that body looks like you know how low your body fabric percentages or what you think you're supposed to look like because if you don't build that efficacy on the way the air like you're just the same you're just the same insecure person you're the same person that's still in search of something that still has a hole who now just like looks a little bit different you know so like if the brain is not happy if the brain is not pleased it doesn't matter the body's never going to be able to overpower your mind so like if you can't find success in your day to day process versus your outcome like you can you can take as far as you want you know like I said body building competitively fitness modeling I was never happy I was never happy once I always could have went further I always could have been more lean I always could have booked another job like you know the body just more feel whatever you want to call it it's stuck with me from the beginning like from forever and majority of my existence was becoming all the things that I didn't have in childhood like I needed like a father figure I was the only overweight one in the family so I had to lose all the weight you know I was always expected to be you know football player my dad was an NFL player you know so it was always all these outcomes you know that I had to that I had to get myself to for me in order to feel good about myself and that's what I find so much of so many my clients I just have to lose 15 pounds you know like what happens if 15 pounds like you know do you like sprout wings and you can just fly like into the heavens and you just feel great like no you know then that's why then I kind of lead with the you know the questions of like what happens at 15 pounds in your mind or why 15 pounds and like while I was 15 pounds last on my honeymoon well you would just had your wedding you just had all of your loved ones show up for you to celebrate your love and your devotion for the your one person that you're gonna spend the rest of your life with so like what's your connection like with your family one the last time you're not a gathering how's your relationship with your spouse like do you believe that they don't love you as much because you don't look exactly the same way as when they marry and you like so we've been programmed to have all these beliefs that like our body is going to be the outcome for you know our joy or success and you know this especially in this field where for me it's if you know if the brains aren't healthy doesn't matter what you do with your body so that's why I just kind of try to get people to meet themselves halfway where it's like let's lose five pounds and let's call your cousins in your aunts and your uncles and ask if we can get dinner or let's talk about you know maybe your sexual relationship with your partner or how you're feeling about like your social life like because we've just been told that all of our issues come solely from ourselves and within and with our external self you know in society especially you know social media is just constantly forcing external validation so it's like your mind is the only one that matters and how you feel about where you're going it's solely your choice now yeah it's really hard to untie a lot of those knots you know to be able to be like I'm doing everything I can but when the rest of your world is like you're not doing shit you know it's really hard to convince yourself otherwise so I use that I use that mind needs body follows is to be like you know people walk out of a session like well I'm still time pounds away I'm like yeah but how do you feel right now how do you feel about the work that you just put in right now your brain how does your brain feel well I did everything I was supposed to do right okay and what comes next what's for lunch well I know what I'm going to do and you know I'm going to follow my meal plan or I'm going to eat my 80 20 great so that's your mind so like do not let the outcome be the the the the obtaining fact on how you where you hold your value and if you can keep that positive mindset that you're doing everything that you can the body will follow you know it will happen if that's the goal that will happen and I've been so lucky to be kind of keeping that mantra for so long with people that like I've got a couple people who look exactly the same they're a little bit stronger they're a little bit more mobile but like in terms of their their self-evigacy and where they hold their success it comes and there comes in their mind because like this is all temporary you know anything like how good you look right now especially from a bodybuilder like you know you're not going to look like that in two weeks so like why put that emphasis on there put the emphasis on the fact of like you know you did everything you could do accomplish a goal and that you had discipline and you showed up for yourself so the mind leaves body follows kind of mantra is just more about you know finding finding the the joy from within and the appreciating the effort that you're putting in rather than the body being your you know your measure of success and then you know if we can go into psychology yeah it's good with problems in the movie psychology I grew up I grew up in a pretty tumultuous household my father was an alcoholic in a drug addict because it takes a to the oxy cotton somebody who had his whole you know the world the world was his oyster you could do whatever you wanted he was somebody who always kind of did the right thing like college football and a fell and a fell in work out started the business business was successful married the right wife had the kids but like really didn't do much for himself so he kind of fell off the wagon when he like sold his business in retired really on my mom struggled a lot with like some BPD things and like once she got divorced was you know always kind of searching for external validation for you know someone to make her feel better so both of my parents I kind of took a role as a caretaker like really young and kind of learning how to be there for them which you know has has made me an incredible trainer in coach is because I know exactly how to put someone else's needs before my own in order to make someone feel safe and heard and you know and and understood in these moments and when I was in school I was like football on school and I made the HD and couldn't find a major that worked and as soon as I got into psychology we got into like paired associations and you know the way in which fear is created and the way in which doubt is created and in their minds and you know the actual like neurochemistry that goes behind you know just thoughts and actions I became obsessed because it made it allowed me to make more sense of my my childhood and myself you know and for a long time it wasn't so much made it was more so than everybody else around me so what led to this psychology was just a obsession of like understanding you know me I was definitely like addicted to fitness mainly through football but then I quit football and then the fitness became even bigger out that and you know I was I was an angry I was an angry athlete I was an angry gym girl or everything was you know that was my that was my outlet which was great it served it's purpose but like you know sometimes having that outlet be so aggressive as one like you know I was getting injured I was getting angry so like it was getting angry that I was injured and I couldn't work out so over training just trying to chase something out yeah just just you know eradicating the demons and trying to to subdue the anger and the weather was you know before it was it wasn't taboo because I had football so it was like oh it was just training for football well then when I quit football you know and the training didn't stop that's you know I went from a 275 pound defense alignment to a bodybuilder like so then I took it even further like then it was okay well I grew up in a household that had no routine I never knew where the next meal was coming I never knew if my parents were going to be home after school so then I'm in college and it's like I can cook all of my meals I can measure all of my meals I can know exactly what my workouts can to be able to know exactly when I look like so it became a sense of like OCD well you you've geared to the completely opposite and the spectrum yes yeah I where I had no control growing up I knew they control was gonna give me peace and then that was like you know towards like the senior year my senior year of college and it was just like learning all of these things were helping me make sense of them but now you make sense of everything that doesn't necessarily mean that you're gonna change anything so it wasn't really until like getting into personal training where like most of my healing actually began because I mean countering all these people with these different minds and there are different ways of thinking and I became fascinated with getting to know these people like interpersonal not just and you know training with me is not just you know it's not just a one hour we're lifting we're sweating it's deep chat it's talk therapy it's whatever you know the client needs a to be and in understanding you know all these like we all have holes we all have these you know these these insecurities and that's like the most beautiful part of other gym is like everyone's coming in because they're insecure like the gym needs this because people are insecure or they're like afraid to die young you know whether they're getting a revenge body because they're insecure about a breakup or you know they're just trying to admit some people that I just want to be better you know I just want to move better I don't want to be in pain so psychology someone who's seeking therapy and someone who's coming to training is like it's just a vehicle in which that you're trying to get there and that's where like I'm all forth therapy I'm in therapy I'll always be in therapy but for me the self-evegacy and the confidence and effort that you put behind your training if you're also aware of why you're doing it you know and not to knock any you know anybody's success in and just therapy but like the things that I've seen people overcome and the people that I've watched evolve while becoming more self-aware and then using that awareness to aid in their transformation and then not become obsessed with the end result not become obsessed with that 15 pounds but understanding that like I need this movement I need this hour to love myself because a lot of times when we're in therapy it's just we're talking about what's wrong with us and you don't get that ability to like rebuild your back you rebuild yourself back up unless you kind of take that after you leave and with training and psychology compared to the other it's like you you can do that if you have intention and you understand why you're in that room and that's where you know the obsession with psychology and the obsession to the human brain all really began not so much that just you know studying it but watching people kind of you know unveil you know their vulnerabilities and then also use training is a vehicle to overcome it yeah it's I mean it's so profound that you've taken really years of the experiencing that you're describing and you've been able to apply it with what you're doing every day and you've applied it even it fits up with what you've done over there if you want to tell people about what you've done over there I think that's tremendous as well but I mean it's just it's a testament to you as a person and really resiliency I think is the best way to put it as well and and and I don't think I don't think people understand how resilient the human brain really can be but taking one step further I don't think they understand the work that probably has to go into you know looking back at years and years of let's call it trauma right and taking that not only to use it for good but also you know to to channel that and healthy healthy coping ways so I would love to hear a little bit about you what you've done at fit-ups and how you how your experience transfer it over to their organization as well yeah fit-ups you know they've gone they've taken it to the next level with their dinner with their and it's one of the most beautiful things I've ever been a part of um yeah it was the only time to my career that I ever showed up to something nervous I was like I know my stuff like I can all can do this but like this is a lot different because you know these are some of the toughest dudes in the world do you have all these you know navy seals, ex-marines, ex-military who have been struggling with their own PTSD and they've been struggling with their own addiction and you know alcoholism and as far as they know they're coming to a camp to get like trained by you know celebrity personal trainers you know gain a certification so that they can become repurposed and get put into society in terms of you know finding jobs and whatnot and I was doing it I don't know like three or four times a year for like a couple years of going down and teaching like the first 12 to 16 chapters of their um it wasn't nasum I forget the one that they use but of their of their um of their texts to get them prepared for this test but every night they do I was just it was just called performance talk because performance was sponsoring it and one of the vats were government is tell their stories and for the longest time they were performing talk was literally just people about their war stories it wasn't so much about how they got to war how they joined the military and there was the first or so I can camp I went to nobody signed up for it and I was like I would love to give my talk and obviously I don't have not been deployed I'm in the military and I told my story and um it then really shifted things in the way in which that these young men looked at their PTSD because I've been diagnosed with PTSD three times from age 7 to 20 22 so um you know for them to understand that like some of them probably have been struggling with PTSD way before they got to the military and that's actually part of the reason why they joined the military you know it is something to take them away from home it is something to for them to distract themselves from whatever trauma or anything that occurred before they joined the military because maybe they didn't have a lot of options and have a place to go um it's kind of where it really came down to and you know veterans unfortunately have the highest way to suicide in the country so this put this program became more of a suicide prevention program than anything and you know it it became my passion because it was where I really both had the ability to show these guys you know the emotional end of being a personal trainer not just the physical end and what's so beautiful whole one of the things I guess the one of the few things in military really does right and their training is they they really teach these guys how to take care of the person in front of them much like growing up in my house I had to learn how to take care of my parents and put myself second so we you know found a really you know close empathetic title that so these men and women you know as soon as they learn the text there there's their program to just be these incredible trainers because it's just you know how do I put this person's goals needs ahead of my own and you know watching them blossom and then repurpose them self and you know assembly back into culture it's just like one of the most beautiful profound things that I've ever been a part of and I had one of the guys live with me for like three months like interning me and perform eggs and you know it is it is um one of the few programs out there that is actually combining physical fitness not just from the repurposing their career but also getting them to understand that like you know your your paired associations and your trauma is like do not have to be like something that you you know keep on your back forever like a lot of things of PTSD is kind of like when we talked about like a cute pain like you shouldn't write a bike you have bad knees okay like same thing with PTSD like oh your PTSD because you were in a helicopter or a parachute probably shouldn't be in a room with helicopters right or like we work out in a room that has some helicopters you surround yourself with some good people you know and you you know I'm not saying like full-decentedization but like you understand that like your safe and that there's a way to overcome like you know there's a way to work through the pain and I watched these got these men and women do it you know for a couple years and it was to this day one of the you know most proud things I've ever been a part of I got super emotional about it um just because to watch people who'd feel like they don't have options and are played by you know their diagnosis to be able to just lift us up lift themselves up but also lift themselves up by helping other people and that's something I feel like I've been doing for years so that's that's fit-offs it's incredible stuff yeah I want to end the episode with a word of encouragement from yourself and everything that you've been through and the incredible career that you've built as a coach I like saying coach because it can mean so many different things right you know someone out there who is struggling with mental health who is using the gym to chase away some demons what is a word of encouragement that you can give them that maybe does get them to ship their mindset to put mental health not not ahead of physical but at least let it have a seat at the table with their physical health um there's my and there's a million things I would say I would you know the one line that I do have in there is that you know our bodies are the vehicle for our minds right so again you're you know trying to get your mind as healthy of not healthier than your body you know if you can take care of your body brain will also you know we'll feel that and it'll feel good and doing that and you know if you can keep yourself healthy enough to gather as many experiences as possible right to be there for the people you love to be there you know to find those you know those lighter days you know the thing is is with you know people who are struggling with mental health like you know there's got this lighthouse tattoo on the back of my arm because it's like you know there's there's always going to be darkness right like there's always going to be dark days but if you really know darkness like if you know true darkness that means that you know you do have the capacity to find the ultimate light you know if someone's lived a pretty gray life maybe not that's had maybe not that happy you know I'm not saying that they're selling them shorts that's their existence but like for people who are truly truly struggling to understand that no matter how dark something is they're can't they're cannot be darkness without the exact opposite so like the light is there it is on the other side you know and to keep trusting in yourself whether it is like through physically you know physicality or just the discipline that you are actually taking the time to love yourself every day because whether training meditation your nutrition you were you were showing yourself love and I think that the shift a lot of the shift that I try to get people to take is not looking at these as things that I have to do all I have to do my dog to have to do my meal prep I have to work out like these are things that you get to do like you get to do this you get to show yourself you know show yourself love give your body love give your mind you know an hour that is solely devoted to yourself and that whatever you do in that hour you know it's a lot of times like that doesn't matter how many reps and sets you did like did you spend an hour solely devoted to yourself like how many people do that not enough so you know getting people to shift their focus from the end result of what you know they're working towards and understanding that like every day that you show up for yourself like that is the win you know you gather a lot of wins and then you know hopefully the outcome comes but I'm doing my best to get people to just not completely forget what their goal is but to focus on you know consistency is a superpower and if you keep showing up for yourself and you keep showing yourself light and you give yourself grace you know to be upset to feel things that you're struggling with you know rather than running from them and rather than neglecting them you know that is that's beauty and you know so many people like I said before like I used to lift angry and you know it wasn't a good lift unless I left completely drained but like now I use it more like a meditation where it's like well I'm working out but why not just because I want to be healthy not because I want to keep my body healthy to experience more things but so that I can have something to offer myself every day I can give myself a gift every single day and to look at physical fitness and anything that goes into your physical well being because so many of us are so tied to our bodies but not our minds you know what did I do I took my supplements today I drank my protein shake today like that protein shake in the supplements can be equally as joyful for your brain as it is for your body if you look at that protein shake as as a form of self love if you look at that hour and the gym as an hour of meditation for you to just be alone with yourself you know instead of just the next thing you have to do so you know my my my send away there just to just you know if you're going through something right now and it seems like you know it is the darkest of nights I can understand that like that dark night is going to be you know it can last a little bit or it could last a blip but how bright isn't going to look when the sun actually shines through. Gaps no impressive as always proud to know you proud to sit at this table with you today thanks for stopping up by to the BB Com podcast. Thank you so much for having me Daniel. Thanks for tuning in for another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and today I'm joined by Kristen Lettenberger. Kristen is a doctor of physical therapy, certified strength and conditioning coach, and pregnancy and postpartum athleticism coach. She is a director of bespoke women, specializing in women's health, including pregnancy and postpartum rehab, and returned to sports postpartum. Kristen has spent the last few years of her career expanding her knowledge in women's health and pelvic floor rehab. Combining that with her power lifting background and love for sports rehab, she has been a unique asset for moms who want to continue exercise during pregnancy and return to their sports postpartum stronger than ever. Kristen has given numerous workshops on training during pregnancy, and returning to exercise postpartum, as well as hosted bespoke's first women's health panel on how to navigate pregnancy and postpartum. Her focus is to help people improve their overall health and performance in order to live better longer. Kristen, welcome to the BB Compacast. Thank you so much, I'm so excited. We had a quick conversation about this last week, so I feel like we can get into more detail today, for sure. Yeah, absolutely. For those who've begun familiar with our friends and partners over at bespoke physical therapy, Kristen joins us from their New York City locations with Dan Cam and the rest of the crew over there. Kristen, we've got a lot on the docket today that all athletes can really find some benefit from so let's dive into it. Awesome. Today's episode is brought to you by me today. Me today offers a women's daily routine with their busy lifestyle and mind. Their women's daily supplement includes a two month supply of easy to swallow one-a-day veggie capsules. Packed with 28 vitamins, minerals, and herbs to support general health and well-being. Me today also offers a skincare range that works as tirelessly as you do. Me today's supplements skincare, I'm Nuka Honey, unlocking your best tomorrow, shop now at bodybuilding.com. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. So topic one for our listeners today will be understanding the pelvic floor. So this is a huge topic right now. We've talked about it a couple of times together and honestly a long overdue topic. In recent years, we've been hearing more and more about pelvic floor therapy, specifically catered towards women. And just as some contextual background for the users out there, a 22-study conducted with 25,000 women found that 32% experienced some form of pelvic floor dysfunction. UCLA health predicts that one and three women are currently affected by pelvic floor dysfunction. There's certainly no doubt that in previous decades we simply didn't have the science and studies. surrounding women's reproductive health. Let's talk a little bit why this has become such a relevant topic. Why pelvic floor therapy is exploding in the market right now? Why people are seeking this more and more on a daily basis? And really what really caused the general awareness that we're seeing here today? Yeah, I think this is a great place to start because pelvic floor in general has always been like a very small subset of physical therapy as well. So you get, if you like an end when you they give you a general kind of background of it. But you weren't really taught much. You always had to do some continuing education course. And I think now that it's been a few decades now, you see more women, especially younger youth kind of going through sports and then expanding that into college. And expanding that past college and then becoming mothers and still wanting to perform in their sports. And then you also see this trend of women into science. And so there's like a needs, right? Whenever research is done, you need some sort of need in order to kind of push the research forward. So now that you're seeing more women in sports, you're seeing more women scientists. You're seeing more researchers in those areas. They're pushing the agenda and that is going to help with funding. So you have more, like demonstrations of women still performing within pregnancy and into their postpartum. And then the women of science are like, okay, we need to figure out what's going on here. Like, is this safe because we've been told you can't lift more than 10 pounds while you're pregnant, which is ludicrous. Just think about like everything, like your backpack probably weighs more than 10 pounds. But exercises now being shown to be really beneficial for pregnancy and really beneficial for postpartum. So people wanting to understand how it works better. I think is really feeling the fire for pelvic health. And now that there is these studies coming out, like this 221 that you just mentioned, and showing the enormous prevalence of pelvic floor. And we're like, okay, let's do something about it. And I think that is also pushing the agenda for more research. And it's really, it's an exciting time to be a physical therapist and to be in sports. And to then have the information to give women, because we really didn't have it before. It was so anecdotal and a lot of it still is. It's very gray. It's not very black and white. And I think over the next decade we're going to see so much more coming out. And just a better understanding of women and just like last thing on this one is like, you know, we're not small men and I think, you know, Stacy Sims has said that. And understanding that women are different and their training is going to be different. Their nutrition is different. We've different considerations. That makes it a really interesting topic for researchers. And I think that is also going to help kind of drive this new revolution. Absolutely. I mean, I think, you know, we need to start with the anatomy, right? And this pertains to both men and women because public floor therapy is for both. And we get into that in a second. Let's discuss the anatomy of the public floor and by why both men and women benefit from preventative insurance and imbuminance here. Once we go through the anatomy, and Kristen has brought a friend with her, to help with our demonstrations. We're then going to break down, you know, what are the signs and symptoms that can be affecting every day function, sexual performance, and athletic performance as well. So if one, you know, let's break down the anatomy. Yeah, I mean, with anatomy, every regardless of your sex, everyone has a pelvic floor. It is the base of your core. And if you, I like the analogy of, like a cardboard box. So if you're bottom of the carpet box, you got wet, right? You pick it up, you load it up, and you pick it up. Everything just falls right through, right? So that's your pelvic floor. The basic of that box. And so you need a strong meaning of a compliant, and you need a coordinated pelvic floor in order to lift loads in order to support your organs within your pelvis. And I'll show you guys not why you're not having any things. Yeah, I'm pregnant. Yeah, so I left the, for those of you who are listening to an into our YouTube for the visuals. Yeah, please. Because I bring this into like all of my such sounds telling Danielle this before. But I, I left the organs, and this is a female pelvis. And you can, the first most, um, organ here is your bladder. And then you view uterus, and you have your rectum right behind it. So you can see how that uterus, starting pregnancy, is resting right on top of the bladder. So it really gives a good, different, like, a visual presentation of how why you need to peel up more, right? Taring pregnancy. But let me remove these guys real quick. And this is your pelvic floor. So you have like your deep pelvic floor here. And the five functions of the pelvic floor is support. That's one, um, it supports your organs. So it's going to support your, um, support your bladder. It's going to support your rectum. It's going to support the rest of your organs and your whole body. And that is really within this slink here in that pelvic floor. These are your levator and I because the second function is sphingtarric. So it's going to close your rectum. It also kind of works through your vaginal canal here. Um, you have your superficial muscles here in the near the vaginal opening. And this is the same for men too. They have these like, ishial cavernosis on each side of their pelvis. They have that bunjo, um, we'll just sponge your osis here. But it's more onto this after the penis. And these helped with maintaining erections and sexual function. That's another function of the pelvic floor. So you have your support. You have your sexual function. You have your stability because you can see how it connects in the back. So it's going to work into the extra movies and it works on stabilizing your core as well as like your SI. Another hip muscles. Um, swing terrac as the other one. And then it also works as a sub pump. So it helps with like fluid distribution and your lymphatic control. But regardless of who you are, you all have these muscles. And they're all working to support those areas. And they really do have a big impact on, um, you know, athletic performance. So if you think of that box analogy I gave you before. If you have a weak pelvic floor, imagine you're doing a one rep max squat. And your pelvic floor gives out what do you think is going to happen? It's kind of like very similar to when a woman is on the powerlifting platform and she pays her hands. Like that is a non-compile in pelvic floor. Something has gone wrong. The pressure has gone too far into the pelvic floor. Maybe it was in strong enough to maintain those loads. And so that's one sort of way of looking at it. So why you need a strong pelvic floor. And you can work on it as a man. Just we cue it a little bit differently than we do for women because this sensation might feel different to them. But they all have the same five functions. What does some of the high level signs and symptoms someone could be experiencing just from an everyday life perspective that may be related to pelvic floor dysfunction? Yeah. So some of the signs and symptoms might be either pain in your pelvis. You might be having like some spasms tailbone pain. That's usually very closely related to your pelvic floor. So if you're sitting on your tailbone and noticing it's really uncomfortable, it could be tightness within the live Vaynerani muscles of that deep pelvic floor you see inside. Painful urination. That is another one in continents. So either it's beagle or urinary in continents. And that's like a loss of control of your bowels. But say it's more under stress. So like if you sneeze, if you cough, if you're doing double under, if you're dead lifting and UP a little bit, that is sort of a pelvic floor dysfunction. Same thing if you like maybe it comes out the other end. And that's the other side of your pelvic floor. The less fortunate. The less fortunate one. It's also a sign of a pelvic floor dysfunction. But those are like the main ones. Usually it's pain, use you to in continents heaviness for women. Like pelvic organ prolapse. And for men mostly it can be like tailbone pain that I see a lot or painful urination and that not related to a UTI. So very similar to having hamstring tightness, having quad tightness. I mean all of these muscles can still have those negative attributions to them. Yeah absolutely. What about sexual performance? Let's break that down by that as well. So by sex. So each of those kind of superficial muscles here. So you have like your muscles along the outside of the bones. And you have the one on the inside. These guys work a lot and right here at the tip of the vaginal opening. You have your clitoris. And that is also like erectile tissue. And those muscles really work to maintain erections. And that's for men and women. It also helps with orgasms. So you want quick contractions of those muscles to help either push out the sperm. And to obtain an orgasm as a female. And so that's like one of the main functions within that. And so you have like trigger points within your pelvic floor. So like say you have not in your quad or like in the middle of your back. Or most people get them between their shoulder blades. This same thing can happen within your pelvic floor. And that can cause pain with orgasms. And that can cause pain with just penetration. And so understanding that you know your pelvic floor are a series of muscles. And they do react very similar to other muscles within your body. You can treat it a little bit easier that way. Because when you break it down it's like, Oh, it's like your bicep. You know, you like toward a little bit. Let's work on it. Let's massage it. Let's strengthen it. And let's like work on relaxing. Relaxing it and also contracting it. Yeah, restoring that blood flow to there. For proper function. Exactly. Yeah. And athletic performance. You touch on this slightly before in terms of a one-ret max. But what if somebody, you know, doesn't necessarily have the signs of symptoms. Isn't really experiencing pain. But how can this help with athletic performance by training the pelvic floor on a daily and weekly basis? Yeah. I mean, even if you're not experiencing these symptoms, there's it's like an endurance muscle like your gastroc or your sole is. So when you're running or running you're not really having any calf pain when you're running. But then when you do. So it's more that prevention idea. Also when you cue your pelvic floor, it engages your core and your diaphragm together. So they all work together in order to produce that pressure. I know we're going to get into this a little bit too. But by training your pelvic floor specifically, you can actually feel that bottom of your core. And you can almost produce more force and more force. And more power than through the rest of your torso. Because the stiffer you keep your spine, the more pressure that you can distribute 360 degrees around. The more that you can kind of push through. And that's that's one of the ways that athletic performance can improve with by training your pelvic floor. Makes total sense. Let's move into resolutions here. Let's, you know, let's skin the surface regarding what these movements look like. Both at home, what can be done with a specialist such as yourself or a therapist and person. You know, I feel like a lot of people just say, just look up a kegels video on YouTube, right? Well, let's, let's really break down what we should be doing. Maybe where we should start. Maybe kegels are a part of that, right? But it's not the only thing to do here. Yeah. It's like there's camps of no kegels and there's camps of all kegels. And I'm, I'm like in the middle. I've never been an extremist with anything really. Because I don't think it's that black and white with anything that you do during training. But some of those exercises include like my top three to teach my clients is how to use or diaphragm properly, how that works with their pelvic floor and that could be pelvic floor relaxation. With breath and contraction. So kegels is a contraction of your pelvic floor. And you can also kind of play with where the contraction is. So you can try and feel like a anterior contraction closer to the front of your pelvis or a posterior contractual or you're pulling your sit bones together. And that's more of like your levator eye-ni and it's working on your posterior aspect of your pelvic floor. And then I work on deep core exercises. So transvers abdominis. And then I get into bracing after that. So it's all like table work, maybe for the first 10 minutes. And then you got to see how can we then translate that to standing because that's when you're using your pelvic floor on the most load. The again, gravity. So you really have to demonstrate some activation in those areas. So I'll get them on standing and doing the same exercises. So they can really cue into that mind muscle connection. You read my mind. I was just hanging out mind muscle connection, right? Because this really isn't as easy as sitting here and flexing your bicep or the quads, right? And popping up your calf here. It's a lot more difficult. It's probably something that most people who come in probably have never even attempted, right? So I mean, what, you know, I'm sure there's frustration that's involved. It's right with first timers who this is completely new to. What are a few of the movements that you find really helped develop that mind muscle connection when they're first starting out? For sure. It depends on how they're learning. Some people learn tactily. And then that can mean actually insertion of like my digit during like examination and they have them contract around. And they feel that sensation or there's cues like pull a tampon up and in, wrap it or wrap your muscles around it. And that kind of gives people like, oh, that's what it should feel like. Or picking up blueberry. So it's like a lot of queuing. But I also, in the same thing for men too, like you can do rectal exams for men. That's usually how you test the pelvic floor is rectally for men. And you kind of can use your digits there as well. And you can sort of have that sensation of contracting your pelvic floor. But of course not everyone is comfortable with that. And you don't necessarily have to do those things. Being in a seated position, you're actually sitting on your pelvic floor. So you can probably try this now if you want to do it. Is you're thinking about when you exhale, you're going to contract your pelvic floor. So you're lifting up and in a way from the seat. And you're trying not to squeeze your glutes. So you just breathe in, you breathe out and you lift away from the table. And then you let the pelvic floor get nice and heavy into the ground. That type of tactile feedback is also really helpful for teaching, like first steps. And then you know your pelvic floor works automatically with your breath. So it's a lot of queuing through the breath and then just check tracking sensations. You know, a lot of first timers, you know, from both men and women. I'm sure probably have a comfort level to get used to as well, right? How do you how do you tackle that? You know, how do you kind of get them understanding, you know, what needs to be done? What is some of the language that you use with them, especially with someone who is, you know, Coming in a little bit more reserved, a little bit more uneducated on it, right? But they know that they they want to be there and they know that they haven't issued that they want to resolve. Yeah, I mean for any of my clients before I even like, okay, strip down. Let's go. Let's go for absolutely not. I would never do that. I would always ask so this is and this is why my model is so important because I can really demonstrate it to them. But it starts with a conversation of I can almost get a sense of what's going on before I even do an examination. So as long as my subjective is good, is like what the information I'm collecting from my client, I started gauge like what their comfort level is with internal examinations. And if it's not something that they want to do, no problem. Like I'll show you on the model, we'll demonstrate it together. Maybe you try some things at home that you feel a little bit more comfortable with. I do find that females are usually a little bit more open to it because we'd go for a got-on-clogical exams every year. We're used to someone kind of like prodding us a little bit more than I think men are. But there are comfort levels there as well. Maybe they're like, no, I'm not really comfortable with this. So then of course the model comes in. And we don't necessarily need to do internal exams to have an understanding of our pelvic floor. Is there ever a point where tools do exist and perhaps someone's not comfortable with internal exams at least to start? Would you then implement perhaps a demonstration of a tool for them to try at home? That's kind of your approach for that. Yeah, I guess it depends on what they're coming in for treatment. If it's like you're an incontinence usually just a bladder diary. So I'm like, okay, keep track of like when you pee, how long you're peeing for. You're fluids that you're taking in throughout the day and maybe irritants. So that's like incontinence one. If it's more of a pelvic floor pain. So they're having pain with penetration or things like that. There are tools are like pelvic floor ones. So you can use that very much like a mild facial release ball that you just insert into your pelvic floor and you press and you hold on the tender points until it resolves the pain. There's also things like dilators. And so that really helps expand the pelvic floor and get people up to a point where they can tolerate maybe an internal exam or taller just, you know, sexual intercourse with their partner. There's other tools for kegles. There's like lots of bio feed back tools now. LV is one of them. Those are just like insertable that they can do at home and they can play a most video games with their pelvic floor, like contracting the muscles and relaxing them. Those can be really helpful. Especially to know if you're doing the exercise properly or not. Those are a couple that I would do. I'm sure a lot of the times it really comes down to just muscle tightness at some point, right? That's really contributing to the dysfunction that they're experiencing. You mentioned the wand, right? I think that's one that we're seeing rise very quickly. But we're also seeing a lot of horror stories out there, right? Or just really stories about not even knowing where to start once they get it, right? They order this off of Amazon and they're like, okay, well what's next? So, you know, what's your recommendation for someone who perhaps got this under the advice of their doctor? Of course, first, right? What's step one for even implementing that tool into, you know, say, a myelfastial release for the pelvic floor? Yeah, start slow. I would say, and I think sometimes you're more or two aggressive into, like, Ooh, that's a point and they'll like really go out at your pelvic floor is small, strong, but also very delicate because the tissues are, it's like a very sensitive area. You don't want to go ham on a muscle. You definitely don't want to be strumming the muscle so much. It's more of a press and release press and release because it is an endurance type of muscle. And it doesn't usually respond well to more of that strumming that we know for the rest of our muscles. So I would recommend that. So start slow, start gentle, do it from maybe 30 seconds at a time. Don't do your whole pelvic floor. Maybe just start on like one side and then work to the other side eventually. And if you're really, you know, not doing well with the at home treatments, go in and and and seek some more professional help. And maybe, yeah, just go from there. And we're going to transition to topic two and, you know, you touched on on breath and how it's such an instrumental piece of pelvic floor and resolving any any dysfunction. So let's talk about injecting breath into movements, specifically heavy lifting. So for our lifters out there, this is a great one for you to listen into. So, you know, the power of intentional breathing is long when proven as a beneficial tool for athletic performance, but different types of breathing, you know, can be applied to specific situations. For example, you know, we talked about how rhythm might be different for a one rep max versus volume sets of eights, right? So one, let's break down the importance of leveraging breath techniques for all movements, but specifically where this comes into play for the big three, right? So we're talking squat deadlift and bench. Let's break that down. Yeah, I mean, breath is like vital for lifting. I think I teach breathing so much for my clients. It's insane. I like to break down by three breaths. You have your Valsava maneuver. You have your dynamic breath actually four breaths. So Valsava dynamic foundational and diaphragmatic. So diaphragmatic is more of that relaxation breath. Your Valsava will be more for your one rep max and that counting into your brace. Your dynamic is when you're breathing in going down and breathing out as you come up and foundationals when you're breathing out throughout the entire thing. Each of those have different goals for the performance. When it comes to squatting, delifting and benching, I typically stay within the foundational Valsava and dynamic breaths. The dynamic is the easiest one for people to understand. That is when you take a breath at the top. Maybe you're taking a breath as you're going so you're going down into the squat and then you're exhaling as you come up. And what's happening here is you're getting that core contraction through the concentric movement of the exercise. So as you're pushing up into that squat, you're going to be getting more activation of your pelvic floor, your core and your diaphragm. This really plays into how do you properly brace. So are you breathing 360 degrees around? And this isn't just for Valsava. You should be treating your warmups, the same way that you treat your one rep max. So you should be taking that nice deep breath in. You should be expanding 360 degrees around. So you're not putting too much pressure into your abdominal wall or into your pelvic floor. You're distributing it like a can. So when you step on a closed can, you can stand on it. It's nice and solid. If you break that seal, you stand on it. You crush the can. So we're trying to keep that can. Nice and close. Nice and compact. And you can see how that pelvic floor really plays into that for sure. And that is going to be your bracing. And that is huge. So it helps you improve your athletic performance and improve your ability to push through. And exercise, say like you're doing a squat or a deadlift, if you don't have a tight torso and you don't have that tight brace, your force production is going to be a lot lower. Love the analogies. Awesome to break down and different techniques for breathing. Let's talk about progressing breath, right? So say someone doesn't really know where to start with emphasizing breath during movement patterns. Where is a good place to start? Are we on the floor? Do we have our hands on our belly? How are we progressing, you know, implementing the breath to not only daily life but movement? Yeah, I mean, when a patient comes into see me, the first thing I'm looking at is how they're walking and where they're breathing from. So say like someone's breathing a little bit more through their upper chest. Then I'm like, okay, maybe we need to have them lay on their back. Have them learn to breathe into their back a little bit more or have them breathe into their belly a little bit more. Or say like they've been a yogi for 10 years and they breathe all through their belly. So they're doing a lot of diaphragmatic breathing. Maybe I need to teach them in a seated position with their hands on their waist how to breathe laterally. So really expand through that ribcage and then maybe supine like on their backs are and how to breathe into their backs. So they're breathing into the floor. Those are great places to start. I also like a quadruped position. So like on all four. So you're going to do a bear and you're breathing completely out into the belly into the side into your back. And then you contract and you like pull the belly up and you kind of create a nice abdominal control. That's a really great way of doing it because then you can lift the knees and you can get more core control through there and more core activation with that. So it depends on where they're breathing from naturally. So if their tendency is like their chest, maybe they have them laying down, try to breathe through their back. Tactile cues for it are super important. So like put your hands on your side, put your hands on your back, put your hands on your chest and try to breathe into those areas that you feel like you don't. You're not as good at breathing into. And that's a great way to start. And then I usually have people start by taking nice deep breaths and then trying to breathe. So it's like you breathe in, you get as much air into your system and then you contract your core. You like tighten it without breathing out first. And then you breathe out and you tighten that core activation. So you breathe out nice and slowly through your mouth. More with like a blowing through a straw. And so that is going to get more core activation going in. It's going to create a stronger brace. So instead of I love to teach people this, it's like taking nice deep breath in. And just say, and it's like, okay, your body just totally relax, right? There's like nothing going on there. And then take a nice deep breath in. And then breathe out through a straw. And you should feel your core really contract there. And that is what you want. You don't want that relaxation breath before you lift. Nice strong core. Keep it tight. Yeah, so breathing through a straw. So I teach you how to breathe in. Expand 360 degrees, like filling that can again. And then exhale through the straw. And then you can do if you want to work on the brace a little bit more. I have them take sips. So you breathe out. You can track that core. You take another breath in. You try to fill the torso more and more. And then short exhale. So you're getting short activations of the core. Like if you wear a weight belt, that is like a technique. So you breathe into it. You can track your core and you take sips in of air to increase that brace without losing the core contraction. You don't have a weight belt. Get a shot. Yeah. So you mentioned you can tell pretty quickly just seeing someone take a couple laps around the clinic. And then you can see that you're looking at the breathing. What are some of those body language cues that you're looking at to determine where their breath is coming from? Yeah, I mean if they're shoulder, they're coming up and down. That's a pretty good indication that they're breathing a lot more through their chest. If they have a lot of like tension, like neck tension and the front of their neck is like their clavicles are moving. That's another indication if when they put a bar on their back. So sometimes I'll just have like someone, okay, let's go try to squat. And say that they are familiar with a barbell. I'm going to put them under a barbell and be like, okay, show me how you squat. And all they do is breathe through their chest. And I'll like, okay, so let's try. Let's get to work. Yeah. Let's put your hands on your side. You're in a breathing to those hands. You're going to breathe into your thumb because usually people wrap their waist like this. So you can think about breathing out and your elbow should go away from you and then you contract your core. And so we'll work with those types of cues first. If they're like really having a hard time with breathing, I sometimes just teach them movement first and their body sort of like fall into place. So if you put a little bit of load, sometimes people like intuitively contract their core. But then you just like tweak it as they get better at a movement. How does this emphasis on 360 breathing prevent spinal injuries and back injuries, especially during heavy lifts? Yeah. I mean, it's crucial if you don't have a tight brace if you don't have that 360 degree activation, your spinal column is not going to be a stable. And so understanding that you breathe into your back a little bit more, that's going to sometimes usually put you more into a posterior pelvic tilt, which then can put you really what you're looking for as a neutral spine. So really emphasizing that 360 degree breathing, you're creating as tight a brace around as you possibly can. And that just stiffens your spinal column and that avoids micro movement. So where injuries tend to happen is when there's a breakdown in your bracing technique. And so you're coming out of the squat and you do like a butt wink. So you dipped down in it could be a mobility problem too, and that's like another topic. But say you dip down into that wink and then as you come up, you're butt kind of flexes and you're getting a little extension into that spine. That is either from mobility or lack of stability within your brace. And so that can cause injury into the spinal column, say you're deadlifting, right? So you're not able to maintain a nice neutral position. Within that lumbar spine, you go into a lot of flexion through that area under load. It's just a recipe for a discerningation. So maintaining a tight brace, really getting your lats engaged, especially for a deadlift, getting that 360 degree brace before you grab the bar and getting really tight into that position. Those help prevent sort of that translation of the spine from extension into flexion. Can you talk about the difference between a posterior and anterior pelvic tilt? Where should we be living for the most part? Or do we want that to aim for that neutrality? And then where do we want to deviate depending on the type of movement that we're performing? Yeah, so you really want to be in that neutral position a great way to sort of see where you are. You can film yourself when you're lifting and sort of see are you more prone to that extension and you're more prone to that function. So anterior pelvic tilt, I can actually show it again on this. Bring it on in. Yeah, so we have this guy here, I'll show it from the side view. But the anterior pelvic tilt is one, literally it tilts forward. So you get a lordosis through here, you get curved back. A posterior pelvic tilt is kind of like when you go backwards. And so that's going to flatten the back. So you're doing a dead bug and you flatten your back against the floor. That's a posterior pelvic tilt. So that's going to usually create a little bit more core contraction because it activates the core a little bit more by going into that posterior pelvic tilt. And it pulls your ribcage down towards your pelvis. And then you can get more activation with that. Where you want to live with lifting is in the middle. And some people train and it really does some people train more in extension. Some people train more in flexion as long as they've been trained in that way for very long time. Usually their spines become like strong within those positions. So you don't want to change a lifters position when they've been lifting for like a decade or more too much unless they're having pain. But if they're new novice lifter, yeah, once you try and teach as much of that neutral spine as possible. What about when we're just walking around? When do we want our pelvis situated, right? So if we're a little forward, do we want to increase our glute train than pull ourselves back? If we're sitting back, do we want to increase the core strength? How are we going about that? Yeah, I think a lot of pain is usually when you're in one position for way too long. So it's all about movement. You can't have perfect posture throughout the whole day. It's just impossible. So I think being able to go between those two very well and going from anterior to posterior. Say like you're standing at your sink, but you're having low back pain and you're realizing you're actually dumping your stomach in forward. Maybe you do want to pull under a little bit more and get more of that core control. And then say that fatigue, your core starts to fatigue. So then maybe you find that nice gentle position out. It's really, you want to maybe stay more in that neutrality position, especially when walking. But you can be in more extensions sometimes. You can be more, this is like going into it. They're never in extreme. It's always about movement and changing your positions as much as possible to. So you're not stuck always in one position. And that way you're more flexible with being able to tolerate loads in different areas. Absolutely. Makes sense. Let's talk about how all this applies to learning and applying, not to be redundant. So when we're applying our learnings into every day routine, what's a typical warm-up look like for you when it comes to breathing? Maybe you're about to load up the bar for a heavy squat day. What are you doing to get your core activated and to get your breath prepared? And will you feel the difference in reps when the breath is off? How do you know when your breath is off actively? And when you're performing these and how do you say, okay, let me take a step back, get back onto the floor, fix some things and then step back under the bar. Yeah, I mean when you've been lifting for a such a long time, you sort of know when you have a good lift when you have that lift and it's like, well, shit, that was not. That was not a good lift. You reset that one completely. I basically have the same warm-up I do do specific warm-ups for my squat, my deadlift and for my bench. Just based on the muscles that I want to prime a little bit more so I dab that for each of my lifts. But say, I think squat is a nice one because of the bars loaded on top of you. But I always start with kick-house. And that's one way I can get my breath really involved is taking a steep breath and rounding and then exhaling and coming through. And I'm just getting some movement through my spine, so it's not too rigid in one position or the other. So that I can really contract and play with my pelvis and see where the position feels good that day. I'll do like rolled greatest stretch and use my breath in there and like really expand through my ribcage and get that nice rotation. Because so much of power lifting is in that lateral kind of position where you're just going up and down all the time. You're not really going into rotation. So I try to add a little bit rotation through my warm-ups. And that just helps expand my diaphragm and expand into that lateral aspect of my breath. So world's great stretch for those things. And then I'll do like a bear like hold. So I'll come in. I'll practice my deep 360 breathing. I'll contract my core. I'll do my knees. It's like lighting some fire in your belly. Just getting some activation there and then bird dogs. So I love doing bird dogs. It gets that nice extension into your back. But you want to keep a nice neutral spine when you're actually doing it. So you're not kicking up too high. And then I'll do like a side plank. Those are like my top ones that I always do between at least my squats and my deadlifts. For bird dogs I always like to say, pretend you have a glass of water or line on your back. So you're glass of red wine and you're going to spill on your white carpet. Yeah. External motivator there. It's more like a slide back. A pose to kick up. Right. Yeah. You know, we would be remiss to not bring up how this all pertains to returning to sport postpartum. Right. So you yourself have specific training and experience with bringing new moms and new parents back to sport post one baby or fourth baby. Right. Let's talk a little bit about that protocol. Let's talk about what is step one and you know what are the steps that are to follow after returning them to sport or just everyday life. Right. It does have to be to an extreme sport and marathon running. And how do you really kind of gauge their progress? How do you know when it's time to move from step one to two to three? Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, it's such a great area for a lot of women. It does depend on how the birth was. And so if there's any trauma or healing considerations. But like the first things I start people with is breathing, Transursive Donna's activation and key goals. Thank everyone is doing just those three exercises because that's usually all the energy that they have to perform, especially early on in postpartum in those first few weeks. So those are exercises you can start right away. So I'm having them expand through their diaphragm again. Really try to get their core activated again, get the sensations of their pelvic floor going. Because in those first few weeks, lots of moms will tell you it just feels like gelo. It's hard to raw out of bed. It's hard to get up and stand. It can be really challenging to even go to the bathroom. And so by getting those three components working more efficiently, that can really improve their outcomes. And so we do that for like two weeks. You're just breathing. You're activating your TA. We're doing a little bit of core work. Maybe we're doing some mobility and you're doing key goals. Recreating the body awareness and muscle mind action. Yeah, exactly. That is the first step. And then from there you just start loading. Like you do some bridges. You do some air squats. You do movements that they're super familiar with. Say they were an athlete and they know how to do all these things really well. So we just try to be like, okay, you can have your rehab exercises. Those three exercises we start with. Now we're going to just add some squats into that. So I want you to take a breath in. Come down. Exhale as you come up. Really try to find that core connection again. Moose low. Move with intention. Mind muscle connection. So you start with body weight. Then you move into some banded exercises. And really depending on how they're doing. How much energy they have. How much time they have. We can get them exercising within six weeks of postpartum. It may not completely look like the way they are exercising even during pregnancy. But that it's like a great baseline for there. And how we progress is really how you're feeling and how you're recovering. So there's a lot of sleep deprivation of course in early postpartum. So I tried to maximize as much recovery as possible in those early stages. Because it makes returning back to exercise so much easier when you have the energy for it. And then you just load it. So we're looking at pelvic floor symptoms. Are they having heaviness into their pelvic floor? Are they having diced dices? Symptoms? Are they having increased pain? Are there any bleeding? And these are like signs of okay we're pushing too hard. We're pushing too fast because you're still healing internally for quite some time. And that's like hormonal, musculoskeletal. I would say at least three months for most of those things to come back into heal fully. And so within those three months you're just trying to build up capacity. Obviously extremely different protocols. Vaginal birth versus cesarean, right? Yeah. How are you, you know, dictating where you start based off of their birth plan and then, you know, how it occurred. Yeah. If it was a cesarean birth, sometimes the were restricted by the healing time of the incision. There's lots of tissues that were just opened up. It went through your entire abdomen like abdominal wall. And into your uterus. So like there's many layers that need to heal. So but I still start with those three exercises. You're still doing diaphragmatic breathing. It might be even more important for you to start doing that because you don't want that scar to get bound down. You don't want any scar tissue in that area. So as soon as we can as soon as it's healed, we start like scar massage. And that also might be the case if there's any perennial tearing as well. So you start, you can do some internal massage on that as well and that can help a lot too. But the time preen just gets shifted a little bit longer. So cesarean birth, they tend, it's usually instead of six weeks, is it like your go head from the doctor? It could be eight to ten weeks. So you're just pushed maybe like two weeks more. But someone would do really great and they can kind of bounce back a little bit faster. Let's let's head into one of our final topics that we have today progressing performance in power lifting. So you yourself, Kristen, you're an experienced power lifter and you're a strength and conditioning coach yourself. Talk through your background of where you started as beginner lifter. I feel like that's always fun to touch on right and hear about your original story on the platform right? And how you've implemented a little bit of everything that we've spoken about today to your routine and to your performance? Yeah, I mean, I was a softball player growing up and I took that. All the way through high school and played travel and love sports and when I went to college, I was a biomeger and so like I prioritized science over my athletics and so instead I took lots of gym classes. But it took like 10 it's and I took a weightlifting gym class and I was like, oh, this is really cool. Like we did some weightlifting in high school, but we didn't have like what the baseball had team had. I had a real strength in conditioning trainer and I was like, oh, I want to do those things. I want to be really strong. And I would see my brother like, like lift tons of weights in our basement and be like, what's going on? You're peeking through the door. I want to do that. Something like 400 pounds at 18. I'm like, oh my god. I think I'm fake you. And I'm like, I want to do that. So like, but I really didn't know where to start. So I started in college and I was like working with a bar for many years. Trying to understand form. And when I went to physical therapy school, I really started to understand anatomy, biomechanics. And that got me into like, okay, I am like gym rat now. And I'm not applying this to the lift right after class. I'm like, I'm going to the gym. I'm lifting with my other physical therapy students. And like, they're so much they're so strong. And I'm learning so much just by like working out with guys and working out with women who also did it too. And then I just started, you know, thinking my own programs and it was very, it was, oh my god, they were so terrible. I was just like doing total body workouts all the time. And so, but I started learning that way. And then I became a certified strength and conditioning specialist. And I started training people. And I learned so much from doing that because I was in a gym. I was working with other trainers. I was really learning some technique. And then I graduated PT school and I started becoming physical therapist. And I really got into power lifting during the pandemic. So I hired my own coach. I was like, I can no longer just write this haphazard programming anymore. I need someone to keep me accountable. Even coaches need coaches. I think that is like 100% true because you learned so much more by someone else. So I'm like, I can't do my 95%. Okay, I wasn't going as hard as I thought I was understood. Just a little wake up. Okay, I thought I was like, it was strong. And then like, oh god, just some pop-building. Okay, I'm paying to be humble. Yeah. And then my coach at the time, Lizzie, she was like, you're stronger than you think you're. Like, you should do some power lifting. No, I was like, what? Yeah, okay. No idea what it was doing. I trained for a power lifting meet. Like the July right after the process is like 2020 was my first time I competed. And it was exhilarating. So I went from like just doing barbell within a year of training with her. I was especially from my bench. Oh my god. I went from, I could barely do a barbell to bench pressing like 230. Like my body weight. I bench pressed more than my body weight at my first competition. And I was like, okay, this is, this is how you do it. And then you just like, you get into the technique and you're learning more. But this has been like now it's 203. So it's three years of just strict power lifting technique and working with coaches and really understanding. And you know, I went to Mexico and worked with like a special coach there. For a session and it's just like video after video after video. But like for a decade, I was just like a novice like lifter just like going to the gym doing some dumbbells doing some barbells. Not really knowing what I was doing. So now I'm like, oh, I'm in it. I'm really learning. Let's talk about the accessory work and the complimentary movements that you're doing to increase your big three numbers. Yeah. So let's start with the squat. You know, what movements are you doing to strengthen that from an accessory perspective? But then also what are you doing outside of just squatting, right? There's lots of things that we can do that don't involve that primary movement to increase your, you know, your PRs. Yeah, for sure. I mean, first is my pelvic floor. I like I work on step one. Step one. I work on my pelvic floor. I work on my breathing. I work on like my pelvic control. So in my able to maintain that nice neutral position, that is like step one. And then I work on my energy leaks. Like where I'm sort of like being in deficit. I have a hard time coming out of the whole of a squat. So I do a lot of pause squats. And I think it's also super important to take the load off of your back so that your central nervous system also has some time to sort of heal itself. And so in that record, I'll do hack squats. So like I'm doing different variations. I'll do belt squats on the machine. I'll do hack squats. You also need some single leg work because say you like step out of the rack. You're on one leg. So you need to be strong there as well. And you need to be able to maintain a nice strong pelvis there in that position. So Bulgarian split squats. You're also working on your quad. And your glutes and those are super important for your squats. So like yeah, single leg Bulgarians walking lunges, hack squats, belt squats, high bar, low bar front bar. Like hit every aspect that you can. And if that's the lift you need to work on, more you should be doing at least three times a week. And outside of just obviously going into a single set leg stance when you're re-racking, putting the bar back on. What's the importance of single leg and you know, unilateral exercises to contribute to heavier bilateral lifts. And also what's the benefit of lateral movements as well? Yeah, increase those. Yeah, I mean that's just helping with injury prevention, right? So you, um, and balance. So if you're working on single leg work, you're working on your pelvic stability, you're working on your core control. And then lateral movements, you're just taking yourself out of a position that you're training all the time. So you're going to be hitting different muscle groups, but a lot of these muscle groups are stabilizers for your pelvis. And when you're doing the heavy lifts, the main thing you're trying to control is your pelvic movement. And so by training unilateral and training, literally, you're making those stability muscles stronger. What about deadlift? Let's talk about what you're doing for deadlift. Oh yeah, I loved deadlift. It's my favorite. It's so, I love deadlift. I mean, I think everyone at a lift is like the last, it's the last one at a powerlifting me, and it's always so much fun for a reason. It's like you're lifting really heavy weight off the ground. Absolutely. You feel like a god. It's empowering. Yes. But for deadlift, like I do Romanian deadlifts, I do a lot of single leg kettlebell deadlift. Either a foot supported or non-support is like a single leg RDL or a deal on the wall. I do hip thrusts a lot of times to work on my glutes. But I don't, I think your squat actually improves your deadlift, but your deadlift doesn't really improve your squat. If you work on more of your squat, like my squat is weaker than my deadlift, so I work more of my squat and improves my deadlift. But I'll do things like a box deadlift. I'll do elevated. I'll do like a hamstring one. Deficit. Like all of those are really great variations. Would deadlift, there's a lot of tax onto your central nervous system, so playing around with your energy systems throughout the week of your training. Is also super important for deadlifts. Yeah, from my perspective and from what I feel, I feel like my muscle connection is so needed in the deadlift, ground in your feet to the floor, making that connection to your brain and where you want to drive that force. You don't want to drive it all into your heels. You want to ensure that you're distributing it pretty evenly in your feet back into the floor too. But then also it comes back to that 360 breathing you're talking about before you're lifting 250 pounds off the floor. You're sure is how better you are bracing all degrees of your back of your core of your lateral and obliques. Yeah, and you want your lats really engaged. So there's like other cues you can attach a band to the barbell and then have it in front of you. And that teaches you to really pull the bar into you and that engages more through your lats. That's going to help stabilize your spine. Bench. Oh yeah. Bench. My weakest, as strong as now. I think Bench is fun. I have a really high arch when I bench. So when I'm in trying to improve my bench, it's like different variations of the bench as much as possible. So I'm trying to work as many areas of my chest as I can to improve my bench. That could be like a narrow grip, a wide grip, pause bench press because in a powerlifting meat you have to wait for them to tell you to press. So you have to be really strong in that bottom position. Another one I love doing calisthenics to improve my bench. Like chin-ups, pull-ups, single arm, bench press, incline bench press, everything. Every press, every press you can also do you to do your bench press. But you also have to work your triceps. So you need really strong triceps in order to do your bench press. And I think set up is like even, is the most important thing. So really tucking your shoulder blades underneath you and driving your force through your legs is important to you work on your leg drive. Or you can work on things like a larsan press where you have your feet up on the bench and they're straight out. So you literally have no leg drive and you're just working your chest. And that's a really fun variation. I love doing that one. What are our couple activation exercises you're doing prior to bench? Especially to get your shoulders primed right into the chest primed, etc. What are you doing before you bench? Well, I still do my cat cow. I still do my rolled gray stretch because I like to get some mobility through my thoracic spine. I'll do band pole parts. I'll do mini band external rotation. I sometimes do like a single arm rose with the band. I'll do Turkish get-ups too. And that will help with my shoulder stability. Those are some of my favorite ones that I do for activation. And then if I'm feeling particularly a tight, I'll do like an arm bar with a kettlebell. Okay. What's one piece of advice out there that you have for power lifters who constantly find themselves played with injuries? What's one big takeaway that you have for them? Step back from the platform. Don't let your ego drive your lips. Yeah. Maybe the injuries are telling you something. Maybe there's an energy leak somewhere. Maybe we need to address some more deficits. And taking a pause from it and taking like a one or two steps back and actually making you come onto that platform stronger the next time. I spend some time working on your pelvic floor and your hip-hop. Yeah, breathing and pelvic floor and bracing properly. Absolutely. Kristen, lots of great takeaways today. It's always a pleasure to have a chat with you. Tell our listeners where they can find you, follow you and learn more about everything that you have to offer. Yeah, great. So I'm at the Spoke Treatments in New York City and Min-Min-Town. You can find me at Kristen, Lettenberger, D.V.T. You can at this along the Instagram. Well, Lincoln in the bank. Yeah, I think that one in the bank. But those are like that I do a lot of stuff on Instagram. So you can find me there. I have another cohort for postpartum mamas. It's a six weeks return to exercise cohort that I give. And that will be happening. I think sometime early next year again. I just finished one. So if you're new mom and looking for a place to start and how to get back in exercise, that's a place to. So you can see that on our website at the Spoke Treatments. Great. Thanks for stopping by Kristen. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at BodyBillin.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and today I'm joined by Nikki DeVilla. Nikki's a registered dietitian and has a Master's degree in nutrition. She's been practicing dietetic since 2014 and is a current Bodybuilding.com athlete. She partners with her husband Gavin online fitness coach and fellow Bodybuilding.com athlete help others achieve their fitness and nutrition goals. She enjoys providing nutritional guidance across her blog and social platforms and has a passion for helping others achieve a healthier relationship with her body and food. Her specialties include weight loss and exposing common nutritional myths while ditching diet culture. Nikki, welcome to the Bodybuilding.com podcast. Hi, thank you for having me. I'm very excited to be here. Today's episode is brought to you by Feastbox Meats, weekly meal prep, hitting your macros and getting clean protein can be challenging, expensive and time consuming. The Feastbox protein pack presented by Bodybuilding.com promises a healthy, easy solution for hitting protein goals on a daily basis. Choose 1,100% grass fed and pasture-raised chicken, beef or pork all season fully cooked, chilled and sealed with zero additives. The protein pack is delivered straight to your door and has over 30 grams of protein for as little as 223 per serving. Ready to eat in just two minutes. Order now at Bodybuilding.com. To kick things off, it's extremely important to differentiate between a nutritionist and a registered dietitian. You yourself are a registered dietitian. Breakdown with that means for our listeners as a starting point. Right, there's the saying that we always love to say that every dietitian is a nutritionist but not every nutritionist is a dietitian. As a dietitian, you can be called a nutritionist. That's an RDN or you can just be called an RD, which is a registered dietitian. But if we get into what the actual definition is of a nutritionist, that could be somebody is very enthusiastic about nutrition, fitness. It's from personal experience that they want to help others as well as they might have taken like an online course and now they have a certificate. But if you're a dietitian, a whole different route in Sue's, where you have your master's, your bachelor's, your master's as of 2024, you go through a dietetic internship, which is 1200 hours of supervised practice. Where you're in nursing homes, you're in the hospital, you're in community, you're with kids in school districts. You gain that experience that, you know, nutritionist just doesn't have as well as after that. Once you pass all of that, you then get to sit for your national exam as a registered dietitian. Thanks for breaking down the difference there. I think that's super important. We've got a great episode cute up for you guys today. A few of the many things we'll be covering include achieving your weight loss goals, fasting, the y-behind protein and y-carb's are not the enemy. So let's jump into it with topic number one. This is often a big one for everybody out there, right? Weight loss. So we're going to break down all things weight loss. It's pretty easy to learn that you specialize in weight loss, Nikki is one as one comes across your social pages and a society that places so much emphasis on weight loss, with it still remaining as the number one fitness goal. What prompted you to one approach nutrition, right? But then to fall into the niche world of weight loss? I have found even through childhood. I have a very wonderful upbringing around nutrition, the importance of it. And I carry that through school and I remember looking at a college catalog and I absolutely know interest in anything else. And when I saw nutrition, I was like, that's it. That's for me. So the journey started to begin from there, but it's also a lot of personal experience and a lot of dietitians, not speaking for all of them, but we go into it because we have our own, let's say, issues around food. Or maybe personal experiences and through learning so much about nutrition, I helped myself struggle with this ordered eating and emotional eating and struggled with weight loss myself. So when I had that knowledge and experience, I became very passionate. So instead of just having those cooking videos on social media, I really wanted to bring light to the struggles of weight loss and that emotional connection. Awesome. So let's take it from step one, right? Let's dumb down losing weight. Forget the fads, forget their restriction diets, and overly obsessed tracking, especially with how many devices live out there today. What or say the top three things someone should be doing to originally set out on their weight loss goal? Yeah. I love that question because I know everyone thinks like, if I just started today, what do I need to do? And then they look on social media. They find 20 million things that they want to do in that quickly overwhelmed. So the first thing I always say is to journal what you're eating and that why behind it to include your emotions and not just follow calories or macros because if you tell somebody to rather than journal, you tell them to track it and then you want to an app like my fitness pile. They track their calories, but they have no idea why they're eating with their eating and they're more so focused on the numbers right away rather than what they're eating and the nutrients that are providing for their body. So journaling your diet, start to learn about yourself from their number two would always be to move more. I think as a society, we do not move enough and we think that sitting all day at your nine to five and then going to the gym for an hour is sufficient, but we should be moving more throughout the day, but enjoying your movement, not just exercising more, but going for more walks or doing things that you enjoy. I think that is very, very important part of fitness. That a lot of people miss, especially when it comes weight loss. The last one is to focus on your habits and not just a diet. I love to say to my clients that a healthy lifestyle is made up of several healthy habits. So in essence, if you're following and tracking your habits, then from there you can learn about yourself, you can change your habits because your current lifestyle is basically whatever you're not happy with, it's your current habits that you want to change. So from there, if you were to reflect upon what are my habits, how can I change them, how can I improve, and then from there you can create a lifestyle you want. But going from diet to diet is not going to help you, you're ignoring your habits and just focusing on the angle which is weight loss rather than habit change. So say someone has implemented these three types, right? They've maintained consistency, which is a huge factor in any goal that someone's looking to achieve. Let's talk about hitting plattoes, right? We like to say the first five pounds are usually the easiest, which is there's some truth behind that, right? So what happens after the first five? How do we get to 10 to 15 and beyond and break past the plateau that's so many face? Yeah, so when you are in a weight loss plateau, you have to kind of give it that outside look and perspective rather than being so focused on things you're doing, maybe the things you aren't doing kind of reassessing your journey where you currently are at as well as your expectations because if I was to give the generic answer of yes, focus more in your calories, more in your macros, look what about your physical activity? Are you moving enough? You know those three habits that I was talking about previously is very important but also understanding that you are going to lose weight a little bit quicker in the beginning like you said, but it's going to slowly trickle from there. Maybe you lost 15 pounds within the first month and then after that you're losing half a pound, a pound a week or maybe a month but your body is changing in many different ways. So kind of relying on patients as well as discipline because in the beginning you could be so motivated and that the end, you know, it's that this one that drives you through. So you know ask yourself, are you in a weight loss plateau? Are you really focusing on your habits? You know, did you try everything? You know, what can you change and really just reflect given honest answer before you just say, oh, I need to cut my calories more? Yeah, absolutely. Any disruption to a routine good or bad is going to come with that change, right? So if you've been in a pretty seditarian you say, okay, I'm going to go out there, I'm going to walk X on a step. I'm going to get to the gym every single day and you severely disrupt that routine that maybe you've been following for the past several months or years, right? Your body is going to quickly say, okay, we're changing, right? And it's going to pick up on that change. Now the body is going to also adapt to that change in the next month to month three months. So maybe you see great success in those first three months. You're crushing it. You're amped on the new routine that you implemented. But then you say, oh my gosh, I'm stepping on the scale and nothing's continuing. You know, the weight is in continuing to drop, right? How do we look at other pieces, other external factors such as stress, sleep, things outside of the kitchen, outside of the gym in terms of implementing, um, in terms of impacting or weight loss journey? Right. And I think that's a great topic to talk about because that's where stress, um, specifically if you are stressed at work and we kind of push that aside like, oh well, I'm just more stressed than usual. But no, I mean, your cortisol levels do go up and it's not that the recollection shift that you're, quote unquote gaining weight or, you know, it's not about that it's about that if you have increased stress, your cortisol goes up and then you're related to eat more. So kind of honing in a little bit more on what your stress, how are you coping with your stress, how are you managing that? What about your sleep? Are you rest in recovery? And then what about your relationships? Do you have a supportive relationship? Is there anybody that's sabotaging your relationship or do you have a support system within the goal that you're trying to reach? So it is very important to kind of evaluate those as well because it's not just about calories and calories out as a dietitian. It's, it's more so about your whole life and that whole approach. Yeah, the support system is huge. And again, that goes for those looking to run their first marathon or just looking to lose those first five pounds, you know, especially if you were trying to be a little more disciplined in the kitchen and say your partner is going to, let's say going a bit more rogue, right? You know, it's not to say they can't bring that food in the house, but I mean, that just that that support is so important for that for the aspect. Let's talk a little bit about fasting. That is something that our audience is always wondering about and we've seen that come to rise in and fashion in the past five or so years, right? Fasting is not for everyone, right? And I think that's an important road for us to go down right now. I think it also differentiates between male and female. I think it's going to play a role in what your specific goal is again, right? So let's first talk about how fasting can be helpful in a weight loss journey. Right. So I believe in fasting to an extent, right? I think it can be beneficial to kind of look at your window and when you're eating and when you're not eating because a lot of the times when I speak with clients, they have a lot of digestive issues. So we talk about, right? What is your window? Are you eating right before a bed and right before bed and a huge bowl of pasta and sauce and cheese? You know, is that disrupting your sleep, your digestion? Do you have acid, reflux, heartburn? So more from a health standpoint. When I look at fasting, I'm trying to think more about digestion and how that can help somebody when you shorten your window just a little bit, but that does not mean fasting all day. That's a very different story. So it is very individualized and how to approach that. So it is a very touchy subject. Yeah. Absolutely. I think that one plays into the 321 rule. Try not to stop eating three hours before drinking two hours before and devices one hour before. I think that that's helped me personally at ton. I find, you know, say the day got away from me and my dinner is just a little bit later than it originally is. That will throw me off because my body, it's going to want to digest first before we go to sleep, right? Before the brain can kind of turn into sleep mode. How can it be gentle, gentle? How can fasting be detrimental to a weight loss journey? Yeah. So when the main purpose of somebody that is fasting is cutting their window for weight loss, they're cutting their calories. And the biggest thing is that it does promote somewhat of an unhealthy relationship with food because it's seen as a punishment. Oh, now I have to fast till this time because I ate this last night. And that relationship is never going to bring you to the success or the body of your dreams because it's not sustainable. Those types of thoughts with weight loss. So it is very important if somebody was too fast all day long or maybe they fasted breakfast because they felt like they needed to punish their body because of whatever they ate previously, they're more likely to binge at night and that's when they're going to engage more on emotional eating. So it's not my best technique for weight loss but it is important. I think fasting just to be cautious of what you're eating. When you're starting your day, when it's ending digestion and so on. Yeah, absolutely. Digestion being the kind of key motivator here in terms of implementing a fasting routine. You know, say you're doing, let's say 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. right? You can still eat the same amount in that window, right? What you're trying to do as you said is you're trying to shorten that window. You're trying to not be eating from 7 a.m. to maybe 8 p.m. because your body's then taking that energy to digest the entire day. So what you're really trying to do is just a shorten that window. Can you still eat 2,000 plus calories in that window? Yes, you absolutely can. But I like to look at fasting as a helpful tool and nothing and all be all, especially for weight loss. Let's talk about fasting being a helpful, even detrimental tool for let's say athletes, right? Outside of the weight loss journey. Obviously the same probably applies. You know, it's certainly be detrimental if an athlete is underfueled. But then it can also be helpful if they are experiencing digestion issues as well. Right, correct. So I mean, there's that fine line imbalance. And of course, it's based on your training intensity when you're training. So if you're fasting and you have a big meat or you're training in the morning, but you've fasted since 6 p.m. then I before obviously you're not going to have enough nutrients and like a gym store to help with your performance. So it is very important that if somebody is experiencing digestive concerns, there are so many things that you can look at. What you're eating, what are the nutrients you're getting, your portion size, what you're in male frequency? So there are a lot of different variables that I can go into digestion and that could probably be a talk online. It's absolutely. So big takeaways for fasting. We're using that more so as a tool, especially eating and digestion. Then really more so it's about shortening that window and using as a discipline tool on your weight loss journey. Let's talk about the word detox. This word, I feel like this for you, this could be enough of the soda in it and of itself, right? Sometimes, or all of the time, or likely, this word can be quite triggering. What's your stance on detox cleans claims, whether that's through liquid diet, supplement aids, et cetera. There's so much out there. I could whip out a list right now, but let's break that down and what that means for you, because I think what's always so funny, you know, what I always tell people when I've told clients in the past as well is you have organs. They are doing the work for you, right? But again, let's kind of break that down. Let's break down how your body acts as its own detox system, but then also break down the negative stigma we've seen arise from this word detox in the nutrition and fitness industry. Right. So, I mean, you said that your body is detoxing every day, and it's specifically the liver, but there are many other organs that are doing that as well throughout the day that we don't realize we don't give our bodies enough credit. So, when somebody says they want to detox, I am a little bit more weary because I'm worried about maybe they are going through some health issues. So, their answer they think is, oh, I have to do a full body detox. I need to eat this type of mud from another country, because it's going to, you know, pull certain ions or, you know, whatever you see on TikTok, but those are just some examples of we will go to extremes before kind of addressing our health concerns. So, I think it's a perfect segue from what we just talked about with digestion. That's the main reason why people are looking for detoxes. Maybe their skin isn't as clear, maybe they have bloating, gas, nausea, you know, all of the above, and they're looking for something that cleans their system. So, I can understand why somebody who's frustrated wants a detox, but you don't have to go to those extreme lengths and invest. And all these expensive supplements or liquids just to have your body do what it needs to do. It's more so about, you know, what are you eating? And what are the nutrients that you're providing to your body so then your body can actually function properly? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, let's just, let's have a little fun here. I mean, let's talk about some of the crazy ones that you've seen out there you mentioned mud. I mean, obviously I've got juice cleanses our big one as well, but what are some examples that you've seen out there? There was one and I'm probably not going to do it's justice because it was wild. It was a foot bath with leeches to help excrete something and I don't know if you know. I have not heard of that one. That one's new. Yes, my one of my clients asked me and you know, I understand they're curious so I would never tell my client, oh my god, I can't believe, you know, you would say that to me, but sometimes we think the wildest things are going to be our answer like that's the reason why I haven't been losing weight because I haven't been doing this crazy, clenze that's going to change my whole life and my whole body and I have to do it for, you know, a week and then I can eat again. No, I'm not been sticking my feet and mud and water with leeches, that's it. Oh my goodness, you know, and the problem too, there's just so much of misinformation and you Google wait lost these days and these are the type of things that are coming up so you can't necessarily blame individuals out there for thinking that right? The best that we can really do is provide you know the guidance and let them know it can it can be much more simple than you're making it out to be right. You know, let's clean up the diet, let's you know get into a good movement routine, let's get that sleeping stress under control and really when you're looking at those four pillars, I mean at the end of the day if you can check those off like you're going to start noticing some change. Protein and we're going down the list here guys, you're going down the ultimate weight loss list so so far we've talked about, you know, the top three tips for starting your weight loss journey, we've talked about hitting plattoes, fasting detox, let's transition into protein. Everybody listening and I'm sure you'll love this one. So let's talk about the role that protein does have four losing weight and why following a protein forward diet, whether that's through animal based or plant based, right? Just all around protein forward diet is important for weight loss. Right, I think what the, what the average person doesn't know, especially somebody what I'm a nutrition expert and I'm talking to somebody about protein, they don't realize that our body at some point starts to biologically break down naturally and along with that we lose muscle mass. So especially as we get older and every decade we are losing more muscle than we've ever had before and then it increases on an alarming rate when we're older. So body really starts to transform and that's a lot that can be due to a lot of hormonal changes that again naturally occur in the body. So it is very important to prioritize protein because it's going to help you maybe obtain or maybe just even maintain that lean muscle mass that you have to care you through and the best thing about protein is that I mean especially if you couple that with strain training you can definitely gain more lean muscle mass but it allows you to have a little bit more freedom and flexibility of what you get to eat because you're burning a little bit more calories as well as it gives you that shape that you're looking for. Everyone tries to eat less to lose weight but protein is then going to give you that nice shape as a woman you're not going to get big and bulky from protein and lifting weight you're going to have a really nice shape and you're going to you know, and turn love your body. So protein is so important. I my personal experience I thought like I don't need protein I can I can achieve the body of my dreams and then I quickly learn about wasn't a possibility I was in the gym training and I was just spinning in the wind. So when I started to have more protein it really did change my body. You mean a great point for women specifically you know and historically let's say looking at the past 20 years right it's always not always but the you know perception is all have some salad. Right I'm just going to eat you know veggies super super light very very low cow no carbs etc. We're going to take carbs in a second but protein is really taken off protein. I'm saying this is protein's decade right now. Yeah. They're having a moment for sure and for for all genders for all you know walks of life and I love it because one protein is going to keep you fuller of course. You eat you know a plate full of protein you're going to be a bit more full and I'm saying it right. Right. So it also allows you to look at it from a positive mind frame. So if you can just kind of start your day saying all right I'm going to have one gram of protein per pound of body weight or I'm going to hit X amount of protein for my day as opposed to saying oh my gosh I can't exceed you know 1700 calories, 2000 calories etc. It kind of flips that narrative and puts a much more positive spin on it is what I found. Yeah I tell my clients that the biggest change and the more successful have when they think about their diet of what can I get to eat? Not what can't I eat so if I'm telling a client like all right we're going to start to work on your diet we're going to implement some changes and they tell me oh my goodness I can't have like chips anymore oh my god never said that I said but let's focus on having more fruits and vegetables right or protein as the example and as they focus on that prioritize that they feel good they feel satisfied and then they forget about the chips it's just not on the forefront of their mind but if you go into weight loss thinking like oh I'm just going to eat 700 calories that bag of chips is going to be right in front of your head thinking you can't get around it you obsessive out it you want it and that's why it's so important to focus on what you can do rather than what you can't do. Yeah absolutely let's talk about protein sources and not so much animal versus plant but supplements versus whole food right so where this supplement player role versus your whole food diet thinks of that nature. Yeah as a dietitian I will always prioritize natural states of protein whether it's animal plant based you can get a sufficient amount even with plant based which I think is so important for people to know as well but supplements do have their role and supplements all it is it's just supplemental to the diet so especially if you have certain goals and you can't get to a certain number if it's one gram per pound of body weight or maybe it's one point two whatever the number is the supplement just help you reach there and you know in the past I think they were kind of looked down upon especially with women but now that you know you implement protein shakes and things like that you can actually achieve your protein goals rather than thinking like how am I going to eat 130 grams of protein of chicken it's terrible right it's certainly helps I mean whether that's just a quick 10 gram bar whether that's not even you know a scoop of hemp seed and then you get 10 grams out of that having that shake at the end of the day and that's usually kind of I make like a nice cream is usually I like the frozen banana as a scuba protein some cinnamon and a little cocoa and that's that's satiating one it kind of cures that sweet tooth but then I'm getting another 25 grams of protein then in my day which is a great bump yeah and I love that you're coupling that with nutritious foods too yeah so I think that's really important to prioritize as well yeah absolutely we just talked about carbs a second ago let's let's make this the main topic right now carbs are no carbs that is the question certainly is so a low carb diet or a no carb diet otherwise not as keto some of the times it's often referred to as a quick way to shed weight and while can be helpful for a short term term goal let's talk about why carbs are a crucial macro nutrient to include in our regular diet as a primary energy source so one Nikki tell us what carbs do tell us by you know when we ingest carbs tell us what occurs in the body so when you diet when you eat and digest a carbohydrate it turns into glucose which we call sugar in the body it can then be stored liver your muscles or it does go into your blood and the most wonderful thing about glucose or blood sugar that people don't realize is that you have sugar readily available when your body needs it for life for daily activities for your brain function so a lot of people really demonize carbohydrates but at the same time they are a main source of energy for the body and to be able to think alone is very important to have carbohydrates so it also can transport nutrients throughout the body as well too your organ, your muscles as well as your nervous system so it's not just a carbohydrate it's something that actually helps us live our lives every day but again function at an appropriate level tell us a little bit about how carbs do player rule in weight loss right so often people do go to a no carb diet to you know lose those five to 10 pounds of looking to do tell us one how this can be helpful right but maybe some stipulations that that come along with it and then to tell us if this is sustainable long term so do you mean a no carb diet or limiting carb diet because they're to well let's let's go down the difference down all right so if you're limiting carb hydrate that has such there's many different meanings to that you could just you could before be eating a lot of carbohydrates the way too much that's why you are gaining weight so when you limit carbohydrates you're probably eating more of an appropriate portion size so that I think is beneficial so when people say like oh I'm eating no carb hydrate sometimes they mean that they're just eating less carb hydrates and again they're eating what their portions size should have been in the beginning no carb hydrate diets trying to think about if it's immediate and we call it a benefit is that you know you're going to lose some water rate that's that's the best benefit I could give you but obviously long term that's not going to help you long term because you're going to eat a little bit more carb hydrate at one time the water weight's going to come back on and that causes that fluctuation yeah I mean keto I think keto's who had its moment I don't think it's necessarily on the pedestal that it used to be right but maybe talk about some of the findings that we're now seeing surrounding keto that maybe we didn't know five ten years ago and why it's not sustainable for a long duration well there's a couple things that came from a dietary standpoint so whether they came out you know recently but I feel like dietitians have always known for a mainstreet for a year the keto diet so we'll start off first with cholesterol I mean I could have I could have a client that has high cholesterol and they go on the keto diet and I would tell them if there's anybody that shouldn't be on the diet it's you right because a true keto diet is around 80% is fat 80% so a lot of people would tell me oh well I'm just having you know monoun saturated or polyensaturated you know the quote unquote healthy fats but still with every monoun saturated or polyensaturated you're still getting saturated fat and that's what contributes to LDL and high cholesterol so that's probably the the first thing that comes to mind is that you have to be very careful of your risk of cardiovascular disease high cholesterol and so on and then the second would definitely be digestion I had never met somebody on keto that didn't have digestive issues because of the amount of fat that they were consuming and it just there's not enough of a balance and we need to provide our body with enough nutrients and my growing nutrients to have proper digestion so to be having majority of your diet as fat is just it's detrimental for long periods of time yeah for those of those out there who aren't a keto diet who have had success you know before you come with the pitchfork you know I think I think it's important to note that everything in moderation and everything is case by case and every single body out there is different somebody could have success with keto somebody could feel the worst they've ever felt in their entire life on keto same for gluten-free same for plant-based etc it's really about finding what works for you and learning more about your personal body as opposed to you know seeing what's working well for others you know we talked about glucose and and how carbs react in the body so right now a big topic in industry is avoiding glucose bikes so we are seeing people walk around with monitoring devices I think it's you know I think it's great that these devices are now widely becoming widely available to the general population however like anything right are we over monitoring at this point so you know let's let's talk about why we need glucose spikes throughout our day but it's right now I feel like we're seeing some people wearing some of these devices and again they're great devices and it's great to have access to that information but it seems like some people are saying well I'm trying to keep my glucose here and for those who aren't watching my hand is just going into my mind right let's talk about why glucose you know kind of the hills and valleys aren't important throughout anyone's day right so that's what normal digestion of a carbohydrate is so if anybody's confused out there you should be eating a carbohydrate it should be spiking and then with time it does go back down it might go into a little bit of valley but then you eat again and then it spikes again so it's a very normal response but spike means that it could be within the normal limits it's not meaning that it's going to 300 because you just ate something I mean at that point you might have an issue with pre-diabetes or you are diabetic so it is important to have those spikes because that's what helped you with if you're an athlete and you're training again with a normal limits as well as just an everyday person like we talked about before it helps with your daily activities your brain function so when you have that spike you're able to to move you know just to carry out your basic needs that you need to throughout the day if you were to be in a constant valley you wouldn't be healthy right there's no balance there so what I always tell my clients when it comes to blood sugar is that we learn you know when to eat carbohydrates what to eat it with and then from there you know they don't need to know the specifics about the number but if somebody does have a glucometer I mean they can use it as a learning tool but they shouldn't be obsessing over the numbers you know I had a conversation prior to this podcast about you know you're you're seeing exactly that you're seeing people where these devices right and it's now kind of causing them to spin out a little bit and I think that's kind of the trend we've seen I'm not going to name devices but just the rise in wearable technology over the last few years it almost adds more stress right so what is a pattern that you've seen and what advice have you given to clients who maybe have access to this device or maybe any device you know not allowing that to kind of tail spin them out in terms of focusing on their journey yeah that's a great question I mean personally I don't have any tools or devices I've given out but I have what I think is a super slow up is using like a calorie tracking app and then from there you know I have this kind of talk of this is your learning tool we're learning about what you're eating it's a way that you can track and then I can see on the other end but it's not about the calories it's not about the number but still at the same time I mean you're human you're still going to reflect almost number so it it actually takes quite a few sessions and conversations to kind of talk them through and especially when they see results as well that okay I can focus on what I'm eating and not the specific number in the app and I will still see the result I want so sometimes it's not just that one conversation that I have with clients it's often time a couple because when they're coming to me they most likely have disorder eating patterns which adding a tracker into it can be difficult so sometimes I take all of that away and I just say let's just journal and let's just focus on that just keep it basic you know oftentimes with these glucose monitors too you know people are posting them to their stories or sharing them on Instagram right um they're saying oh my gosh I just ate this and look where I'm at I'm like well did you need to eat that at that time so let's talk about timing the best time to consume carbs so maybe yeah if you were going to go back and sit at your desk they do need you know the bagel maybe not but let's let's segue into the consumption of carbs and how that plays a role and and your schedule of the day so historically the American diet has had a good portion of let's say carbs in breakfast right should this be more of a mid-dane inclusion dinner end of day and then where does that play a role in an athlete schedule so one let's just talk about timing of carbs when should you be consuming carbs based off of your activity level right okay so I believe it or not I don't have a talking general there is no specific time however what I like to talk about is consistent carbohydrates so out the day at your meals at your snacks and then pairing them with protein and fats to help stabilize your blood sugar and that's what's going to help you not spike as high is what you're coupling that with so it is very important to really focus on more so the portion you know maybe the frequency you're having it not so much the time because a lot of individuals say well I can't have them in the morning and well you just fasted all night long you need to have carbohydrates in the morning or I can't have them at night well did you eat enough throughout the day you know are you wanting to eat a large portion size of carbohydrates that night because you were lacking throughout the day how much are you having right before bed so there are a lot of questions that come with that but generally throughout the day you should be having carbohydrates meal snacks watching your portion sizes as well as kind of coupling them like I said with protein and fats and keeping as you said earlier keeping glucose in the body not letting yourself not letting the gas tank hit you basically exactly yeah you don't want that you mentioned you know if somebody is fasting do they want to maybe does that first meal that they have do they want to kind of be a little less generous with the carbs or do they want it to be a heavy carb meal when they're first breaking fast so if you are on e right if you're very very low and glycogen do you want to kind of go into that with your kind of I'm not going to say refute meal but your first meal back after fasting do you want that to be higher in carb or do you want to be somewhere in the middle I would still suggest somewhere in the middle again that's individual based on how we digest and absorb carbohydrates but if you think all right great I just fasted so I get to eat all these carbs now that's where the unhealthy relationship comes into place so being really mindful of why you're doing that does your body need it what is your training maybe you're not training are you going to go sit for hours you know a lot of variables there as well what about refueling after activity level let's talk about whether that's a strength training session for an hour in the gym versus you know maybe something a little bit longer like a two hour or on or cycle you know how should we be implementing carbs to refuel after workouts yeah great examples because athletes are going to need more that are more endurance sometimes my athletes are obviously feeling as you probably know feeling during your runs and things like that once it exceeds a certain time but it is very important to have a generous amount of carbohydrates after endurance training that's for sure but I think we're a lot of people go wrong when they're training as that you know you could work out for like an hour and a half I mean you're taking rest which is great right that's great for a high-perchrophy but at the same time you want to be careful that you're not going to say oh well I just worked out now I get to have this huge again full of pasta because I just have that but maybe weren't as active as you were should you be eating yes of course you're eating carbohydrates but again having that balance and you know having a balance plate rather than thinking like oh I'm going to go have like five bowls of cereal because I lifted so heavy now maybe we should have some chicken some you know carbohydrates whether that's a potato rice you know some good complex carbohydrates as well as vegetables let's talk a little bit about refeed days you and I spoke about this right so for example you know there are some people out there who will be very very low carb six days of the week and then that seventh day maybe that's a Sunday let's say they are eating a tremendous amount of carbs throughout the day is that beneficial how does one really kind of understand if they should be implementing a refeed day again you mentioned there is a significant difference between going low carb right versus going no carbs so kind of tell us what does refeed mean because I feel like that's a word that's used a lot and you know is is a refeed day completely necessary dependent on which type of diet you're on yeah so refeed day is basically having glucose to replenish your glycogen store so having more carbohydrates again differentiate between an athlete and endurance athlete or somebody who's training or like triathlon you're going to need some days where you're going to carabob and it prepare for you know your event to increase your performance or enhance that so I think that's very important to differentiate between somebody who's following a low carb diet or keto diet yes you can indulge in a refeed day but also being cautious of how much you need based on your training and what you're currently doing so it definitely depends on your training and your intensity duration for sure yeah it's a great point I also think we would be remiss if we left out cheat days right they cheat day. cheat days this has been around for a long time certainly as long as I've been working out um man where do we start with this one because cheat days cheat days are funny right because same thing if you've stayed super super disciplined throughout your week you did not allow yourself one single like chocolate chip like you didn't do anything out of the the routine and now again maybe I feel like Sunday's a big one right decision the fall it's like football Sundays they're getting all the food but you know tell us how you know maintaining discipline for those six days of the week and then having a 5,000 plus calorie day on a Sunday can have an impact on those six days that you would just work your ass for right yeah so cheat days they're not my thing and I don't recommend them because you can very easily put all of the work you done you know from say it was Sunday you did from Monday through Saturday you ate on this really low calorie diet or you you really stuck to your meal plan and then on that Sunday you have a good like we said 5,000 calories right you could very easily go right back into calorie maintenance just from a cheat day and the biggest reason why I don't love cheat days do I think you should enjoy a meal yes I think you should again being really cautious of that as well as how much you're having but two days essentially it creates on unhealthy relationship with food because if somebody who plans a cheat day then has something you know they're not supposed to have throughout the week they're gonna think man I failed oh I can't believe I did this I didn't do this on my my cheat day what can I do that's gonna help negate and that's where that unhealthy relationship with food comes so two days are I understand why people want to do cheat days and they want to be super strict and then they want to enjoy themselves on you know whatever day but again it just doesn't give you that healthy relationship with food and I always like to tell clients like what if you had an event on Saturday and not Sunday like that and it disrupts their whole diet and their whole mentality and they literally go into a panic mode because they think like oh my god I can't eat anything when I go to the event but Sunday I'll save everything for Sunday and it's like that's not living your life yeah absolutely that's kind of where the 80 20 comes into play right just maintaining you know your discipline diet making sure you're getting in a well rounded healthy diet your fruits your veggies your proteins etc yes your carbs right and then you know 20% of the time maybe it's maybe it's 90 10 for some people right you've been doing it a little bit longer right yes but for beginners you know that 80 20 like be proud of that 80% and allow yourself to have you know a little treat on a Tuesday night or you know a Thursday afternoon it's certainly gonna you know help with your success as opposed to going down that 5,000 calorie tunnel on a Sunday afternoon that's what diet culture really does miss is that you know we're so obsessed with restricting while we're eating but the most successful I see with my clients is when they start to allow foods they no longer obsess about them there's no more rules no guidelines they eat them when they want in their journey but they also at the same time prioritize nutritious foods and they don't have to worry about cheat days or diets because they know they can have them so that pressure is off absolutely I think this trends is transitions it's very well into our third and final topic for today healing your relationship with food and emotional eating so making as a dietitian you help others have a healthier relationship with food and their bodies by educating the importance of feeling their body rather than restricting exactly as you just said I think it's a great point diet culture is made as believe that achieving our dream physique can be done by punishing our bodies let's talk about some of their realistic reasons as to why people don't see success with their goals and what they can change or implement to hit those benchmarks I think we just covered a little bit about it right you know that 80, 20 you know kind of avoiding the traditional cheat day but first let's define emotional eating you know what is a common way of eating you see with chronic dieters who have trouble achieving their goals right so a lot of times when a client approaches me they start talking about the diets that they've done and what they don't realize is that they will try and you diet with literally 20 new rules to follow nothing that they want to do but they just want to incorporate it for weight loss and then they sweep all of their emotions to the side and under the rug so when they do finally fail at their diet you know okay I will say some do succeed but you know for the majority that you fail at some of these fat diets they're really upset and they don't understand why but they never addressed the reason why they're eating and oftentimes that's due to emotion so emotional eating is eating due to your current emotional state and that could be well and if it's eating towards your emotional state it's you're really ignoring your physical hunger you're not really in tune with are you hungry are you full you're probably eating past fullness you're probably eating because maybe you're bored you're stressed so out of emotion but at the same time I think a lot of people don't realize what emotional eating is they go oh I don't have that well again emotions are like boredom and stress right so it is very important to recognize that you know we're all susceptible to it but what extent do we do it and has that kind of been hindering our weight loss in our goals yeah I feel like almost in a way emotional eating has become kind of like a like a joking like a running joke right it's like oh it's fine I'll just I'm just gonna go emotionally right exactly I feel like I feel like we've all used at some point right certainly years ago but I mean one how do you really start to take this seriously right or how do you kind of you know do the work that says well yeah I actually am emotionally eating right and then too you know what are the steps that someone can begin to take to break this habit so what are some recommendations that you have yeah so the awareness part of it again will always be journaling I had somebody tell me one time what I love is you know if you were to journal your whole day and your habits and then you were like well this is why I'm not productive it's because of these habits so let me change them and then you work on them because now you're aware of them and then you create this day and usually you're doing again and you're very more productive and that's because of your journaling it just creates that awareness so if you are emotionally eating you should be journaling what you're eating and then the why behind it and then the scenario so once you have that awareness say a great example is your artwork you're at your 95 and it's gosh I remember these days there were like three o'clock and I was tired I was exhausted I was stressed and I wanted to talk that I wanted candy I wanted an escape but to me I would just eat it and not recognize like that's because of all the emotions so when you do finally pinpoint that scenario you then can change it so maybe you're changing your behavior so instead of getting up to get you know a piece of chocolate from the cafeteria you pack yourself a healthy snack but maybe it does include a little bit of chocolate chips so you still can get your chocolate fix so again kind of having that awareness to kind of pinpoint the why problems solve and then you know implement that habit change I found too it's important to start to understand how you feel after you eat something and so for instance if it's three o'clock in the afternoon and you did have say a candy bar instead of I'm not going to say apple because I feel like that was just so aggressively if it's like well I don't want to talk about it I don't want an apple and I want my candy bar well okay let's maybe like a vanilla bar is like some chocolate in the ass. Yeah there we go you know the vort that granola bar versus you know a straight up candy bar well how did you feel after the candy bar right did you actually get where you were looking for and the answer is probably not maybe for a couple minutes but like how did you feel in the next 30 to 45 to hour right so talk about that a little bit about gaining that intuition of understanding how you're feeling after consuming specific foods right oftentimes going now you're aware that your emotional eating then that's the next layer to it where if you're during lying and you write something down usually until my clients write before and then after what's the after state and allow the times it'll be like I felt really terrible and I felt like I failed myself so through their journey of recognizing that behavior they get to learn like all right that's a behavior I don't want to continue because I just didn't feel great after and it wasn't just physically it was mentally because you know you weren't taking care of your body so it is very very important to be kind to yourself to have a lot of grace because this journey could take several years to accomplish but once you do understand your behaviors in your emotions and how you feel after eating certain foods or maybe you did something for yourself where you didn't eat that we're talking about talk about right you went for the granola bar instead you'll be a lady you'll be so excited and you'll want to continue your journey so that's a whole emotional piece that is so important with everyone's diet I mean I don't care who you are it's so important to kind of recognize you know that our emotions are very closely tied to our grace and patience they're equally at play when it comes to nutrition habits right similar to you getting into a solid gym routine maybe you're going around your first mile or you know squat for the very first time it's not gonna happen overnight or you're gonna have mistakes along the way and again practicing that grace and patience it's it's gonna go a long way you know you mentioned food playing in a planar role mental health and I want to dig into that a little bit before we go into our our final piece for today you know how can food play a part in mental health and also kind of inflammation as well I think obviously those are two very different topics but you know how can you know a diet that perhaps is causing you to live in this constant state of inflammation how can that also play into one your physical health and then to your mental health right of course so I mean if you have a diet filled with processed foods and lots of sugar is you're gonna have more inflammation in the body our body digest you know natural sources of foods vegetables proteins whole grains with much more ease than something that is processed so it is very important to recognize that when you're having something that's filled with vitamins be vitamins vitamin C you know ADEK all your fat soluble vitamins your body is going to digest it you're gonna feel good it's gonna be able to then you know go to its primary source of being able to reduce inflammation especially like a fruits and vegetable diet why talk about micronutrients so much and all the vitamins is that we don't realize that that's how we can heal ourselves and that nutrition really can be the source of you know a lot of our ailments that we do need but it is very important to realize that you know inflammation and especially mental health they're saying can all reside in the gut so if you aren't eating things that you know do that wonders for your body like that processed food or all that sugar and actually can impact your mood that my body connection and then therefore as well then you eat something maybe again quote unquote off limits and then from there it causes more inflammation and negative cycle yeah absolutely and there's there's a reason doctors today you know especially doctors dealing with cancer patients right there and they're advising that they seek out you know diets that aren't going to cause inflammation they're telling their patients really cut sugar processed sugar from their diet so let's let's talk about sugar I think that's an important piece too and let's talk about the difference of sugar coming from your apple versus sugar coming from that candy bar right um there's processed sugar and then there's obviously natural sugar I think there are a lot of people out there like oh my gosh I can't have fruit no eat fruit right so let's dive into this a little bit yes that's probably the biggest misconception is that all sugar is bad but there are different types of sugar so will your body respond to processed sugar and fruit sugar the same probably you're probably gonna have a spike it's gonna respond you know pretty identically however how it's digested in the body and how it treats you is a very different thing so I love when I have clients coming to me and they tell me that they haven't had fruits in years and I like guess what like you're gonna start eating fruits again and we're gonna take out the processed sugar that's in your diet because they'll say oh I'm not gonna do any sugar I'm not gonna do any fruit and they won't have fruits and vegetables because that's an easy habit change for them because they haven't been having fruits and vegetables for years but then everyone's in a while they'll fill you know that that urge or temptation to food they'll you know fall to that and then they'll have something that's processed and I say again we're gonna prioritize the fruits and vegetables the sugar that's naturally you know able for your body to digest you know efficiently compared to something that is processed and again that's that mind body connection where like you feed your body good food you will respond really well and then you'll feel good and then that's what helps you continue with your journey and what does process mean to you I feel like there are a lot of people out there they don't understand you know well what does that mean I know it's it's not a term that I love to use because use the role we will find a nutrition we would learn that like a bag of spinach is processed because it was taken anything rinse and then put it in a bag it's frozen like everything's processed but obviously you know fruits and vegetables like that we live with some type of processed foods within our diet that is still considered healthy but things that are all process and manufacture you know whether it's in a plan or a base whatever it is that's where I kind of draws the line where it again something manufactured in a lab compared to something that's grown in a field that it's very different vary degrees of being processed right I piece of candy versus a piece of fruit you know I always like to look at it well did it come from the earth I forget about that that's forget about the fact of what happened from that farm versus your table that's a whole difference subject that we'll save for another time you know especially by country right but you know did it come from a tree the ground etc and asking yourself that question it's like just kind of almost kind of helps people realize like oh like yeah this is considered a whole food you know this came from you know agricultural farms came from a tree this came from bush etc versus was it chemically or genetically modified in order to create this piece of food that I'm putting them to my body yes exactly I love them okay awesome great stuff we're going to try out a mini segment at the end of this episode we're doing some rapid fire falcer fact with Nikki I'm going to list out 10 statements she's going to state whether those are falc or fact and give a brief explanation behind those because those those social media trolls out there where we we know you're coming for it so number one Nikki breakfast is the most important meal of the day now you start out with the best one that's my favorite I'm going to say fact with explanation I don't believe any meal is the most important but I think so many people stop eating breakfast again for reasons to lose weight and not really think about how can I am I diet provide my body with new trends so I love breakfast because when I introduce breakfast back into my clients day then they have a healthier relationship with food number two carbs lead to weight gain yeah I'll keep this short that's false number three eating right before bed can lead to weight gain false four are all artificial sweeteners are bad false five restricting calories leads to weight loss so hmm just a little sentence here so yes technically true fact right however there are many other variables number six hydration has nothing to do with weight loss that's false seven all diets are bad that's false eight stress is not impact weight loss it's very false extra false nine losing weight just means eating less false 10 high protein can help with that burn fact we love protein here we love protein so the body of the comment is presented by protein today's episode is brought to you by feast box meats the feast box protein pack presented by body of the link calm contains high quality protein delivered right to your doorstep we're talking locally sour beef chicken and pork that is fully cooked sauce and season just re-heat and it's ready to eat in two minutes the protein pack promises a healthy easy solution for hitting your macros weekly meal prep and providing a clean energy source for you and your family start your order now at bodybuilding.com you know making before we wrap here you know a number four really caught my eye all artificial sweeteners are bad I think this kind of plays into our process conversation right talk about artificial sweeteners we're seeing a ton of new ones out there I think in the last couple years too maybe not new but maybe it becoming a little more mainstream right we're seeing stevia we're seeing a monk fruit we're seeing a couple others right can you break those down a little bit what should people perhaps be avoiding what do you consider it is like an okay you know especially if you know maybe it's like you're putting it in a drink and that you have twice a week versus having it in every single week break those down a little bit perfect so anything that's derived from a plant I'm okay with right I'm perfectly fine with that it's the other ones that can have adverse effects and you know some of my clients who have some type of artificial sweeteners like sugar alcohols can experience a lot of GI distress I think that's something really important to look at in your diet if you're having some digestive issues but if you're having things every once in a while it's perfectly fine like you said twice a week not a big deal especially even if it is in our official sweetener that isn't quote unquote like the best but if you're going to be having a little bit more often I think the plant derived ones are definitely the way to go and what are some of the plant derived ones like this the stevia the trivia a lot of the ones they'll have a little usually have a little leaf on their package there you go look at the leaf are really good yeah it'll tell you if it's derived from a plant it will definitely be on the label and I think that's important to know but I don't know I am a dietitian that believes in sugar and not so much artificial sweeteners like I want you to enjoy your food I want you to have sweets I want you to have things that you think are off limits but more so I want you to focus on your portion size and how often you're having it because you can have food and like we said it's so important to you remember that in any journey you're in focus on what you can have what you can have and when you want to enjoy something you can enjoy it that's a great note for us to and on today Nikki thanks so much for stopping by thanks for shedding light and some long time controversial topics not only in our community but you know in the world of health and wellness tell our listeners where they can follow along for more info so my socials are at Nikki I'm just gore the dietitian we also have a website my husband and I as previously discussed he's also a bodybuilding.com athlete and that would be the RD and CPT.com you can find lots of good information and like we said before that's where I like to my blog post and just kind of get some sound nutrition advice in the world rather than whatever revolves in the social media great thanks so much Nikki yeah thank you for having me thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way conf

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding, I'm Lysner's, my name is Daniel Bitz, and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Josh Wallen. Josh is the founder of Bloakes, a rising telehealth service geared towards prioritizing men's metabolic health. More importantly, he's a proud husband to a supportive wife, Katie, the founder of Joy, an equal partner in women's metabolic health, and is a proud dad of two. He's a former Chicago Lions rugby player who still seeks movement and adventure, whether that's helly skiing, jamming out in concert crowds or hitting the gym at home. His journey to creating blocs began a few years ago when he started feeling, well, old, low energy, lack of focus, a dwindling drive, and yep, even some failure to launch. Every treatment he saw, either gave him a one-size-fits-all approach or told him to accept his new normal. Neither were options. Josh left his longstanding career in corporate America to become an entrepreneur and take destiny into his own hands. Today, Bloakes is creating the future of men's health care. Josh, welcome to the pod. Thanks for having me. That's quite the intro. Excited to have you on today. Guys, this one's for you. Men, happy men's health month, though I will say to our ladies listening and it's important for both sides educate themselves on today's topic. Just a brief intro of what we have in the docket for you. We'll be defining metabolic health and what that means. We're going to be breaking down to testosterone. Men's sexual health, weight loss, and we've been tackle anti-aging at a high level. So all great things that tie well into this month of November again four men's health month, Josh, let's dive in with topic one. Today's episode is brought to you by JustMeets. Are you eating enough protein to maintain your testosterone levels? JustMeets is a no-fuss, all flavor, home delivery protein service. Choose from the products of 12 premium meats with new flavors released regularly. Elbit your plate with options of beef, chicken, or pork, and say goodbye to long days spent in the kitchen for meal prep. JustMeets makes it easier to hit protein goals and stay fueled for the journey ahead. Learn more at JustMeets.com. Defining metabolic health. So I feel like this word has been thrown around a lot lately, but what is metabolic health? Yeah, it's a cluster of risk factors. And there's a whole slew of them, but we're talking about it more now because we are living an unhealthy state. We have obesity rates that are above 70, 74% including weight loss. Including weight, over weightness. But those clusters of risk factors include blood pressure, increased waistline, triglycerides, cholesterol, LDL, HDL, even BMI, although I think that sometimes deceiving. But there's whole slew of them, blood sugar content. Also goes synonymous with insulin resistance. Yeah, absolutely. Talk a little bit about each of those, right? How do each of those play a role in your daily life? And I also want you to hit on BMI, right? Because I too think, based off your tone, that is becoming a little bit of an outdated metric for us to engage with in terms of measuring overall health. Yeah, I mean, talk about BMI first. So I'll give you an example. I was just with Dr. Folkers, who's one of our clinical partners. Guys, five, nine, maybe five, eight and a half, 215 pounds. We lift it yesterday morning. He put up 365, six times, 400 pounds once. And there's not an ounce of fat on that guy. But clinically, from a BMI scale standpoint, he would be considered overweight. It might even be considered obese. I haven't done the actual calculations, but even me, I would be considered obese. So I think it's outdated. I think it needs to change. And I think sometimes there's maybe too much of an emphasis on it, especially when it comes to insurance and getting things approved, such as the GLP one medications that we'll talk about. But I think it sometimes may be evaluated on a case by case basis. So talking about some of those other risk factors, blood pressure, anything when 35 or 130 to 85 or higher is considered metabolic, Lyon healthy, waistline. That's a big indication of where you're going abdominal fat, visceral fat, men, 40 inches or higher. When in 35 inches or higher, and I think that's probably the first telltale sign that you're likely metabolic, metabolically unhealthy. But it has a cascade of effects to everything else that's going on inside and under the hood. But you truly got to take a blood test to really check. Speaking of blood tests, tell us a little bit about blocs and what you're doing with blood tests there. We're doing a lot, and we're trying to make it simple. We follow the kiss model, keep it simple, stupid. For men, it's three options. And a lot of it depends on the depth of what you're trying to achieve. Also budget. We believe that everybody should get access to blood testing and an affordable rate. But we have three testing models, $99, $2, $49, and $5, 99. Really, it's going to cover as much as we need to prescribe certain medications. And then some, we look at blood in only one funnel. It's got to be comprehensive. It's not one disease in two disease, and it's certainly not reactive. We believe in proactive and preventative health care. So our even our most simple blood test starts at 40 biomarkers. Goes all the way up to 74. And we're measuring damn near everything in the body with those. How often should we be in an intestine? And we're going to get to age in a second. But just let's talk about general health and wellness, right? What's your recommendation for frequency? I think at minimum, once you've grown out of your childhood, you should be getting tested at least twice a year. And there's a lot of reasons for it outside of just reacting to things. But getting ahead of a problem before it becomes a problem, should be the model in healthcare. And a lot of times you can catch something before it becomes a problem. But a lot of times it holds you accountable to your health. And I think that's something that we're sorely lacking in today's society. It's even coming from primary care docs. I mean, how many times have individuals been gaslit from other doctors? I mean, I have family members who walked into actual medical clinics, where fighting obesity, who were not told their overweight, and they were told their fine, well, I even had the same problem. That's why we're here because I was gaslit as a patient. I had so many issues going on, not just my low T, but I was never consulted on those. Tell us a little bit more about your journey and your experience and what got you here today. Well, it's, you know, it was over a longer time period. As you mentioned in the intro, I was a former athlete. I played rugby at a high level. So I knew my body, the really the genesis of why we're here is my wife. She was the, she was the push that I need it. And I say this example often because it actually works, but it's kind of like snoring. When somebody in that relationship is not optimized, or somebody is lacking something, the other person is the one that's truly suffering. It's, you know, if you had asked me, then at that time, I probably would have said, yeah, I'm okay. You know, my sex drive seems fine. Looking back at it now compared to what I am now, I'm a different man. I was 40, 50 pounds heavier. So my journey started probably like most guys and most gals. When saw a primary card doc, when saw a few of them. And I was fortunate that I just kind of threw a hell Mary at a friend who could become in one of our business partners, Dr. Folkers. And kind of where you're like, whoa, Houston, we got a problem here. Our testosterone levels are equivalent of a 70 year old man and then unhealthy one at that. Looking back now, I can't believe it took me that long to figure it out. I can't believe how poorly I was guided through these primary card docs, through doctors that were even friends, pain management, doctors, surgeons. It's become a niche, but more importantly, people need to learn how to own that journey because if I would have just settled, if my wife and I would have just settled, we'd probably be divorced. I'd probably be even heavier than what I was then. And probably be facing a hard attack in my 40s. Thanks for sharing. You brought up our next topic testosterone, right? That's really, you know, I would say the root of our discussion today for guys out there breaking down men's hormonal health and introduction to testosterone. And so first of all, what is testosterone? Yeah, it's a human hormone. It's a hormone that is very, very vital. It's a master hormone for both men and women. And it is a sexual hormone that does so many, so many amazing things in our body, whether sexual function, physical function, building lean muscle mass, helping a brain fog. We talked a little bit about metabolic health. If you're metabolically unhealthy, it's almost a guarantee that you're going to have low T symptoms. You know, it's another epidemic that we're not talking enough about, just like insulin resistance, just like metabolic health. And, you know, it's something that, you know, 50, 60 years ago, we weren't talking about because we've changed. We, you know, live secondary lifestyles. We have an obese population. We're living in a world full stress, both micro and macro. You know, we have these things, these phones that we're constantly on that we're constantly getting these cortisol release. You know, the emergence of processed foods of changed testosterone levels. And, you know, I think in order for us to start adjusting to it, correcting that optimizing people, we got to start talking more about it. What are the signs and symptoms of low testosterone, generally? Yeah, I mean, we talked a little bit about metabolic health and this real fat. I mean, one of the quick signs is, you know, are you packing weight in areas that you don't? There's the obvious sex drive. Are you experiencing some sexual performance issue? You don't necessarily, I'd say, a correct outest function, but performance issues. And there's a whole litany of things that can go with that. You know, just overall physical drive. I can tell you when I was going through my journey and struggling, especially as a former athlete who used to work out four or five, six times a week, I hadn't seen the inside of a gym nor did I want to see the inside of a gym in weeks. You know, we even had a gym in our house. I had no excuse. You know, brain fog is another thing, but those are the probably the most common things. And then, you know, something that we constantly see in both men and women is low energy levels. It is, you know, we work with a guy that's a big UFC guy by the name of Dan Henderson. And, you know, trying to get, you know, his straight answer is always fun, but he always says, I had just more energy. I wasn't on the couch anymore. And if that can just motivate you, that's enough in itself. You mentioned, you know, we weren't thinking about this 50 to 60 years ago. I would argue, we weren't thinking a lot about this 10 years ago, right? And what we're starting to see now is a slew of younger men experiencing lower testosterone. What's feeding that epidemic? Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of things that we covered with the same, you know, audience. But, you know, I think you can really align yourself with the emergence of process foods in the decline of our metabolic health and the decline of testosterone levels. But, you know, secondary life cells, guys are not moving as much as they used to. They're not as physically active as they used to. There's a whole slew of reasons. I mean, we are now in a new category of testosterone, which is secondary hypogonandism. That's something we never talked about. And, you know, you can read as many statues you want that talk about hypogonadism, which is the true definition of low T. And in some societies, it's 250 nanograms per desolated to 300. But there are so many guys living with low T symptoms. Because when we look at ranges, we're looking at optimal ranges, somewhere between 800 and 1200. But there's a whole lot of guys that are in that in between phase. And then there's a whole lot of guys in the hypogonad phase. You know, I think this status, somewhere around, I think it's 45% of every eye over 40 is going to experience low T symptoms. That's a lot. And there's a lot. You know, like you said, I mean, also I think lifting heavy is a huge component too. That's an important factor. Not only to get out there and move and go to the gym, but lifting heavy and that applies to men. And women we've said it before in this podcast too. It's important, not only for body composition, but for hormonal levels that were talking about. Today, you know, I think you and I had a great conversation on the phone prior to today. We talked about that knee jerk reaction that often comes with TRT and hormonal replacing. And all of these things, you know, that I think have gained a negative stigma over the last several decades. You know, you said it best. You said oftentimes these are, you know, slightly or even so drastically attached to the use of antibiotics steroids. Let's talk about, you know, maybe how TRT got the bad rap that you're that I think still, you know, exist today for a lot of the general population. And let's talk about really the differentiating factors here. Yeah, I, you know, I think a lot of our negative connotation comes from the 70s and the 80s and the 90s were guys are, I mean, this is the term juicing where they're, you know, high alpha antibiotics steroids stuff that we don't even prescribe that we don't even have access to. And there's a whole black market, even though, you know, TRT exists legally. But the key differentiator is there's there's a dangerous low end of it spectrum, which we talked about, high alpha go nanos, and secondary hypogodinanas. There's also a really dangerous side on the opposite end of the spectrum where guys are taking antibiotics steroids. Well, beyond what even a lab core or quest test will pick up. I mean, that's 15, 16, 700 nanograms per deceler. You're running risk on both sides of that heart disease, autoimmune issues, cancer, stroke. And that's why you're seeing in the bodybuilding community, guys are dropping in some cases like FIs. And they're not taking what we consider replacement. And that's the key word. We were replacing what we think should be there at a healthy level. We're incorporating labs on a significant basis. Yes, about how often guys should get labs when you're on a therapy. It's even more. For me, I'm getting anywhere from four to six comprehensive labs a year. Sometimes when you're in your first kind of round of treatment, it might be six to eight. But you've got to be measuring things outside of just testosterone. PSA, your estrogen levels. There's so many things that go with that. There are different delivery systems in which you can go through testosterone, your replacement therapy, right? There's capsule and oral. There's injectables. What is, what would, first of all, what's a root that bloke takes, right? And typically, what are the difference between those two and how they're reacting with the body? Yeah, all the above, we take a lot of time to try to push people more towards subcutaneous injections, more often per week versus one per week. But, you know, a compliant patient and a patient that is comfortable with some type of technique is better than the uncompliant patient. The only thing we don't do is pallet therapy. But, you know, trokey's are effective, creams are effective. What we have found is testosterone by subcutaneous injection two to three times a week. You're going to have your most optimal ranges. You're going to have your least on a peaking valleys. And you're going to be able to manage other markers that are pertinent as you scale on testosterone such as estrogen. Because your estrogen is going to rise with your testosterone. It's a given. You also want to be looking at things like comatic rid, the viscosity of your blood. How viscous is your blood going to get when we do it in multiple doses over a week. It tends to minimize that risk. You mentioned estrogen. I feel like that is a dirty word to some men, right? They hear that. And, you know, some of the guys they won't touch tofu. They won't touch high soil foods out there. Like, no, absolutely not. That's too high in estrogen. But I mean, the amount that you're going to have to consume to even get to that point. But I, I digress talk about why that's important, you know, in a male's body. First of all, they probably don't like tofu because it's soft. I'm kidding. I don't like it. First of all, food that came right. Men and all, that's that's spot on. You know, when we look at estrogen, we don't demonize it. It is a healthy, healthy hormone. The important thing is that it's at a range that is relative to your testosterone levels. And we have calculators for that, but it is inevitable that when your testosterone raises, especially in the exogenous form, even in, in, in, in doginess form, it's, it's going to raise with that. The, the point of labs, the point of doing these injections in those therapeutic doses is to minimize that, that, that, that increase. Some guys are just more prone to it, but estrus is a very good thing. I mean, too much estrogen, not enough estrogen can, can lead to a lot of other issues. Heart issues, erectile dysfunction issues. I mean, we've seen guys bottom out their estrogen levels. For whatever reason, they're, they come to us. We inherit these type of people. They haven't had a really strong erection in months, you know, and a lot of times it's just, you gotta turn that estrogen back on. Right. Oh, we see in that happy medium for all levels. Let's put it all together for testosterone. Let's talk about the, you know, detecting the signs and symptoms through getting your blood work done to now going on therapy. And then when can we expect that to start having impact on your lifestyle? You know, what we typically see is, the, the, the, the, the, to talk about the impact. We're seeing it happen younger and younger. You know, we're seeing guys in their 20s and in 30s come in with, with secondary hypogonism, like it's going out of style. And that, that's typically somewhere between three and 500 nanograms per desolator. In terms of the impact, these medications are effective and usually very quickly. You want to be very careful about the person you're actually seeing, because something that we've seen a lot. And this isn't to to rain on, you know, primary care docs and turn them at docs who who practice this. And it's maybe just a piece of the puzzle, or this is all we do. We're an inch wide amount of deep in these therapies. You, if you're taking an exogenous form of testosterone, it's shutting down that body's natural production. If you're not taking enough, oftentimes guys come to us with lower than when they even start it in a sub-opt more range. So it's important to find the right specialists, but oftentimes guys are feeling, you know, some type of movement, some type of impact within weeks, two weeks. We always typically say whether it's in cloma, or cloma, which are the certain categories or testosterone, allow no less than 90 days. Yeah, I think we'd be remiss also to say, this isn't the only thing you need to focus on, right? You have to focus on other lifestyle areas. You have to focus on a solid nutrition plan. You have to emphasize movement. You have to get good sleep. You have to lower stress. So all of these external factors are going to play into the success that you're seeing with TRT and HRT. Yeah, I mean, we talked about metabolic health. You know, what is it? One in three Americans are, you know, suffering from, you know, metabolic syndrome, one in two adults suffer from insulin sensitivity. Those things don't, the should not happen. Because those things are an absolute correlation to low tea. Talk about cortisol stress, sleep. If you're not managing those things, you're going to have a decrease in testosterone. I read a study at the Army Polish. I think it was on some Army Rangers where they weren't getting adequate sleep. And they were, they're measuring their guys testosterone levels. And they saw anywhere from a 50 to 75% drop. The same thing, you know, which stress, it is an antagonist to healthy hormones in general, healthy body. You know, there's, you know, they're saying that, you know, this role fat is gained through stress. You know, and those are all things that you just got to be aware of. And you got to, you know, you got to get ahead of it before it comes a problem. I wish I would have been getting tested in my 30s, you know, my wife and I went through our field fertility issues. And we had four miscarriages. And not once did an OBGYN or a primary care doc after hundreds of appointments go to the hospital. Of appointments go, Josh, hey, man, you're back on a few pounds. I want to go get your testosterone levels checked because the reality is, guys testosterone levels can drop from 50 to 75% with the woman. Their estrogen levels can go up. That's a recipe for disaster. And of course, your stress is going to go up. So your cortisol levels are going to change. You got to get ahead of that stuff. I think all that lead us into a really great third topic for today. So let's talk about men's sexual health. Her monolumbalances can impact sexual health for both men and women. And Josh, you know, you've been very open publicly with your personal experience. Things like low libido amongst a couple others. Let's say malfunctions, right? How did this persist until you saw it out the guidance? I know you mentioned your wife is a big catalyst for this. And what remedy served you best? So tell us a little bit about what you're experiencing, specifically in terms of sexual health. I mean, my wife says a better I had zero, zero sex drive. And she reminded me of that often. And I didn't listen once twice. So I was fortunate that I had a wife that wanted that in our relationship and wanted to push me to get better. But to be honest, I just changed. I looked different in the mirror. I just did a before after pick of me recently with my son two and a half years ago. And just last week, the changes in saying, I cranged you and I look at myself. So, you know, whether I was admitting to it then, I was not comfortable with my skin. I looked different, my clothes fit different. You know, we talked about metabolic health and waistlines. I was somewhere between a 40 and 42 in choice. I was metabolically unhealthy. I was the classic candidate. My waistline right now is 36 inches. So I've lost almost four inches off that. My blood pressure was always off. You know, I used to go to the IV bar just to, you know, sometimes check my blood pressure. It wasn't good. You know, there was a couple of times where they're going to turn me away. But, you know, you just got to be cognizant of it. You got to notice these signs and symptoms early. You know, it'd be open about it. Like, I think we have to start talking about masculinity different. You know, it's been demonized as well. And I think we have to be redefining it. There's a conscious masculinity. And we consistently talk about mental health and how much of a role that plays. And talking to others, I think this is in the same category. The physical side, the mental side, they all go hand in hand. And you know, if it's not somebody like your wife, maybe it's just a buddy just like, too. I don't feel the same. What I do think is happening, is there is a little bit of a movement that's happening. Guys that are comfortable in their skin are talking about it. They're more open about it. I feel like it's my obligation to talk about it. I've never run a business in my life where I've been more passionate about something and wanting to share something. I think guys were a little bit more of that line mentality. This is like, man, I kind of want to be at the mountain with everybody. I want everybody to fill the way I do. You took the words right out of my mouth. I was going to say this has to come with a certain level of vulnerability. And when it gets to a certain point, you kind of just have to put that you go to side. And when you're out with the guys and when you're out, just happen a night. Talk about these things, right? It's likely going to help more people in that group than you probably think. Yeah, it's funny. So when I first started this business, I had a relative passway, but I was with some of my family members. These are middle Iowa people. And they're 50s and 60s. And I told them what I was going to do. And we just were getting blocs off the ground. And I called the three-beer role. So you got to go hang with your boys for at least three bears. Because at first nobody had an issue. The boys were like, oh, that's intriguing. You know, the guys were like, what are you doing? And you got three bears in them? Guess what? The whites were coming up to me. These are my ants, by the way. That my uncles were going, hey, Josh. Things aren't the same in the bedroom. So you got at least get around somebody who you can have three bears. Or whatever that rule is, to just get comfortable. And how do you, you know, like you said, you mentioned your wife again? And how do you continue these conversations going with your partner? Trust is a huge factor there, right? And again, kind of putting both he goes aside and just being open, and moving on to another, ultimately, make things work long-term. So it tells a little bit about, you know, even the current conversations that you continue to have. Yeah, I mean, you got to be honest with your partner. You know, you got to ask questions, like, hey, is there something I could be doing more of? And, you know, I can tell you my energy levels changed so much that I was more productive. I was cooking further. The family, I was just more active. And I could tell there was a ripple effect just by loving that. You know, and I think if you're just honest about it and, you know, like anything else, that's for feedback. Yeah, absolutely. We've mentioned weight loss a couple of times here, and we're specifically going to talk about weight loss for men. Oftentimes, we don't really realize how much of a role hormones play in weight loss, and even athletic performance, right? So hooding and unweight loss specifically, how can irregular testosterone levels serve as a potential blocker for it losing weight? Yeah, I mean, you have to understand that I don't consider testosterone to be a weight loss. But they go hand in hand with it. You have to look at what testosterone's really good at, and that's building lean muscle. And if your body is lacking testosterone, that means it's likely lacking lean muscle. Thereby making it harder to lose that visceral fat or that bad fat that's been sitting on you. So they go hand in hand, you know, there's these new medications out that are, you know, true weight loss medications. But I will tell you, if you have a low tea, you're likely to get a low or low fat, you're likely battling some type of weight issues. So it doesn't hurt to have optimal testosterone levels, and it's certainly going to help, you know, especially as you're building and growing and, you know, building lean muscle mass. I mean, I will part of the journey, do we say, okay, maybe it's time to get the hormone check. Maybe if someone has gone out a couple years ago or a year ago, six months ago, and they say, this is just not working. I have my nutrition dialed in, I'm moving, I'm doing all those things that we've said in the beginning. We need to be doing at one point does someone need to say, okay, it's time to get tested. Yeah, I mean, the easiest thing is just get a test, right? It's not a big deal. There's so much access in it, and it's beyond blogs, right? You know, you can get, you know, at home test kits, they're not as accurate, but they're super accessible. And you can do it in the compines of your own home. You can go to a doctor. I would recommend you go to a doctor that specializes in this, because we've, we've had countless stories with patients going to primary care, doctor, internal medmethox, and arguing about giving their testosterone on the mobile. Check, I think every guy, as a region, I think every woman, as a region, especially in their 20s, needs to have at least one to two baseline labs a year, so you can see how your body's aging. And when are some of these brand name drugs that we're starting to see now that, unfortunately, a lot of people are seen as kind of, you know, that one stop shop, and but it's really more so. I mean, let me know if you disagree or agree a band aid in a way, right? Maybe it's going to give you those immediate results that you're looking for, but long term, you know, what kind of breakdown what we're seeing and feel free to give some examples that you mentioned before. So are you talking about the GOP? Yeah. Yeah. So there is, you can't, even if you're not in health and wellness, everybody's talking about those impact, right? I kind of feel like it's getting demonized to a fault. And I kind of look at it, like hormones over the last 20, 30 years, you know, our testosterone. We demonize the hell to that. And now we're understanding the importance of it. Here's what you have to look at with obesity and being overweight. There's two things that are leading cause from that. That's hard disease and cancer. If we can eliminate that or reduce that by allowing people to get an edge in weight loss, I'm all for it. What I don't agree with is the reckless abandon of perscribing it without suggesting and holding your patients accountable to lifestyle changes. And that's the most important thing. Listen, I've done it all. I've tried some luteide, I tried to resept with side. I had my ups and downs. But 100% I actually saw monumental change when I decided to do the work when nobody else was watching. That was exercise. That was getting my steps and that was actually watching my diet for the first time. You know, good, better ugly. I was managing my calories. I was effectively able to do that. So I think they're amazing drugs. I think they're going to change the world. But only if there's something parallel to that. And that's that accountability piece. And I think the unfortunate thing is there's only a handful of people that are doing that and doing it well. I think we are doing it well. Everybody gets a coach. But that is a crucial part to these things being effective. Because you can actually out eat these medications. You know, you feel like shit too. You're going to get nauseous. You're going to get acid reflex. And then you're going to have a belly that doesn't agree with it. So you have to still manage your diet. You mentioned a coach and you had the consultation that initially takes place. But talk about that accountability that takes place within blocs and how someone can, you know, read the benefits of that one's day. Join. Yeah, I mean, listen, clinicians are amazing doctors and nurse practitioners. Oftentimes they want to stay in their lane. And oftentimes, I don't think we have this issue, but they lack bedside manners. And sometimes it's just building trust. It's building rapport with somebody to just talk openly like this. I think that's where a case manager is so effective beyond, you know, their salary. And it allows people to just put their guard down and say, listen, I don't lose weight last because I like shit. You know, okay, honest, let's get back on the horse. You know, let's let's let's make some change. How about are you lifting or you're walking? Somebody to just walk them through there and run parallel with them. And that's what a coach provides. And how does that process work with lox specifically? Yeah, I mean, we are, we are fortunate enough that we see the value and massive impact of coaches. So everybody comes to us, whether you're getting a lab or whether you're getting a peptide or whether you're getting a GOP one medication. You're going to get a sign of coach. You're going to get a sign of clinician. We've seen a higher retention rate because that, which is extremely positive. We've even seen a referral rate go up because of that. So, you know, from a business side, we know it's working. But even from a feedback side, we know patients are really enjoying it. And I feel like that's, you know, a pretty large differentiating factor between what you're doing and maybe some other test kits out there, right? Because like you said, the accuracy is a little bit lower in those if not much lower. And they don't get that piece. No, I'm so marred doing it again, but to have that personnel and that board certified doctor, that nurse practitioner who can say, hey, you know, I noticed this or hey, I'm feeling this or hey, you know, this doesn't feel right. Okay, well let's talk about it. Let's get on a phone and set it up and let's figure it out together. Totally. I mean, and oftentimes you can, you can adjust course pretty easy, you know, if if something is all, I mean, you know, you can easily adjust a dose. You could tell them to scale back him super nauseous. Well, let's scale back. Let's let your body adjust to that. You know, people want to lose weight right away, but you got to let your body settle in. There's receptors, more amount of receptors. GLP1 receptors through your whole body. It's a drug. It's a therapy. You're going to feel it sometimes bad, but if you do it and you have a coach that's aligned with you, that process can be mitigated to where there's almost no risk. And I feel like having these type of ongoing relationships with your provider with your medical team being able to call them email them having more access to them than I feel like we even had five years ago, right? And I think the pandemic fueled a lot of that with the rise in telehealth. I mean, that does wonders for your home life, too. Your wife and your husband and your family, they can only take, you know, listening to it so much. It's not only listening, but they don't have the answers that your medical, you know, guide is going to have for you, right? So yes, you can then and yes, you can talk about how you're feeling that's a healthy piece of relationship in home life, but I mean, if you can bring this directly to the person that you're working with who's going to have those answers, it's going to help everybody. Yeah, let's let's look at things before telehealth really was on the scene and you really got to look at COVID because that's what expedited it. Still to this day, the average time it takes for a patient to see an actual physician is 21 to 26 days. That's a long time. Okay? The average time it's taking out of that patient's day by the time they leave their house by the time they get back to their home is anywhere from three to four hours. And we know it's a grueling process. We know it's a still waiting room. We know you got to manage parking, all that stuff. Sometimes I feel like we have we have too much access to our patients, but we have unlimited text messaging, which is a very effective form of communication these days. And it's all a double compliant way of unlimited emails. You have consults that are mixed in there. I can't tell you because I deal with it myself with just standard doctors. I mean, my son, you know, had a knee injury jump on a trampoline. That process was a pain in the ass. If that was brought to me from a tell-a-house perspective, I would have paid triple double. You know, it would have been insane. I feel like I just broke my pinky finger of all things and abiking the accident back at the summer. I mean, the toll it took on our life over this little pinky finger. I tell you, I'm with you right there on the same boat. Today's episode is brought to you by JustMeets. JustMeets is your protein routine provider. The hardest part of meal preping has never been easier. Simply order your meats, prepare for delivery, and reheat with the included directions. Play it up with your favorite sides for delicious and care-free meal. Learn more at JustMeets.com. Let's let's segue into our final topic for today, Josh Aging and anti-aging. So, you know, earlier we did mention, yes, younger men are indeed experiencing low testosterone levels, but let's talk about 50 plus, right? What starts happening in the male body with the aging process? And again, what should they be looking out for as warning signs of declining levels? Well, if you're not careful, it gets really fast. You know, your body is consistently evolving. You know, there's two schools that some people think aging is a disease. Some don't like the FDA does not recognize aging as a disease, but it is an absolute, there's an absolute increase as you age. You're going to be more likely of hard disease, more likely of cancer, more likely of all the mean issues, more likely of metabolic disorders, obesity, all those things come with aging. So, it's a hot topic. We're right in the thick of it. You know, we consider ourselves to be a company that really really focuses on health span, which for me, long Japanese part of that, but if I'm going to live longer, I want to live healthier. You know, I would hate to have 20 years of my life for a month healthy. I think that's what we do really good job out. Let's talk about longevity and anti-agent. Again, two words that are taking the spotlight post-COVID. And again, no one's immortal here, but if we can expand our life span, if we can add quality to the years of our life that we are here, I'm all for it. So let's talk about anti-agent. This is a word that's being thrown around a lot, especially with the rise of something like NAD plus. So first of all, what is an NAD plus? That's a coincidence. I'm that lives in every cell, which's interesting about NAD plus is you have the most NAD in your youth. And by the time you're middle age, you have about half. The beauty is it's easy to substitute whether it's intravenously subcutaneous intramuscular injections, patients typically fill a nice little energy boost. It cleans up your mitochondria function. It's great for a sol year repair. I don't know if you know the fundamental thing that is rather inexpensive, that could add a lot of life to you. I mean, it's proven that it can help increase life span, health span, energy, all those good things. What's the time in place to begin those in a routine? Now, I mean, listen, listen. If the science, the governing bodies say that when you're in your youth, that's when it's peat. Any time you're aging, it's probably a good time to start considering that. I think one of the interesting things is you don't have to wait for a reaction to be proactive. You don't have to feel like shit to start doing that. And as a clinic, we kind of have two patients. We have patients that are very symptomatic, that are reacting to those symptoms that was me. And then we have these proactive people who are like, you know, I just want to live the best version of myself. So, you know, it's not a loaded question. But it's a question that I think you know, you should just start owning your journey as soon as you can. And if an idea is part of that, you should certainly do it. What are anti-aging remedies that we're seeing out there today? I mean, we have growth hormone peptides like some moreland. It's a growth hormone, it's a credit card. Meaning it's going to stimulate your body's natural production, never shutting it down. You know, we deal a lot with glutathione. It's a peptide made up of a few different molecules. What's really interesting about NAD and glutathione, it's great for insulin sensitivity. We talked about that with metabolic health. All those things combined are phenomenal, just for longevity and health span. That's what you're seeing. I mean, I don't know if we'll see like a cure for aging, but I definitely think at some point there's a lot of thought leaders. There's a lot of money going into this Saudi Arabia's put, I think, a billion dollars towards aging. You know, there's a lot of ex-Google executives who started a fun just for this. I think we're going to start understanding the aging process differently. And we're going to start increasing health span. Yeah, I think all of these interventions are great. It's awesome to see the, you know, it's awesome to see the progression that we're seeing today. I read something interesting. You'll enjoy this. It was an article from Fortune Well this week. And it was about a woman who's ranking number two in longevity scale. And there's an individual, I'm not going to say his name, but there's this individual who is spending $2 million a year on his health. And it is taking blood from a 17 year old son and putting in his body. So the length that he is going. And he ranks six. So he's four spots behind this woman. This woman spends $27 a month on a gym membership. She is a single mom, 55, 17 year old son. She gets up, does her strength in her cardio. Maybe a sauna two or three times. He eats, you know, a lot of veggies goes to sleep at a decent hour. And she's four spots ahead of him. So I think all of this is great. You know, when it comes to an aging specifically and a deep lesson, things like that. But it goes back to, you know, the root of our discussion of these life-child lifestyle changes. You have to start there. Yeah, I mean, you know, we, this, this is why we're talking about metabolic health. You know, if you really want to extend life. If you really want to live a healthier life, focus on your metabolic health. Focus on your caloric intake. Focus on ensuring that you don't have the stroke fat. Focus on your, you know, your blood pressure. Focus on what is going in and out of your mouth from a food perspective. Carbohydrate sugar, stress, sleep. All those things are so important. And those are free. Yeah, absolutely. Josh, you're always wearing an amazing hat that says, fuck sick care, which I'm still. I'm still waiting on one of those. I have one. Awesome. I'm going to put it on after this. Give some context behind the mission of Blocks and joy and really what you're trying to put out into the world. Yeah, that's a great question. I'm very, very passionate about our sick care system. And I think I get a little bit of a seat at the table because I've been in health care for 15 years. I've worked for big, big, med device company called striker. I've owned an operated clinics. I've taken insurance. I've not taken insurance. And I've seen the likes of big insurance. I've seen the likes of big farm. I've seen the likes of big foods playing a vital role in our system. You know, we want to disrupt that space. We want to build an ecosystem for anybody to come to us and just live a healthier life. And we want to ensure that we're not prescribing medications to them, prescribing medications to fix those medications. And I think when we can take patients from obese to managing their way from low tea to optimal tea, then we're doing our job. And you know, it's going to take time. There's a lot of money that's going against us. But there's a community and there's a tribe that's following us. And it's really cool. We wear these hats. I wear it all the time in the amount of comments unsolicited that we get. People are noticing that and they don't know us, but they know what's happening in our health care system. And it's a big rabbit hole, but we're just doing our part in it. Josh, thanks so much for stopping by. We're excited to see what the future holds for both folks and joy and bodybuilding. And we're going to see what the whole family and bodybuilding is going to do. Thank you for having me. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding, a calm listener. His name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compaqqa. Today I'm joined by Christina Centenari. Christina is a Nike running coach, tonal strength coach, and wellness entrepreneur in New York City. As a former division one athlete, she struggled with both physical injuries and her own mental health. She's devoted the last 10 years of coaching, helping people get stronger and move with less pain. She's worked in both rehab and performance settings with everyone from professional athletes to the active again population. She specializes in strength, performance, and mobility, as well as breath work and mindfulness training. Her background as an elite athlete who struggle with anxiety and depression has molded her holistic approach to coaching today. She's a competitive runner having race 11-half Ironman's, wonderful Ironman and seven marathons, and his passionate about how breath work and mindfulness practices are crucial to achieving an optimal state of both body and mind. Christina is so excited for our conversations today. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you, Daniel. I'm so excited to be here. Absolutely, so we want to go back in time with you because you have an interesting path to where you are today. Topping number one, everybody, the athlete in me. Christina tells us about your journey on setting out to becoming a collegiate athlete which you did but it came with a tradeoff which was your mental health. This is deeply personal for you and Ironically for me too. I think it's going to be a great conversation and it's one that isn't had enough outside of college campuses or perhaps even on college campuses as it's a current in real time. So number one, take us back to a time in your life where becoming a collegiate athlete became a very real possibility. Was there pressure to make that happen or did the seem like the pinnacle of what you had been dreaming about growing up? Yeah, it is not talked about enough. So I'm really grateful that I have the opportunity to talk about it today. I would say it was a little bit of both. It was something that I knew I wanted to do from a very young age. That being said, I, for some reason, put pressure on myself at a very young age to reach this goal. There are actually two concepts and psychology that I think about for some reason I developed around 12 and one is called the audience effect, which is essentially when you think when you start to realize as a human being that other people might be observing what you do and so you sort of tweak your behavior based off of that. And as a tennis player, I don't know if I said that, I fully tennis. In growing off an in college, I became very self-aware of my performance. And my results and if people saw that I was winning. So I wanted to win and I wanted to do well, but I also wanted, you know, my coach to see me and I wanted my parents to see me and I wanted my friends and colleges. So that that audience effect, I developed that like maybe 12. And then there's a second concept called the spotlight effect, which is sort of similar. It's when you think everybody is watching you more than they are really. And again, at a young age, I just figured I had all of these eyes on me. Even though I probably didn't have as many as I thought. And I started developing this mindset of achieving goals that weren't necessarily for myself. But they were for how it looked on paper, how it looked with a ranking, or, you know, a social status, or to get to a certain, you know, college conference. So that pressure I definitely started putting on myself. And it was emphasized when I was injured. My crucial years of college recruiting. I had this shoulder injury that I couldn't figure out. And it really put me in this mindset of scarcity. You know, I was never good enough. I was afraid. I wouldn't get to where I wanted to be. All of my friends were being recruited and signing and it was end of my junior year. And I couldn't hit a forehand because I felt constant pain in my shoulder. And so I sort of developed this mindset from like age 12 to 16. I mean, of feeling like everybody was watching me of not having intrinsic goals, but having goals based off of external outcomes and a feeling scared that I wouldn't ever be good enough. And so, you know, it's kind of a loaded answer. But it just goes to show that a lot of this, like, a lot of the mental health stuff that I dealt with later in life, started developing at a young age. And how do you think that impacted the years to follow and even today too? You're a little bit of that fishbowl effect as some may call it as well. And just the overall pressure is that maybe you just put on yourself. Even if you weren't necessarily getting this from a parent, a coach, you know, college recruiters, etc. Yeah, it completely translates. I love using sport as a lens to talk about other things because it's like the best metaphor for life. The pressure that I put on myself in tennis is the same pressure that I put on myself to get to land my first job in New York, right? It was a job that was flashy and sort of like elite at the time to be there. And I wanted the name, like I wanted the logo on my shirt, just like I wanted the college on my shirt. And I think that whether it's a sport or it's a job or it's a relationship like our culture is our culture doesn't really teach us how to have more of a perspective. It just emphasizes what we label ourselves as I'm a tennis player. I went to this school. I do this as a job. Rather than I'm a kind person, you know, I'm caring. I treat others well. And those are like the foundational aspects of being a successful human being. But it took a lot of trial and error and a lot of reaching a goal and not feeling fulfilled for me to finally realize that. You get to campus. You start life as an athlete. What happens physically mentally, emotionally, take us through that? Yeah. So perfect example of reaching a goal and not feeling fulfilled. I made it to my dream school. I had a very narrow perspective on where I wanted to go. I wanted to go ACC. I wanted that was essentially it. I barely even visited the campus. That was just like a signed ACC. I'm good. I got to campus and I still felt like I didn't belong there. And I felt like this longing to do more and to be better. And so my next goal was to play in the lineup. I needed to play in the lineup, right? I made it to my dream school. But not for a moment that I really soak that in. It was just like the next thing. What do I have to do next? To prove myself to who? And, you know, being in an environment where you don't feel like you belong, you might not feel like you're good enough. I would step on the court every day and I just could barely hit a ball. And so now I'm at this ACC school. It's a lead and I'm with incredible players. And I'm in this incredible program and I can't hit a ball. By the way, that's called self-doubt when you show up to something and you don't believe in yourself. And so then you can't perform. And so I spiraled. I spiraled mentally first. I just felt that when you don't feel like you belong and you don't feel like you're good enough and you don't feel accepted. Which is like, by the way, all of just what humans want to feel, all of those three things. You're going to feel really alone. You're going to feel really lost. And that spotlight effect is going to height be heightened. You're going to feel like you're the only one. And so that's how I felt. I spiraled mentally and then that also took a toll physically. I developed a pretty severe eating disorder which happens in also an environment where you feel like you can't control a lot. I could control what I put into my body. And, and yeah, I mean, I think that spiral led to a place of just not knowing at all who I was anymore. If the only thing that I could define myself by was a tennis player, now I didn't even feel like that. It's an isolating effect that I don't think everybody truly understands because I think from the outside looking in, you look at a collegiate athlete and they're like, oh, the jocks from high school have now just elevated and they're now part of a different team and now they have, you know, X, 10 fold what they had before in high school, right? It's very isolating. You're now competing with a group of individuals who are at the same level that you were. They just plucked the number ones from each of these schools and now put them into a group of one another and now they have to compete against the best from Jersey and New York and South Carolina and XYZ across the country, right? That's what, that's what, I mean, from a division one perspective from my experience. That's what you're met with as a freshman. It's intimidating. I couldn't lift the bar when I got to my weight room and I have people next to me girls next to me who are Benchie and 185 and I could have Benchie and 85 pound bar. It's intimidating. It's isolating. The fact that you yourself experiencing, you know, blockers with eating and developing and eating disorder, that's a whole different component that I think a lot of people don't realize as well. When I was a freshman, when we were getting our BMI and our body fat taken for us, we were getting skin-fold test taken as a freshman and I in my life had never even been through that process and I didn't know what it was and being told that it's bad, right? And I don't even know what any of that means in relevant to numbers. So you're going through this extreme transition and you're all alone, you know, no longer with your family, your friends from high school, etc. And now you have all these expectations. I'm only to perform on a core on a field, etc. Now your body's being poked at. You're telling that you need to run this fast and lift this amount away, etc. So all that to saying a very long one would say it's a huge transition. And I've had, I had teammates who dropped out in the first day. I had teammates who dropped down the first month. I had people who who transferred schools hoping to get a different experience elsewhere. People don't really understand that turmoil that occurs at the collegiate level and this is D1, D2, D3, it happens at every level. Tell us what happened with yourself and your own situation and where you went from there after experiencing that. Yeah, it's interesting because you said that so well, like your experience is, or yeah, your experience in what you saw of your teammates and that the whole collegiate athletic experience, especially as a female, is when I thought I was alone in it, but now 10-ish years later, I'm like, oh my gosh, so many people have dealt with this. And I just remember being like in the locker room and getting new gear so that there's this kind of ironic scenario all I wanted in high school was to wear the gear, right? Yeah. And now we're getting the gear and I'm like, I hope I fit into these small shorts because I don't want to tell coach that I need a medium. Like, and I, you know, I think that again, this isn't talked about enough and there's so much nuance and complexity to what happens when you are not taught the tools to self-regulate and have like a bigger perspective. I was talking to somebody about this recently and and I was telling a similar story and they knew me at that time in my life and there was a lot of other stuff going on, right? My teammates weren't that supportive. My coach was an awesome. Like, I sort of was a part of a program that was high level, but the internal workings of it didn't make for a very supportive environment. And so the person I was talking to was like, you're putting a lot of this on yourself when you were affected by a lot of other people's actions. And when I was 16, I definitely played the victim, right? Like my mental physical emotional spiral is because of my teammates and how they're treating me. It's because of my coach and not playing me in the lineup. But at this point in my life, I look at all of that and I take ownership for the fact that, you know, that's, that's not something that I can control. I can't control my teammates' actions or behaviors or my coach or anything else going on. All I can control is how I show up and the energy that I bring. And so I think that, you know, that was a lesson that took me 10 years to learn. And if you were to tell me that at 16, hey, you can't control any of this other BS, like all you can control is your energy. It would have just gone over my head. I wasn't able to grasp it until I went through all of the really hard stuff. And so I went through all of the really hard stuff up until I had a complete mental breakdown one day sophomore year. And I remember the day I was sitting on this bench and I was talking to a teammate and I just started like hyperventilating and that's never happened to me. And I don't even remember how I got from that bench to my coach's office, but somebody called him and said I was having panic attack. And so at that point my coach drove me halfway from North Carolina to Virginia where my parents drove down from Baltimore to pick me up. Middle of the school day. And I didn't realize that I was never going to go back to that school or that program and I didn't realize that I was never going to pick up a racket again but in that moment I just needed to get out. It was now looking back like the most transformative experience. I took the rest of that year off and figured out who I was without a racket in my hand, which was a journey and continued to be a journey in the years falling. But I think you know to answer your question of what happened is I went through the hard thing and I completely broke like I hit my rock bottom at 16 and then I started learning how to climb from there. You let us into a really great transition for the next piece of this section is talking about the identity crisis that occurs during that transition period between a elite collegiate athlete to everyday life and you're obviously ended sooner than you anticipated. How do you cope without the sports specific attachment? What tools did you equip yourself with during this transition period? Now you were going through it you said sophomore year so you were even a bit younger than what most people usually it's that 21-22 mark where we start to see people having to deal with that. How did you do it? What tools did you use to get through that piece? Yeah so for context at this point I was a complete shell of myself. I was 589, maybe 115 pounds so I was like skin and bones and I remember being home and Baltimore and being so severely depressed that the only thing I wanted to do was lie on my deck and like in wrapped up and clothing and like 70 degree weather because I was freezing all the time and I just wanted to lie there and I cried a lot and you know I talk about this process in particular because I think it's adjacent to like the withdrawal process right when you're so when you're so used to having something that starts to define you and all of the sudden it's ripped away from you like Velcro like that trance that what's the word I'm looking for that you know transformation is not going to transition. Excuse me is going to be aggressive. It doesn't have to be that way. Some people graduate college and they finish their sport the kind of a tough time but it's not like aggressive transition um so so mine was aggressive but I do think that the lesson whether no matter what that transition looks like for you the lesson is so invaluable because something later on will happen in your life where you will feel like your identity is wrapped up in it. It could be a job. It could be a friendship a relationship those are three things that I say a lot because later in my life that is what I found to have my identity wrapped up in and and I think that you have to start to do the mental work to figure out what else defines you besides a sport job or relationship and it has to be about other people it has to be at the core something self-transition about how you treat other people. And this goes back to your sentiment in the beginning that episode boxing yourself in right you are limiting yourself limiting yourself from becoming you know the person that you are more than capable of becoming by only defining yourself as one specific thing and it's unfortunate that we see this specifically in this conversation with college athletes right because typically I mean that my goal starting at 12 years old similar to you the goal was D1 that was the goal in my household and that was not I was an only child that was not coming from my parents that was not coming from a coach that was entirely for me I would deny going to the movies so I could sit there and and hit a ball off a tee for three hours instead of going in the movie as I became just so overly obsessed with this sport and sitting there in my room watching YouTube videos of Nike inspirational videos and that was it it was just a one-lane. I had other things I had other hobbies I had friends but this would always come first and then I same thing I stepped on campus and my world was rocked and same thing when I stepped off of campus my world was also rocked and it wasn't until the years after I would then dive so head deep into becoming the best in corporate or the best in whatever it was that I was pursuing it took about five years after college to start to realize weight I am not one thing I am all of these different things I have all these different talents I have all these different avenues of which I can you know quote unquote define myself with you know I think for me anyway my light bulb moment was when I realized that I was still me my body was still mine and I can choose what to create with that very simple knowledge. I can become the best athlete I've ever been without being part of a traditional team without being a collegiate athlete practices became the gym it became the track the long run yoga my routine how important isn't for everyone to think of themselves as athletes to show themselves the same kind of love that collegiate athletes are elite athletes even professional athletes to go that far to mimic the routine they do by moving intentionally eating clean practicing mindfulness and prioritizing sleep why should everybody treat themselves like an athlete yeah I will try and keep this as clear as possible because I think it's really really important and I I'm going to answer this question with like three bullet points the first one is that in my experience as an athlete in my experience working with very elite at high level athletes who are successful in their craft you have to like just know in your soul the fact that your body and your mind are not two separate things they are the same and you have to treat your entire system as so so when I was growing up I pretty much pushed my mind to the side tried to get it to shut up and just wanted to get out there and hit balls like you I would sacrifice everything I would it I like to do in my free time I don't know play tennis like the there was no mental emotional muscle building it was all physical so you have to be able to understand that like your body is going to tell you some things that your thoughts won't and your mind is also going it's it's extremely powerful so it's going to be able to control your body in a very powerful way so that's the first bullet point the second one is that I think high level athletes do this very well and I encourage everybody to think about this in their daily life is where you are putting your energy our energy is our most valuable currency it is the most valuable thing we have that we can control and what we give our energy to is like what we give our life to and when you start to really understand what that means you start to see where in your life you're giving energy to things that maybe aren't serving you and so I think that elite athletes are really careful with where they're putting their energy nothing moves without energy right so you're in control of it but you have to direct your attention and your awareness in a way where you're you're expanding that energy to get something valuable back and then the third thing I would say sort of what I touched on in your last question which is just having a purpose that goes beyond yourself so I think as athletes especially tennis players we are very selfish I when I was growing up it was my schedule it was my tournaments it was what I wanted you know where I needed to be on the weekends do I have my towel and my water and my shoes and my rackets like it was so selfish and self-centered and the most elite athletes that I have worked with and that I've observed have this purpose that goes beyond themselves and if they didn't have it earlier in their career then maybe they developed later in their career and you can see that transition that change like if you agacies a great example earlier in his career a little bit of a head case you know all he wanted to be was number one in the world and then it gets to that spot and it's not fulfilling him and so later in his career he starts giving a lot of his earnings and his money away to charities that he cares about and getting involved and you see not only his performance but his personality elevate and so that last point is something that I encourage everybody whether you think of yourself as an athlete or not you should always be asking yourself what am I doing that is going beyond myself. I love it you know and I think I think people who follow a routine like this and take these things seriously whether they are novice athlete a marathon runner a weekend warrior whatever label you want to put on it I think we throw too much shade at those people because I think we need to reverse the narrative of what we consider normal I think we need to stop looking at blowing through $100 and getting drunk in a bar every weekend as normal and I think we need to start normalizing people really prioritizing their health and wellness I think we've started to see that shift specifically in the last couple of years I'm fine with the people doing their ice baths and the people who are putting sonas in their backyard I will not hear me throwing shade at any of those people I think we need to do a little less of that just kind of get people on the same narrative of what longevity can look like and make that the norm. I want to transition into topic number two what are we running from breaking down the mental health of athletes and are we running from our fears or towards our dreams can be both are we overtraining because it's a central part of our healing process or are we using as a crutch to avoid dealing with it at all I can confidently say I've certainly done both separately together at various points in my life what about you? Yeah I think my one word answer is both and then I'll go into that and say that I'm the same I at one point in my life at some points in my life still I find myself using now I run as you mentioned and I use that as something to run away from something else in my life and sometimes I have a relationship with running that I'm definitely using it as like a catalyst to push me forward towards something bigger than myself. I think that when it comes to overtraining in any sport the the pain pleasure areas in our brain overlap and so something that can start to be give you pleasure like running can take you out of your head can give you that like hi when overdoing it can become something detrimental. I I say this to my athletes now and I and I say it because I can empathize so much with being in a state where it's the it's the thing that I'm using to run away from right but my my question is is there something else in your life that is giving you pleasure besides running I can't remember who said it but I think yeah I can't remember who said it but somebody said that addiction is the progressive narrowing of something I give you pleasure. So with myself growing up there was nothing else in my life that I felt you know fulfilled with besides tennis and the outcome in the result and I notice now you know the run culture is booming which is amazing there are so many people getting into the sport which is so beautiful and at the same time that pain pleasure sort of overlap relationship can that line can start to teeter and I think that as long as you are doing something that makes you happy you're always going to be walking a continuum of doing maybe too much of it at certain points in your life and it's really important to just be mindful and check back in and ask yourself do I feel like I need to do this right now am I stressed so I need to go for a run or else I'll be more stressed or do I just like it is there something else that could be an outlet and if there is nothing if you can't think of anything you don't have to tell anybody but you should be honest with yourself and start to figure out other things that act as an outlet. Yeah I don't think it's something you necessarily ever master I think it's something you have to hold yourself accountable to and learn what those signals are and listen to the check engine lights right on your body I think I've gone a lot better at that in recent years too. I mean for me COVID is the perfect example I went out and did COVID happen gym shut down I said okay I still can run I went out and did 350 mile months in a row total close to 500 miles fractured both of my feet stress fractures right I all the serotonin from every other out in my life had been depleted had been taken away I think I had writing and I had running and I wasn't feeling too inspired to write at the time so I was like let's lay self and get outside and just slam our feet against some pavement for a couple hours each day and that's a perfect example right and I knew at the time but the mental grip and that's the mental grip that that time in history had on me there was just nothing that was going to stop me in order to cope with what was happening in the world um now I think there are a lot of learning lessons that could be taking out of that and you listen to signs of your body you know you can you can understand what that check engine light means for you whether that's being under recovered whether that's being the brink of becoming injured your the more experience you become as an athlete and the more you check in with yourself and understand what your body's telling you the more you'll kind of avoid these you know for lack of a better term you know disaster situations obviously now now the running's taken away now we have nothing so we don't want to get to that point you know and you hit on a little bit before in addiction exercise movement working at working out whatever you call it it can be an addiction essentially anything you're doing excessively to the point that it's causing an intense urge it's dictating your schedule and your life it can be classified as an addiction and oftentimes we don't recognize something as inherently you know quote unquote good as exercise as an addiction but what's the danger and I think we just touched on it and not recognizing that you are in fact addicted to working out and one of the repercussions of the all gas no break mentality injuries one of those but what else is on the list yeah so again it's this it's addiction is this progressive narrowing of something that gives you pleasure and if it if it comes down to just one thing in your life then you need to sit down for a second and really look at yourself um or else you don't look at yourself and you keep moving in a direction that is going to lead it to some sort of you know destruction um self destruction honestly um and I think that uh you know to combat anything in our life that we are addicted to it could be exercise it could be sugar it could be you know something more serious right um the most understated tool and weapon that we have is mindfulness and so when I say sit down and look at yourself I literally mean sit down stay still and look at yourself and and if you first of all you have to want to get over it right you have to want to know that maybe this thing isn't making me feel good anymore and I want to move past this or I want to sort of use it in a different way so that's number one number two is to sit down and self reflect and to ask yourself like why you are using it the way you're using it right why am I using running as a way to escape what am I escaping from and then take a look at that thing and figure out how else to address that in your life um I think there's a lot of power in the pause and I think that when you know we especially in New York City my gosh we live in this culture of constantly moving from one thing to the next and again the run culture has evolved so much since COVID especially and I'm noticing people who are just starting to run and they're doing 60, 70 mile weeks and they're coming to me saying Coach KST why does my ankle hurt and I'm like all right there's layers to this so first of all how many miles are you doing why are you doing that many miles what else is going on in your life like are you sleeping are you eating right so there are like all of these other factors that you know when you can just take a pause that pause will give you this better you know idea of where you should go next but if we just keep ramming through our feelings and not really looking at them we're going to continue going down that road that in the end is not serving us power in the pause I think you just named today's episode I love that um I've learned my biggest lessons during injury during the downtime of injuries it allows you to do that self work it also like you said provides you with that check-in of why do I feel so terrible all of a sudden because I can't run because I can't go to the gym etc I should I should feel sad about this thing happening right and then I can't do the thing um that stability releases those feel good chemicals in my brain but I shouldn't feel this sad and I want to talk about the mental impact of injury and the toll that it takes on anyone this is not not just athletes this is anyone you know your general gym go or to your elite runners um speak about your navigation of injuries and know the two of us can probably sit here and share war stories for hours at this point but talk about how you typically navigate yourself through an injury and one of those were pretty recent yeah well first of all injuries are so tough like like I don't want to sit here and pretend to just be like if you have an injury like think positively like and absolutely not injuries are so tough in depending on the context of your life and where you're at they could mean a lot because they could completely disrupt a routine they could completely throw a stake in your identity and who who you think you know what you think that's kind of defined by and also feeling pain is hard like the sensation of pain in your back in your knee it's it's it's real right that's another thing sometimes I hear I won't get in the nitty gritty of this but you know the pain is in your head I've got that growing up with my shoulder because we couldn't figure out what was going on with my shoulder there was no there were some microtairs but all overhead athletes had the same sort of thing and it shouldn't be this bad and it's in your head like you know this pain is not in my head like I want to be out there but I'm feeling something that's holding me back so I I say I start with that because injuries are hard now at the same time pain is a message in your body that something needs to change and that could be physical pain emotional pain mental pain spiritual pain right like something that you are doing is putting you down a path that you need to detour from. Growing up again this is another one of those lessons where you don't learn it until you go through the really hard thing and you make all the mistakes and you approach it in the completely wrong way and you push through and you don't learn it until usually you do that right and so all I can sit here and do is encourage people to really understand that pain is a message in your body that's something needs to change it's not the end of the world it's not career ending it's not going to disrupt your you know entire identity but maybe you need to sort of cut the volume for a little bit maybe you need to understand that you know your hips aren't working right and this is affecting the way that your feet are landing under your hips when you run and when we can take a look and we can when we can approach injury in a way that is like what is this saying to me and how can I get more out of this rather than one of my losing from this you know what am I missing out on the scarcity mindset if we can approach injury in a way that it's actually going to give us something if we listen to it it's completely life-changing and I know you know as well that when you deal with injuries and when you overcome injuries you're almost always stronger on the other side yeah and for me you know I'm not exactly happy go lucky but I think after you experience it and enough times you have to develop that mindset otherwise you're just going to crumble you know for me I think the biggest ones that I can speak to I've had I had three hip surgeries so while I was in college and at the time that was kind of my breaking point that was my my world is completely ending this is over I didn't accomplish what I came here to do and this is where I am now and I fell into a very very dark place and and state of depression during that period at the same time I came out of that with so much knowledge about the importance of glute strength you know importance of course strength all these things that I weren't was not doing prior to these injuries that then made me a better athlete I got a out of college I would have a stress fracture here there I would tear this in here there every single injury I'm not going to put on the list made me stronger and made me a better athlete and now here I am today capable of things that I wasn't capable of 10 years ago and it's all it's because of these skills that I was able to collect through each of these surgeries I think it's a great way to look at it I think it's easier said then done because the two of us sitting here have had a lot of experience in this department and somebody could be listening to this who maybe they have a strain lower back and this is their first time dealing with it and I like yeah right well you know that's I can't get there you can get there you just kind of have to work with professionals and kind of you know power through the mindset of of getting yourself into an even better position than you were prior to this happening because now you have that opportunity like you said you pressed pause and it may not been pause that you necessarily asked for but we can harness that for the better um I want to talk about breath work um you yourself have ventured into the breath work work world tongue twister um specifically over the last couple years and it's so important you've become a breath work in breath training coach can you walk us through the intentions at play one incorporating breath work how it can help ease the tension of missing workouts due to injury and create space in your mind for that acceptance and peace we're talking about yeah definitely so just to start like a couple years ago if you were to tell me that I would be so passionate about breath work I would have been like you're crazy I roll I mega I roll like cafe de lulule reservation for one like I would have just been like okay no throw me in an iron man like so I want to start with that because when I talk about breath work now I am speaking to the people out there who are like me I'm really trying to communicate with them I was very close off and I will call myself ignorant to the way in which it completely transforms you as a as a human being in both brain body performance all of it I got hooked on it from a performance lens of course if if I think something's gonna make me a better runner I'm like okay I mean I'm in so I took a class with a wonderful coach I've never taken before and he was also a coach right so there are some breath work practitioners out there that and I had taken classes before and it was it was a little bit like woo woo for me and I was resistant to it and the way that this guy spoke was so logical but also supportive and also motivating it was actually a breath work and an ice bath class and we did the breath work portion I ended up holding my breath for the first time in my life for like two and a half minutes and that's when I was like wow this could help me be a better runner and then we went into the ice bath and I wouldn't put my shoulders in this guy was like sternly but supportively he was like put your shoulders in like so there was no like only if you want to it was like do it it's gonna help you so I got hooked he really inspired me and essentially how I explain breath work is how I explain explain the benefits of breath work is that we all have this voice in our head that is loud and depending on our journey to get to where we are that voice could be saying you know you're not good enough to be where you are I've always struggled with this which is ironic because I feel like I've been pretty successful in my career but I still walk into a room in that voice will be like you don't belong here you're not good enough a walk up to the starting line and not once in my career as an athlete have I walked up to a starting line or or walked up to a match and fully believed that I could do it like that I could win that voice would always be like you can't and so what breath work does is instead of quieting your thoughts it taps into your system on a physiological level right so you're by by breathing in and out in a rhythmic way and cadence maybe that you don't usually do in your normal life you were literally shifting around your blood chemistry and in turn that's gonna affect your brain and then before you know it that voice is quieter and it's not because you told it to be quiet it's because you're practicing your breathing and your mind is listening to your body and so I it's the the benefits and the value are infinite whether it relates to emotional regulation stress relief or performance and how I try and put language behind this is is first knowing who I'm talking to and what they need right so if I'm talking to somebody who wants to run a sub three marathon I'm gonna try and explain the benefits of breath work from a performance lens but if I'm talking to somebody who maybe has like really bad headaches and it's stressed all the time I'm gonna start to just bring them back to this like breath awareness so that we can start to manage stress better breath has the power to slow things down too right you just touched a little bit on it for anxiety how can we leverage breath work and in more of an immediate state of I'm on the I'm on the bring of having to panic attack I'm super nervous about this presentation I'm about to give I don't feel safe in this environment of where I am right now what's your recommendation in terms of breath work in those situations yeah so so many different types of breath work there's long there's just like training you know I mean you can do something that's gonna you can pop an adville and that's gonna relieve pain in the short term and then you can do all your mobility work and that's gonna relieve pain you know for and in per longevity so when it comes to breath work it works the same way in those moments the first thing that I would say is I touched on this a little bit but breath awareness is the number one lowest hanging fruit that everybody can be conscious of and then use so what I mean by that is that you and I are sitting here now that I'm aware of it I'm I'm aware right that I'm I'm breathing up into my chest and my shoulders are sort of tense right they're sort of like elevated towards my ears and if I would really think about it the air is not sort of pushing and pulling through my belly and that is the wrong way to breathe when you're breathing thousands of times when you're taking a thousand breaths you know a day thousands so number one in those moments like even walking in here right I was a little nervous for this and I noticed all of that happening and so what you got to do is you got to again start from that physiological lens you can't just tell your brain don't be nervous about this pitch don't be nervous about this presentation it's not gonna work so come back to the physical uh physiological lens start with bringing that breath from your chest down into your belly and you will feel relief you won't feel like 100% relief but you will feel relief and then there are ways you know I would say they're like breath drills is a term I may coin in terms of immediate relief where you could you know the physiological size is one right it's a double inhale pause followed by a slow exhale that's one breath that'll give you some some ease and then there's something called a reset breath which is where you exhale all the air out and then you inhale through the nose you pause at the top you notice where you're holding tension you let it go and then you sigh you pause at the bottom until your brain tells you to breathe again and when your conscious of all of those steps it's gonna pull your thoughts away from what you're about to do and it's gonna just bring you back into this like more grounded state of mind again you will still feel nervous but it's just how you're using those nerves and how your you know making sure that you can enter into a room and and function how have you yourself harness the power of breath in your running in your strength work where does that come into play when you're moving your body again I'll start with the fact that I never paid attention to this growing up I got pretty far without paying attention to my breath I did but I there was there was a capacity that I wasn't fulfilling and I wish I wish I knew as as a 16 year old what I did now you listen to the you listen to joke that you listen to the brown all of these guys are doing this now it's such a hack you're when you can leverage your breath in terms of quieting down the alarm bells in your head right before big moments we have the alarm bell we feel nervous you can use your breath to sort of tell the limbic system which is the fear system in your brain to chill and to more tap into that prefrontal cortex which is going to allow you to just think clearly it's going to allow you to problem solve you know when you're mid race and you're at when you're in a marathon and you're at mile 16 and you're feeling fatigue start to see Ben what happens when you start to feel fatigue is you start to freak out about it oh I'm hitting a wall fatigue is uncomfortable right at least thoughts come flooding in but when you can interrupt that cycle and then you start to feel more tired it's a cycle and when you can interrupt that cycle with a breath you will literally disrupt sort of that spiral of thoughts and so whether you're going into a boardroom or whether you're at mile 16 and a marathon your breath is a tool to just take the remote control and your brain turn it down and stay calm great thanks for sharing those I want to hear more about the breath work drills maybe we'll create a couple shorter segments let's move on to topic three for today how do I start running so we're moving out of more of the mental talk we're talking about more physicality now running is hard the hardest thing about running is its demand for work required not only to get better but to simply maintain your current state of fitness so it's a constant grind you and I know this well you especially you have days where you feel like you can run forever others where you doubt yourself before you've been getting through that first mile that certainly happens to me a lot but when you get to the point where you're achieving flow state you'll never look back or seeing on my first question is how do we get more people running you said it yourself we're seeing more people running which is fantastic but how do we spread the word about how magical running can be if more people won give it a chance and too quite honestly pushed through that initial discomfort because I feel like that's a huge one totally I think that I'm a big proponent of leading by example right so I can talk and talk and talk about things and encourage people to do things but if you are running yourself and you're bringing energy into it and you're making it look as fun as it is that will attract people to the sport that will attract people to anything that you're doing is the energy that you bring into it now that's that's too fold in the way that if you want to start running and you're of the mindset running is hard I want to do it but it's hard which like or I get this a lot right we had to run as a punishment growing up so I want to run but it's just feels like a punishment and I'm like okay well we can start there but at some point this is what I touched on in the beginning the energy you bring to something is the most valuable thing that you can control so if you keep showing up to your runs in this mindset of don't really want to be here it feels like punishment but I'm here it's kind of constantly give you that back so at some point when when you decide like I really want to do this I accept that it's hard but I really want to do it you show up and you bring your energy and it's more about energy than time right so when you're first starting people are like looking at their watch and they're like looking at how long you know they went on a run for and I'm like yeah but how did you like show up in those 40 minutes and if you could show up better in 20 minutes then cut that run down to 20 minutes show up as your better self and you're going to get way more out of it so that's where I would start now more literally as a running coach what are your recommendations for someone out there looking to run their first mile their first 5k where do they even start? I would highly I'm not going to have any tech watch brands sponsor me after this statement but I would highly recommend running at first without a watch you are it is so easy to get a attach to data it is so easy to get attached to an outcome and I think about if you're just starting to run like you're starting a relationship like you don't want to start a relationship on this foundation where you don't trust yourself so to build trust with yourself and running you got to go in and so so take the watch off take all the numbers out of it set a timer on your phone for 20 minutes and get out there and run for time and that's how I would absolutely recommend everybody start. I totally agree I think we've fallen victim to the move rings and the PRs and the competition with one another I think I couldn't have said it better myself if you just remove the tech format just for a second especially as a beginner starting something new and just to take the time to analyze how your brain and body feel after that the runners high is real people love to laugh at that but it is real and you will feel it and that doesn't matter if you start in five minutes 15 minutes or 25 minutes you'll feel a difference in your body after. What do you know a five K. Right? Hey coach I want to win my first five K. I want to do the turkey trot this year right how do I even get started what kind of runs are we going on as a brand new runner no experience maybe they ran a mile in the past. Yeah again number one is I highly recommend that you're going for time on feet over distance so if the goal is a five K that is awesome and like you will do it but you're starting at a point of you know if you're really just starting to run maybe it's maybe it's five to eight minutes and again you're showing up in those five to eight minutes and you're you're showing up as you would for like a big meeting like you're showing up as you're best self because if you show up for those five to eight minutes dragging your feet and with this attitude of you know I want to do this thing but I don't want to be here like it's going to take a whole longer time to progress to 10 15 minutes and like feel good about it so tangibly time on feet over distance and then I would also try and figure out systems that you can put in place for yourself where you know you'll actually do it it's like the essence of being a human to say that we're going to do something and then we don't do it so whether you think of it as systems or you think of it as habits try and figure out ways in your life to make it easier for yourself to get out there and do it could be putting your stuff you know putting your shoes out overnight and sleeping in your run close it could be sometimes I actually do this I don't bring anything to work and I'm there in my run shoes and clothes and it forces me to run home from work and if for any reason I decide to not run home for work I'm just going home on the train in my run close I'm like oh gosh you know so so set systems in place to kind of keep yourself accountable in that way I love it so I'm about the power of cross training talk to us about why strength training will remain as your superpower through the journey of becoming and being a successful runner. Yeah so strength training is something that you know even before I became a coach I remember in college the gym is somewhere that I found peace because I could not hit a tennis ball because I had so much self doubt on the court and so the gym is somewhere where I excelled I really got along with my strength coach and I went in when I you know off hours right and so I think that first and foremost before we talk about the physical benefits being in the gym can be really really empowering with the right support and in the right environment and then the physical benefits of strength training for running are immense like I mean I won't go into a TED Talk here but if you're going to go out and put volume under your feet on the road that's going to translate to a lot of impact in your body and the only way besides progressively overloading the volume in your run program the the way to fast track your body being able to handle all that impact is to go into the gym and throw some heavier stuff around. You provide this stimulus that is controlled stress it's a controlled overload of stress and with the right controlled overload of stress plus the right recovery you will get stronger to handle more out on the road and I like to sort of steer clear from a lot of the science stuff and hopefully that you know keeping it in very simple English terms like that is relatable for people. How is our cadence going to vary? I think something we always get in from the audience is well you know how many times should I be strength training how many days a week should I be running well our answer is always it depends what are you training for what's your goal right you guys hate it but it's always going to say we're always going to say it depends. Let's give us an area though let's say someone's training for a half marathon right how often do we want to be in the gym and sharing that we're getting our strength work in and how are we dictating what we're doing right what's the difference between we have to have those off seasons right we have to give our body that break that's winter for a lot of us here in the north east you know what does a strength program for a runner look like in the off season versus you know peak resusing where we're doing a couple of runs we're doing the nine plus one we're doing all these things that are happening during the running season yeah so in the off well the it depends answer oh my gosh yeah what I'm quote off season yeah no no risk the the end up the it depends answer I have given so many times like in this way like it depends because I know that the shade I'm about to get is just like intense but yes if I'm going to speak sort of very generally here for somebody who maybe have be getting our intermediate runner running a half marathon if you are in your off season in terms of strength you want to work more towards like max to sub max strength right so so and ideally that's you know you start by laterally right your work your squat your work your deadlift your work your bench those main lifts and then you make sure that you have a very strong like unilateral base of strength as well but that off season is going to look heavier in the gym if you're doing less on the road then you can do more on the gym if you're doing more in the gym if you're doing more on the road do less in the gym so as you get closer to your race and as the mile start to increase right you're doing more on the road so now we want to keep the volume in the gym low you're still going to be getting stronger from that so we're looking at like a six rep range for lifts that are working you know lateral strength your working rotational strength as we rotate when we run but for the most part keeping it very simple and like not over doing it is just number one runners will over do it and runners will over do it everywhere because we're just gonna over do it over a two or a half and then lastly like as in this three part phase you know as you get really close to your race then I like to call it maintenance work so you're really honing in on your mobility you're making sure that you're staying springy and all your tendons and everything are like nice and healthy and bouncy but you are really being smart and keeping that volume to like a minimal amount as a runner when do you feel your best what are you doing when you're like my runs feel good I feel strong my head space feels good I feel like I'm giving myself enough rest what does that look like for you yeah I think that um it changes a lot for me um I mean I've been running for like seriously for like eight years now going from Iron Man to Marathon to like limbo and um so I think that and it's kind of context dependent on where I am in my life but generally speaking having a strong physical strength base is huge like I have PR a bunch of races adjacently to PR and lifts in a gym so it directly translates but even more so I would say that the if I can really hone in on the other pillars in my life sleep nutrition and stress if I can really get my sleep right if I can kind of lock in my nutrition doesn't have to be crazy strict but like just make sure I'm feeling enough you know and then mainly for me is is stress if I can really mitigate or you stress in a more productive way then I feel my best when I'm running and if one of those things is sort of out of whack I'm gonna feel it I think stress is something we don't talk often enough about and I feel the same exact thing if I'm having a stressful week at work if something within family life or personal life is stressing me out more than usual and I try to go out there for that run one my head may not be in it or it could be could be that polarized effect in in terms of what we were speaking too earlier my body will feel it though my heart rate will be higher I will feel inflamed my breath will be more rapid so I think if you're not feeling your best Christina just named all them right it's about what maybe are we over training look at that first what does my program look like am I sleeping enough because I know a lot of you out there are not well how are we feeling are you feeling enough because under feeling is becoming a huge topic I think we show a bit too much with strength and not enough grace especially if you're someone who is very active on a weekly basis and the number four stress and that's number four just because it's listed number four is not last if anything that one needs to work it's way a lot higher on your list and you know I think there have been a couple of situations that we've said in this episode both of us using exercise as stress relief and thousands if not millions I'm sure it is millions of you do the same well imagine how much better you would feel if you went into the gym any if you went out to that run if you had less stress in your life less stress in that day that you just experienced so I think that's super important thanks for hitting on it top egg number four for today we're going to wrap up for this one this is due for discomfort the importance of doing hard things I myself I like to challenge myself to extremely hard and extremely hard event once a year I take part in other races events I travel throughout the calendar year but once a year I really try to kind of go to war for lack of better term on something I've never done I call this being due for discomfort so that can be a half iron man having worked my way up to that full just yet hundred mile bike race a cold-plund cab maybe it's an unexpected injury like I'm experiencing right now this is something new for me and it's very hard so that's my hard thing for the year you know maybe it's writing a book you know recognizing that your due for discomfort is how you evolve as a human being in you Christina you love to link neurological studies and practices into the work that you bring to clients the tonal community your social content can you walk us through the importance on a neurological level of choosing to do hard things in life yeah yeah so I think that you know I hear the word resilience a lot it's a buzzword and everybody wants to be resilient that's that's sort of like why we throw ourselves into hard races and hard situations but sometimes people come into like come to face adversity in their life and want resilience and wonder what like where it is and and I start with this because everybody wants resilience but resiliency is built only by doing hard things and so there are going to be like mountains that we climb in life and there are going to be challenges and if we can put ourselves in these scenarios where we are practicing doing hard things willingly it will build our capacity to handle those real mountains and those real adversities when you're in a rehab setting right when you're injured to rehab that injury you are applying a minimal dose of controlled stress to that body part to that joint and with enough of that controlled stress and recovery over time that muscle will get stronger probably stronger than it was when you came in and our brain works the same way so we have to apply minimal dose we're not overloading ourselves with stress that's a conversation we just touched on but a minimal dose of stress to our brain exposing ourselves to something that is challenging and just like our muscles get stronger the brain is also going to get stronger it is so infinitely trainable but you have to put yourself in hard situations in uncomfortable situations in order to grow that muscle. I think everybody has a different hard too right my hard is not your hard is not our engineers hard right it could be running their first marathon or it could be running their first mile to our point earlier today it could be lifting their their own body weight or lifting 200 pounds in the bar it's really hard is such a it's a hard means so many different things and I think the comparative narrative is a path that you want to lead yourself down I think social media has contributed to this a lot I think we love to scroll and see this person doing these races and this person losing x amount away and this person going to this place where you've been wanting to go for 10 years it's we have to stop and you have to just kind of meet yourself where you are right now and figure out the best path for to where you want to be and your heart is going to look it's also going to look different in various stages of your life you've noted on this too hard for me I can't even imagine doing what I do today 10 years ago and I'm sure I hope to be seeing that in 10 years from now too I hope to constantly evolve. I will say to that point start interrupt you know it that just sparked like a very important thought there are you know two years ago I was in a very very tough emotional place like similar to the rock bottom I hit when I was 16 and in that year I was supposed to race a half iron man world championships and my body was not ready for it my mind certainly was not ready for it I could have gone I could have done it I could have pushed through but my pain points mostly emotionally we're telling me that something needs to change and so having that that half iron man world championship was my dream for two years to make it into because you have to qualify it was my dream and I finally did it and the year I hit my second rock bottom I decided to pull out of it and that was my heart that was so hard for me to face it was so hard for me to accept it was so hard for me to think that I was enough without doing that race but I I look back on that time and I'm like wow I grew so much from that and so I just you know tell this anecdote because to your point everybody's hard is different it could be doing an ultra marathon or for some people it could just be like getting out of bed going outside and like grabbing a coffee that day and either one is a tremendous win and I could have agreed more and not doing something is as part of it too not doing that race not staying in that relationship not you know continuing something that doesn't feel good to you mentally emotionally or physically anymore is just as hard as choosing to do something as well so I think that's a fantastic point point thanks for sharing last one Christina how do we meet ourselves with kindness and this kind of ties in perfectly to recognize and accept the fact that everyone has a different level of hard I just hit on this right but you know what is your process of deciding what kind of hard you need right now and choosing to challenge yourself because I think there are points in our life where we will fall a little more complacent and that's okay maybe you have emotional stressors that aren't allowing you where you want to be physically right now but how do you meet yourself with grace and kind of say okay I can press on the gas a little bit okay I'm ready to step on the brakes yeah grace is a huge word and then the second word that comes immediately to mind is compassion and I go back to like advice for a first time runner is you know show yourself compassion when you're doing something that feels challenging or you're not doing something and that feels challenging right show yourself compassion if you can't get to a workout you know we that tension that we feel comes from the fear center in our brain and so if we can you know apply a little bit of breathing and mindfulness and reflection that is all going to lead to more self compassion which in turn is going to lead to compassion for other people and so I mean that that is my biggest piece of advice compassion is it's grace but it's also patience and you're not allowing yourself a whole past for like everything you're not letting yourself become a couch potato but you are just be you are letting yourself be okay with wherever you are in that moment because I think that is when we feel the most resistance is when we feel like we should be somewhere else we should be doing that too we should be that is not self compassion that is going to lead to self destruction so compassion is my main word Christina thanks so much for stopping by today it's been so great to watch you on your journey the last couple years since we've known each other I'm excited to see where you go next tell the audience how they can fall along and the rest of your journey yeah so you can follow me on Instagram at Christina with a K under well let me say that again my name is spelled with a K so it's at Christina underscore centonari I you can find me on tonal you can find me in the Nike Running Community here in New York City I'm one of the coaches and yeah I'm not on any other social media so thanks for stopping by Christina thank you thanks for tuning in to another episode here at BodyBilling.com stay tuned for more stories along the way there

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com. Miss Neres, my name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Rachel Marriotti. Rachel is a licensed mental health therapist here in New York City as well as professional fitness coach. Her main focus in mental health treatment is building habits in order to grow mental resilience while addressing the physical and spiritual side of a person's being. Rachel began her work in a psychoanalytic clinic setting, treating patients with depression and anxiety. While in pursuit of her license, she started her own practice called mental hygiene, which is focused on building habits around mindfulness, emotional awareness, and breaking down negative beliefs through understanding words and reactions. She's been featured in Women's Health as a Mental Health Expert, was hired by Nike to speak on the Mind Body Connection, as well as by Athleta as a Mental Health Advisor for their Women's Online Community. Rachel has her master's degree in applied psychology from NYU and an NCSF certification in personal training. Rachel, welcome to the B become podcast. Thank you, Danielle. For the conversation that we have today. Yeah, I'm looking forward to this conversation. We had a good phone call before this, so I'm looking forward to it. Yeah, absolutely. I was telling you, we've worked with a number of your colleagues at Body Building so far, shout out to Gabe, and Megan and a couple others of the crew. So I decided to bring you in, excited to introduce you to our audience. I think we have something really valuable for everyone listening out there today. Agreed. Let's get into it. When we first spoke a couple of weeks back, you were telling me a little bit about these six pillars of wellness that you typically like to start out with when you have a new client or athlete that you're working with. What are these six pillars, and how did they really affect our daily well being? Let's break those down. Yeah, so to clarify, the six pillars is an assessment tool I use for mental hygiene clients. Not for personal training clients. And really, I'm not telling people what to do with these six pillars. I'm more so gaging their expectations around where they're at. And the six pillars are exercise diet and sleep, are the first three, and then relationships, mental health, and purpose are the latter three. So the first three are really looking at the body, and how a client who's wanting to work on a specific area of their mental health, how they're handling their body. And what their expectations are, and I have them rate each pillar one to ten. So it just gives me, it's really, it gives me a sense. This is done on the first session, and it gives both of us a sense of, okay, actually, didn't realize I could spend more time in my relationships, or I can, I didn't realize how much I wasn't connected with my purpose. Meaning, my work, or my general life purpose, which many of us seem to lose sight of that, we value our work so much. That it becomes our, or it feels like it's our entire self-worth, and we're spending less time being present in other areas of our life outside of work. So the latter three pillars are really where more sensitive, important conversations come up, the body side of the being is also important, and there's some information in the sleep before losing sleep, usually it's tied to our mental health, what's keeping you up at night. So it's just a gauge of how someone's handling their life. And I guess I never called it six pillars of wellness, but you can consider it that, but I don't strictly label it that. You hand in a couple minutes ago, you said, we put a lot emphasis on exercise and work. Is that typically the same pattern that you're seeing a lot with the clients that you're working with, where are those six pillars are, they spend a majority of their time, and where do you try to really coach them and guide them and to spend in a little more time? I think it's not an over exaggeration of people working out too much when we fill out the six pillars, or at least I don't see people rating themselves too low. Generally, everybody I talk to is in a good mental space and meeting their expectations with their exercise and diet. I've had a few clients who are maybe a little too extreme with their food and that ties into the mental and ties into other really ties into other areas of their life. When it's all said and done, when we're being extreme with food, but yeah, the purpose pillar and the relationships pillar where we spend the most time usually, and mental health is kind of reefliction of those things. Can you give us an example of maybe a recent client and the process that you typically follow? Sure, let me think of the most recent one is someone who does overwork themselves. He's a doctor and he has his own practice and he's running into a new situation. His exercise diet and sleep are actually in a great place, but there's some road bumps happening in his work and it's causing more resistance and not conflict, but stress in his family. So that's when we focus more on present thinking and understand, okay, well, where are the thoughts coming from and are they too extreme? Can we dial them down a little bit in order to handle the moment and a high stress to work environment? But another example is a woman I started talking to who's on the social front can, she's yearning for more social connection, just based on her environment, not as many, she's not a New York city, she's in Canada, but you know, she's more socially isolated. So her connection is through the internet really. And you know, it ends up tying into mental health. You start spending so much time with yourself. You spend more time in your head. You compare yourself to other people on social media and in those cases I see diet and exercise and sleep in a good place because if those aren't in a good place then everything is starting to lose its stability. So usually when, so there are a couple flags that I see when exercise diet and sleep are in a great place, it's still a yellow flag to me. I'm like, okay, well, this is stable. Something else is unstable. That's not always the case, but I'm starting to form that theory. Awesome, yeah, in the clients that you typically work with, what are some of the blockers that we're running into the most? Is it anxiety? Is it depression? Is it more so just dealing with everyday life and learning how to truly balance, right? And we like to throw around the same work-life balance, right? You can also argue that there is no such thing. We're kind of, there's no such thing. There's a sweet and there's a such thing. But in the United States there's such a thing. Exactly, so how, especially in the United States, how do we begin to even kind of cope with the overwhelming daily lives that we've kind of embedded ourselves in? Well, New York is just completely abnormal place to live. And people come here because they want to work and they want to further their curious. So there's already a mindset that you buy into. And so I don't really compare New Yorkers to everyone else, but there are bigger general trends. I think, to go back to your question, anxiety is what I see more than depression with my clients and with myself. I've maybe that's a Vibe attracts your tribe type of thing. I talk about mental health on Instagram. I have a certain way of talking about it. I have certain experiences and therefore, garners are certain audience that reaches out to me who maybe end up want to do mental hygiene sessions. But generally, I see more anxiety out there than depression. That's just what I see. But I look at it as a positive thing. People do want to better themselves. And with that comes anxiety. I mean, if you want to better your career, if you want to be better than the next person, you got to start working harder and you got to start going into unknown territory with what you're doing with your life. And that's a recipe for anxiety. But it's useful. And I know we'll talk about athletes, athletes having anxiety, but it's very channeled. And there's a lot more pressure. And there's a goal. There's a cleared role, which is different than life. There's no clear goals with once you get out of college, unless you are a doctor. Right. You say mental hygiene, and that's the name of your private branding, right? So why mental hygiene? Why not? What led you to mental hygiene as the naming convention? I started mental hygiene in 2017 when I was at the clinic. And hygiene was the first word that came into my mind. And I'm leaning actually more toward mental resilience now. But mental hygiene is hygiene, as you would think of it for your physical hygiene, or things that human beings have discipline themselves to do in order to... In order to... Yeah, I mean, I mean, 300 years ago, where we brushing our teeth, I don't know. Maybe we were, but dental hygiene has certainly become a discipline, because we've recognized that it actually impacts our health. But we actually had to train ourselves to brush our teeth. At one point, we weren't brushing our teeth. And maybe in other areas of the world, they still don't do that. I mean, but things like that, and taking care of your skin, and taking care of your physical hygiene, taking showers. I mean, I know these are very rudimentary things now, because we can laugh at them now. But what about our mental side of things? You know, our brains are now computing far more content and information now than we were five years ago, 10 years ago, 50 years ago. We're way more connected. So where's the discipline? Are we going to be 50 years behind? Who wants to learn this first? So we can survive longer at a better quality. I'm signing me up. Same. So I think that's what I've been curious about since I moved to New York, really. I mean, I moved to New York, and I was like, whoa, there's a lot more people here. This is a lot of stimulus from where I move from where, from Ohio. Yeah. Shout out to Midwest people. More at simple. And there probably is a better quality of life. But I chose not to do that. And I stuck it out. I'm still here for 13 years. But I think for the better. But I realized that that made me really curious about just human interaction, human behavior, and psychology. And I learned more about my own mental health through my behavior and my body through working out and going to the extremes of it, going to the extremes of diet, and physically being burnt out from it. I was also in my 20s. Everybody does dumb things in their 20s. So I give myself some slack there. And if you're in your 20s screwing up your nervous system, I think it's normal. I don't think it's normal when you reach your late 20s and your early 30s considering maybe we're growing up a little bit later now. The end of adolescence is technically now 25, not 19. And that's been said by psychologists, not just making that up. So there's societal shifts that cause us to develop a little bit later. And maybe we have more time to screw up, which is good. But when I was in my early 20s, it was so extreme that it was damaging. Eating disorder, just very extreme thinking. There's no room for middle ground. So it's a lot of negative thinking. And the high high anxiety can lead to depression. And especially that layered in with loneliness and inconsistency with friendships and specifically in the city can feel really depressed. So the way I handled it was exercise and diet, but too extreme. And that eventually, and this is how this is really formed for me. It was my relationships, but really my purpose that led me to some kind of stability. And then I was able to be like, OK, I can actually be a little bit more gentle. I actually feel like I can be more gentle. I feel more safe to not be so hard on myself with extreme thinking about food or extreme thinking about working out. And I think I really have made a leap in the last two years. So and that came with a lot of, I think, in some ways, spirituality, I moved out of New York and came back. And that gave me a lot of perspective. And a lot of perspective about people, my energy, about fitness, and moved to South Florida, which was very fitness-oriented city. But for a different reason, it's not to blow off your stress and to numb yourself. It's because people actually enjoy fitness. And they want to move their body. And they just want to feel the pain of them. And they want to work out six hours a day. And I actually think that six hours is way healthier than the two hours that New Yorkers want to crush themselves. And maybe things are changing. And I'm holding this earlier period of my New York lifestyle and kind of conflating that with what I see in the fitness industry. I think people are generally more balanced. But I still see an over-exertion of the nervous system, just visually. And it's too much. Yeah, you may have added point. I mean, anxiety translating to very intense balance of exercise, very intense balance of movement, just to sort of kill that voice, die that voice down a little bit. And just go for a long run. OK, I feel better. Great. I got a quote unquote. I got the demons out. How does someone begin to recognize that that is anxiety? Maybe they don't even realize that they're overworking in their outworking themselves to just the point of pure physical and emotional exhaustion at the end of the day. How do they really begin to take a step back and realize why, what's feeling that? That's a great question. And I hope I can answer it clearly to get maybe got some people to balancing out their physical body in their mental state. It's not always clear, though. I think if there's negative thinking or fear driving you to the gym, even if it's just a little bit, and these come down to the automatic negative thoughts, we call them ants. And this is coming from another psychologist that calls them ants, automatic negative thoughts, that if there's a little bit of fear driving you to the gym or doubt about your body, you need to take more time for your mental health and not numb your mind at the gym as much. I mean, I don't have that fear. I haven't had that fear going to exercise in the last, at least two years. And maybe even longer. And that's a blessing. Because there are always doubts and body image conflicts that I've had, even if they became more subtle, I could recognize when they were not existant. And you can observe how you go about your diet also because it seems like those are paired up, exercise and diet are paired up in the fitness industry a lot. So that's when I think you can start to understand, OK, maybe I could pay a more attention to mental health. And there's a professor in New York, his Alan Watkins. He is a TED talk. It's from like 2017. I watched it a few weeks ago. I don't know a lot about this guy. He said something very important in this TED talk was that in terms of emotional awareness and the importance of it is that we will numb ourselves first by going out on the weekends drinking. I mean, that used to be kind of a culture and it still is. And it's fun. You know, the work culture has changed, but people go numb themselves by binge drinking on the weekends. And then it turns into you become obsessed with work. Or you start to distract your mental health with work or sex or working out. You go to the gym, pump some weights, and your mind becomes numb. It's not meditation. It's not mindfulness. Yes, you might be present when you're working out. And I think it's great. Honestly, we should all work out the adequate amount to take care of our health. But I think it's good to start questioning, OK, well, how much are we spilling over into numbing, maybe what we could be thinking about a little bit more, which is our emotional health. And as it relates to our relationships and our own self, our own self worth being OK with what you have right now. And knowing that there's plenty of possibilities and opportunities out there, too. Move your life in the right direction on the spectrum of time. Right. We talk a lot about aesthetic driven goals. We talk a lot about body dysmorphia, specifically, and probably can pertain to a lot of our listeners out there, who may have experienced it in the sport of bodybuilding. Or maybe just as athletes in general, and this is going to start to shift our conversation into more athletics. How do we get to a point where we're not purely training for the figure that's looking back at us in the mirror, right? And when we're sitting in there in the gym, and how do we begin to differentiate a performing body versus maybe a quote unquote aesthetically pleasing body, because those two aren't mutually exclusive to be able to perform and be a top of the line marathon runner or triathlete or cross-fitter or bodybuilder. That's that say bodybuilding, right? Let's say it's performing sports, right? You're going to need to focus on performance over aesthetics in order to get the glute strength that you need to be a premier cyclist, to get the course strength that you're going to need to be a really great swimmer, right? So how do we kind of begin to differentiate the line between training for performance and training for aesthetics and without getting too wrapped up in aesthetics when performance is the goal? Yeah, it's a really good question. And the first thought that came to my head was that we as human beings, especially given our media structure, we all have a hard time living in ambiguity. It's really difficult for someone's mind to be saying, I want to be strong, but I also want to be for women. I want to be lean and slender. Right. And or I want to be the athlete that I was when I was 22 or 17 or whatever age, but I also want to look good for a partner that I'm trying to attract. So that just takes time. I think it's my message would be don't be too hard on yourself. That will all sort itself out, which doesn't really people's anxiety in the now, but I think if you sit and think about it and understand what you're saying to yourself, what's the value of trying to be like you were when you're 17 and trying to sprint as fast? It makes you feel good in the moment, but if you're on, if it feels like you're a hamster on the wheel, what aren't you looking at? And if attracting a partner is more important to you, are you ignoring yourself? And are you ignoring something? Maybe attracting a partner is more valuable to you. And maybe that's a scary thing. You're not going to figure it out by running 15 miles an hour on the skill mill. You know, it will help you feel alleviate in the moment, but when you go back home and you feel lonely, I'm referring back to my 22-year-old self. You have to sit with those thoughts and start to redirect that anxiety into, okay, I'm going to accept parts of myself and try to attract a partner if that's what I think I want and see how that feels. And I guarantee you, in that moment, you try to pay attention to the other feelings, you will feel relief. Even if it doesn't work out, there's anxiety in trying new things. I mean, the dating scene in New York is terrifying for a lot of people, but why does it have to be terrifying? It can be a new experience and in the process you are learning about yourself versus numbing yourself with work or work outs or whatever it may be. Right, and this may be talking to trainer Rachel and Coach Rachel for a second here, but I mean, it's fair to say that we have to choose between aesthetics and performance at the end of the day. So I mean, if you're going to run the New York City marathon, I mean, your body's going to do what it needs to do. If you expect to perform well and I'll use myself as an example here. I mean, 18-year-old Danielle going into a division one program and immediately putting on muscle that I didn't, I was building muscles that I didn't even know I had at the time. That way. And me being fearful during that period because seeing upper classmen at the time and seeing what they look like at 18 versus what they look like at 21 after a four-year-of-that type of strengthening and conditioning, I was scared. I was like, I don't want to look like that at the same time. This is the body. You sort of need to build to perform well on this sport. And I think I fought with your sport, self-ball. So I was a power athlete. It was about that first step. It was about getting your hips through a swing as powerful as you can. And you didn't want to look. And I didn't want to, yeah, I didn't want to quote unquote get bulky even though the term of women getting bulky is just so outdated at this time. And I think I really fought that hard. And I didn't fuel myself. I didn't feed myself the way I needed to for those four years. And I don't think I reached my highest potential because today I'm sitting here doing half ironman's and 18-year-old Danielle wouldn't even dream of doing that. And I'm feeling myself properly. I have more muscle than I did at 18-22 during that program, right? And I care a little less about aesthetics at the end of the day because I'm like, oh my gosh, look, I can go and do a half ironman for five, six hours. And my body can do these three movements for hours and hours and hours. And a more proud about that at this point than I was, you know, that I think I can say in the four years of that program because I'm just so, I guess I'm grateful that I have a body that's able to do this. And I want to continue to push the limits to see what else they can do. And worry a little less about what my body looks like in the process of doing that. Yeah, yeah, I totally understand that. And I can resonate with that a little bit being a track athlete and college sprint athlete where you really get to put on some serious leg muscle. And I was eating like, felt like a linebacker. I'm like, this is a lot. And I feel heavy and I didn't necessarily like it. And you know, 18 to 21, the scope of our long-term values is very narrow. So that's the time where you screw up and there's all these extreme thinking or extreme types of thinking. When, you know, how old are you now? 30, 30. So yeah, I think I'm 33. I know at 40 I'll have completely different views. I mean, some overlapping views and values. I'm sure. But I think as we continue down the road of time, our values become broader. And that is a relief on our nervous system. So the, you know, 20s, the 30s is extremely volatile but I see there can be a lot of room for improvement with emotional awareness. And even in our 30s, given that we are all kind of tied to social media and connection and comparison and I think managing that is important. But yeah, I think to go back to your point about aesthetics and to conflict there, the ego is very strong in early 20s and there are parts of us for me specifically, sports played into my social status. So I'm under this belief coming from my 15 year old self that if I'm good at sports, people will like me. And that was a conditioning that happened just being in middle school and high school. I saw that I became better at sports. I started making more friends. That felt good. Keep doing that. And it could be a reason why I went into fitness. I think I don't see it not tying into why I decided to choose fitness as a career because I looked at myself in my early fitness career, Instagram posting and I'm posting how I'm athletic and I'm posting. I can jump on a box that's higher than you. And I can sprint faster than you. And this became, you know, this helped my Instagram following. But you know, I don't have that many followers, but it's certainly plays with your ego all the way through your 20s. And you think this is important. I thought it was important. And maybe it is to a certain degree with business, but it's really not that important. So it's the message and the message is more important. And I found that my message earlier on in my career with fitness, which is why I went into mental health as a professional was that work out a lot and be athletic and be lean like me and be cool. That was my message, basically. And it was not healthy, you know, behind the scenes, I'm like spinning my wheels on how I'm looking and am I going in the right direction with my life and I'm feeling anxious. I'm feeling depressed. And I'm putting my extreme workouts on a pedestal like you can be lean like me. But I guess I didn't also, you know, market the fact that you will be anxious and depressed like me too if you do this. Right. So I think my bias when I look at fitness in general is that I don't think everybody's like that, but I still believe that we are overtaxing our nervous system by numbing ourselves with exercise too much. And I think it becomes an identity at a certain point, right, especially younger athletes, you know, let's talk about athletes specifically here for a second, even though we've really moved into that, you know, how in athletes mindset transitions into mental durability. And I think we're kind of talking about the negative side of it right now. So let's keep that going and then we'll flip it to the positive. If an athlete starts a sport, let's say eight or nine, they're starting early in early these days. I mean, they're combing for scholarships at 11, 12 years old. At this point. So, you know, someone starting to be crazy. Yeah, yes, let's talk about it. You know, they're starting to sport eight and nine. They're getting really, really great at the sport 10, 11, 12. Okay, 13, 14, 15, let's start recruiting. Okay, now I have to be number one because that would be sought out by the one scout that's gonna be coming here to look at thousands of athletes in a weekend. Okay, now I got into college. All right, now I have to work my way into the starting line up. Okay, great. Number one, now I want to be all American, right? Okay, now I want to go pro when I'm done with college. So this starts from such a young age. What happens when it ends? Because it will end and that's what a lot of people, younger people don't realize I didn't realize it at a certain point and became my identity. My sports certainly did. When it ends, they are facing complete mental crisis. I mean, they are experiencing, in, for lack of a better word, and identity crisis. They don't really know who they are without this sport, without the training, without somebody telling them where they have to be and when they have to be there and how much they have to practice for this one thing that they've set their sights on, right? So let's talk about that range, that time span, of where it's such a fixated duration, and then that ends, right? And what happens? So how do they transition in a normal life? Sure, yeah, well, it's something that a lot of people can relate to for sure. You know, spending that much time in a sport, I was in gymnastics at age four, and I really didn't stop sports until I was 18. And for those that are out there following that scenario, more extreme going elite, all American and pro, and then it comes to an end, I think it can end up in a crisis if there are, depending on a lot of things. I mean, if you're not emotionally aware of what's going on, you're generally not between the ages of 10 and 25, let's just call it 20, but you know, the emotional awareness aspect of the fact that this is not necessarily, how it's, this is not sustainable, this type of effort. And if you're emotionally aware of that, if you are seeing a counselor and you are seeing a therapist or one of the two, and your parents are supporting you, no matter what type of performance you come out with, that helps, but the ego in that process, if you are becoming that good, and there's not a really a lot of emotional awareness, it could end up in a crash and burn the scenario, and you know, that can get pretty ugly, but generally most people don't, you know, end up in worst case scenarios like suicide from that and such an identity shift, because they end up having something else to focus on, like work or, you know, getting a job, and then that transition is rocky, or more or less rocky for certain people. But I do think the emotional awareness and counseling through those times is very important, which is generally why we should all be going to therapist, even if we're in a more subtle transition, like going from 38 to 40, you know, or when you enter a new decade, or when you break up with somebody, or when you move to a new place, or whatever transition, when you lose somebody, there's always transitions happening, just not as greatly as that. So I think, you know, to speak to your audience, there's a lot of athletes, just recognize, you know, what parts of your ego you're still holding on to that, you can not like go of, but maybe attach to and put value to your new identity, whatever that may be, whether that's, I wanna be a good stand-up person to attract a partner or to sort of family, or, you know, I don't know what it is. I don't have the best advice here. I'm still figuring it out, my life, you know, my identity crisis right now, if you wanna call it a crisis, it's not a crisis, but I'll become, I'll become a mother in two months. Who the heck knows, I'm gonna handle that, you know? And I think, I've done a good job of letting go of my ego as an athlete, I think, I'm pretty sure. You know, I still wanna nice body after I have a kid, but I don't think I'm going, I think I value more being gentle on my nervous system than, you know, having a six pack or even just having a lean stomach, I mean, I would like to have a lean stomach after having a baby. I know that, but I don't, I don't, I think when it runs into me, having negative thoughts and me taxing my nervous system, then I'll say, okay, well, so be it, I'm not gonna have a lean stomach for another six months. I can handle that. I think I'm confident that I'll have that mindset. Just because I'm okay not being 25 anymore, you know? And you know, willing to put yourself through the stress that it would take to cut that timeline in half. So, you know, let me, let me, let me be less stressed and get to that finish line or get to that goal in six months from now, as opposed to making myself absolutely crazy and getting there three months from now. Even if that was a cheap, cheap, a one, very well could be, right? You could immediately get back out there and run yourself into the ground that would be ill advised, obviously, but you could, and I'm sure there are people out there that do it, but to have just, let's say, emotional maturity, let's say, to just take a step back and realize my body needs time to heal, my body needs time to go through this transition right now. And I'm gonna prioritize mental health over the physical right now in terms of getting back to what I'm hoping to get back to. Yeah, yeah, I think, I was thinking while you were saying that the support that I have and the support that anybody has from a partner or good friends really matters. And none of this has done alone. I mean, I think my emotional maturity is the result of taking risks to find good people to support me. So the taking risk part is anxiety, but once you verbalize where you're at in your life and you find acceptance, you can start bringing in people that can support you for who you are right now. And that does relieve your nervous system and that makes you feel safe enough where you're like, okay, I don't have to look perfect all the time. I feel, I have people that look like me, the way I'm in, the way I'm right now, that's great. So, but you have to be willing to put yourself out there and accept yourself the way you are right now to get those people in your life. I really believe that, it's all a reflection. So it's a little bit of risk taking in terms of accepting yourself. You know, yeah, absolutely. You know, not only the personal support, but also just the professional support just going back to the life of an athlete, we're seeing more and more implementation of mental health resources in the collegiate landscape. Even at the high school level, I'm even seeing it. Shout out to where I went to school after university on Long Island, they just hired their first director of mental health for their athletic department and I'm like, wow, and I just took a step back. I'm like, that's huge. Yeah, it's a big deal. It's massive. It's massive. And when one of us, you know, I experienced a couple injuries, my teammates experienced a couple of injuries and they kind of just shuffle you over into the general counseling department for the university, which is fine. It's great that that's part of their process, but to have someone in there now who has a viewpoint of the day-to-day of what these athletes are going through to really understand what it means that they're now injured. They're now taking out of this sport. They're not going to be able to physically exercise for three, four, six a year, right? That's massive. And I hope that continues. I hope we continue to see that shift at those levels. Yeah, it's all a matter of the spectrum of time that you're working with as an individual. I mean, if your anxiety is just about performing for the next three years, then the counselor is probably going to focus on the next three years versus, let me make you more emotionally mature for the rest of your life. That's not realistic. So yeah, I think, but the micro is being able to manage your mental and those micro months or years, especially when it's something as big as an injury and you can't perform super important. And that will translate into the emotional resilience and being able to shift gears in other big life transitions for sure. What's your advice for an athlete and any sport and any, let's say, level of the emotional and mental role of course, that's surely to come when they experience an injury. Everybody's going to get hurt, everybody's going to get injured at some point and it's always going to depend on what you're experiencing of how long you're going to be out. But what's the first piece of advice you have to offer someone when they get hurt and they can't do, they can't go through with their daily routine? Well, well, I, fortunately, I haven't been through any serious injury where it set me back. But the first thing that came to my head was to have, to have the support system you need. I think most people naturally seek out comfort through other people when it's something that large or significant, but to keep your mind moving, to keep your mind moving on something that you enjoy. If you're physically disabled short-term, there has to be other things that you may be interested in that may, you may find joy in. So it's all about a matter of where you put your attention. I mean, if I were to get seriously injured right now and I'm disabled, I would probably tell myself what's other things that I can enjoy with my mind and to keep my mind active and, you know, for survival reasons, but for, you know, also not, beating myself up and getting in my own head, it's all just a matter of where I put my focus. And that can be the, you know, that's the same advice that they tell somebody if they're in their own head, if they're looking at Instagram too much. It's really a matter of where you're putting your focus. You know, you can put your focus on comparing yourself, but you can put your focus on things that you enjoy too. It's harder for some people depending on, you know, their psychological profile and their time perception and all of that. But yeah, injury, you know, I've had some mental hygiene clients that have been through a long history of injury and it's some of them are chronic and it's almost become part of them that if they don't feel injured, if they don't feel somewhat not as good as the other people, then they actually lose their identity and that becomes another problem. What about something you just said remind me, I mean, what about the individuals out there who they have to feel sore? They always have to feel beat up. If they don't feel beat up and just absolutely wrecked and love those people. Like destroy my family entertainment. Seven days a week. Well, I used to be me. Maybe not seven days a week. I think more, you see more men that are kind of like this. You know, I have a couple, there are a couple colleagues that one of my colleagues at work, shout out to Jason. He works out with his buddy all the time and they're always just going hard and his friend joked around that, you know, I'm always in zone four every like 45 minutes. And they both look great. But, you know, I think to each their own, at the end of the day, if your mental is struggling, then maybe that's time to redirect some of the attention. If you wanna go hard seven days a week and you can manage doing it and you could perform that well and you can maintain good sleep and you can maintain your hormonal balance and you can maintain good relationships and you can maintain, you know, taking risks to find a partner or find new friends, then go hard seven days a week. That's amazing. Yeah, but if one of those things are starting to falter and cause issues for your mental health or your nervous system, then but you have to pay attention to these things, you know? Right, absolutely. Let's talk about the positive effects of being an athlete and transitioning into everyday life, right? You know, let's go back to the eight and nine year old who worked so long, you know, a decade plus, to become the very best that they could be at something, right? How does that translate into relationships and the workplace and just everyday life, you know, past the college level or past whatever level it is that they couldn't go or tired from? I miss the first part. How does what translate? What are the positive benefits of being an athlete and, you know, being a, okay, let's say, competitive performance athlete, right? You've gone through extreme training, you've been a part of a team dynamic. How does that translate into just normal life? Well, when you're an athlete, you have to be present. So that's a positive. You have to be present on the field that you're as Sam Harris, who's a neuroscienceist, he would phrase it, you know, when you're an athlete, you're as close to the present moment as you can be and that's the same with sex. That's why these things are euphoric and they feel great because we're so close to the present moment. So I think that's a, that's a great experience to be an athlete. When else do we get to be present? I mean, 50% of the time our attention is diverted to other things, not the present moment. That's true, it's 47%. We are not thinking about the present moment. So being an athlete automatically, I'm like, well, that's a great experience and you're moving your body and you're challenging your body. You're making it more resilient by risk taking. That's a huge positive. So automatically the body remembers that it, it has a store of that memory. And I think if that's something that you want to repeat through exercise, that could be a positive experience. It's a positive experience to challenge your body through exercise. And you can certainly be present and you keep your breath on a rhythm for 60 minutes, 45 to 60 minutes. So those are certainly positives. Maybe short-term, more short-term positives. And I think the discipline, the discipline to get yourself up and push yourself. Now, once again, going back to the subtle fear or doubt that people may have to drive themselves to the gym is not discipline. And let's be clear. If you have a little bit of fear because you're looking in the mirror and you're saying I ate too much last night, I need to go to the gym. Maybe some of that's discipline, but you're more being driven by fear. And I think it's important to distinguish that. But the people that are getting up and pushing themselves and actually balancing their zone to cardio and their strength training and their mobility. It takes discipline. And I think being an athlete, you have a coach and you have a schedule and someone pushing units. That's a big, important translation into real life and taking care of your body. Absolutely. Longer of points. Let's shift, no pun intended to the great shift. How a post-pandemic society places emphasis on longevity. Let's talk about why it's taken a pandemic for us to put a little more emphasis on longevity basic goals as opposed to performance and aesthetic basic goals. Sure, those types of goals still exist. But why are we a little less focused on burning ourselves out in our 20s, our 30s and 40s? And we're our mind is shifting to the 70s, the 80s, the 90s. What do you think has caused that shift? Well, I think the pandemic obviously was a frightening thing. To be clear, it scared the shit out of a lot of us, especially in April 2020 in New York City, specifically. I mean, I was wiping off my grocery bags and afraid I was going to kill somebody, you know? So I think just to be mindful of that, it was a scary time. But it also caused us to slow down and accelerate certain parts of our lives, the things that we may have been not paying attention to. And see what happens when the world stops, when the stock market stops, when you're sitting at home and you don't have to follow the same inertia of the day, it's an actual physical slowing down. And when you're able to slow down, then what I saw and what I did with my life, you know, when I see this with a lot of people in New New York, was they actually started to take action on the things that they've been thinking about, which is moving out of the New York, having kids traveling the world, you know, not being a super spreader, but traveling the world. And so I think that's the same thing that I'm, that's the same message that I'm trying to say of working out too much is maybe, is maybe making you overlook the moments you could be slowing down to take better care of your long-term health. But I agree with you that it's shifted our focus to longevity. They're certainly that word is popped up more. Women's health has been more of a conversation. I've heard more about periods than in the last year that I've ever heard. I can't believe I'm 33 and I'm learning more about periods and like, wow, that's just great. Yep, all new memories. How does this one goes? This information come about. I hope guys learn about it too. I think it's important. I want to learn more about men's hormonal health. But yes, I think we think more about our 70s and 80s because we were able to slow down and recognize that there are values to thinking this way. And when we're better at connecting the dots long-term to now, it's an immediate relief. You start to solidify your values and that has a big impact on our mental health. Yeah, I view it as this giant, oh shit moment, right? It was a, I mean, they're not living up to sort of my own expectations, not in an extreme manner, but also I'm doing way too much. And I was someone who fell into that category of the second I didn't have to go into office and fully remote now, shout out to PottyBillin.com. But at the time, my routine was get up at five in the morning, trying to go to the gym before I go to the office. You're in the office all day, six o'clock. You're going and doing maybe another yoga class after work. You're going to meet up with people afterwards. And you're looking at 18 hour days. And then you're getting six hours to sleep average, right? Today I get eight and a half, nine hours to sleep. And I feel the best that I have. So just I mean, just seeing shifts in sleep, habits, seeing shifts in nutritional habits. And then of course, the physical habits, too. Do I really need to be putting in 100 mile months as that necessary, right? So I like to call it the Oh shit moment for all of us collectively and just to take a step back and we need to have nine hours. Jeez, I'm jealous. I'm track it on a watch. Yeah, I have a loop. Yeah, I have a loop. Yeah, I have a loop. I try to sleep on my, or a ring. It's not a plug for them or anything. But I like tracking my sleep. No, let's get into them first. I mean, when these devices now, I mean, they have started implementing a female cycle tracking, right, administration tracking. And that kind of bug, it bothers me some reason. Why? I don't know. How can you track someone's cycle through a ring? It's just, well, it's the same as HRB, I feel. I don't feel that we're at the, let's remove the devices that we're talking about. It's like Donald's offering salads. Like, that's kind of a stretch. Yeah. Yeah. But just, I mean, accuracy aside for a moment, just the fact that the fact that you, the point that you made, right, we're talking about it now. It shouldn't have taken this long. The fact that we're talking about it, the fact that efforts are being made to help female athletes across the globe really implement this into how they go about their training schedule. And I want to talk about that. You were a really great piece recently. All you read it. Yeah, I read it. It was great. We'll link it in this episode. But it was just a really great first person experience of how the menstruation cycle impacts your daily life. Not just your training routine. I would love for you to just tell everybody a little bit about it. Well, yeah. And I don't want to lose the men here. But I think it's important that we all support each other in our own hormonal health. And guys, listen up. It's important for you. I'm not going to dive too deep here. But I think the culture of fitness has driven women to work out too much and not pay attention to their hormonal health. And now that's becoming a conversation. So it makes me wonder what's going on with men. Men have their own pressures of making more money and providing for a family. And that's the outer pressure or societal pressure that. And then I don't know in terms of body image for how it goes for men. But men have a circadian rhythm, men have testosterone, men need to have sleep. And women, we have a circadian rhythm, but we have the infrared in rhythm. This is something that I learned as of the last year. I'm not an expert here. This is coming from a podcast from Alyssa VT, who started the flow app. And I use that here on the kiss on pregnant. And what I talked about in the article was my journey in losing my menstrual cycle. So the infrared in rhythm of a woman is during her reproductive years, she has a cycle. And it's a fluctuation of estrogen and progesterone, essentially. And those things cause different energy balances. So when estrogen is rising or falling, you may feel more tired or fatigued or whatever. I don't know the exact rise and fall. But there are four phases to the cycle during a woman's reproductive years. So paying attention to that is important. And the article that I wrote was that your menstrual cycle can be your therapist if you don't have one. And a funny enough and I'm happy to have heard this from other podcasts, there's like Tim Ferris and Andrew Huberman. And they had mentioned that if you are taking care of your reproductive cycle, and I think that goes for men too, that if men have a low sperm count, maybe it's time to reassess what you're doing with your mental health and physical health. And for women, if you're not having a cycle, what's going on with your nervous system, what are areas of your health that you can focus on? And that was my therapist. That's what I said. I paid attention to my cycle. I lost it for seven years. I was overworking out. I mean, I was working out too much rather. And I was being extreme with my diet. I was doing intermittent fasting. I was doing stupid cleanses. And I didn't have a period. I was also very stressed. And I think things like irritable bowel syndrome and infertility and irregular cycle can be tied to a series of things. And some of it is genetic. I can't speak for everyone. But exercise, stressing the nervous system too much was something that I recognized in my journey. And also now being pregnant, I started ramping up my exercise again. And I like to do intense. And this is part of my ego seeing other people on Instagram wanting to compete a little bit, showing that I still got it. My doctor's like, no, it's just slow down. Just relax. And there's part of my feelings were, there was a subtle feeling of shame. And what's wrong with me that I can't work out as intensely as other people who are also pregnant, that are working out. And then I kind of came to terms with it. I'm like, there's things that I don't know. And honestly, what's the bigger problem here? What's the bigger value here? Is keeping myself healthy so I can keep the baby healthy. I mean, it's another human. And then there's also part of me that's like, I don't mind now working out, actually. But I don't want to get too cozy there. I mean, I know I'll discipline myself. But my message from that experience is that the stress of New York City and my psychological profile and maybe the added stress of walking and doing all these workouts is just too much on my nervous system. And so first came the physical adjustment, but really it's a mental adjustment too, and acceptance. So putting the devices away for a second and throwing them out the window, right? How important is body awareness, especially for women and in relation to menstrual cycles, right? Just check in with yourself, right? And I know that sounds much more easier said than done, right? But you can really start to understand the patterns of your body and what you're going through. And in week one, I feel like this and this is how I feel in between. For me, the week leading up to it, I am, it's tough to get out of bed, right? And I am sluggish and I am irritable. And I just feel huge. And everything about me just feels wrong. And I take, I slow it down, right? I just focus on some zone two. I just, I lift a little lighter. I'm not trying to do my block training, right? So I think body awareness is a huge piece there. And I think I think at times, we become a little too reliant on some of these devices as advances they are. And I've been wearing woop for three and a half years, every single day, I think I have thousands of days logged. But I think I do become a little dependent because I'll see a red and I'll say, oh, I can't, I can't go and run that seven miles today. Or, well, especially if you're iron-man training, you want to be very specific. Right, right? Or I'll see the green, but then I say, I don't, I feel awful. It says 93% but it feels awful, but I guess I have to go and push through that three hour block anyway. So how important is it to develop body awareness? Well, the thing about the wearables is if you have an OCD personality, you know what you're signing up for. So if that's part of the reason why I stopped wearing the Apple watch is because I would obsessively and just muscle memory wise, check how many, if I filled the rings. And even if I, if I didn't have it, it's just like if I didn't have ice cream, I wouldn't eat it. You know, if I didn't have it, I wouldn't check it. No. And there would be more mental peace. So I think, know yourself. If you're an obsessive type person and you know you're going to check it, well, then work with your extreme mindset when you check it. And sometimes that's the thing. If it's, you see the red, then it can be psychosomatic, then you actually feel red. That becomes tricky. And you know, if you didn't look at it and you're like, I feel green. And then you look at it and I feel red, and then you're like, well, I know I feel green because I said it before I looked at it. You know, whatever. But I think it's, it's, you know, I could tell, I've kind of, and I train myself with social media too. Like I know the times of day when I go on to social media that I'll be more vulnerable and I'll just keep comparing myself. And you know, there aren't specific times of the day. It's not like 2pm. I feel more vulnerable. It's just like, okay, I know myself and I purposely try not to look at it because I'm protecting myself. And but I also know that, okay, there's parts of being able to see the watch and understand my body at the same time is important. So it graduated exposure, if you will. Yeah, so I mean body, body awareness really translating to actually just self-awareness at the end of the day and just knowing yourself best. Right. So yeah, you've mentioned it a few times. So you're expecting congratulations. Thank you. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. I'm very excited to talk about it. Break it down. Seriously, you know, talk about, you know, we have here training for pregnancy and that can mean a lot of different things. Right? Or you said right before we started how about not training for pregnancy and just taking a beat, right? Tell us, I mean, just walk us through your process and just walk us through the learning experience. This is been, especially as an expecting athlete. There's so much I want to say, I'll try to make this structured. But for me, I have my own experience and that will influence my conversation here. And in my experience was that, you know, I lost my cycle and I was working out too much and then I stopped, you know, as of last year, I took some time off. I just don't, I'm not as extreme about working out and I think it played a role into me being more fertile. And I think I wasn't expecting, I wasn't planning to have a kid. And that moment happened and I'm like, it was a big decision of like, okay, well, how am I gonna prepare for this, you know, and then I accepted the fact that I'm gonna be going on this journey and then I'm like, okay, let me rent my workouts back up because I want to stay fit through this and then the doctors like, no, and so, so I'm like, okay, well, I'll just go back to not working out which helped me become pregnant in the first place and maybe that's my body. I think zooming out there's a big shift happening for women and it's, you know, there are these headlines or women are going to college more and women are becoming the breadwinners more and women are strong and strong as a new skinny and even though policy is regressing, women are becoming more aware and women's health, you know, most scientific studies that are done on medicine or generally around men and ties back to military and protecting our country and a bunch of other things that I'm probably not aware of but women's health is becoming more known and it's building on this momentum that strong and strong workout and make our money and do it all and like, wait, is that the best way? Women don't have to do it all, don't they? To be worthy, it's your meaning of life is specific to you and it doesn't have to be a breadwinner, mom that's accomplishing it all. And, you know, for me, it's less about being a breadwinner and doing it all and it's more about, can I maintain a good balance at the edges of my potential and edges of my potential, emotionally, edges of my potential professionally, edges of my potential physically without, compromising something. That balance is the challenge. And I think with women who are trying to get pregnant, understanding that background noise of women have to do it all and I have so many thoughts about mothers trying to do too much already, well, we'll see what happens. You know, I know there are a lot of alpha women that want to kind of do everything for their kid and the guys like, well, what about me? You know, I'll just go back to work. It's not like that, but I think there could be some shifts there. So, working out specifically, I think it's really dependent on what your doctor says first and tying that into your overall values of, I will first keeping the baby healthy and or if you're trying to get pregnant, are you trying to do it all? What are you trying to do too much of? And are you compromising your mental health? Are you compromising your nervous system? Do you have irregular periods? So facing some of those truths first, it's all dependent, I don't know if I answered your question, but I think the message here is be aware of the overall narrative that's happening for women and understand if you can deviate from that and still keep your balance and how that could benefit you. And looking, let's say six months from now, right? What's your mindset? Are you, is your goal to go back to be the athlete and to continue the training that you're doing pre-prignancy? Has your mindset shifted? Given sort of, let's say the downtime, right? And the downshift that you've quite honestly had, you had to experience during this time, right? Has your outlook on your personal training tendencies changed during this? Yes, my outlook on personal training for my clients has never changed. It really is about longevity and challenge. For myself, my mindset is, I'm not worried about what I look like right now. I mean, yes, it's important, but there are a lot of other things that are more important and specifically mental health. Big identity shift, I know that in the next year, two, three years, really is gonna be, I'm preparing for that of the identity shift that motherhood brings. And there are a lot of resistance, there's a lot of resistance in me, still I could feel. So that is a priority. And being present is hard when you're not accepting some of those shifts. So I think it's more about the mental side and the identity shift that's gonna happen, identity shift from my professional life for a little identity shift from how I used to perform. Body definitely goes through physical, traumatic experience, having a baby, whether it's natural birth or a C section. So it's, you know, your body can change for the long term. So I don't know, there's a bunch of unknowns that once again, like if you're injured, going back to that conversation, if you have a cute injury, it's one thing, but if you have this like longer term injury that's gonna just kinda hang around and it's gonna change how you box jump or it's gonna change how you run or you might not be able to run as far. That's a different mental shift. So I think I'm capable of the mental shift. It's just about knowing what I'm gonna be working with first. Right, kinda reintroducing yourself to, this post pregnancy body, right? And just starting to understand who am I now and what kinda one of my capable of now. Do you wanna have kids one day? I do. I do. Could you imagine having one right now? No, I can't. I can't. I might say my partner is the opposite. He is like, when you are ready, I'm ready and like that's fantastic to know, but I am not. He's the best. Yeah, you're the one that has to do it. Okay, yeah, exactly. No, I don't, you know, for me, I'm still in that mindset of, I've come to realize that it's not an end all be all. You can still be the athlete. You can still, you know, achieve the same things that you're achieving now after. I'm not as naive to that. I think I used to, I think I used to view it as, oh my gosh, I have to accomplish all these things before I even think about having kids. It's not like that anymore. I think for me, there's still, there's still just things I want to go and do without having to think about someone else first. It's kind of a silly question, but I mean, how are you going to instill movement into your child's life and how are you going to kind of set that standard or reverse set that, be that role model of movement being such an important aspect of life? Yeah, it's a great question. And I think the first thing that came to my head is that I want there just to be a lot of love and support. And that's priority, I think I want that to stay the priority no matter what. And, you know, shout out to my partner because he's very supportive. And I don't think I'd be this confident and excited if I didn't feel the support from him. So men matter and as parents, deeply, deeply matter and are superheroes also. And I think the narrative for women is driven by the media. It's also driven by women for positive reasons, but the narrative that becomes in our subconscious, especially for men might be that, you know, we'll shit, no, being a parent, I don't have to do much because the women does it all. That's not true. No, it needs to be balanced. Yep, especially for a woman's health, like be there, take, take six weeks off of work. You know, I know that sounds crazy, especially for bankers and lawyers, it sounds completely off the wall, but take that time, really take that time. And support your partner through her physical health, so she could get some sleep and so you could bond with the child. Really. So I think men are superheroes also. I don't want to discount them because it really is a team effort. And I think women can lean more into needing somebody, including myself. I hear that whole heart of them. I'm happy that you have that person because I can attest to having someone pretty great too. And shout out to Can if you're listening, you should listen, this is our podcast. No shout out to Chris. So people know his name. Thank you, Chris. Yes, Ken and Chris. Awesome. One last question, what's one piece of advice that you can give for expecting parents out there? Oh, man, I don't know. Come on, that's a big question. You're gonna end it, big. Advice for expecting parents. Wow, I mean, it's a big zoom out of life. And whether you plan it or not, I think it's such an exciting thing to happen. I mean, you're creating a human. It's insane. So I think that's just, you know, it kind of mall over that excitement and live in it because when else do we feel that excited? And that can carry into love and joy and just kind of really being present with that. I'd say don't think about the future, just be in the now and be excited about whatever you're feeling. A really great topic that we spoke about at large today. I just stayed in the present moment. Rachel Marriotti, thank you so much for taking care of you. This is awesome. Tell our listeners where they can fall along in your journey. Oh, you could follow me on Instagram, Rachel Marriotti. That's one R and two T's. And I just started to tick talk. So I talk about mental health on there with a bunch of bunnies and flowers. And it's fun. I'm more on Instagram. So if you follow me on Instagram, you can give me some love, some of your message, a follow you back. That's it. Awesome. Give our follow everybody. Next time we have you on, there's gonna be two of you here. So a pest of luck with a little bit of your journey. Congrats again and wishing you well wishes. Thank you so much. Thanks for watching. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in for another episode of the BB Com podcast. Stay tuned for more stories along the way. Yeah. Uh-uh. Uh-uh.

. . Promotional consideration provided by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Hey, buddybuilding.com. What's up? It's your boy Terry Cruz. And I am sitting here with UFC Hall of Famer, Randy Kulture, and also with the living legend, Dolph Lungren, and we are here to promote and tell you about the biggest action movie of the summer. Come on to you August 17, 2012, in theaters. And we were also, you know, how we got ready and how we prepared for the biggest action movie on the summer. Just sequel, expendable, too. Here we go. Hey, I'm Dolph Lungren. I played Donna Jensen, who's a Swedish drunk, and he'll speak for the movie. And he managed to sort of become part of the team and his pictures, instead of being his off-beat character in the first movie. So, it's a lot of fun for me. Have the biggest knife with everybody I think, and I'm the creationist. Well, you know, I am Terry Cruz, and I play Hail Caesar, who's the weapon specialist in the group. In the group, all of us, we all have our own specialty, and with me, one of the unsung characters in the movie is my double-812.gun, which is one of the best guns that was ever created for an all of all time. I've ran into a tour at Lake Tolroad, an expandable steam, Tolroad is a kind of a college that you get. Miss Fit, Emily's a textbook, and I get it. And a lot of ways, these crazy guys are a family, so he kind of sticks up for the guys, and it pulls the unit together a lot. It's fit of those two, there's a lot different than the expendables one in that. Everybody knows, and it's waiting for what's coming. Everybody's waiting to see, you know, how much bigger and better, and the way it's different, is that it is bigger and better. We added Chuck Norris to the cast. We added Jean-Claude Van Dam, to the cast. We actually shot in Europe, and basically blew up Bulgaria in many, many ways. That country will never be the same. Well, you know, the last picture I was kind of the argument out, you know, the crazy squeeery, kind of ran off, I was with the good guys, with a bad guys, and this one I stuck with a group a lot more. So I got to know these two clowns, not just two friends. Well, you got to write them. I got to know these two guys, and very well, and, you know, I know, slide from other movies. You know, you have to kind of keep joking and keep the light, because the conditions are very harsh. I mean, you run some little town, little Bulgarians, you know, 30 degrees, and you're up to five, you know, and so I really enjoyed it, and we're out of the whole thing about expandables that you have guys who are who are actually proficient in something real. Not only actors pretending to be somebody that they've actually done things in real life, for real, and I think that's why the film is special, you know, and these are guys that men, other men, and we look up to in real life, not just on screen. That's becoming more unusual, you know, and movies, you know, I think that's why I'm really glad to be part of the film, really, you know, proud to be part of it. When you see the expendables to, it's one of those things when you see all your heroes, everything that everybody that you've ever believed in, when you watch the movie, all in one movie, the power that is just too incredible, it becomes more than just a flick. I think on August 17th, it's going to be literally like a mask where everybody to come and really see what this is all about, what you believe in your whole life, and what you always thought you would never see with all these names and faces together, and it actually happened. You know, but I was going to say, like, as far as training goes, what I learned and what you learn on movies, you should sort of simplify your regime and how to make it more efficient. You know, when you do four months on a picture of what we did, you become used to it, and it becomes part of your arsenal, you know, training. So anytime I go away now, say, like, to do another film or publicity, you kind of know how to simplify your workouts, so you can keep it efficient, right? Break it down into the bare bones, and yeah. You absolutely essentially have to get in. You know, how a lot of extra having a glimmer, or a workout partner's your things you're used to having. You've got to just break it down right down to the root of what you need to get done to maintain and stay in shape. No, I kept my training the same as where I would use to get in great shape for a fight. Obviously, it's a little bit for a little less intense, a little less sparring oriented, a little more striking conditioning oriented, going into the film. But making a movie is a crime, just like the training camp for a fight. It's a long process, long hours, long days, and so you've got to not only physically but mentally you've prepared for that, and definitely think that approaching it like a fighter, helping out a bunch. I'm usually in pretty good shape, so I didn't train much different, I knew I had to stand next to this guy over here. And this fool over here. So I have to go to Dr. Lomo, and also like, if you hit the bag, and you'll like sparring what you should do, you get kind of thin, you know, and why are you? But you know, in the film, you want to look at the Lomo musklers. So I think I probably, I was about 10 pounds every then I am now, what I did to film. Lomo showed us an arms, because that's what you see. When you wear them, you're kind of t-shirts, you're just stuff like that. So that's got to how my program cheers. Because we're all kind of a different schedule to different things. You can't rely on being free at the same time to work out together. So you have to kind of individualize your routines. You can bang it out. You have the time to bang it out, and not be reliant on somebody else to make sure that you're working out in. But I think the most important thing to remember is, you know, you're talking about a guy who's officially an emotionalized, you know, an X-Men film player, and you have to see champion for all actors now. You know what I mean? You're an actor. And the big thing is, who cares how big the guns are? If you can't act, if you can't amode, if you can't project that emotion, and people could identify with you on screen, you might as well just be in the background. You might as well be nothing. You can't really compare yourself to another person and do that kind of challenge, because your greatest enemy is yourself. It's the lines. It's getting your character being the best character you can be and knowing your place and this whole steam and script. It's not about the physical stuff. I think all three of us, who are the physical stuff is the part with time easy. That's an easy part. That's the fun part. That's the part that we get to play those action scenes and actually throw guys and shoot stuff. That's the part that makes you smile, but actually kind of finding a room to your character and tapping into your stream of experience to be able to, in some way, represent that guy and tell the truth. That's the more difficult part. That's the part that takes time and energy to develop. And also, when you talk about the long hours, we weren't near a gym, so we had to ask if the hotel would extend their hours for us and then God they did because we were all panicking at first like how we're going to get our workouts in. It's not like in the States where you have a 20-per-off place over here. It was very, very limited to slide himself with down and made their arrangements with the owner. And they extended the hours early and later. So whatever we needed, we were given it. I'm truly thankful for that. Actually, it was a really nice day. We got a great hotel. We did. It was a really nice hotel. It was more than adequate for everything you needed. When we invaded that hotel, we invaded that place. It changed the dynamic. I don't think it'll be the same because everybody saw how committed we were to the health and fitness. In Europe, it's almost given you thinking Europe that they're all European body building and the whole thing. But it's just not as big as it is in the States. It was a hard shoot plan. I got a lot. We're in Eastern Europe. And we literally, we had a chicken breast. We had our vegetables. But there was a lot of beef. Over there in Bulgaria, beef was not a big deal. So we kind of had to improvise a lot. Lots of protein. Culturally, the different food, Bulgaria. A little more, came into Greek food. All the vegetables were organic. There were brown right there. There was no crazy food to keep the markets. Like we're used to seeing. It was a little bit different. And I kind of like it is. It was a change of pace. It's been Italian food. They were bringing the pasta right in for Italy. It's fresh. It was too good. It was too good. There's a plan. Try to find them, kill them. There we go! Be sure to check out its Findables 2 when it hits theaters August 17. For more content like this. Make sure you check out Bodybuilding.com.

They called the squad the king of exercises, but it's more than that. It's the first exercise you ever did, and nobody taught you how. You invented it. We all did, even though we didn't know it had a name. Some of us stop squatting as we grow up. Others put immense loads on their backs and squat to break records, or to build superhuman legs. At its best, the motion is the same as when you were a child. You sit down. Then you stand back up. As an exercise, the squat predates bodybuilding, powerlifting, and even Olympic weightlifting. Its roots stretch back into the days when weight training was the domain of professional strongmen who performed incredible feats in front of wide-eyed audiences. You know, I started when I was very young, and I had been around the sport mind-tired life, but I got away from it for a long time, and went into bodybuilding for a while, and I got into powerlifting for a while, and then I came back to weightlifting. I think the reason why I've had success as a coach is because I've had a lot of questions that I've learned a lot over the years. Generally, when you get stronger in the squat, it makes your entire organism stronger. I've proven time and time again that just when you're physically stronger in the squat, everything will increase. Your arms will gain size, your chest will get bigger, your bench press will go up. Everything gets stronger because your organism is an entire whole in a stronger. So in the past, I've researched the history of the actual squat as an exercise, and I went back as far as the modern day Olympics in 1896, and I found that it had actually predated that. So I started looking to old circus performers or old-time strongmen to try to find out how it started. What I found was, you hear names like Arthur Sachsen or Lewis Seer, other strongmen from the past. As I researched further, I found out that it came from a guy, and he referred to it as Professor Lewis Atilla. And one of his students was, again, a Eugene Sandow. He became very popular, not just because of a strengthless because how he looked. And ultimately he became the first bodybuilder, and 19-in-one-e-held a competition for bodybuilding. The reason I bring him up is because he had a book that he wrote in 1894, and it was a physical culture of training. And in one of his exercises, he clearly describes what's known as a squat and used that exercise. And so I believe that Atilla was his coach and taught him how to do it. So I believe that Professor was the guy who actually invented the squat as an exercise. Sandow's worldwide fame for his strength, and just as importantly his physique inspired countless young men and women to follow in his footsteps. But unlike his immense bent presses and other unique lifts, his version of the squat was a light one done with small dumbbells. Took another 30 years for someone to push the upper limits of what could be squatted with a heavy barbell. The reason was simple. How would they get it on their back? The way that they would squat in the past, there was no apparatus. You know, there was no bracket. And all the barbells back then were shot loaded, which means that it was a globe type barbell that was a fixed diameter and a fixed size. And to make it heavier, they were just poor shot inside the globe. So they were able to take that barbell and just stand it up on its long end and then grab the barbell and tilt it and catch it on their back and then do a squat. And then set it back now on those how they squat it back then. Same way when they did a one arm bent press, they would load around their shoulder, lean to one side and press. In the 1920s, Henry Steinborn earned a name for himself by squatting more than 500 pounds for five reps with a barbell that he tipped over onto his back. With triumphs like his and the increasing popularity of squatting for training in the Olympic lifts of the snatch and clean and jerk, the stage was set for the squat to take its place among the great exercises. So let me guys back then, we're more interested in just becoming bad asses. Like, what can I do to challenge myself? It was a different mindset. They weren't doing it because they wanted to look a certain way. They're doing it because they just wanted to be strong. So they would see how much can I put over my head with one hand, how much can I do with two hands anyhow? In the sport of weightlifting, was revived in 1896 with the modern Olympics and they had the one hand and the two hand lift. And after that, you still have the strong man and the circus performers doing everything. But as the Olympic movements gain traction, more people start training with weights. They wanted to compete at that high level and they became having world championships again. And so when people are doing snatch and clean and jerk, they found that they would start doing squats as a system exercises into it evolved to where you had in the 1950s. Well, and guys like Paul Anderson, you can show it up. Anderson, a gold medal winning Olympic lifter in strong man, popularized the Barbell squat as a stand alone lift by putting up unheard of numbers. His personal best squat was a monstrous 1200 pounds. His best official squat was 930 pounds in 1965. He trained relentlessly squatting tractor wheels and 55 gallon drums from a hole in the ground. His accomplishments made him a celebrity whose name was synonymous with strength. That's pretty much how it started to change because, you know, people saw how powerful he was and people like him from being immense squatters. And that's pretty much what change when people saw how much core strength they had. You know, they started becoming more mainstream people want to look like these guys. Not was available through mail order, they could order your barbells and plates and racks and things started to spread. And this is how it started to transition. People started to become more aware of what they're doing. This is how things started to build where people could grow is because the information was now available and so was equipment. And just like now here in the modern day where the internet is so accessible, you can get anything you want very quickly. So when the magazines and back then to that era was what helped spread the word and people could start to see how it was growing. By the 1960s, squatting had become mainstream. People could order racks and barbells through the mail and read and magazines about how to squat to increase strength and build better physics. But in the 1970s, a new generation of bodybuilders and power lifters redefined what was possible by using the squat for leg development. So really the first person that I saw that had just a straight freaky squat was Tom Plats. So Tom Plats in Franco Colombo were really the two people that I actually watched or read about to really had good squats that were strong and also could do for reps. So that comes from mostly gold narrow bodybuilders. So that's really early on in my career who I kind of looked to from a squat standpoint. Tom Plats was a guy that when I first saw his legs when I was a kid, I was just, I was blown away. The changes of game for me like that was one of the things that was wrong-pressive. And but to see in his physique and his legs, I managed to glue my mind. Athletes like Plats, Anderson, Steinborn and Sandow showed the world the possibilities of the human body. They made squatting look easy even under weights that should have broken them. Together they helped cement what has become one of the cardinal rules of strength training. If you want to be big and strong, you need to get under the barbell and squat.

Our next speaker is a very special guest indeed. One of our own community members actually, who began his transformation on our own forums and started that transformation weighing nearly 700 pounds. And to date, has lost over 350 through the help of our own forum members, our content and the work that you guys do on the site and hear to talk about that experience, please give a very warm welcome to Jesse Shand. In May of 2013, I was almost 700 pounds. I hadn't left my house in years, I hadn't seen my friends in years. I couldn't even fit into my own shower and I hadn't shower them well over a year. I had long since given up on my life. What's up everyone? Webbress here. Got my boy. And today, I'm going to start my cutting phase after a wildly successful 25 year-bulking phase. I was always a heavier kid. I was still active playing basketball and that kind of thing. But I slowly started to get more reclusive. And as I started spending time online playing online video games and that sort of thing, I started going out less and being active even less. And that's when my weight really started to balloon up. And I was trying to excuse to tell my friends that I wouldn't do activities that they were wanting me to do. They stopped calling eventually and they stopped trying because they knew I wasn't going to come through or hang out. I basically ceased to exist. I think I was at or very close to 700 pounds. I never thought it would be possible to get the weight that I was at. As far as I knew, there was no personal scale that you could buy in a store or anywhere near me that would weigh someone at my size. And when I first started weighing myself, I had to use two scales, put half my body weight on each of the scales and then do the math to get an accurate weigh in. The heavier I got, the less I started even caring to look at myself, I would avoid the mirror. I never took pictures of myself. So kind of crept up on me. I mean, I knew I was always heavy but I didn't really realize the extent of it until I started losing abilities to do things I was doing before. I started being unable to fit in my seatbelt. So I was driving a car without a seatbelt for a long time and this is dangerous and I was always afraid of getting pulled over, having the seatbelt and the shoulder strap without actually plugging it in. One day I got up to take a shower and I noticed that I couldn't even fit in it with a shower curtain staying in. And that was a big shock to me. I had so much self-loving at this point and it was just getting worse to where it was easy for me to keep doing these things because in my mind I had already messed up so much and one more mess up wasn't really going to put me in too much worse of a condition and it was just a vicious cycle that kept going until I got up to this massive weight. So I knew my health was terrible and I was fully expecting that I wasn't going to live very long and that's really I given up shortly after that. I wish I could say that the reason I came to the bodybuilding that comes because I was ready to make a change but that's not the case at all. The only thing that drew me the bodybuilding that come was that it had a reputation for having a deep internet culture that I completely avoided all the fitness forms. A moderator kind of quickly found me and he gave me this ultimatum that ends up saving my life. He told me I either have to take down the avatar not having the avatar or post a real me. Being the typical troll and the negative person I was I thought, okay, well you want to see the real me, I'll give you all the real me you can handle and that's how the right got started. The thread I started was called Ask the Fatest Man on the Miss Anything, Miss Being the Missaliniest Subboard and it was posting all these pictures, these real, you know, gritty pictures of myself full body. I thought I was going to be getting a lot of disgusted image macros and stuff and while I did get some of that that's where people started to try and help me and they actually believed that I could undo some of the damage I did and that was something I wasn't expecting. It wasn't like I hadn't tried to lose weight and in my mind at this point if I couldn't even lose the weight when I was only 25 or 50 pounds overweight there was no way I was going to have the will power to drive to lose weight when I was hundreds of pounds overweight. Had this image in my mind that it would just take hours and hours every day of dedication, working out to you throw up so I wasn't willing to do any of that. So I had all these excuses but the members of the form are really persistent and trying to convince me that this could be done and giving me steps unique for my situation and it kind of took the thread and turned it back on me. Hey, how does one say I've gotten some really good advice here and I'm going to try and stay in contact with you guys and keep in the thread and keep updated with my progress and what I'm doing and hopefully you guys can give me some tips on what I'm doing wrong and you know how to stay motivated. I really do appreciate the help and the thread has been more useful. I didn't even mean for it to be life-changing thread. It was just kind of an interesting topic but I'm glad I posted. You know that night I was supposed to have eight chicken case ideas and some cheesy broccoli rice. That's what I had planned already and instead a member told me I should just cut it down to seven cheesy case ideas and you know even though that's only a couple hundred calories it was a start. For dinner today it's going to be chicken case ideas and wild rice. On average day I pack away a lot. Ten or eleven of those boys. Today I'm going to try maybe six or seven. When a member told me that I could just flop around it seemed so silly to me that it seemed like it would be the perfect workout for me to do and so I just turned my webcam on and immediately started you know just flopping my upper body. I was very surprised it just how you know tired I got from something so simple. So from there it was really easy for me to be open book about every point in the process. What's up everyone? What press here? I'm using this video to list off five short term and mid term goals that have one. Cut food intake by 25% 2 increase water intake by 200%. I already started 3 talked with social worker about getting medical assistance. Number four increase activity by 100%. That should be easy for me because right now my activity has spent at zero percent. Increase hygiene by 100%. Because I had this throughout the people encouraging me it naturally led to me logging all these activities when I would do a workout I would log it when I would eat something I would log it. Sergeant on brush here reporting in and while I cannot talk about my assignments I can talk about my condoms that was performed today. I woke up at 0700 hours. Next came child time. I had two standard issue peanut butter sandwiches and a Greek yogurt as a side arm. So I got to where if I wasn't making these posts all these people who were supporting me would know that I hadn't done it on that day. Boom day two. Alright so date five today's day six and you know what that means. Random dancing day. Doing my condition everything that I was doing was home-based. I started out doing just body weight squats you know something you needed nothing for. I remember with kind enough to send some fitness bands so you know I used those. Anything I could do to get my body temperature off anything I could do to start breathing fast. Uh oh god. Gold dumbbell duck does that. I'm just gonna do some arm press sitting down raises. That's way more physical activity than I've had in a while. More physical activity I tried working into my life. The more I realized how badly I let myself go. You know my legs and feet would be so tired after walking. My feet would be hugely swollen. They'd almost you know look like balloons when I first started. And so it was really apparent just how bad my health had gotten at that point. One video I made that really kind of sticks in my mind. That's the day I did 50 laps. Now to explain what this is a lap is just walk to the kitchen and living room. That was one lap. So you know it was only five or six steps from there. And you know walking 50 dees is now I look back on it and seems so silly. 50. I have to say no cuts. I 100% know breaks. No sitting down. 15 a row. I might roll around five k. I was so excited that I was able to do this and it doesn't seem significant but that was building serious strength in my legs and suddenly I was seeing these benefits coming and it snowballs from there. I always like to silly your suggestion so you know when someone told me I should play a Wii tennis. So one video I had I was just playing a Wii tennis game and recorded that. So I was you know finding new ways to do things. I was you know dance around. I was getting up more often. These small steps were kind of combining to make full workouts in the day. To where I was actually moving and burning calories quite often. I always had this picture in my head. You know you see these rally TV shows where people are working out until they throw up. You know people are passing out from working out. That was always the image I had in my head and that ended up being not the case at all. I ended up just being big results with just consistent effort. Hey Ryo. I'm Ross and every day I'm every day I'm Ross and I'm about to drop a pound maybe drop a hundred to. I'm about to drop it where my front is you. I took this kitty wool on to the yard and I filled it up with hose water. And it was freezing cold but I didn't care because for the first time in years I got to bathe. Now you can imagine with me not having shower in New Years. I wasn't going to clean from this but it didn't matter because what it gave me was a huge boost morale and it gave me something I hadn't had in years. It gave me hope. All right guys just woke up and stand for a while. So I 51 so there you have it and I'm not too surprised because I cheated in with myself last night because the anticipation was just killing me. I started posting the big events. You know anytime I had a milestone I remember I was able to suddenly shave my face. Another time I was able to drive a car and that was huge for me so I of course commemorated that event with a video. Man feels good to be here out of bed. This is like sound they air with past the window. The field of the mansion underneath the vibration is near and wheeled. The first time I was able to go see my doctor. This is you and there are you doing? Come on, come on, come on, come on. Good. So what's going on? Today is the first day and probably four years that I've actually been outside my house. Really? I had made a thread on the body building that I'm pouring. It was kind of like a joke thread and ended up being a thread that I got last tour and encouragement. I started a dieting. I didn't know workout seven days a week something like that. And everything's going good about 21 pounds. Great. I was thrilled. And I feel like the least I can do for all its support I got is to share these events and make it a community event because to me it is a community achievement. It's not just my achievement. All right guys, well I'm not there shower time. Check it out. But yeah, that first time it was awesome. Good boy. When you be, time will be showing you guys to say how to make a real simple smoothie. But the stuff is really good. I'm going to go ahead and cheers. One of the biggest things that was done from the community that helped me is they banded together and got me a gym membership that I never would have been able to afford before. When I first started I couldn't really fit on a lot of the machines. I didn't have the balance to do free weights a lot. So I had to start with swimming which is something that you know is good on the joints and it's really easy for someone in my size to have done at the time. It was really hard for me to do that first. But I just tried to keep my eye on the fitness. But now not only am I getting encouragement from people on the form who I'm not seeing. There's also people at the gym are constantly coming up to me and complimenting me. A lot of people have seen me from when I started. They don't even know my story. They don't even know how much weight I've lost and they're coming up to me and just telling me you know the difference that they're saying just since I've been at the gym. Hey everyone, my breath here and today is one year. 356 days of transformation and it is just amazing to me that a year has gone by so quickly. There's so many things in my life that have changed it. You know, I don't even necessarily connect to the fitness. Suddenly now I care about my hygiene and I find myself actually caring about the clothes that I put on and find myself wanting to make sure I'm at least someone groomed when I leave the house. Even my eating habits and stuff. I find myself trying things I never would have. And now you know I find myself being a little enjoy fresh produce and things that I never would have gravitated to before. I find myself wanting to get more into sports and physical activity and do fun things outside the house and I am suddenly hanging out with my friends again and things that I never would have imagined myself doing. You know I feel so much different now than I did then that's really easy for me to almost become detached. I don't feel like the same person at all. Yo, all right, we're going live with the wand. Here we go. 392.2? Oh man, dude. That is such a nice loss. I am so happy. Now in 300's on a way to 200's now. Man, it is so hard to believe that it's only been in not even a year and a half. Thank you guys so much and there's a good day. I don't want to feel like my journey is over and I want to always have something that I'm striving towards. And you know sometimes I go back and I like to look at those early videos to remember where I came from and where I was. I didn't have any future to look forward to. I didn't expect one. Feeling so much better and I just feel like I have limitless possibilities now. I can imagine now, you know, a couple years later that would still be here in front of you if it wasn't for bodybuilding.com. So when I say it saved my life, that's not just words. It literally saved my life. So much want to thank everyone who has given me the support because it has made such a monumental impact on my life. I definitely still have some things I'm struggling with. I still have a tendency to want to binge eat when I, you know, eat something that I know I shouldn't eat. I still have natural want to just keep doing that because I feel like I already screwed up so I might as well really screw up and that's something that I really have to be conscious about not letting myself do. And that's another place where the community really came through. Bodybuilding.com is still my number one source of motivation. I still post my way ends every time I do. I'm still posting my milestones there. I, you know, thought that a lot of these people, I thought they would just be completely disgusted with me. I didn't think, you know, they would have any interest in, you know, even talking to someone like me once they found out I was the fastest man on the thread. And the way that they've been helpful and the way they've really reached out is something that was completely new to me. What I found out quickly is that people who bodybuild their fit, they actually have respect for people who are have a lot of weight to lose and are trying to make an effort. When I heard that the miscos in the news I had no idea what it was going to be, whether it was hacking Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook profile, you know, or some crazy thing that somebody posted or something funny about debating how many days are on a week. You know, when I was really excited to see that it was something super positive like this, not just funny, the miscos amazing area. Something I'm super proud of having started and watch flourish over the last 16 years. But now to see something even more positive like this and get the recognition, I feel like our members deserve for what they're doing every day. What's a huge amazing milestone for our company. When you hear about bodybuilders and people in the fitness, like you have the idea and your head sometimes with somebody that is, you know, super vain, cares about themselves and you don't want to go talk to them because they're just going to make fun of you if you're not on their level. But what I found in our industry, especially on our site, is that people want to help. I want to personally think, Wiggy Wanka, Hoka, Build a Bro, Mighty Matt, and it for fitness. I also want to thank all the other people that all were part of Jessie's journey. Every one of you had a major impact on Jessie's life and the other people that are now following the story. One of my most popular videos was one where my mom, you know, she's thinking about you building community. She's always encouraged me. She never gave up on me even for a moment. I just cannot believe the outpouring of support for my son. I'm choked up about this because you guys just don't know what you have done for my son and me. You know, you're actually saving my son's life. So one of my biggest goals right now is to get to a point in my life for not only am I not dependent on her and, you know, not burdening her, but I also want to be able to support her and give back to her some of the support that she gave me. The biggest advice I can give you is to not make it too complicated. It really is as simple as consistency and you really do have to start small. I feel like my future is just open to any possibilities and at some point I'd like to work with people who have a lot of weight to lose because I feel like I'm in a unique position to where I can help people out and understand some of the things that they're going through and some of the mental hoops that they have to jump through to get that done. And, you know, I hope to be able to make an impact on people's lives in a similar manner to what's been made on mine. There's somebody at home right now watching this video and you're thinking that maybe it is now possible for you on your journey, whether it's to lose 400 pounds or more or whether it's just to get in a little bit better shape for whatever it is your goal. Jesse shows you that it's possible. It really is Jesse's amazing determination and willpower when most people would have given up for him to be able to do that with the help that he has received. It was an inspiration for all of us here at BodyBoddyMod.com. I was just completely off the rails and, you know, it's decided to make a troll thread on a bodybuilding form and you know, started from the faddest now we hear. So my message to you guys is that what you're doing is not only making a difference but it's saving lives and I know that there's millions of people you're helping but I'm so happy to be here as an example of someone whose life you gave back and humans have so much potential and so much limitless pop abilities and mine were all gone but you gave it back to me and now I feel like my future can hold anything. So I just want to thank each and every one of you for what you've done and I want you guys to know that you're making such a big difference and thank you guys for letting me speak and thank you for hearing me tonight.

of the We have a situation. I've seen enough blood at the death. I know what's coming. Are you sure? Oh, it's... Boy in a way, it's really not much different than doing a cameo. I mean, it's like you're in a set and you're to the acting and you handle the weapons and all those things. So I think we've got a great warm-up when it did expandables. When a slide gave me a chance to work for four days and expandables, which made it look kind of like a rock for weeks and a movie, because they shot so much footage from six in the morning to late at night. So then when I was finished with that, I went directly then to New Mexico, instead of chewing, you know, last stand. Every never got the feeling like, oh my god, I have to work very hard to get back into it. I just slipped into it in a natural way and felt actually very good about being on a set and doing the scenes and handling the weapons again, doing all the action, the stunts and all that. And then working with a very talented director, Kim Chi Woon, was also very helpful to get me into it, because he was very passionate, very enthusiastic. When he explained the scenes with an interpreter, of course, from South Korea. He was always very much into acting out everything and doing the stunts and showing you how to do it. Sure, I'm sorry for that. I'm a violent fugitive, making it run for the Mexican border. I'm not going to let that guy come through our town without a fight. It's really a character that has been an expert with a SWAT team from Los Angeles, but in his years, 20 years of working with a SWAT team in LA, he could shut up several times. And so he's now at an age where he felt like he should actually retire in a small town where he originally came from. Some of them we call the town. Is Chef? Almost did a recognition playing clubs? Well, it's Medea. She'll be a quiet weekend. It's a low key town. There's him and there's three deputies and there's not much going on. And I play the sheriff and no one is expecting much. No one is anyone expecting any violence in this town or anything. That's why we only have three deputies. But then over sudden, we realized that there's a gang of mercenaries of the most dangerous criminals, drugloads that are descending on our town and trying to get through our town to cross the border to Mexico. We've got a cartel with heavy firepower headed towards the border. And there's a strong chance. You're coming your way. And of course, no one has any confidence that we are going to go and stop them. No one has to have the confidence that we're going to stop them. So they felt like they should just run over us and just ignore us. And they run the whole operation through the hell eye. And the sheriff. And so it's a story about being the underdog. There are no one expects anything. And then an aunt, me and my team and the town's people kind of rise up to that challenge. And the movie is about what it takes to get to that point and convince everyone to rise up. It will be part of the team and not to just continue talking about it. Let's look the other way. Let's just then let them go through the town and nothing will happen in the north. And I just stand up and say no. You know, I was born to fight for the rights of the people. And so I take on this huge gang of most violent people with all of the guns and weaponry that they have, the outcome. How are we going to go up against all that firepower? It got an idea. She's my little Nazi killer. And so that's what Johnny Knox still comes in. One of them would be a deputy and be depudized. But never was because he's goofy. I never depudized him. But now I have to because I need the manpower. And I know that he's a good shooter. So I have to get all of this town's people together and depudize them and then we together. Basically confront this big gang. So it's an action movie. It's a fast-paced movie like the fast and the furious in the way. It has car chases and car races. But unique ones also to the cornfield, which was of course the most fun thing to do. The race through the cornfield with 80 miles an hour. We do the Camaro against the Covet and then bang into each other and all this. There was a terrific and this great fight scene. It is a comic relief like two lies. Thought he was working there. Hey Ray, how you doing man? Good to see you. You're looking jacked, right? You've been working out? Give me the damn thing. When you're doing your training, your nutrition, your supplementation to get ready for this role. Did you approach it just like you used to back in your body billion days when he irrigated ready for it? What if your major contest? Well, you know, first of all you realized that you're now a little older than seven years ago or nine years ago when we were maybe determined age to three. Times have changed and you have to prepare much better and much more. You have to work out harder. You have to do more cardiovascular training, more stretching, more warming up for the scenes. But what I noticed was that everything is possible if you prepped the right way. I think we had a good stunt coordinator that knew what everyone's potential was and I had a good time doing all the action again and doing all the stunts again. Each role is different and so therefore we have to prepare differently. I remember that the last film we did, which was called 10, it's a police trauma. And then we had to again have a totally different training because they are the director and the story. It was such that you had to do so much training, tactical training with the actual early SWAT team and really practice with the weapons so you handled them exactly the way they are being handled by the experts. So it was besides the physical training and training with the weights. You had to kind of train for that also so they did look totally believable. So every movie takes kind of a different preparation. All right, so tell us what's next for Arnold Schwarzenegger? We have this movie coming out now in January 18th and I think that people will be pleasantly surprised by the movie and then the next movie is kind of come out in the fall which is the tomb with Sylvester Stallone. Then after that we have 10 coming out which is in January next year. And so there's a lot of stuff and I'm very fortunate that after I left the governor's office that there were so many offers and so much demand for me to do movies. And so there's a lot of movies that I mean in the last year I've done four movies and since I've left the office and we will be doing more movies this year and next year and so it will continue on including Conan and the secret to twins which will be called Treblets and so I'm looking forward to many movies. We cannot thank you enough for the time that you spent with us today and I would look forward to seeing you in future movies and be sure to check out the last day on January 18th and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com. I'm looking at them comes through town. We're not a fighter. Very nice. We're not a fighter. We're not a hero. And I'm the sheriff. But my stand. Drive safely. We can start January 18th.

I'm CT Fletcher, the world's strongest drug-free business. You probably don't know me now, but you will. You just wait till it's over with. This is my home. This is where I do my thing. I'm the best baby. Check it out. In the sea of people just saying things for money, I just saying things for notoriety. I want to be known as the voice of truth. And I want to be known as the guy who came from the street. All people to be able to say they see a part of themselves in me. Bye, baby. The history of my family is steep and strict. I had a grandfather that they called, new because he was reportedly as strong as a fucking new. They said that this guy went out in the woods one day and his job was chopping wood. So he went out there and he chopped all his wood and loaded up his wagon. He was headed back to the meal with his wood. And the fucking wagon guy stuck in the ditch. And the fucking news couldn't get it out. They couldn't pull it out. So grandfather knew, went around to the front of the wagon and said, Unhit Stimpych's, unhit Stimpych's, fucking news grabbed the harness, put it around itself, and pulled up fucking wagon out of that ditch. I've been hearing stories like that every time I can remember. So strength was a very, very, very big thing in my family. My dad brought me my brother, a set of weights with a call a pig, when I was in junior high school. And we worked out with that. That was my first initial introduction to weightlifting. I was hooked at the admiration that a pair of bigger than normal arms got in. That's what hooked me. It more than anything walking down the street, walking down, camping Boulevard, and half somebody said, damn, look at that motherfuckers arms. That's what did it. I started out wanting to be a bodybuilder. My biggest goal was to be Mr. America. Mr. Olympia is the big thing now, but when I was a kid, Mr. America was on the cover of Life Magazine. I found out that if I really wanted to be Mr. America, I might have to do some things that I didn't want to do in order to achieve that. So I knew I was strong, I knew I was strong from birth, I turned the powerlifting. So I was a powerlifting. Greatest job for you, Vince Precip, all the time. After my open heart surgery, I had no choice. I couldn't lift $700,000, no more. I just told him, I never lift weights again. And I said, fuck you, I'm gonna find some way to do it. So then I turned to very high volume high repetitions after that. I met that is always the same, no choice, I get me no choice. No option, no plan B, because I fucking said so as usually answer it. That's my mindset, my attitude has a lot to do with my upbringing. My dad was a soldier, he was also a preacher, and he was also a very child abusive mother. So he abused the fuck out of me, so he also gave me no choice. Same thing to military, just I never woke me up in the morning and said, Mr. Frutch, it would do please do this, he said, get your fucking ass up and do it. If you ever had to murder to say, why? It's standing handshrie, my drill sergeant and my dad was because I fucking said so. That's why. Hi, go. One part, six, one, the fucking, nine, one, the fucking. I think that's where my style came from. It's just a no choice method of training, I had to say. I threw the rule book out a long time ago, a lot of guys study it and they come up with formulas on what's the perfect amount to do and volume and you know, all types of things like that. I guess my training method be more on the instinctive, if you're mostly a state to come in and the bottom line is until you can't do it, you fucking more. That's more what's, what's, what's CT, how many reps that I do? How many? When you leave the fucking ZM, you should be drained, you should have a hard time making it to your car. I don't care what your level is or how much ability you have. Just make sure that you leave every fucking thing that you have on that TM4. There's a satisfaction that comes with knowing that you gave your all. He's just like a fighter even if he loses the fight, but he knows that he did every fucking thing that he could and is powered to win that fight, then there's a certain satisfaction with knowing that you gave your all. The big thing that they say is my method is overtaining and I'm saying overtaining is the fucking mythical creature like a fucking unicorn and don't got them exist unless you're looking at the reading of fucking fairy tale. overtaining is the fucking myth and you heard it here first. The human body is capable of amazing fucking thing. Just try it to dumb mother fucking try it for yourself and you don't see, don't put no limitation on yourself, put your mother fucking self and see what happens. Just see what happens, prove me wrong, try it out. It's very hard to hold your body and it do dip at the same time. It's not pretty. When you did many double cheese burgers, I didn't support it. I used to eat any fucking everything because I felt like that is what it took to maintain my size. I had to eat stupid quantities of food in order to maintain the size of it. That's why I didn't know what he did. I just want to be stupid. If I made your concern was not it looks. If I just wanted to be a big side walk craggy mother fuck. Now I eat my four meals a day. I try to get a 50, 40, 10 on a protein cart that is no problem for me to eat the same thing every fucking day because I'm not eating because something tastes good. I'm eating for the fucking results. People say, oh I hate dying food. I can't die because the die is too tasty. So fucking bad. Mother fucker, you ain't eaten this shit for the taste good. You're eating because you want the results that it's going to give on the way that you look. That is the main purpose of dieting. But city flutcher is not through. I'm just getting started. Hold on. I'm a bad man. I question myself a lot growing up as a kid in a abusive home. Why did I have to live in here every day? Why, my dad's kids with single and front door are like fucker, I have to grow high. Why did this happen to happen? I saw something. Why why did this happen? Later on, when I had the open heart surgery and I'm not able to breathe. Sleep with my back up against the wall for six months. I sit on the floor. I couldn't lay in the bed. I couldn't lay flat because if I did, I was suffocating. I just asked myself why. Why did this happen? Why did I have to go through all this? Why? And now the answer is clear. My purpose is to try to help somebody else. When the people come and they tell me that I heard your story. I heard I didn't want to do the child abuse. I heard I you came back from the injury and then that came me the pussy. That gave me the drive to get through. So that's my fucking purpose, man. Because of what I said. Man, it was all worth it. All worth it. Every did it. I got a new magnificent obsessive news that is to try to change as many people's lives on the plan. The most powerful motivational speeches that I have ever heard came from people who told me I didn't do something. I was bound and determined to show them that I could. For more articles and videos just like this one, keep drumming back to bodybuilding.com.

Welcome to theBodyBuilding.com app. The journey to a fitter you starts here. Created account to access all content, including premium workouts. When you're ready to get moving, jump into a guided workout, program, or choose to build your own. Our follow-on workouts feature certified coaches who are here to help you reach your goals. From strength and high-pod you beat, the body recomp and recovery. There's a coach for every occasion. If you're in for the long haul, our programs range from 4 to 12 weeks. Keep you on track for the months ahead. Booking to take things in your own hands, build a workout, stack free developed workouts, or go for goal, and build a multi-week program. The sky is the limit. Measure progress by connecting your health of us. From heart rate monitoring to calories crushed. Stay in the know with user personalization. Done with deadless for the day? Connect with other users to trade tips, share workouts, or find your next soulmate. Those who lift together, stick together. Ready to get started? Download the bodybuilding.com app today. See you in there.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Peter Nelson. Pete is the founder of C.C.U. Lifestyle, an Ohio-based brand whose purpose is to make wellness premium and simple by fostering connection and health in every household through sauna and co-punch. Pete has been a fitness enthusiast his whole life. He was a high school basketball standout who ended up pivoting across bit, weightlifting, and ultra-run in-during college. He's ran 27 ultra-marathons in one-day inaugural and Artica 50K Ultra-Marathon in March 2024. Pete, his wife Paige and their two children currently reside in North East Ohio receives new products or manufactured. Pete's passionate about giving back to veterans and individuals who have been affected by cancer. Pete found in the annual Helen Hogg's back in Durance Race series in 2023. All proceeds from the event go to an individual or family diagnosed with cancer in need of funds for medical care. Through the element of hot and cold therapy, Pete believes we can not only live healthier lives but more intentional and longer lives. Pete, welcome to the BB Compa Cast. Did I know they get so much for having me? What an opportunity and excited to dig in? Yeah, likewise, Pete. Thanks for stopping by today. I'm excited about today's topic. I'm passionate and fired up about today's topic. Everybody we're talking about hot therapy, sauna therapy, contrast therapy, all of the therapies today and really what he can do for us on a physiological and psychological level. So number one, today Pete, I want to talk about building CSU. So you're the founder of CSU Sanna's handcrafted Cedar Sanna's Made in Ohio. Talk a little bit about the origin story. How this wasn't an industry, a new industry for you, but a new found mythology that you marketed sauna therapy to a post-pandemic world. Absolutely. So I got in my prior professional career, I was a personal trainer. And through the process of being a personal trainer, then managing a gym and then owning the gym, we found that sauna would be a great recovery modality for our athletes. And so we naturally purchased a sauna. We actually put it at our own home. And through that buying process, we found out that in Ohio there was no dealer or wholesaler for this specific manufacturer that we bought from. In this manufacturer, which is a phenomenal manufacturer, specifically, they're in the late 2010s and up nerds into that 2020-2021. They were known as the most premier in premium sauna manufacturer in North America. So we ended up getting the rights to become a wholesaler of that of that sauna manufacturer and through that process, we ended up becoming the authority in Ohio for anybody that would want to buy a sauna to that manufacturer. They would have to go through us. So we got the learn the sauna business. And in that sauna business, specifically in that first year, we would probably have one to two sales, maybe every other month. And we got to understand what people wanted in sauna, what people didn't want in sauna, the temperature ranges, and then COVID hit. And just like any business, we had to pivot. And in that time of COVID, we ended up hitting a period where there was 12 straight months without a single sauna sale. And it became so alarming because as a side hustle, yes, you are putting time into it. But as we were doing like a time audit, we're like, this probably is not the right move for us at this at this juncture. So we ended up deciding actually to dissolve the dealership about two years into that portion of what C.C. was at this time. And then there was a morning where my business partner and I nicked at us, we were doing an early morning trailer run. And we kind of both looked at each other like, we should dissolve this. And then 10 minutes later, after making that decision, we're like, wait a second, what is the problem here at hand? And we kind of went through the whole list. And we said, well, the lead time through too long, there was decreases in quality of craftsmanship. There was, there's too many sauna companies out there that are pulling, you know, product from Asia and different countries, nothings US, or US made, the heaters aren't right. And it wasn't something that was very marketable. And so we started going down the line of, all right, hypothetical solutions, what should we do? And we started creating solutions to those problems at a very high level. And by the end of that run, the decision was made that we were going to pivot into manufacturing ourselves. So it was August of 2022 that we really got our manufacturing off the ground. We pivoted the business from being a whole sailor of another manufactured to be in our own manufacturer where we have a 65,000 square foot facility in Northeastern Ohio and Amish country where Amish craftsman handcraft and hands liked every single sauna. And so all of our wood comes from Idaho. We ship it into Ohio and to Burton Ohio where we have Western Red Cedar. It's Millland site, hands-lected handcrafted and we ship it then four weeks, if you choose, very, very simple options. So when somebody goes to a sauna website and they want to purchase a sauna, we were really flustered with how many different options you needed or were to the customers disposal. And the other thing too is that you had to be super well educated to understand, like, all right, if I'm going to invest $10,000 into a sauna, I want to be not only as educated but I want to be as informed as possible, we wanted to eliminate that completely. So what we did is we started looking at what skews people wanted, not just that from like the shape, but also the size, the heater, bucket ladle, the whole thing. It needs to all be part of this one package. The only option that we give our consumers is whether or not it's going to be indoor outdoor, which is the difference of a roof kit or non-reef kit. And that's allowed us to be able to scale. So we're in month 21 or so and it's far exceed our expectations and it's been so fun and now we're sitting here and being able to talk about sauna therapy. What does seeshumine peat? Yes, so seeshum is actually a finished concept and there's no perfect translation to the English language and seeshumine's perseverance to nasty bravery and grit. And believe it out, there was actually a John Wick ask movie that just came out about a year ago called seeshum. And it's about this man who doesn't speak and it doesn't speak a single word the entire movie, but the guy just doesn't die and he just he displays this grit in this perseverance to be able to get through super difficult situations. And that's such a great way to be able to describe seeshum because it's this ultimate level of perseverance where if you think about like a challenging situation, there comes a point where you want to give up and you want to quit and then seeshum begins, right? So it's like that next level of determination for you to be able to get through really, really difficult experiences and difficult difficult challenges that life's presenting to you. That's a great story behind the brand. I want to ask you the question out front, why sauna? Why sauna therapy for you specifically? And you know, what makes you so passionate about it where you chase down the stream of starting a global brand or a domestic brand right now with seeshum? For sure. If you would have asked me five years ago that sauna was going to be my you know, lifeline for how I was going to support my family. I would have laughed at you. But it was through the experience of sitting in the sauna with my wife and then having my friends over and then seeing the research start to come out starting in 2018 2019. And it just became not only what people are viewing as a trend in the United States right now, it actually to me is something that is here to stick. And so what I viewed was like this is an opportunity for us to be able to start getting people to foster connection with themselves more and the people that are in the sauna. But actually it started to build tangible health. And sauna in itself is an exercise mimetic. It's not a substitute for exercise. But it's a way for us to be able to build better relationships. It's way for us to be able to expedite recovery. It's a great way for us to be able to get the cardiovascular effects of zone two training when I'm in a sauna. And to me, there's a fine difference too between all the different sauna modalities. The reason why we're in traditional sauna is because all the research that's coming out not just from performance, but also from longevity is pointing to 176 degrees to 2112 degrees. And that's where again for us, it's like this is very simple. Let's just produce saunas that are super hot, high quality craftsmanship, and do so to where we can start to develop a community around it. And that's all we need to do to be able to start scaling a brand. And so now where we're at is being able to continue to create quality, but also at the same time, be able to do it at mass production. And that's the biggest thing for us is being able to embrace that challenge and forge that CSU that the CSU concept that we've been talking about within our own business. You're pointing out we're talking about high heat and we're talking about dry sauna. So we're not talking about steam rooms here, we're not talking about lower infrared, we're talking about high heat and dry. And I want to point that out now at the beginning of the episode, because that's really what we're going to be speaking to when we're talking about a lot of these benefits that are associated in the conversation that we're about to have. I do want to help educate our user before we jump into things a little more granularly. What is contrast therapy? And where does that come into play in pairing with heat? Yeah, for sure. So when it comes to contrast therapy, we're looking at deliberate heat exposure in deliberate cold exposure. So you're basically going from a very hot environment to a very cold environment. For most people right now, it's either they're hitting a hot tub and in for insana, traditional sauna steam room, and then either doing a cold shower or they're doing a cold plunge. And there's different effects to that that essentially create a bodily high for people, and it becomes very addicting for some people too. But contrast therapy in its essence is starting to create to me probably the more significant psychological responses that we're looking for for people, and it's actually helping decrease depression. And when you when you separate the two though, like cold exposure and sauna therapy in itself without pairing, there's tons of benefit. But when you combine the two, all of a sudden you're looking at this cocktail of effects to where it's almost starting to also point toward longevity benefit. There hasn't been enough research done on contrast therapy for us to be able to say like this is the exact specific protocol for longevity, but there is stuff specifically pointing toward depression and being able to cure that. And if there's one thing obviously right now in the United States is that there's a lot of people that are anxious, having anxiety, have depression, and are looking for ways to be able to cope with it that are healthy that don't have consequence. And contrast can be a great form for that. I think it's a really great way to slow down my history of contrast therapy. I was first introduced to it back in my collegiate athlete days, but that was more so from a physical recovery standpoint. It was, hey, we have a double header tomorrow. We need to do recovery remosals as quickly as possible. Go hot cold, hot cold, hot cold, right? There was no discussion about the mental aspects of it. Now you'll feel it. Now anybody out there who has done it or if you haven't done it, you know, proceed with caution when you're trying anything new, just do a couple rounds to start. Don't go crazy. You will feel a significant difference in terms of your breathing patterns, in terms of what you're the speed at what you're speaking, the speed at what you're thinking. You know, for me, here in New York City, things move very quickly. Once I hit the sauna 200 degrees and I do a couple of rounds with 38 degrees in the coal plunge and I do that three, four times, I am a completely different person. My conversation with you will be night and day, comparative to what it was 20, 30 minutes prior to that. So there's a lot of great stuff happening here and I think the fact that it's going mainstream is a tremendous win for everybody. And to piggyback off that, Northern Europeans have been doing this for hundreds of years. This isn't a trend that's over there. This is just starting to migrate to the United States. And if there's one thing that Americans love to do, it's that they love to sit. And so it's like, why wouldn't I create this complete alternative to where I just sit in this sauna and be able to do so with people to where I can't even use my phone because it's so hot or the keyboard gets so watery to where I can't. The keyboard doesn't function. So it's a time for me to be able to connect with myself, the person across me and do so to where there's zero consequence. And I'm a big believer of creating alternatives in your health that don't have consequence. And it's going to aid in your ability to sleep, aid in your ability to be able to like you were saying, be able to have great conversation with people and be more productive. It's to win when. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the Scandinavian countries have certainly been the leaders in this front. You go to Norway. They have floating saunas that you can take out and rent for a couple of hours. And you know, you can jump into this, it's like a sauna, it's crazy. You jump into the sauna. There's obviously a room where you don't have to be in the sauna as you're floating down the the Bayer, the river. Then you jump into the water as your contrast. How great is that? Yeah, you can't beat that. No. And there are more and more cities are certain to come out with that. Again, it's here to stay as a result of the research that's certain to come out. But it is important to note that the Scandinavian countries didn't have the research to their disposal while they were doing it. They just intuitively knew that they felt really damn good. And when I feel and sometimes we need to stop lean on the research so much and just go off a feel. And when, you know, to me, I don't need to know the research to know like, I've got this incredible response to my sleep or ring data. I also support it, but just like my wife and I are more connected, I can sleep great. I stay asleep and my runs are improving. Just because I'm using sauna. We've become data reliant for sure in a lot of in a lot of ways, whether that's trying to be our running time, trying to be the amount of, you know, weight that we're lifting, et cetera. Just do what feels good. I think is what we all kind of need to get back to after the last 10 or 15 years of tech innovation. Yeah, if there's one thing that, again, the US loves is they love competition, they love data. And it's just part of our culture. And sometimes it is important to get away from that. And sauna could be a great mechanism to be able to do that, to be able to disconnect. Yeah, absolutely. Topic to be physiological benefits of sauna. So we're going to get into a bit more detail here. So as you've said, you know, we have loads of data and science that nods to the overwhelming amount of physical benefits that's on this brain. This ranges from decreased risk of chronic and cardiovascular diseases, improved circulation, decreased blood pressure, cholesterol support, the list can truly go on here. So let's start with that heart health. Let's talk about heart health and heat use, including, you know, the potential decrease in mortality rate with higher use. Let's talk a little bit about hearts. Yeah, for sure. So in 2018, there was a massive study with a number of, a number of participants. And it was a pretty evenly split population between male and female, really between like 40 to 55 years old. And what they were really experimenting with and trying to be able to study in point fingers on was cardiovascular risk for any sort of cardiovascular event. And what that research ended up pointed out is that in the controlled environment from 176 degrees to 200 to 12 degrees Fahrenheit to where the top of their head was at that range of 176 to 12. Their feet could have been a little bit cooler, totally normal. What they ended up finding out was that cardiovascular disease and any sort of cardiovascular event from four to seven times weekly from five to 20 minute sessions went down by 40 percent. And which is incredible and all cause mortality, which means that any sort of death related to any sort of health event went down for that exact same amount. So that 40 percent. Two to three times weekly saw a decrease in 24 percent. One time weekly saw a decrease but not as much as that two to three times or that four to seven times. So if you're looking for a minimum fact of dose for sonotherapy as it pertains to longevity to be able to live longer, live better, you're looking for to seven times weekly at that 176 to 12 for five to 20 minutes. And you're going to notice that duration is pretty extensive from five to 20 minutes. What that tells you is that that person who was being studied is either new to sonotherapy or they've been doing sonotherapy for a long time. And regardless that the physiological response that was starting to occur in the psychological response that was starting to occur was that they were trying to get each of the participants to be able to get that point in the sono session where it starts to become uncomfortable where that dynoirfin experience or that dynoirfin response starts, which is the opposite of endorphin. So it's like this fighter flight type of mechanism starts to happen in the body and it's time to get out. Your goal is to be able to stick through that for a couple more minutes and then get out and then you get that amazing door from rush type of experience after the sono. And that study was so monumental because what that ended up pointing out was that it is truly all about heat. It's not how it's not the mechanism so like this isn't really to redlight therapy with infrared sauna because infrared doesn't get up to that temperature range. But we need to be in hot environments and do so consistently. And this is probably one of those times where we could truly say more is better, right? Four to seven times weekly has the same amount or the same effect. But when you look at it and you look at it from a 10,000 foot angle, it's no surprise. Thins, there's for in Finland, there's one sauna for every two people. So most families have two saunas. This is literally part of their life and they do it every single day. And they're also some of the happiest people in the entire world. And it's no coincidence. They're also living really, really long lives. And I think that that's something that the US needs to start to grab a hold of here. Their sauna use is similar to bathing. I mean they're doing it either. It's hygiene, right? You brush your teeth. You take a shower. You hit the sauna. And maybe that not in that order, but it's a part of their daily routine. It's an ingrained in them. It's where they break bread. They do dinner. They go out in the sauna and then they position it in a way to where their body's able to naturally cool itself off and then they get into a nice deep sleep after. When we're talking about sauna use, so okay, our goals four to seven days. Like anything, we're going to work our way up there for currently at zero. Right? So start with that one, two, three, and work your way up there. Get your body used to it. Don't stress yourself out. You know, need to go from zero to seven overnight. Is there a good time? Is there a best or better time to do the sauna at the time of our day? I would say the biggest thing for people is do it when it's most convenient for you because at the end of the day, you want to be able to do it most consistently. Right? I'm not going to put it into a part of my schedule to where all of a sudden become the chore for me to sauna. So for my wife and I, what we typically do is we do it prior to bed. And the reason is because we've got two kids and it just makes sense. I can set it from the app on my phone. We jump in the sauna if the kids go down and then all of a sudden that induces a deeper sleep. Now, there's two parts to, or I should say there's two avenues that you could approach it. If you are truly trying to optimize. So if you were to take the convenience out of it and look at the research, it's either post-exercise or it's prior to sleep. So for the post-exercise, you get the cardiovascular benefits that you're talking about, hard health. You're getting extra zone two training. So zone two training is where your body is at your heart rate between 60 to 70 percent of your max heart rate. And more trained athletes that could open up even to larger ranges. But what that does it gives you an extended period of being able to build a aerobic foundation prior to post-exercise. But the other thing too is that it's going to allow you to be able to build stroke volume, be able to build a aerobic base. But also do so in a way to where you get the extended benefit from your workout. So I could get growth hormone release post workout with sauna therapy. Again, I could build stroke volume. I could build my body's ability to naturally cool itself off post workout. So like, do you have that? And then you also have on the opposite side sleep. So when you look at your body's ability to be able to thermoregulate, so be able to decrease or elevate body temperature based off the outside environment. And I'm in a sauna and my body temperature is increasing while I'm in the sauna. And then post session without water or cold immersion therapy, my body has to naturally cool itself off. What's the same exact thing that's occurring when I'm triggering my parasipathetic system while I'm trying to sleep? Or just prior to bed? So my body prior to bed based off the circadian rhythm is going to try to decrease my body temp below baseline. Well what the sauna does is it actually tricks the body to go in deeper below baseline so I could get the bed quicker, triggering a deeper sympathetic or parasipathetic nervous system state, and also be able to stay asleep. So based off the data, not to keep kind of about the data, but like on my ordering, I was able to get more REM sleep, more deep sleep, and I could stay asleep, and also be able to get to sleep quicker. As a result, to be positioning sauna, one to two hours prior to bed. Prime in yourself to kind of just wind things down for the day. How do we navigate hydration ever doing at night? Right? So we've just just sweat out how much, you know, of our water, how we replenishing that without breaking our three to one rule, right? I'm drinking water too close to bed. So how are we juggling that? That is a, that is an individualized question. You will know based off of more frequent sauna use prior to bed for how much you could tolerate with hydration. So my biggest recommendations are you're not just doing water while you're in the sun that's water with electrolytes, so something with higher sodium content, because you, yes, you are a perspiring, which means that you're creating all sorts of like toxins, but also, you know, there's a lot of salt in your sweat. So you need to be able to replenish. For me, what I typically do is I do about a half gallon of during my sauna session and just post that would get me within and about half gallon within a, about an hour timeframe, and then I will do my best to use the bathroom prior to bed, and then that should keep me there. As you're starting to experiment with the amount of water, you will probably wake up during the night to go to the bathroom that's totally normal. You'll figure out based off of more frequent use what works for you. Right. What that sweet spot is for you individually. You touched on it a bit before, long and respiratory function, some zone two, I think this is a really great tool. Use myself as an example. I was coming off of a pretty major surgery back in February, pretty limited because it did impact my abdomen. Couldn't do much, but was hitting the sauna within two weeks of that surgery just to get my lung function back to where I wanted to be, and I felt it, right? I was, you know, two and a half weeks off of not doing anything pretty bed-written for that recovery, and for me to go into that 200 degree sauna for, you know, 15, 20 minutes. It was a workout for my body, so I want to expand a little bit about that. How can we releverage this as active recovery days? How we can we can slice this in when we're not able to do the cardio we're able to do right now. What does that look like? Is there a cadence to it in terms of duration, temperature, things of that nature? You touched on a little bit more, but let's talk about injecting it more so from a training functional perspective. So when you're looking at the entire perspective for a week, your goal should be around 60 to 80 minutes of deliberate heat exposure between that 176 to 200, 12 degrees. Your body's going to naturally over time while you're in the sauna, increase the tart rate. I've seen some people getting even up to like zone 3 and zone 4, and the sauna depends on how heated after they are. But as it pertains to the training and you're a benefit to be able to, you know, improve your running time or being able to improve your recovery, especially from injury. I do believe that based off the, based off the science that if we could get between like the 15 to 20 minute range, ideally like that 20 minute range around 190, that's typically where I may come. I'm able to improve my recovery. But again, from like a protocol standpoint, that's just heat. If you combine it with cold, that's a different story too. There was a protocol that was able to increase growth hormone as it pertain to training. And this growth hormone protocol was once every 7 to 10 days, and it was two bouts of 30 minutes in the sauna, which is a long time. If you ever been 30 minutes in a hot sauna, that is mentally daunting. With about a 5 to 6 minute cooling period in between, that could be done with cold water, cold water immersion or just naturally cooling yourself off. And then you would wait three to four hours in the new repeat, that same cycle. So two rounds of 30 minutes with in the sauna between 176 to 12, ideally like in that 180 to 195 range. And then six minutes cooling, three hour period, and then you repeat. And that produced this incredible like 16 fold growth hormone response. Now, I'm not saying that this is the right thing to do, but that research that came out based off of that was telling you that sauna could be massive for being able to build lean muscle mass, be able to build, obviously like cardiovascular function in a way to where you're able to continue to like improve your running, your rolling, whatever your mechanism for other exercises. But I thought that was really interesting because there's a lot of people that are trying to improve their body composition and their aesthetic and that could be a good protocol for them to do it. But to me, like, I find there to be benefit and doing the three to four times weekly with my wife for about 20 minutes at a time. Now, we're not saying you're going to get the biceps. You've always wanted to just buy him the sauna every time. Right. But you know, you're talking about the release of the growth hormone, which is extremely beneficial, especially after strange training workouts. Now, on the contrary, if we are introducing contrast therapy, there's a lot of chatter out there in the industry of cold therapy being detrimental to those strange workouts. So, how do we navigate that? What are your thoughts on that based off of some of the research that we've seen coming out? How do we want to finally balance our sauna use tied to strength therapy? Is there a window that we want to wait if we want to do the contrast therapy after, which will include the heat and the cold talk a little bit about that? So, let's talk quickly, cold as it is. Individual. Yeah, cold with training. Based off of what has come out, we want to try to limit cold therapy three to four hours after your strength training session. The reason being is that it has tons of anti-inflammatory benefit. If I'm trying to build muscle mass, specifically like postwork out, my body is very inflamed. And my muscle has already been broken down. And if you start to blunt that effect with cold therapy, all of a sudden, you're not going to be able to get like the similar lean muscle mass gains that you otherwise would have if you'd let your body just naturally repair itself. But if you look at it from a just overall longevity standpoint, there's no problem with doing cold therapy post exercise. If you're looking for 100% body composition, building as much muscle mass as possible, then keep that three to four hours after. But when you start to structure in contrast therapy with sauna and ice, it's still about the same idea, right? The sauna inflames the body and then the ice is an anti-inflammatory benefit to the body. So those obviously counteract each other, it's based on dilation and then based on constriction. So with sauna therapy, yes, it's great post exercise. It's able to continue to expedite their recovery process, then inflammatory process even speeds up even more. You want that post exercise. But if you're going to do contrast therapy and then right after a training session, I probably wouldn't recommend that. If you're looking for full on muscle mass gain, I would probably keep that three to four hours after your strength training session. But if it's a roebit training, it's a different story. You could do contrast after with great benefit. For me, my favorite time to hop into the cold plan just after a longer run. I mean, my feet are on fire, my calves are on fire. Everything is just super inflamed from that New York City street impact. So dunking myself into that cold plan for even four or five, six minutes feels really nice after that and then I'll always end in heat. I don't like to walk around and cold as well. I think inflammation has seen as such a negative, but I think we need to take hold of that narrative before it gets too out of control. Probably already has because I feel like on every website. It's like get rid of inflammation. There's a time and a place for inflammation. It's important. It's going to help your muscle of a grow. It's going to help you progress. Sometimes we need to be in a flame state in order to work out what our body needs to work out. Now, we don't want to be in flame 24, 7. That's really more so what we're trying to get out of, you know, especially if you're dealing with maybe autoimmune issues, things of that nature. That's really what we need to get under control through stress management and some of these modalities that we're talking about today. But yeah, I mean to your point, the percentage of people likely listening to this, even who are so fixated on, you know, the smallest percentage of getting that hypertrophy versus them probably just want to feel better and function better on a daily basis. I think the benefits of just jumping in if that's more convenient for you after you work out far out way, you know, what some of these studies are telling us. You're exactly right. And inflammation into itself, the body gets inflamed because it's trying to heal itself. That's that's why inflammation occurs. Now, some people are chronically inflamed, which is a, which is, it's a problem, but cold obviously helps de-inflamm or, again, anti-inflammatory for the body. And I think that as long as we don't geek out too much about the science and just be more intuitive to, toward how we feel like you're saying, sometimes we just need to do what feels best. And that's typically what's going to last be more consistent long term is being intuitive to, hey, this actually felt really good. I'm going to continue to double down on this because I enjoyed how I felt. And there's nothing wrong with that. So sometimes you need to lean away from the data on that and just be intuitive. Yep. How does sauna use help with heat adaptation? Really, homeostasis control and learning temperature regulation for the time outside of the sauna. Again, you touched on this and your body adjusting to get in at us back to that regular functioning state. How can we use this maybe in the summer, particularly, to help us deal with increasingly hot summers, maybe you live in a permanently year-round hot place like Arizona, right? So how can that help your body adapt to everyday life when you're not in the sauna? Yeah, certainly. So our body, again, everybody's internal body temperature has a slight fluctuation from day to day based off of number of physiological principles, the external environments and whatnot. So on and obviously increases internal body temperature. The skin gets hot. Naturally, the body's going to start trying to cool itself down from the inside. That's why we start to sweat. So sweat is essentially our ability to be able to thermoregulate and keep body temp down. When I step outside of the sauna, yes, my internal body temp is high because I'm trying to sweat and to bring it down. But the more frequent sauna, the more frequent our sauna use is the better we become at sweating. And some people don't want to sweat more, but what that means is actually we're more metabolically, more metabolically efficient. So I'm able to decrease body temperature more rapidly. I'm able to keep a lower heart rate as a result. So let's say it's mid July, mid August. I'm going for that long summer run mid day and it's 90 degrees out with tons of humidity. I'm more better set up to be able to keep my heart rate down because I'm able to be more heat adapted as a result of frequent sauna use. And that's really important. Everybody that nobody wants to hit that 10 mile run and then six, seven miles in, you hit the wall because you weren't heated adapted. And being able to do that in preparation for the summer is obviously advantageous for people. But being able to let the body naturally cool itself down post sauna session without cold is a great way for the body to be able to obviously adapt to what the sauna's doing. And then you can apply that for your summer workouts. But similar to the better train, the aerobic athletes out there, a great measure for aerobic fitness is how quickly your body could go from a zone three zone four zone five state back to homeostasis or baseline. It's the same thing like how quickly can your body get back to baseline and baseline body time post sauna session. That's a really good indicator for aerobic fitness as well as heated adaptation. I'm glad you touched on the sweating component because I feel like, you know, it's a bodily function and it's fairly normal. And I think, you know, if we look back at maybe our athletic days, as always, you were looking at the sweaty kid and you're like, what's going on with this guy? Well, he's actually pretty adapted, right, in comparison to maybe some of the others who take, you know, 20 30 minutes to kind of get to that point. I want to talk about sweating and skin health, the detox effect, all, all, tiptoe around that word, lever, you know, leveraging after especially things like massage and acupuncture and things of that nature for me. Whenever I get my acupuncture session, I'm immediately hitting the sauna within 60 minutes after that just to help my body process to get some of those toxins that were released. Some of the great work that we did in there and you haven't checked out that episode, please go back and listen more. So let's talk about skin health and the benefits that come with heat use. Yeah, so this is where I want to bring infrared into the play too. So there is a lot of benefit to infrared sauna and traditional sauna in the setting. Obviously, like, yes, the standard should be 176 to 12, but there are, there is more research starting to come out now on infrared sauna as it pertains to skin health because it, because naturally it's going to increase your body temperature. So it's going to increase circulation, you're going to sweat. So the whole point here is to sweat. This could be through exercise. Like, yes, there's a lot of, like, byproduct to our, you know, cellular waste when I'm trying to excrete, you know, different types of toxins through my sweat, with exercise, but the same thing holds true for traditional sauna as well as infrared sauna. So yes, there's great, there's great skin effect because you're in that inflammatory state while you're in the sauna. The, the temperatures high, you're starting to sweat, pores open. Yes, it's great to be able to release his toxins. But I've noticed, and this is kind of fun. Like, one of my, one of my good friends is Jelly Roll. He sent me a message the other day. And he was telling me how one of his, while he was in the CSU sauna, he had this pimple on his face. And he said, like, the size of it went down as a result of him sauna more and more. And it was there for a long time. And he said, it's like nearly gone now as a result of sauna therapy. And I was like, man, nobody's ever talking about that with skin health. But you'll notice that some people, like, when they're doing sauna therapy frequently enough, they look like they're glowing. And that's not a coincidence. You'll notice like, like, you know, to me, like, when I, when my, when my wife had both of our kids, there was like, sometimes, like, during her pregnancy, that she was like genuinely glowing. And like, that's like the same look you'll see when somebody is saunaing 4 to 7 times a week. So I think that from a, like, vibrancy and, like, an aesthetic, yes, 100% do sauna therapy. Whether that's infrared or traditional do it. But it's one of those things where you have to give yourself the eye test from your looking yourself in the mirror and say, like, hey, this is actually benefit of me or is it not? But sauna is pointing toward that because of the excretion of all the toxins through our sweat and the perspiration, yeah, 100% there's great benefit to skin health. And when we say detox, you know, obviously, it gets a bad rap, but when we're saying it in this context, we're talking about, you know, helping organs like your liver and your pancreas and couple, couple of these key functioning organs, to create the waste that maybe they need a little more help to creating, right? It's kind of expediting those processes, moving digestion along. That's a huge one for me. I'll notice all light down on the sauna. I'm like 12 minutes in at 200 degrees. I hear my stomach. The digestive function is moving. I want it because I'm relaxed. And I'm kind of getting into that relaxed state, but then just the heat and there's a there's Chinese medicine that goes back thousands and thousands of years of the heat application and how we want to maintain a warmer, you know, body temperature throughout the day, which we will talk through in a second about what's ideal to end in hot cold. It's probably depends like everything. But let's talk a little bit deeper. What's happening under the hood when we say detoxing in a sauna and sweating, you know, what are we helping internally? What are some of those functions that we're helping? Yeah. So we consume so many different products, whether that's like how we inhale things, how we consume things through food, through our water, things that we become in coming touch with. And there's a lot of heavy metals within our body, like lead, mercury, and whatnot, arsenic, and through sweating, we're able to get that out of the system, specifically with sauna. And yes, you could get that with actual exercise, but when you talk about exercise and how you're like load in the joints and whatnot, it's you don't have as much of an exercise, you know, waste by product when you do it with the sauna. So when you're looking at under the hood and like the GI tract, you point it in the exact right direction, yes, it helps with being able to digest your food, similar to like how if you were to, you know, consume your dinner with your family and go for a walk after like there's great benefit and more research coming out on that that we just need to continue to be active because it's going to help us break down the food, become more about metabolicly active. The other thing too is also helps convert some white white fat cells to beige and brown fat cells, which are more metabolically active cells because like the mitochondria is more dense. And sauna therapy, walking, just low impact, low aerobic zone one zone two, post meal is great. And from a look underneath the hood, it's kind of like a white wood knife as opposed to drinking a beer post or grabbing dessert post. It's what kind of one of those like non-consequential type of modalities that you can start to implement post post food. Yeah, help those processes carry out. I think a lot of us just eat dinner and then we sit on the couch. Maybe we're sitting on the couch as we're eating dinner and then that's it. We go, we go horizontal, right? The more you can help your body, your body likes to move your blood likes to circulate, your organs like you to to be walking around. So if you're not walking after dinner, maybe you're hitting the sauna now. The last point here from a physical perspective, Pete, was what I just mentioned a couple of minutes ago. Where do we want to end when we're doing contrast training? So there's a lot of different, you know, there's a lot of mixed opinions about this, you know, for me personally, based off of how I feel, I don't like to end in cold. I feel that one it depends on where I am in my cycle. In my, you know, in my menstruating, my ovulating, especially during those times in my month, I really try not to end in cold because I do find that it is disrupted to those processes. So ladies, that's something to definitely taking count and I think we need more research that pinpoints this. But then to, you know, for me, I have a history of just a bit slower digestion. So for me, I like to end in that steering hot. I feel everything moving and it just sets me off in a really great way. That's not to say that I didn't pair my solenoid two, three rounds of cold punch, but I'll always end in that hot. Is this more an individualized approach based off of feel again, P or is there more of a science in terms of what goal we're chasing after with the use of contrast? So to preface, like we were, like what we were talking about earlier, contrast therapy does not have a ton of research yet. Yes, there's individual research on just solenoid and just cold punch and there is some research on the contrast therapy, but what we're kind of looking at right now is like the anecdotal evidence or the smaller research that's suggesting different effects. But if you're talking about sauna and cold and what to be able to end on it all depends on your schedule for your day. You can end uncult with great benefit earlier in the day. However, going back to why sauna is so important to sleep, we want to end on sauna prior to bed because your body is going to naturally cool itself off back to below baseline to be able to trigger a deeper, quicker time to go to bed. If I were to end uncult prior to bed, say one or two hours before, now all of a sudden, my body's naturally below baseline. Now it's going to compensate even more past baseline and now I'm more awake because my the skin is obviously colder. So now my body temperature inside is trying to heat up to be able to compensate for what's happened to my skin temperature. So if you're looking at from a timing perspective, I would highly recommend that you go towards sauna to finish prior to bed. If you're looking at it earlier in the day, say morning or afternoon, there's no reason why you shouldn't finish uncult. Your body when you finish uncult is going to naturally start to warm itself up back to baseline. In similar to like how sauna is, the more that you could let your body naturally get itself back to baseline itself without introducing sauna or cold plunge to be able to get it back to baseline the better. So yes, cold immersion is great to finish off with, just do it earlier in the day if it's at night, finish with sauna. Great stuff. Let's move on to topic three. So psychological benefits of sauna. So in tandem with a lot of the great physical benefits come a plethora of mental and emotional benefits and social as well tied into that, which you touched on, which I want to dive into deeper. One of some of the most beneficial mental gains that we can see from sauna use. So sauna is an environment to where it's so hot that you can't use your phone. Whether that's by yourself or with somebody else, it's your psychological trigger yourself as you step through the door that this is my time to set out. And most people don't have that time ever. Specifically like here in New York City, I'm sure that people are always go go go and for you to be able to have that psychological space that is your time for 15, 20 minutes if you're doing multiple rounds of hot and cold and then even better. But that space for people because it is that because you step through that door and you have like that psychological release, it is decreasing, about depression. And there was a recent study last week that actually came out that same effect with infrared sauna, which was great because there hasn't been enough research on infrared sauna to say like how beneficial it actually is. But I think that it is a by-product of people just having that time to be able to just decompress. But from the psychological perspective outside of depression, you look at anxiety. Well, there's a lot of people right now that are dealing with anxiety and around medication. Now this is a medical advice by any means, but having more frequent sauna use in that environment that is very, very, very, uh, difficulty hot between that one 76 to two 12 and you get that diner from response where it's like fighter flight time to get out. It's challenging and you get that you for a post session when you get past that two to three minutes of or even four or five minutes of man this really sucks. I really want to get out but you're fighting yourself from wanting to get out. You start to develop some confidence there and there's a lot of people that are lacking confidence right now in their body image, how they carry themselves their interpersonal relationships. And I've noticed that because we're in this sauna with two to three to four, sometimes like eight different people who we've never met each other and there's no phones. What else are you going to do with then talk with people and develop interpersonal relationships and have great conversation and make fun of each other and the whole gambit and then you step out and then you get that that feeling of wow like I went through something very difficult and I'm better for it. So you get the massive cognitive boost, you get the confidence, you also get the decreases in depression and anxiety. It's so from a psychological perspective, yeah 100% sauna is great and is definitely being attributed to that on all the different modalities of sauna right now. I also think it's a more approachable way and we touched on this in our last episode with Alex Silverfagan. How do we have some of the more vulnerable and open conversations with people that maybe is a little less approachable over a cup of coffee right? And it's usually well let's go to a yoga class and on the way home on the sidewalk maybe that's where that conversation is going to happen. Maybe it's on a family walk. I know my best conversation with some of my family members older are one we're on walks in nature right? But similar to the sauna to your point where I go to sauna, you know there are people that I don't know and at a time there's six of us in their conversation breaks out 10 out of 10 times and 20 minutes goes by one helps the time go by a hell of a lot faster and then too like you like you said that morale boost you feel good and I think that's an overlooked benefit of community-based fitness is just the morale and just the comfort that you get out of that and think about how much better you feel sometimes sometimes you need to go kind of demon chasing on an individual workout but think of the difference of how you can feel maybe where you don't feel like you kind of had your best one on one workout and then maybe you went to a group class or maybe you went into the sauna with a couple people and just internalize that, recognize that and see how you feel after and then just start doing more of what feels good. How can we combine breath work and sauna use? Breath work is we've seen a massive increase in the market of people kind of chasing after breath work. I'm sure no doubt that's coming with the rise of anxiety and depression and where we are as a society right now. Do you have any tips for leveraging breath work in the sauna? Yeah so I would even say it starts prior to the sauna session so if I could get into the sauna or prior to the sauna decrease my heart rate by doing some box breathing so say four second inhale four second retention of the top or second exhale four second retention of the bottom and be able to decrease my heart rate and then step into the sauna. I'm already starting to trigger that parasipylic nervous system response and that's what we want. Now like you mentioned you could chase some demons in the sauna if you want depending on where the heat is for most people like one ninety to two hundred degrees and you'd be too hot for you to start to really engage in that more relaxed state for breathing. So if you're looking at like good breath work in a sauna I definitely would recommend on the low-round of that one seventy six to two twelve so between like one seventy six to eighty five to where your nostrils aren't necessarily burning. If you ever been in sauna and your nostrils aren't that's pretty common totally normal. But as you get into the sauna it's all about posture and doing your best to relax, relax your shoulders and then also focus on belly breathing. So more the more I could breathe through my belly less of the chest typically again I'm able to lower my heart rate there which is kind of like a fun it's a fun workout into itself of trying to keep your body or your heart rate down in the sauna because yes body heat's going up your body essentially do some a fever in a sauna so heart rate starts to jack up so breathe and actually keeps it more steady. And again if you're ideally able to start that breath work prior so let's say two minutes of box breathing for fours on the inhales, retentions and exhales. Step into your sauna session do 15 to 20 minutes and then do the same thing after you're going to be able to come down in your body time quicker as a result. But it's all about like kind of triggering that parasitin genetic nervous system in a way to where it just completely relaxes you. That's the whole point of breath work is to get into that completely relaxed state to where you're able to completely keep everything else that's going on in the world behind and for you to just become completely into the present. And if you've ever done it with a group of people on a sauna it it's really crazy because everybody starts to connect with each other without even talking you're just focusing on your breath. And so when you when you take a step back on on the breath work tons of benefit to that with sauna when you add it with cold exposure, same thing. I highly recommend doing box breathing in your cold plunge. If you've ever been if you've never done it in a cold plunge have fun with that for your first couple sessions you probably won't be able to do it because it's that hard. But you could start getting cold the cold immersion benefits start in at 60 degrees Fahrenheit and lower. So I would highly recommend that you get into cold exposure at the higher temperatures of like the 50s and or 60 to 45 degrees and get yourself immersed with that and then start to integrate the box breathing. Yeah like anything right I think the more you can practice it without being in those harder situations the more successful you'll be when you're ready to implement it into those situations. The biggest piece of advice I think that you would probably agree on for anybody looking to tackle the very first cold plunge is just breathe long inhale long exhale you know immediately the body wants to get out and wants to protect itself it thinks that you're in danger happen to me when I was doing a half-iron man in Indian Wells water was 52 degrees. I was in a I was in a full wetsuit. It was the day I learned about neoprene caps though. So people around me had these neoprene caps on I just had my single hat and I dunked my face in to do my first couple of strokes and I quickly quickly immediately my body wanted to get out like I was zoned in ready for that race knew I had to do to a tip or pair for that race but it's so crazy how quickly our body can just take control and immediately say no get the heck out we are dying right so you know when you're when you're doing your first cold plunge just breathe through it don't try to be a hero by going too much and saying thank for sauna you know I don't think you need to push the limits and try to be a hero in your first go just kind of work your way up there see what you're comfortable with and then when you get to the point of understanding some of those cues with your body and saying oh no I can go another 45 seconds I can go no there minute right so it just takes it's take it small. Pete I want to leave today with one final question and I just want you to give our users a piece of advice when they are looking to implement heat use for the first time right so again how do we start small and conservatively but start injecting it in a way that can be useful to our long-term health so when it comes along to him health it's all about sustainability and consistency we don't need to go into sauna's at 200 plus degrees we don't need to especially up to that two-twelf most people get tons of benefit starting at 170-60 degrees so do your best to find a traditional sauna and get in for at least five minutes do it four times a week and you're going to start to see tons and tons of benefit not just from the psychological aspect we talked about in the recovery and growth hormone the whole thing but you'll start to notice that your productivity improves your ability to be able to be more focused at work improves your sleep improves is the whole gambit. I think people just need to get started and stay consistent and in the US there's a massive lack of consistency we just need to do the simple things really well and do them time and time again and do it consistently and sauna's part of that equation for most people if they're trying to try to get more out of life. Pete thanks so much for stopping by today we're excited to see where CSU goes tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey. Certainly so you can find us at csulifestall.com that's s-i-s-u-lifestyle.com or at c-su underscores sauna on Instagram you can follow me personally at Peter Nelson i-i Instagram as well to be able to see some more of the behind the scenes stuff with us building the brand and training. I appreciate you sobbed by the studio today. Yeah thank you so much Danielle. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way.

There's a difference between like only using your lats like for example if I only wanted to activate my lats on this row I would say more so bunched over and let them drop and just pull directly to my lats like this You see how this would only be a lap row, but I want to prop test up so we could hit lower lats like a bar ball row But more so doing dumbbell So this is gonna be mid back lower lat upper trap instead of just like so this would be a lat row That's fine, but we want to do hit the mid back and the upper back To your waistband everything you do when it comes to a row pulls your waist Because if you pull a pie you're always gonna hit upper back But you want to target lower lat always

Oh, five. Hey, these are warm-ups, by the way. Oh, for sure. We all thought somewhere. Not. Oh, yeah. No, for sure. I was actually going to grab the 15s, excuse me. Yeah, but I'm sure. Yeah, sure. So, you know what? Next two is a warm-up set. So I'm going to go ahead and grab the 20s, where the little bat, a screw, screw, the 25s. 20s. Okay. Hey, actually, I'm going to go ahead down here. 30s, more muscle. Well, it's weird. It's kind of felt like your fake weights. You've had them just mass-out their top rack. It's top rack, that's adorable. I'm going to start at the 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. So, that's fine. 50s. 50s, 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. 50s, like, ah, 60s. 50s? Yeah, you're just not going to get it. Yeah. Did you better do that? Yeah, you should do it. You're chic girl in that shit. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Yeah, that's a dude's rude as hell. Yeah, I'm going to, man. Yes, get out of here.

A lot of times when I'm interacting with people at an expo or whatever it may be, back home, training in its field, they don't have the money or the financial assistance to actually hire fitness professional nutritionists. I say, what's your goal? They say, my goal is to change my life. I want to be fit. I don't really know what to do to train. I don't really know what to do with supplementation and eating. What do you suggest? You know there's a cycleboddability.com and they have more content to lead you in the right direction. When I first started out, I was a guy who'd walk into a store or go on a bottom of my common. You're kind of looking in labels. Like, okay, this is the ingredient profile, but I didn't know what any of the stuff did. I didn't know what creatine was. I didn't know what BCAs were. I was just watching our member some of the 60s second videos and just the ingredient right up and all the different articles you have. That's how I learned. And that's really where how I started. I love bodybuilding.com because it was a place that I could find not just supplements. Whenever I was younger and I wasn't quite ready for all the proteins and the added in supplements for my diet. But I found that it was a place that I could get so much more information. It would be a bodybuilding that comes always been a destination resource. To answer all those things, A to Z. Everybody that I have ever met working with bodybuilding.com, they are the nicest and most genuine people that I really ever met. And they really do care about the customers. Their reason behind their success is the quality of the people and the quality of the message. And to me, having done two trainers with bodybuilding.com, I'm just floored that I even have the opportunity to work side by side with them. They are responsible for all the inspiration in the industry. And you have the power or the energy and the commitment and the focus and the drive to change the lives of so many people. I mean, it just sets the standard. Not too out of the industry but throughout the world. Bottom and on top remains a front runner to deliver customers information. To deliver them freedom of choice. You guys share all of the information. You guys tell the whole story without only a little bit. For the absolute novice, who wants to go hit the gym for the first time. In all honesty, I do tell them, hey, go check out part of the.com. It's really key for us to give back credible information and give it back to all our users. This is a really tough industry to really learn this so much, misleading information out there. It needs to be a source where you can actually find true information that really help you reach your physical or athletic goals. You guys reach around the people all around the world and looking for ways, all different types of training, pulling from different types of training styles to nutrition to help put that together to create the very best content that you can find anywhere. It's really rare not just as a retailer but as a media destination for a publisher to remain kind of unbiased and really just say, hey, we want to arm all of our readers and all of our fans with all the information so they can go and pick the plan, pick the program, pick the product that's best for them. Whenever you're new, trying to reach your goals, it is so important that you have people around you that support you. It's really just a huge family. So if you truly want to change your life and make that transformation, you have everything you need right here. It's a life with a two minute drill. It's no time for timeouts, play like you got nothing to lose and go for the win. Everyone has their own flaws and they're not flaws but to find beauty in your strength. Over the time you get so caught up in what you want to look like, you kind of forget where you came from to really enjoy that journey. I'm a spoke on a very large wheel and it's unbelievable to be able to share that message because that's our lives. That's what we do and we're so passionate about it. They're like-minded and they set that trend and unbelievable powerful message.

I was 19, lost in my neck, broke it, up for the disc, right-man's hit into my vertebrae, set about two years. I lost all my weight, got to press. I'm John Meve, 26 year old bodybuilder. I work full time, I take care of my house, thank you everything I got into. I still find time to get it done. Some days your tire, your feet down, you don't feel like doing it. That's when you've got to push on, you know? If I can come back from this, you can come back and do anything. I don't think I'm super mine, I'm super down and I'm always there, fly right down, cause we always care, shine that light, I'll be right there. Cause I know that you need me, you see that fit alone, I go solo, anyone wants a hop-up, go on whatever I got, push them a little in it, like I push myself every day. So we're disfossilting here when they got such a chance, just as my life, and if you hope to play high, I'll save you when I'm so cool, but for everybody that saved the world. When you were close, got you there, I don't think I'm super mine, I'm super down, yeah, I always there, you can tell me a thousand times, but I never gonna leave, I'm always here, cause I know you need me, so you can stop me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, you know, world, nobody's gonna hurt my girls, if you knew I was a butcher, go from the pages, see you smiling, but the music beats up, not super man, but I am just lacking, cause I got my life, and if you hope to play high, I'll save you when I'm so cool, but for everybody that saved the world. You're the way that you find it, but for all you can do, and you're fun, just you never, you feel like you're all feet down, and you want to quit, so that last breath. I need to teach you, you can do.

Today our workout is cast. A lot of people won the black calves or two, just have a difficult time building and straking the calves. For one thing, I feel like a lot of people just don't train calves correctly. I see a lot of people who bounce the weights around, use too much weight or don't work out calves the way they work out in the other part of their body. If they were doing chest, you don't see people bouncing the weights around, but that's what I see when people train calves, especially on the C.D. calf raise, but still. When I train calves, I like to work them out just like I work out any other muscle part, which is making sure I get a full stretch on the muscle work and getting a really hard, full contraction at the top of each rep. This calf workout will only take about 20 minutes because we're keeping our rest time's low. So today's calf workout is three exercises. Exercise one is standing calf raise. Exercise two is seated calf raise. And exercise three is calf press on leg press machine. I recommend including these calf exercises at the end of your leg day. The first exercise is standing calf raise. We're going to start off with one one offset and four working sets. Each working set should be eight to twelve reps to failure. I do a warm upset to make sure I have proper form on the exercise. Also to make sure my foot placement is correct. The way I train my calves are pretty much the same for all my calf workouts. I want to make sure I'm stretching out my calf muscles and also getting a full hard contraction at the top of each rep. So for each rep, I want to make sure that I'm stretching out my calf muscle. Flexing as hard as I possibly can, getting that full contraction, and holding it for about a second, challenging them so that they will grow and they will get bigger and they will get stronger. There are different variations to do the standing calf raise. Today I actually did it with the Smith machine. Certain gyms do have specific standing calf raise machines and those work good as well. For the second exercise we're doing seated calf raise. We're doing one warm up and four working sets. For the working sets we're doing eight to twelve reps to failure. For the seated calf raise, you're actually going to be targeting more of the solius muscle. The solius is part of the calf muscle that is actually hit it. But by developing it helps make the calf look bigger overall. With the seated calf exercise, I don't like to use my body weight to help assist myself, but I do like to lean back slightly just so I can balance out my body weight and the weight on the machine. Exercise number three is going to be calf press on the leg press machine. We're going to be doing one warm up with four working sets. For this exercise we're doing six to ten reps to failure. Just like all my other calf workouts, I want to make sure I'm getting a full stretch at the bottom. You want to make sure that you bend your knees slightly to allow the weight to push back on your after it's been stretched out, you want to make sure that you're getting a full contraction and flex it, flex it hard. The full workout breakdown for this workout is on the page below. Here on Bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can contact me on my body space or my Instagram. For more free videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

You know, when you grow up, you grow up in the gym the same way I did. You know, we grew up in gyms like this. They were small, there was nobody in 3,000 square feet old, no name equipment. I mean, half the stuff was made by probably people at the gym, you know, they iron workers put the stuff together and you know, it wasn't totally different than anything you see today. It wasn't like now, you know. Now you've got access to so much information, you've got bodybuilding.com where you can get on and you can research all these different workouts. I mean, have that. You know, we had had the magazines and then you had the old big dude in the gym. And that was the guy that you went to for all your advice. You know, when I started training again and you know, it's been cool for me to, you know, to put some intensity back in my workout. We're going to go through a shoulder workout today. This is a crazy shoulder workout. This is one that you can't do all the time. I don't recommend doing this. This isn't like an everyday shoulder workout. This is something you come in and you do once a month to just really blow it out. We're going really hardcore. We've been, we've been hitting this, you know, off-knowing for the Pascal for months. And that's been great. It's been great. It's my fancy gym bag. I like that. Let's do it. My lead off. Yeah. I guess I have like a blue collar work ethic. And in my opinion, that's what it takes to be successful in the gym. You know, everyone wants fast and easy. Fast and easy. Show me the nutrition plan that's, you know, fast and easy. Show me the work I plan that's fast and easy. And there is no fast and easy in building your physique. It requires hard work and it requires patience. But emphasis on hard work, you know, everyone wants to, you know, they want the latest scientific discovery and nutrition or the latest breakthrough in training. You know, show me the university study. Oh, I don't want to see the bro science. Right. You know, it's, it's real simple. You come in here and you work hard. You work your ass off. You put some effort into it. Like you go into the gym now. You see these guys in there and, you know, they got their shirts cut all the way to the side. And so I see him like, you know, they'll do the like, pretend to, to wipe the sweat out of their eyes so they can flex their abs in the mirror for the girl next to them. There was, there was no Instagram picks back then. Oh, dude. Now you go to the gym. I mean, it seems like there's no the main concern is getting a good, good picture. I can have a cool filter for Instagram. Well, for us, we didn't have cell phones. But if I would have brought a cell phone and taken a selfie, I think I would have got a selfie. No, no, no, no. You said where your guides can't use that word selfie. I think I would have got back here. Shoulders. Shoulders and traps are those body parts that no one wants to train. It's like nothing exciting about them. It's like, that's the coast day. What are you doing? Shoulders abs calves. It's like my easy day. But actually be the day you go in and just kill it. Because nothing's going to make you look bigger than having big shoulders and big traps. You wear a shirt. You go wear a sweatshirt and still look big if you got big shoulders and traps. And cool thing about this, the single arm dumbbell presses. You can't cheat. You know, seated dumbbell presses. You can kind of slide your butt down and use some upper test to press that weight up with this. There's no cheating. There's no hiding. Do I think there's another great thing about having a train partner? There's no better way to get stronger and bigger than by training with someone who's stronger than you. So I like train with it to stronger than I am. It pushes me. It slips out.. Don't think about it. It even rockets super claustrophobic...! It's okay, I'm gonna relax the turn it hurts so Barton is mejor. for the health slap I'm gonna have! ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. So he can get 10. I could eat. I could easily. Push out and say he's. 50 pounds heavier stronger but. That's. See, manage to train with someone bigger and hit and strike bigger. I feel muscles. That's what it's all about. Ahhh. Oh. Oh yeah. Good set. You set. That's how you build muscle. I want to fill you there. Hold it. Pop it now. So full ball movement here. Oh. That will get you hard going right there. You don't see this much anymore. This is a total body workout. He is having explosive hips. And that strength to power up. There you go. That's better in cardio. You know, he look around here. There's not me machines. This bench is. No. His free weights. This is good. Most machines are just a different way to try to make you feel like here's something that's hard and making it easier. This isn't supposed to be easy. No. It's supposed to be hard. He's supposed to come in here and work your ass off. Grab a bar. Put some steel in your hand and move it. Why make me look bad with you? You're making it look too easy. Oh. Make him look like a superstar. You're not going to struggle. Let's go. Nice. Close. There you go. Looking good. Almost done. Nice. I'll put some cows on your hands. Look at that. That's a good one right there. I'm going to save that one. I'll put that in my pocket. I'll go my scrapbook. That's it. That's it. Easy. There you go. There you go. And a couple extra. Oh, that's so good. Now that's just be the day. Let's go. That's it. That's it. There you go. Get up. Come on. Give me some presses. How many did you do? Four. Four. Did you? Four. Let's go. Come on. There you go. All right. All right. All right. Only did. Three actually. Yeah. Just for that. That's the lead book. That's the lead work. Peppies. Oh shit. I got a bunch of it when it comes to gym. Oh yeah. We can go down the list. One. Not rocking your shit. You know. Look, it's again, it's about respect. You know, you do late press. So what, you're the man, you can go in, sack 10, 12, 14 plates on each side. But what about the 125 pound lady that comes after you that wants to do leg press? You're gonna make her on rack of thousand pounds. You're not the man at that point. Have some respect. Take care of the gym, have some respect for other people. So that's a big one for me is just respect. Here you go, squeeze it at the top. You don't need to go so high, just stop right there. There you go, squeeze it, squeeze it. That's a, I said, it's a hell of a pump right there. All that lateral, that little, little baby, baby, weight right there, so much weight. No. It's not about, you know, how much weight you live like? I can't tell you how many times I'll go pick up something off the dumbbell rack and some dudes looking at me. And whatever I pick up, he'll want to pick up five, ten pounds heavier. He's over there swinging it. Looks like he's having a convulsion. Trying to get the weight up. MUSIC You could give me the lamest workout on the planet. And let me do it for a couple of months, and I'll get results with it, why? It's not about what you do, it's about how you do it. It's about how much effort you put into it. It's no magical workout routine. All right, that's hard work. But I say come on. It's a little bit fun to me in my shoulder. But there's a lack to cast it, and then there's just pain. I can't hear where it's most bored. And we're only halfway down. No, come on. There you go. Ah! Come on. Ah! Oh, yeah. Brute delts. It's just the past couple years. I've really been working on that. And they're really isolated. I feel like you need to do a number of movements to get the blood in there. And I think it's more about that. It's not putting you weight on his forehead. He's only doing it just to maintain his body position. Start putting weight on your forehead. You're going to start tweaking your neck and your back. So don't lean on it. And if you feel like you got a lean on that bench to get the weight up, drop down and weight. Most people in the gym think I'm a dick. And it's not that I'm a dick. I just, I'm focused when I go on there. I'm there for a reason. Oh, good. See that angle he's pulling back. You're a delt poppin' up. Oh, my god. Let's go pull it. Let's go. One way. Squeeze it to top dude. No elbows. Keep those arms straight. Oh. All right. Just 12 reps there. What do you think about weight on those upright roasts for dumbbells? I don't know, but could you pick up something heavier? She's, you got it. Come on. Come on. There you go. See a lot of guys doing upright roasts. And they get real narrow on and they bring their elbows up real high. You don't have to bring your hands to your chin. Get your elbows right parallel with your shoulders as plenty. Come on, wait. I straight arms. You know, she's squeezing it back too, because your traps just don't bring your shoulders up. They also bring them back. Don't do this weird roll. You have to hear and something. I have to see this weird, like they're rolling the boat or something. So it's a bit of a move. Yeah. Just squeeze back. What'd you do? Who's 21? 20. Oh my god. Take your chair. Come on. Pull it. There you go. Drifting on floor. There you go. There you go. Nice. See this way I have a train partner. Counts, because once you start getting tired, you'll say, That's good enough. I'm good. I got a pump. I'm good. Big traps. You're big traps. You trap some of those muscles. I remember as a kid watching the original incredible Hulk watching Luke for a ignore. Do most muscularness. Oh, yeah. Tras popped up. Oh, I don't want to look like that. What a little kid. Don't you know that. Always the first thing they do is try to push their next floor. Look at my neck is. Nice. The other vans have a train partner. You got someone to rack your waist for you. Last one. Pull it. All right. So we will finish it off with the pressing movement. This is another one that I'm not too familiar with. The best way to think of these. Instead of a shoulder press, where you're not just using your delts, using your triceps, this is almost like the same as doing a chest fly. Difference between the chest press and the chest fly. So this is the equivalent on shoulders. So imagine keeping your elbows at 90 degrees. You're going to go down and you bring them up. My elbows don't move. What a push chest start with. I'm good. I'm good. I'm not going to come from that. What do you think? 30? What do you think? Do I wouldn't go any heavier than that? I would even start first set. 25? I could. I'd help me out with these. Got it. There you go. You go really turn these up here. Thumb down and you peek you up. And then drop them down. There you go. That's a good stretch. There you go. I'm telling you these will burn. These are nasty. Don't go too heavy. You want to use good form. And you don't want to drop the dumbbell on your head. You don't need much weight. It's a great way to finish your shoulders off. Yeah. Is that over the top of the floor? Yeah, you like that? Yeah, that's how I turned it on right there. Oh, I just turned it on. Come on. And if you don't know what movie over the top is, then you're a lot younger than us. Yeah. I just stayed with them. Yeah, I'm going to stay with these. I got a good pump. Oh, man. I tried to get not only that controlled and centered, but at the top of the range on motion really squeeze it. Nothing's going to make your muscles burn and sore the next day like a good squeeze. All right, let's go. Come on. Come on. Up. Up. That's seven. You know, I can easily just quit here, but not pissing off. You're going to shake it off. I'm going to finish it off. There you go. Squeeze. There you go. I'm not doing that. Sure, just because I quit. Nice. Come on. There you go. Oh, come on. There you go. Is that three? Is that two? That's two. That's two. That's much more than two. That's two. That's two. That's two. That's two. That's two. This is the spot you. That's good. Oh, boy. Good work. How far does it don't spot each other? They got to get to the way. What am I going to do? My job to lift it for him. How's he going to get stronger, fellow? It's just way. Nice. Nice. Yeah. It's music. Let's go. So that's it. We've hit our traps, blasted, hear your delts from front to back. It's just, that's an all around killer shoulder trap workout. So like you said, this isn't something you want to do. It's a fairly every week. That intensity was really high. Took us about 35 minutes to knock through that entire workout. Go on to the gym, work hard, show some heart, put some effort into it. That's what gets results. Hard work and consistency. Guads can't use that word self-esteem.

A calorie deficit doesn't just mean eat less food. You know that, right? There's only two parts that go into making a calorie deficit. The calories coming in that you eat and drink each day. And the calorie is going out that you burn each day. But the problem is when most people think about creating a deficit. They only focus on the first part of that equation, which is to eat less food. Or by thinking that the only way to increase how many calories you burn is to spend more time exercising. But that's not necessarily true. This is your TDE or a breakdown of where you burn calories in a day. And to most people's surprise, exercise is usually the smallest part. With the majority of what you do burn, coming from places that aren't the gym. So yes, you could just work out more or starve yourself. But that's probably not the smartest way to do it. And it would make a lot more sense to focus just as much on the bigger pieces. To create that deficit. Like your non-exercise movement, the other 23 hours you're not in the gym. The calories you burn from digesting the food you eat. Like eating more protein, which burns 3 to 10 times more calories being digested than carbs or fats too. And other factors that play a role in boosting the biggest part. Your BMR, like building lean muscle mass, your sleep and stress. The point is a calorie deficit isn't just if you exercise more than you can eat. It's if you're in tired life burns more than you eat. And once you look at it that way, you don't have to eat nearly as little as you think you do to make progress.

Exercise is my source for strength, energy and empowerment. I never feel better than when I'm kicking butt in the gym. I'm Kathleen Tassori. The goal of today's workout is more muscle building or maintaining your muscle. We're going to be supersetting everything and we're going to be hitting all the major points of the upper body. That's why I really like this because you can go into the gym, you're going to hit your shoulders, your back, your thighs, your trice. So this workout should take about 30 minutes, possibly 45, just depending on how busy the gym is, how you're feeling, let's get started on our first superset. Alright, so our first superset today is going to be pull-ups, right into dips. I really want you to go all the way up, all the way down and really can track those muscles because we're only doing 5 to 8. Let's go. Alright, so make sure that you lean slightly back, go all the way up and all the way down, nice and slow. Remember, we're only doing 5 to 8 reps. You've got this. Feel the goal of the pull-ups and the dips is for the pull-ups, you're going to be really focusing on your laps and your back, whereas the dips are going to focus on your triceps. And from there, we're going straight into dips. The important thing is to keep your arms nice and close to your body so that it runs your body on the way down and come up. Again, we're only doing 5 to 8. So focus on going all the way up and all the way down. The reason why the rep range is kind of low is because these two movements unassisted can be very difficult for people. And so I like to make it a realistic goal for people to try and get close to doing it unassisted and so the lower rep range makes it more achievable. Alright, that's the first set. Go ahead and take a 30 second breather. Our second circuit is going to contain rows, superset with chest press. And for the rows, we're going to do an 8 to 12 rep range and the chest press, we're going to do a rep range of 15. Now I put these two exercises together because you can do them all in one location. Okay, so you're just going to lean like 45 degrees back. You're just going to pull it all the way. And I don't lean forward. I just allow my arms to go all the way forward and I pull straight back. Squeeze those shoulder blades nice and tight. So the rows and the chest press, we're going to move up into a higher rep range because it's an easier movement and so we need to increase it to make it more challenging. Alright, and then we're going to go straight into chest press. So a lot of people think that you have to switch workouts all the time. But I challenge you if you have a favorite workout, do it a couple of times, get really efficient at it. And then what you can do is you can increase the amount of weight that you do, you can decrease the amount of rest. I like to go nice and slow. It really helps to build that muscle and exhaust your muscle easier without having to lift heavier weight, which is a great way to reduce injuries. Alright, that's our first set. So ahead and take a 30-second break. So my first set was a little bit light for me, so I'm going to increase by 10 pounds this time and see how that feels. I'm going to keep my core nice and tight and if you notice, I'm not rocking back and forth because I'm doing the whole movement with pulling with my back. I think that people should change up their variations each week. And you can do the closed grip and then the next week you should do the wide grip, that way you're balancing and you're achieving that balanced physique. Alright, let's move straight into our chest press. A lot of women are afraid to work chest. They feel like they don't need to work the chest or they're worried about over developing or whatever the fear may be. And you know, it is perfectly fine women to work your chest once a week. It's part of developing the overall package that overall physique. Alright, so our third circuit is going to be a lap pull down, super set with dumbbell pull overs. And we're going to be doing both of these exercises 8-12 reps. Alright, I always like to lean about 45 degrees back and pull straight down until I actually touches my chest. Make sure it's a nice and slow and controlled movement. You don't want to be like moving around like this. Nice and slow and controlled. You should be feeling this in your laps. So really squeeze those shoulder blades together as you're pulling down. The hips stay low because it increases the intensity and really increases the amount of stretch and work out that you're going to feel. You'll be feeling this in your lap and your chest area. You're going to be feeling a really good stretch but just push through it. Alright, go ahead and take a 30-second break. Grab some water if you need. We're moving into our fourth circuit which is going to be rear delts, superset it with side lateral raises. We're going to be doing 8-12 reps on the rear delts and we're going to be doing 15 reps on the side lateral. This movement is really small and you really can't do a lot of weight. What I like to do is I like to relax the shoulders. So drop your shoulders as low as you can. And then what I want you to do is I want you to keep your shoulders and almost like your shoulder blades flexed and contract a full time. I'm using 5 pound dumbbells and I could definitely feel the burn on that. Now we're going to move right into side laterals. So I'm going to start with 12 pounds but I might have to drop it down because we're doing 15. So I'm going to see how far I can get. So again, when you relax the shoulders down, don't hunch them up. Relax and down. Make sure your abs are nice and tight and throughout this whole exercise and also remember to breathe in and out. All right, here we go. So you know that it's on all my movements. I like to go nice, slow and controlled. I'm going to drop down the weight to finish my last five. For the rear delts you'll see people just swinging their arms like trying to just get them up with explosive movement and I think it's better, safer and healthier to do a slow controlled movement and don't worry about the amount of weight that you're lifting. All right, we're going to go straight into side laterals. Then roll your shoulders down, don't have them like this. Roll them down if you start to go like this. Take a pause, take a breather or drop the weight, okay? All right, I'm going to drop the weight. The important thing here is we want to hit our reps even if you have to go down and weight. The form is key to getting that nice, beautiful shake. The first movement we're going to do is called a W curl. And the W curl is where you put your elbows right into your sides and you're going to be curling upward like this so it looks like a W. The important thing is to not rock and not try and get them up like this. You're going to stay nice and controlled. Keep a really good posture and keep your elbows into your sides. Also keep that core in and make sure you keep a nice consistent breath and really focus on squeezing the biceps. And then my favorite exercise I call this the finisher, the bicep finisher, but the technical name is static curl. So what we're going to do is we're going to keep one arm at 90 degrees like this. So this arm is going to stay the way the entire time. You're not going to drop it down here. You're not going to have it up here. It's going to be 90 degrees and keep that hand open. And then you're going to curl with this side. We're going to do 15 each arm. Just really isolates. You're working two different kind of movements. You're curling, but you're also holding this arm though with the static arm in an isolation movement. So it's working both arms. Now I'm going to make this the 90 degree and I'm going to be curling with this arm. Both arms are burning. But we're almost done with our workout. It's our first superset. We're going to stay nice and controlled. Keep those elbows in at your side. That's probably the most important thing. Let's go 8 to 12. I like to save biceps towards the end because it's a small muscle. It's easy to work out and it's a great finisher. Because technically when you're working your body, you're indirectly working your biceps the entire time. So I like to save it for the end to be the last finisher to totally annihilate them, burn them out. And go straight into the static curl 90 degree, curl with the other. Don't let that arm drop below 90 degrees or above 90 degrees. So I would save this workout for those weeks that are really busy where you know you're only going to be able to hit two or three times a week or also when you're just about to maybe go out of town and you want to hit your whole upper body. The full breakdown of today's workout can be found below right here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about today's workout, anything that you heard me talk about or any exercises, feel free to comment below on this video. I'll be checking back everywhere on every social media I'm Kathleen Tissori. For more free videos and articles from athletes like me, make sure you check back on bodybuilding.com.

Hey everybody, I'm Ashley Conrest, Liberty Fitness Trainer and owner of Clutch Body Shop Los Angeles. I feel my clients that you may recognize who just take digs, brother Cooper, Kate Hudson. Today I'm going to be taking you through a abroutine that I used to get brother Cooper and shake for 18. I've got most nice eight back abs. And we're going to be using Mr. Brandon Poe as our fitness expert taking you through the routine so enjoy. The first exercise I'm going to have Brandon go through is the Weight of Jackknife. I like to start out with this exercise because it engages both a lower and upper abs as well as a serratus. The first exercises that I usually do with any workout are going to engage a large number of muscles so that you're already 15 the first 30 seconds in. I love making people go into a little bit of pain. So go ahead and lay back on. And so I'm going to give Brandon the ball and what he's going to do is he's going to bring it straight back. He's going to put his feet out and he's going to come up in the ball and his feet are going to meet at the top. Yep, perfect. Yep. So you're going to go through this until you can't lift your legs up anymore. I'm going to have him put his feet straight up at 90 degrees. Just like a 90 degree crunch. The ball is going to come to about right here and he's just going to come up and tap my handle keeping his feet up. Good. It's going to come up with this exercise. He's done this by keeping the legs up. You're engaging your lower abs and then I'm having him come up with the ball which is also blasting the upper abs. You get that great definition. Make sure you keep your head. I only want his head coming to about right here and then back up to avoid neck injury and to make sure that it's just the abs that are firing. He's not using any momentum. The legs are starting to come down. Good. So that's the failure. Now we're going to do this. He's going to go into a basically-awaited bicycle. So the first thing that's going to happen is he's going to come up with the ball like he's going to do a crunch. So about right up here. Good. So the upper abs are engaged. Now he's just going to do a simple bicycle. Bring in the knees way in. What this is going to do is it's going to get right into the serratus. It's those kind of lines that are hard to get that people always ask, oh how do I get these abs? This is a great exercise for that. So I just squeezing, squeezing, squeezing with the ball, bringing the knees in. Great for the obliques. He's going to hold on to the bench. For the stabilization, I'm going to bring us feet straight up. And this exercise is hard to explain unless you do it. It gets really deep into your abs. So what I'm going to do is bring his legs all the way up and he's just going to tap. He's going to go from here. So straight up, 90 degrees. You don't want to cheat and go this way or that way. So you're going to stay right there. He's just going to come straight up and tap my hand. So just pushing straight up through the hips. You feel that? You feel it through the entire core area. Good. So you can see that his legs, let's give him a rest. What happens is when your legs start to fall this way or this way, you're not engaging the way that you should. So the goal is to keep your legs straight up and down and push just straight up. The second you feel yourself cheating, give yourself a couple seconds rest and try and go right back into it. First of all, there we go. Engage. Good. Now opposite arm, opposite leg. There we go. Good. Brawl. Brawl. Good. You're going to pop up. So you're going to push yourself up. Good. You don't shift down. Stay right where you are. The only thing that's moving is your leg. So keep this totally solid. Good to bring it out. Good. Good. And then you're going back down. Good. So you want to stay strong through here. You do not want your abs sinking down. That's what's going to put pressure on your lumbar. Getting back up. Say strong through here. Good. And then back down. Good. What we're going to do is he's going to go all the way to the other side. Good. And then I'm going to have him turn around. But turn around for me does not mean coming out of position. I want to keep the abs engaged again. We're not resting. So go ahead and ran in. He's going to come to the end. Come all the way up here. Come all the way up. So like right where I am. Good. Then you're just going to kind of hold yourself in place and turn yourself around. There we go. So once ran in, flips around. I'm going to have him transition into the next exercise, which is an armicral. Okay. So what he's going to do is he's going to keep his abs. Let's see what the shirt is. As abs are going to stay up his knees are going to hit the ground. And his feet are going to go out. So his calves are pretty much serving as a dead weight. And what he's going to do is he's going to really extend that elbow out and pull himself across the floor. What this is going to do is he's going to keep the abs engaged. And as well, really bring in the serratus and even the lats. So he's a great finisher. Anytime you're. I mean at the end of a of a back routine. I do really want to get into the lats as well. Kind of doubles as that. So go ahead Brandon on the show. There we go. So you can see the legs are really holding him back. So he's really having to pull and use his abs to bring himself across the floor. Brandon is as you can see on the ball. But he's going to do a crunch, but he's going to add into it a weighted fly. And what this is going to do is not only work that kind of crunch motion, but also bring in all those great side muscles, which I love to isolate because that's, you know, you can have these guys, but everybody wants to be shredded through here. So this exercise is great for that. So what he's going to do is he's going to extend his arms out. And he's going to come up and end about right there. So he's coming up and out and up there. Control it. Good breath. Good. Good. Perfect right to there. Don't over extend. Good. Good. I'll pull the wall higher right there. Good. You feel that? Good. So you don't have to use weights. Obviously, if this is too difficult, you're more than, I mean, especially if you're at the end of a routine. Body weight is just fine. You'll still feel that. And using the finish off with a very isolated crunch, keep your chin down. Yeah, now come up to my hands. Good. I backed out right there. Good. I'm sure you're breathing. That chin talked. Good. This just blows out the abs. I'll feel them seizing up. Get that great. Those great hard lines. Good. So you want to keep your hands right on your thighs. You don't want them coming up. Good, right there. And then straight to me. There. There we go. Don't let your hands come to go back. Good. Good. That's different. Yeah, that's different. It's different when you keep those loose. Hands down. That's just, it's that slight change in angle. It makes all the difference. So that wraps up our abhorcee. Again, you're going to circuit this five times. This workout shouldn't take you any longer than 20 to 30 minutes. Again, intensity intensity intensity. There are no rests during this circuit. Can you do these abs and you use the weights at the end of whatever muscle you're doing? It just gets that extra bit after doing tries or chest or shoulders. The burn that you're going to feel in terms of not just your abs, but also your arms, the definition, the tightness of that muscle. Certain exercises if you're doing them correctly. You can only get to like seven or eight. And if you're squeezing and holding and just focusing solely on the abs, you're not going to use your arms or your legs or momentum to try to, kind of you're like, oh, I have to get to 50. I'll generally wait until, you know, the person cannot bring their legs up or they're at the weak failure, they're more respite, not for long. One of the things that I recommend is you might catch and hate because people think you're checking yourself out. You can kind of flip this bench like with a mirror here. And so you can check your angles every so often to make sure that you're not cheating yourself. I see people do this at the gym all the time doing pushups or playing like this. They cheat the second thing they go to drop this drops as well. You're not engaged in your abs and then what happens? People get home and they go, oh, why does my back hurts so bad? Well, because you're leaving your back totally exposed, so you always want to stay straight as a board. People tend to lock themselves into a machine. Me being a former athlete, we don't do just back to front. You're having to move, you're having to twist, you're having to do all of these things. What tends to happen is if you've got your legs locked in your trying to twist and you're trying to do all these things, you can hurt your back because of your discs unless your form is totally perfect. You've got your hip flexors, totally engaged, you're not isolating here. When people think core, they think pilates and girls want to have that. But for guys, powerlifting, getting your bench press up all your max weights up, core is essential. For more content like this, more Aberteens, more exercises to get your body and Keller Shape, please visit Bodybuilding.com. I'm SilverDeterrater Ashley Conrad and thank you for watching.

Hey, what's up, I'm Mario Lopez, host of Extra and also MTV's America's Best Dance Crew and was on Dancing with the Stars Not Too Long ago. It may have seen you say by the bell growing up and Ole Missa other things. They got a book out right now called Extra Lean Family, which I'm very proud of. But today I'm at Geals Gym here in Burbank, California and I want to put you through a great circuit training workout where we're going to focus on the acts. Spring is here, summers around the corner, guys are going to be running around with their shirts off because it's hot outside first thing. Everyone's going to look out, is the midsection. So let's get into it right now. All right guys, so we're going to be doing four different exercises in our circuit training today and the first one is hanging leg raise. And we're going to go to the point of failure, losing being is just working with body weight, no sense in putting a number on it because some people might be able to be only 10 reps and some other maybe 40 or 50. So depending on your ability at the moment, we're going to push ourselves with this one right off of that. Here we go. So while I have the most energy and strength, I like to target the lower abs because that tends to be people's weakest area, mine too. Right into it here. All right, that was exercise one. We're going to go immediately to exercise two. Come on. All right, here we are with the decline, weight of crunch for me. I got a 45 pound plate here. We're going to do about 15 to 20 reps. All right. We have a great exercise. We got a partner to give you this and it all. And we continue. We're going to do an drop shot. For, you can just jump it off and continue with the drop set because you're just not a little bit more. Just using body weight. You want to look fairly, right? And you get a deeper, do some twists with your bleeps. Really feelin' it out. All right, I just got done to go immediately to exercise three which is double crunch. You want to start off with your feet, six inches off the ground and behind your head and you want to crunch it. All right, great exercise. It's summer coming. It's on you. This is an exercise that really just looks the whole new section. So you can't go wrong with double crunch. Our fourth and final exercise that cable would shot. You get lower, we did upper abs, we hit them both. This is going to be working all that as well as your obliques and your core. So you want to do because we're working with a weight here at least 15 to 20. Okay, the form is very important. Nice wide base. Start with your hands in the air and put it all the way down across your body. Put it the other way like this. All right, so we just completed a really effective and tense abs workout. And what you're dealing with some heavy weight, so you don't want to do this ab routine in the beginning of your workout or even in the middle of a workout you want to save it for the very end. You want to do it last because you really want to push yourself and you really want to focus on the midsection and give it your all and you need your backing and core to be working. So it's very important that you maintain the great form and keep it at the end of your workout. I typically do this workout about two to three times a week. It takes about 20 to 30 minutes to get through and for my full abs, circuit training routine, just check out the page below and for other great content like this, of course check out bodybuilding.com.



You're looking at a man today who lost about 105 within a year. And the reason why I'm here is because of bodybuilder.com. The reason why I'm breathing today is because of bodybuilding.com. I dare friend of mine that I grew up with. He passed away over heart attack and he was 37. I was looking at his casket. I didn't see him. I saw me. I got a wife. I got a six year old son and a one-year old daughter. I couldn't let that happen. I decided to look on you guys website, a founder website, and look at how the transformation page was. It was a gentleman there. He was about my age, 39, 360. He was 360 about the same height, 510. And in one year he lost about 100 pounds. He said, okay, this is me. That didn't move me as much. What reading the story really did because as I was reading the story, why he did it. He was on a couch. What is wife? What is daughter eating chips? And as I'm reading the story, I'm on a couch with my wife. What my son and my daughter eating chips. And that kind of put everything in perspective for me right there saying, wow, this can't be right. This can't be life. I shouldn't be doing that. I promise myself, I said, I'm going to give myself one good year. Eat and clean and work it out. After the year, I couldn't kill us. I just wanted to get through one year. If I could get through one year, yeah, I could get through two years. I could get through three years. But I just said one year, if I can make it through one year, things will completely be changed. I hit my 100 pound mark and I was in tears. Reason why I was in tears for two reasons. One, I shouldn't have gotten to that size. Second reason why I was crying, because I just know I lost the 100 pounds in ten months. It's funny who you are inspired. I'm trying to be like some of these guys and I'm trying to be like, some of these guys. I'm trying to be like, some of these guys. I'm trying to be like some of these guys, and girls who's working out and doing shows. I'm trying to be like, you guys. But they all tell me, no, you are inspiring us to work out harder. Because you're in the gym every day. You and the hardest working person that we have met. I had no clue. Even when I started, you know, the first three months. And I only lost five to ten pounds. Individuals, hey, you keep coming here. Oh, you, you, you, you muscle guy. Why are you talking to me? You know, I'm feeling all big and out of shame. But I'm inspiring other individuals. And not even know it. Why the build it I come saved my life.

You know, you're asking me if I get sick of being a bodybuilder never. I mean, I love lifting weights, that's what I do. I'm gonna take it, come on. Ah, back on the shelf, come on. Almost every night, seriously. What is it coming in? When's it coming in next? What do you think people think? The most can't believe that they can get that big. Oh, they are just winning. First time you say, I'm, it's a lot of looks. Everyone goes shake this hand, interrupts his workouts, takes pictures. Well, thanks very much. But Jay, it has never turned one person down ever to take a picture, to do an autograph, to talk to someone. He's always been out of his way to help everyone out. When Jay comes in, everyone wants to be like Jay. Not like Mike, everyone wants to be like Jay. The biggest achievement that I'd never expected was to give the motivation to a lot of people when I was just trying to be motivated myself to go to the gym. You know, I train in public because I don't want to be surrounded and locked in the lifestyle to the extreme. I mean, I live in it day and day out. You know, I'm cooking and training and never stepping out of the shoes of being who I am, and that's Jay, color, the bodybuilder. So, for me, I have my own sanctuary, which is pretty much my office that, you know, here. I look around at the achievements. I'm surrounded by what my life from the beginning to now has become. So, for me, it's enough for me. And yes, I have some function equipment in the gym, like cardio vascular, and that kind of things which are necessary in the morning. I don't want to have to drive to the gym, so that allows me to be able to get in what I need to. And of course, I leave all the weights to the gym. They have the most weights. I like to do variety. You know, I move heavy dumbbells, so, you know, I work anywhere between 25 to 160 pound dumbbells most often. So, that'd be kind of a big collection to have in your home gym. And the way I look at it is I'm always going to wait trained, but not to that extreme. You know, I think when I retire, I mean throwing around 100 something pound dumbbells, I mean that's probably not going to happen as much. So, it's kind of pointless to build something that's not forever. You know, I think the biggest misconception is that we do things really extremely different. And that's not necessarily the case. It's very, very basic. What a professional bodybuilder does. And I'm just speaking, I'm my own behalf. I mean, I've been basics since the beginning. You know, I had certain monogenetics that was outclassed with. You know, I started a specific diet. I stuck with the basics of training. I get a common question all the time. People approach me and they say, Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret? And there is no secret. It's the secret is. Is progression, consistency, dedication, day in, day out. The certain body parts I do like to train harder. You know, I might train arms. Little lighter, whereas, you know, back training, late training is a lot heavier and harder. What I like to usually do is structure. You know, rest days around those training days because they just sometimes it can be pretty intense. Yeah, anyone asks me, what are you training tomorrow? I usually have an idea. But if they ask me what time I could even tell you the time I wake up in the morning or time, go to the gym. And if I tell you the time, even an hour before I'll never be on time, that's how I work. I don't have really scheduled training partners. I have people that picked up and trained with me here and there. They kind of know just, just, I'm on call and, you know, just let me know an hour before. So, of course, they can get food and get the training where it, where to meet me. I'm done there. I'll still have... let's do some dumbbells. They're stiff and when you don't have a team, you know, have a structure where it's like, you know, a time schedule where you're, you know, expecting people to show up or some places going to be open. Vegas is, I mean, that's why I train here. It's the best place to train at. It's like an athlete's playground here pretty much. We just, we train 24 hours a day and eat 24 hours. And I mean, nothing is no weather variables. Everything is just in tune with what you're trying to do because you can just make it any kind of structure you want. And the result will be the same each day. Every day's similar. I mean, I don't listen to music. So, like, you hear these stories about guys listening, who's a good named up and going. For me, it's not really an emotional thing. We're, I'm very driven to do what I do and I realize the job on hand. So, I don't need that extra anger or any kind of frustration to train any harder. You know, I surround myself with people sometimes. If I need extra motivation, I'll get some of the go in the gym and push me. I get some people pick up some weight sometimes. I want more stuff with that kind of... Well, I'm going to do one more stuff with that kind of humor. Everyone knows what I do in the gym. You know, everyone always trains harder than you. No matter what you, I train as hard as him. I could be a size if I had the opportunity to work, not work, and go to the gym. So, no one, you can ever teach anyone training advice. We talk about spending money for food and all this other stuff. I mean, that's when a thousand dollars a week on tissue work is crazy. Anyone that weight lifts weights, you're tearing down muscle tissue, so you're going to have breakdown of the tissue that's going to get it keys to other tissue. So, what we're trying to do is, it's take the stress off that muscle, keep the muscle healthy. And, of course, flexible, pliable and it's going to help with muscle growth. It's going to help with flexibility and it's going to help avoid any injuries and even fix injuries. When it's something so tight, you're not going to get the blood in there, like you need to. And that's what happens, like, with a lot, like, my hamstrings get super tight. So, when I train my hamstrings, I don't get, like, say, the pump that I might get when I do chest or whatever else. You have super tight muscles and no flexibility and no stretching. Your muscles aren't going to grow. This is going to help with all that. This guy's, I guess, think is a car parked, or I train. But he's the specialist in this act that release him. He's probably the guy in Vegas that, I mean, I haven't gone to him since 2003 or four, has he been a staple of my success in my career, absolutely. So, I wanted you to hamstring and the flat force and shoulder. I can get in. Whatever he feels. I had last week gone from yourself. But I do want to get this hamstring that inside canal. That where we were last time. When you wake up, you get in there and then, you see how that feels. But you can feel there's a spot on the inside of the hamstring too. Yeah, that's actually a pretty sore guy. The normal person, if you're looking at the quad, I may only have a couple inches of tissue. If you look at the ATM hocks, I mean, it's 30 passes to the two. And he's getting bigger. I mean, Jay's dense. So what happens is, especially with the inside of that tissue, those fibers in here and stick, like a paintbrush, with the fibers all here and here together. So as they start to stick and bind, it creates a scar. And what I'm doing is I'm finding those areas of concern. I'm taking a contact on them and I'm holding a translated context. I'm not highly compressing the tissue. Even though there is compression, I'm trying to get those fibers to break free. So they can fill with blood. Ah, oh. Ah, it's... Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. Ah, right there. Oh, oh. You have to laugh at her so much, no? That felt amazing though. So much of her. The biggest, the most impressive thing is that each year it gets better. I do with a lot of world-class athletes, thousands. You know, a lot of guys post season. There's a big change in their physique. Jay's days pretty much, that's best to men, if you will. You're around looking great. Right in there, bud. Yeah. There's the hamstring. Yeah, that's a hamstring with a little bit of a doctor. Good, come back. I don't know what that looks like on camera, but it's like... It gets up by how hard he's working. But when he raises your head, there's things like... Like, we discussed this, the necessity of certain areas on my body. He's like, you know, a lot of places where people won't, you know, go to really really leave what stock, you know. He's like, well, you have to get in third places. It may not be the most comfortable, but... You've got to put in the time. And he does that, whether it be my table or the gym. I mean, you have to have a pretty trained eye to even see some of the areas of major injury. And Jay's had his very share of injury. He's worked through it. If you were to look at the recovery rate in which he had on the bicep, you know, it's a little bit of luck. Great surgical, but great rehabilitative effort. I mean, just sometimes that you can't rehab. It's like putting together two ends of a paintbrush. That's a feet, man, right there. That's a huge feet. He worked for. You can see a little bit when I do a front-lash for it. See that, you know. You can see it as... You can see in the right light when you get on those stage lights you can see it. Because the belly tour too. That's why they told me it won't, you'll never have flexion in your arm again. Twice that I'm never going to compete again. They told me it would never be hard if it'd be soft. So when he healed the guys, like, I don't know how they healed, but he said we tied it super tight. So let's hope that he heals right and he healed okay. And it was hard as a rock like right after. It made it bigger, so now I gotta... Yeah, that one's this one's gonna be bigger now. Go! Up here! Push it. The unique thing about me is I don't have a set schedule, so it really varies on day to day how I feel and when I train is determined on how my body feels. Typically I go by the basic guidelines. I try to eat three or four meals before I train for sure. Most importantly is my sleep. I'm sure they sleep enough, which is really only about five hours or night, four to five hours. But typically I train really, really late. I avoid the crowds. I don't go by any set schedule and I don't train on a specific body part schedule. I just train specifically how my body tells me that I need to. So if I'm scheduled to do back or chest on a certain day, I might switch it and do leg. Sometimes I grew body parts differently. It kind of go by feel, but I'm really sore, I'll take a day off. I don't have a set day off schedule, like those quick people take a Sunday off. I don't do that. I just regularly go by feel and that's helped me gain great success all the way along my career. It seemed to be the best thing for me. Okay! Go! Up here! So I like to keep the weights ready heavy and do lower reps. Obviously, what happens is when you train with as much volume as me, you can't do as many repetitions, because you'll just burn yourself up. I mean, you have to have one or the other. You're going to do less weight, more repetitions and less sets. What you're going to do a lot more sets heavier weights and less reps. So I choose to do the heavier weights, less reps, more volume, pump the muscle, keep filling it up, hit the angles. I wanted to have obviously freakish body parts. It was never really like I want to rise on me type of thing. It was never an ego I want everyone to notice me. I wanted to look presentable where I walked around when I wasn't in contact shape and I just was big and round and people admired the muscles. I think pretty much I've secured the legacy and the competition stage. I really don't have any real specific goals as far as my physique as far as I'm not going in the gym and saying, well, I need to have my legs up too much as big or anything like that. I think with me it's more on the aspect of the legacy of Jay-Color and where it's going to go from here. I'm going to take a look. I'm going to take a look. I'm going to take a look. Mentally you have to be in a little crazy. People approach me and they say, Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret? I don't like eating anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I don't look forward to eating it all. You're a living legend that's what's amazing about what I do. I'm going to take a look at this all the time.

Hey guys, this is Laura Bailey. I am here at Powerhouse Gym in Burbank, California with Bodybuilding.com. I have been featured in numerous fitness magazines. I'm also a psychology instructor. I competed in approximately 32 shows and I won over half of them. Come along with me, you guys, as I showed you more about my training, nutrition and supplement and you get to know more about who I am. Before I actually started competing, I was a collegiate athlete. I ran track across country, especially rising in the long jumps and tripled jumps. Herdles and the relay. I got full ride scholarship board track and academic. Pretty much after college, I kind of went through that transitional period, you're gaining weight, you're trying to get back of shape and I decided to get a gym membership and that came with some training sessions. My trainer convinced me to go ahead and try to train for competition. And so I did it with the difficulty was not having the coaches there to push you every day to wake up and go to go to practice. I had to go to the gym, all my own to meet my trainer. Probably one of the best things of the coach because I was a collegiate athlete and I was meant to buy other coaches. I had that ability to actually take the knowledge that I had acquired and helped my students out and the athletes that I was working with. But it was nice because I would actually get out there during cross country and run with the girls and do the sprint work with the girls and do the start to my jumps. So they were able to see okay, my coaches and just tell me to do this. She's actually doing it with me and I think they had a lot of respect with the fact that I was doing the workouts with them is intense as they were and saying shake them off. Actually everything in my opinion, everything I do is a competition. I can be at the grocery store and it's like okay, I gotta be the first one to the line or something but I'm always just driving driving to do to be the best. So even when I was coaching my girls on the track, when I would be out there running with them, if I didn't get the times that I had set for myself, you know, I was pushing myself with. And if I pushed myself, that was pushing the girls and when I finished coaching and went to the state and started competing, it was the same thing. Except you had to be more self-driven more self-motivated because you didn't have that person there with you all the time. But still that competitive drive is just something that I've always had. Whether you're in the gym or are on a track or in a sport, you see the beginning and you see the goal. You see the end result and you neglect to see all the work to have to be done in between and you don't see the interest of these other day the day work that you have to do. I think it's more about looking at the long-term goals but you also have to set several short-term goals, intermittent goals of the tween to help you be encouraged and continue to get the motivation. Find a picture, find a goal, find a dress, find an event or something that you want to work toward. To surround yourself with a good support system, document, journal, take pictures. So you can see your transition and progress. Now I told you guys a little bit about myself. So let me show you a little bit about my beliefs and philosophies with my training program. I have to enjoy what I'm doing. I have to have fun. I have to like it. Essentially I work out five days a week with weight six days with cardio. So I'm working out Monday through Saturday. A lot of heavy resistance, a lot of plyometrics. So a typical week at Mondays is I do legs. My leg routine takes about an hour and incorporates heavy weights, squats, a lot of plyometrics. And I also do about 30, 45 minutes of cardio. Two days are back and shoulders. And I also couple that with 30 minutes of cardio. For cardio, just a preference. I either prefer the stermil or treadmill. On Wednesdays, I tend to do biceps triceps as well as 30 minutes cardio. Thursday is chest pretty like day because I'm a woman. So maybe 20 minutes of chest workout. And again, 30 minutes cardio. Friday might be more back and or shoulders cardio and Saturday. If I do cardio, it's typically on the track. Sundays are all straight. Got to have an off day. Sunday, off day means no gym. Sunday means no looking at the gym, no thinking about the gym. I still eat pretty clean but I don't go into the gym at all. I've actually under estimated importance of rest. It's definitely in the city. I've seen people that go seven days continuously and end up burning muscles. They don't understand why they're not progressing. But I mean, your body rebuilds itself and repairs when it's resting. So rest is definitely an essential part of working out and building muscle just obtaining a better physique than a lot of people tend to mess with me. Most of it is set to reps. I'll do circuits if I'm short on time but that's rare. It's pretty standard. It's nothing fancy. It's a lady. Lift heavy. Okay? It's going to help you gauge muscle mass and the muscle mass in turn helps you burn more calories and more fat. With my cardio, I just like to do high intensity 30 minute cardio. Maybe 45 minutes. Every now and then I might do the fat burning cardio rarely though but I typically like to do high intensity just because I don't like cardio. I like to get it down and dirty and get it over with. Sometimes when I hit a plateau, honestly I'll rest. I'll take a couple days off. I think maybe my body just is tired. Other times I might switch the days that I'm doing the workout and I've also found a switching the order that I do to work out. It's also a different. For women I've probably said a couple of things. If you can find a women's gym, women tend to come more comfortable. There's not a lot of men around or if they have a regular gym that has a women's area. That's a good option. I see another women in the past see somebody that's in shape and asks them if they're performing the exercise right. If they're in there and they see somebody that's pretty fit, I would encourage them. Don't be afraid to ask. Most people pretty willing to help. You can get on body space and check they've got amazing workouts where you can actually type in your body type and you can see what type of workout, what type of goal you're trying to get and it actually gives you a print out of all the exercise, this type of food, nutrition and the duration of your workout. So that's my overall approach and philosophy on how I do my training. If you want to get the whole program, check out the page below. Now let's move on to my nutrition. Okay my overall approach to nutrition is the same when training. I have to enjoy what I eat and I have to eat. Pretty much I do about six to seven meals a day. I wake up pretty early, about 4.30. So if I'm getting up there, I get about seven meals a day. Usually I'm doing every three hours sometimes too if it's a smaller meal. I usually tell people it's kind of like when you start a fire. It's put the kindling on the flames because it's slower burning and it starts to burn hotter rather than just throwing a big log on there. So it's just like putting fuel in your system. Your body is constantly being fed and it allows to metabolism to continue burning rather than if you just eat once in the morning and once in the evening your metabolism turns on and it stops. So the whole goal is to speed up your metabolism to help with burning the fat by fueling your body with several multiple small meals a day. It helps that process. I don't like to use the word diet. I know people have some people like it's some people going to me. You hear the word diet and you automatically think restriction. I like to tell people that it's more about finding the food you like to enjoy. Finding a way to make them healthy and then you can eat as much of that as you can. So it's not about restriction. It's about eating more but it's about eating better food. Protein. I like ground turkey. Chicken. I like all kinds of fish. Salapia or dorky protein powder. Me personally I used when I was working on bulking. I was doing about one and a half to two grams per body weight which is a whole lot of protein. But now I scaled back. So what I essentially do is just do one gram of protein for body, per body pound and that's how I do it. I don't believe in cutting carbs. That's not my thing. I'm probably one of the few people that don't count my carbs as far as grams. I just know I'm going to eat three or four servings of carbs. I measure it. I don't do it by weight. I just measure it by size pretty much. I'm a sweet potato junkie. I like sweet potato fries. Southern style potatoes. Meanie is just a red potato or a white potato that's sauteed oatmeal good ground rice and good. I pretty much eat the same year round. When I first started I had a lot more building to do. So then it was more contingent upon whether I'm trying to prep or show or the way or gain muscle. But now it's pretty much to the point where I can just tweak it minimally. My diet's pretty much the same now because I've adopted this lifestyle change for the past three or four years. I don't believe in she anything. I call them bliss meals. She's got such a negative connotation and I feel like it should be something you work for. You earned it. I personally would do a cheat day but it would turn into a free fall. So over the past couple years I've learned to basically scale it back and do a couple cheat meals. I think it's necessary because like I said I don't believe in restriction. You want to eat it. You've earned it. So those are my thoughts and beliefs on nutrition. Remember, without nutrition, you're setting yourself up for failure. If you want to know more about my nutrition plan, check out the page below. Now let's talk about supplementation. Supplements do just that. They supplement what you're not getting. As far as performance, they're necessary because you're depleting. There's a lot of your stores. So you need to replenish that with some type of supplement. My whole theory is less is more. I don't believe they're taking everything you need to hands on. So the things that I take daily are a multivitamin and I take a French-Chain amino acids. Other things that I do take are beta-allony and I also take some type of weight protein. I tend to do protein more in the off season and I'll be honest sometimes I just don't feel like cooking. I'll do 4 protein shakes today because I'm being lazy. I have a couple that I mix. One of them has fewer carbs on the room has more. I don't do it pre-imposed workout. I always do it for my second meal and my fourth meal. That's just my preference. Three supplements. I would say a good multivitamin. I would say vitamin B and I would also say a high-quality protein because a lot of people get caught up in the size of the protein. They get five gallons or $15. But your body breaks that protein down. It doesn't break it down as effectively as it would a high-quality protein. So I think it do your research to do a good good good good protein that helps meet the goal you're trying to achieve. Initially when I started training I used to use a fat burner. More for the energy. I don't know. I have mixed feelings about fat burners. You sweat a lot so it does create the thermogenic effect. I think after a while your body's trained itself and it tends to just stay at that metabolic rate. As far as the mass gainer I do take a pH buffer creatin and capleform that help me with mass gaining. I think before the whole misconception about supplements is the supplements which is for guys and I mean a vitamin A, vitamin B, C, all those are different types of supplements. We don't think of them like them. It's imperative for women to take supplements because in working out we have we're deficient in certain areas and that's the only way we're going to get those areas restored by taking this up. I think they definitely have helped me reach my goal faster. Just the energy, the recovery time, all that is enhanced with the supplements. I actually have tried to work out for short periods of time without the supplements and you can do it. You have to work twice to get through the workout. To get my full training nutrition and supplement program check out the page below. If you want to find out more information about me, about my diet, about my nutrition, and about my training check out my body space profile at jumper11 and for more information and content like this, check out bodybuilding.com.

My name is Preston Noble. I'm a little bit about myself, come from a family of six kids. A group just since I was a little bit always playing the sports with my dad and my siblings just fitness activities. I always been part of my life studying being exercise wellness major, planning going into physical therapy. I have done one bodybuilding show. It was just this past November, the NPC Western Regional. I had never thought of doing a show before. I just barely started training this past year in June, so about seven months ago. I'd always been a little muscular, but I wanted to get bigger and feel that I was working out and one of my buddies was just like, hey, I did a couple of shows years ago. I was like, oh, really, I had no idea you could even do amateur shows. So when I found that I got really excited and started training right away for it, I felt like I did really well. I got second in the novice and fourth in the light heavy open class. But the biggest change in accomplishment that I felt so far is just probably a change that I've seen inside myself, having to do with just the spiritual emotional physical all the aspects of life that just being healthy and fit can bring out in something. So, love bodybuilding.com going on and just reading all the different articles, different workouts that people come out with. I've never really stuck to a program longer than maybe a month. I'll do one, I'll be seeing the results, I love it, and then I'll read something new and I just want to try it. It's worked for me and it's helped me a lot to be able to just recommend different teams and programs to get different results to lots of different people. On my basic training now, I was just six days a week. I always take the Sundays off for the rest. I'll do my cardio in the morning. I mean, I like to stick to the basic, you know, chest and try, back and buy, steps, and I'll go do some legs and shoulders on the same day. I tried to keep my workouts, generate a little shorter than before. And now before I started training, it goes two to three hours, sometimes. Now, I'm doing an hour, hour and 15 minutes. I said, sometimes I'll switch it up and I'll just be like, hey, I've been doing a whole body workout today. We'll just do it and get it done. General rep range, yeah, it's just about a 10. I'll always go on my reps and I'll just do one more, like I'll count eight, nine, nine again and then I'll go to 10. Just to make sure I'm getting, you know, one extra one in there. I try and do a five, five cadence. If I'm going to be doing like three sets, I'll do two sets normal and then middle set or just lower the weight a little bit and just go and slow five up and five down. I know a lot of people, they already incorporate the five seconds down, they're going slow down, but the hardest part is going slow and way up. Because the light weight, you know, you can just push it up, but just having that patience and discipline to just sit there and just kind of let it burn and rip is what I've liked. Trying to keep my rest in intervals, generally counting, in between 30 seconds, or in many, as soon as I'm going to have to again, I won't take any longer rest from that. And I think that that's helped in my cardio. I like switching to my cardio, I'll do some swimming in the pool, I'll go for a little blade ride in the morning, you're doing some bikes, things like that. I'm most favorite at something I just started doing recently that would be interval lunges on a treadmill. I'll just hike up the incline on the treadmill to between five and a 10 and do about a 1.8 to a 2 speed. And just sit there and do like 1 minute of walk, and then 1 minute lunges, 1 minute walk, 2 minute lunges, and switch it up like that. I know that's helped in my cardio a lot, I enjoy it, you only have to do 10 to 15 minutes of it, and you're done. And I found the studies that I've done, and it's just helped keep your GH levels a little bit higher while you're sleeping, if you're doing that before bed. So it's helped a lot. As far as I can tell up till now, I haven't hit a plateau, just every week I can just keep seeing the results. And I think that's why. Yeah, I've done some crazy, crazy exercises, just a couple weeks ago, and trying to figure this actually, I went in, I tried one of the hot and they put me over the classes, and that was honestly one of the hardest things I've done so far. That was definitely intense, and I felt like that helped lean me out a lot and shut up. Probably one of my favorite workouts is just the four-hour body program by Timothy Ferris. It was a really different principle if someone was never tried it before. On my rest day, I don't do any cardio. I get in a little bit of extra sleep actually, trying to permanently for the week coming up, make sure to plan ahead, you know what I'm going to be doing. One of my motivations that I posted on body space was mirrors. When someone can see your actual physical results, you know, congratulate yourself for that. The more one motivated you'll be to just keep going back and pushing yourself. And then just loving that atmosphere, you know, at the gym. You need a good trainer, fitness person, should tell you that the diet is super, super important. I love oatmeal in the morning, just right when I wake up, my body's hungry and I'm just, you know, craving something to eat. Now I always mix like a tablespoon of peanut butter, almond butter in the oatmeal, and scoop a protein powder and stir it up and then cook it after that. And then throughout the day, between every two and three hours, I'll eat another meal. So generally about six-eight meals a day, trying to get that perfect seven now. Just consist of either brown rice or sweet potatoes as my carbs. And then all just vary the meals in between some lean ground beef, turkey, chicken, and I go between tuna and tilopia for my fishes. It's super simple. I wake up every Monday morning and I just cook on my food, top-ward out prepared for the week, so it's all ready to go. That's what's helped me the most. I'm in the week if I just have to go somewhere and shove a couple of meals in my bag and I'm off. So I do definitely have a lot more. I just carbs everything when I'm off season. I still keep it fairly strict. For my home, my mom doesn't like going out to eat, not a lot of fast food. She always makes sure you don't have just good carbs and keep all the greens as always a vegetable and food on the table every time. If I'm even just going to buy food, always make sure to look at the labels. Going to restaurants, I always choose what I want and then go back and kind of take one thing off the list. I really want that, okay, I can do without that. That kind of acts as cutting my cheapens out. I myself haven't done the cheap meals. I have a little cheap, you know, piece of something here and there. Nutrition, diet is very, very important. I love learning about it. I love telling people about it. But that's one of the biggest changes I've had. It's just learning about my body specifically. So I would encourage people to do that because everyone's body is honestly totally different. One person can recommend something to you and nutrition-wise and it just doesn't work. I'm just wondering why I just have to go just seeking to find any answers and tell you find what perfectly fits you in nutrition-wise. I've been working on the diet for a long time. Supplement-wise, I've gone both ways. I've gone to almost the extreme using lots and then kind of going back to just sticking to the few basics. Right now, I'm just keeping it simple, sticking to the basics three. Obviously, protein, we need to have high protein intake in your body if you're going to be able to increase your muscle mass in as well as dieting down. So when you're losing the fat, you're not going to be able to take an off your muscle mass as well. Protein is absolute number one and then the amino acids. So we'll stick to the branch chain. So I like taking those in the middle of my workout. You want it to get me a little more energy throughout my workout. And then right when I'm done, it just kind of helps convert my body back between just the catabolic and antibiotic faster. It tastes great. Do a little bit of fish oils. You know, all the omega-3, 6-9 here and there. Not necessarily for the show. I did more for like skin purposes. Submutation is just exactly what the word means. It's a supplement adding on to an already good, based nutrition and diet. To check out my full program, just look at the page below. If you have any more questions about training, any information, my body space user name is Preston Noble. And for more content like this, check out BodyWilling.com.

When it is 20 years old, I'm 24 years old. I have my first competition in this last November. I enter the men's physique category, placed in second at a none other competitors. Right now, 2012, Viter Space, both model finalists. I've always been involved in sports, training with my father since I was little. You know, he trained me with basic power lifts and various techniques on speed for football per se. But what happened was I wanted to become a like this meat fridge. I really didn't know a lot about nutrition. So like I said, I was like kind of like meat-free with all its power and speed, but not really that much definition. So I took it upon myself to do a lot of reading and I found by thebillin.com, which you know, offered a lot of support to Viter Space community and a lot of information on proper nutrition and exercise, and I use that to my advantage. If it was a mindset that was instilled in me when I had a young age by my father, and I've been doing it for so long that it's just a part of me. So if I were to not train, and I feel like I'm treating myself almost. So basically that's why I stay with it. It's almost like a competitive nature, it's what drives me in and out every day. If you treat your body well, it'll treat you well in the turn. So by feeling your proper nutrition and training it with regular exercise, you know, you're looking for basically overall better health, which will need to longevity. And that's what I find, you know, that keeps me in business. I co-tries with football, so I'm able to give back to the youth at today. I'm giving the freedom to teach them, you know, proper nutrition and proper exercise. And there's an indescribable feeling that I get just knowing that I'm not only changing their body composition, still this proper nutrition exercise, but I'm changing the mindset. And maybe, you know, they could take you then, that mindset may pass to the family. I mean, we don't eat this healthy, or you know, it takes a certain risk and, you know, a dominant effect to come out of this, to where everybody starts living, healthy, fit life's life. My mindset and philosophy and training is going there with high intensity. Don't go in there to power a ticket, to talk around, you know, put your eye out, how to throw your hood up and do what you got to do. Go out there, 100% and train your body in the way you're supposed to train it. I like to take 45 seconds to a minute between sex. I like to keep that 45 minutes long, my workout, so I'm eating now and I, you know, I'm winning there with my whole. When I come, it's my whole. I usually train 45 days a week, you know, it depends on what I'm training for. If I'm training for a competition, I keep it at five days a week. So it's right now I'm training five days a week, and I do body part a day. I love doing legs on Monday. Now, there's a why is because it's starting new week. It's when I'm most amped about getting in there, and the leg day is most taxing. So I figured, let me get it when I got my, the most energy. So I do that one day. I like to separate the pushing poles, so I don't overwork any muscles. So I do chest on Tuesday. Wednesday will do back. Thursdays off in my body of ass, I love best days. Friday for this competition, I'm working on my shoulder caps, so I want to be a little bit of shoulder cap work and mainly shoulders. And then Saturday would be arms, and then Sunday, I have more. Well, the sets you mainly have from three to four, my rep range state from eight to 12, that's when I feel like I get the most type of trophy from my workouts. There's a lot of techniques in the way I train, I like to add, you know, drops, etch, triple rye sets. It depends on what I feel like. If I feel like my chest is like a little soft, I'll add a couple drops. Just do a belly out of the definition, or, you know, where arms are due triple rye sets. I do a lot of best pauses, you know, just to keep variation, just keep me excited to get back into the gym. I mean, if you're new to this and you want to come in and you want to keep yourself more with it to get in there, go in there, bring out a workout partner. You guys motivate each other and just make sure that you always had a different techniques, do a lot of reading, find, you know, different things that you could do, just the ad variation, go from three weights to machines, you know, different weeks. On your off season with cardio, I like to keep it around three to four times a week, now keep that low intensity, now I do maybe like an incline speed walk, or I'm doing a look to call for about a half an hour keep my heart rate in between a certain range. But when it's when I'm training for a competition, it's five days a week, four to five days a week, and it's interval training. So I started for like two minute walk, two minute jog and I'll go back and forth for about 30 minutes, then like two weeks later, I'll do a minute walk and then a jog, and I'll do that for about a week, and then I get into a while I'm doing a minute jog and minute sprint, and that's very taxing. And I do a regular morning, I do it on a fast and stomach. It's what I feel works best from me. When it comes to rest days, I take full advantage of it. I sleep in eat. That's basically what I do, and I love it. Especially when training for competitions, I mean you're training your body to the max. So your body needs that rest. I've reached many platos where you know, you're just going there like, I can't push any more weight or you feel like you're getting a week here. So what I do to overcome those is I either add more variation, or I usually work out by myself, I'm grab a training partner, and I'll train your past failure, and I'll do this for about two or three weeks, you know, and usually I'll get stronger from it and push myself past that platto. Now that doesn't work, and basically you're about to start something you need rest. So you know, you might not want to, you got to take that week off, but you're about to heal, get this in time, feel it the right way, and then get back to it, and usually you pass that platto. I have absolutely zero calves. I have no calves, and I'm upset about it. It's just, I guess it's my genetics, I train them hard, and I train them heavy, I just don't throw, and that bothers me because I like having a big lead work, but I mean, they just don't really develop on me. You can train as much as 10 to the years you want, you can train me day and day out, but if you don't fuel your body with a proper nutrition, you're not going to get anywhere. Maybe stock on a platto, day and a day out. You got to get an overall aspect of, you know, what was best for your body? I like to see that 40% of my caloric intake should be carbohydrates, 40% of it, should be protein, and 20% should be fat. It's being carb defeated. I like to add the fat up a little bit to maximum limit 30% just to give me that extra energy, you know, that I'm lacking from being carb defeated. Carbohydrates, I like to say with complex carbohydrates, you know, they give you a sustained release of energy. I mean, I add my simple carbs in there too, and it's just because it's, it's increasing insulin, it's a spike in insulin, which I help show the nutrients after, after work out when you're like a gym defeated. What mainly stay with the complex carbohydrates, it's your brown rice, it's your multi-bring rice cakes right here and there, but when it turns out for a competition, I don't use root bread as for fats. I take in nuts, seeds, abocados, I like to do with me mega's, and this basically provides me with insulin free energy. So basically, it doesn't affect your blood sugar, which is good because you evade the crash, you evade the crash, you evade the heart of feelings, you know, as the blood sugar varies. Proteins I like to stay with complete proteins will be my, to a lot here, my salmon, my chicken grass, my ground turkey, my beef, you know, and they're complete because they provide all the body with the full set of your central amino acids. And then I also have my incomplete proteins, which is like my rice, my vegetables, things that I need to better also get in my diet. Meal free protein is very important. I eat about 68 meals a day depending on what time I throw myself out of bed, or if I'm very hungry, you know, maybe I'll throw an extra meal in there. But I like to keep it between two and a half to three hours. You gotta look at your metabolism as a campfire, and the food that you fuel is the wood for the fire. So every time you put one in two of fire, your metabolism increases. Each meal is going to call for a different amount of calories, and you gotta figure that out on your own. You know, like in your morning, you're going to have your fat, you're going to have your compost carbs, you're going to have your protein, which will call for a lot of calories. But then let's say when you're at night time when it's before bed, you don't want to have all that fat, or I don't call for hydrate, so it's going to get system lower calories. As a good course of competition, I don't go out with my friends, I stay away from the temptation. I mean, it's like seven weeks out, that's it. I'll see you guys later. And I don't want to do temperature drink. I don't want to be tempted to eat bad foods later in night, but that's just me. That's what I feel looks best for me. I'm not a big believer in cheat bills. I mean, a lot of people use them for psychological effects. I don't believe in it. I see it as if I have a plan I'm sticking to it. I don't be all of it. You know, I feel like cheat years are kind of for the weak card if I'm not trying to pretend to have a position or a fuller suit. I mean, I've not tried to have greens, you know, I've looked at you here and there. That team is cheating because I don't have a set plan. Once my plan is set, I don't feel off that set plan. We need the creative team. You need the glutamine. You need the branching of amino acids. You need your Omega's. You definitely need your protein. When you're training a body with high intensity, your body becomes the pleated of many of these branching amino acids or, you know, glycogen and protein and your cells are being broken down and they need a supplements to help enhance and repair. I like to take good of me. I like to take a first repair purpose and because, you know, it's involved in increasing protein synthesis for that area of your body. I take five grams of four and after workouts, along with before bed, creating, creating. I find it's very important. I feel like it's deemed with the false reputation that it only floods your cells with water and, you know, it means that after discontinuing the use, but it has much more than just minimizing effects. Yeah, I think it would in terms of ATP, which is density triphase and that's the chemical energy for the body and what it does is when you take and create team, you load up your body with phosphocreatin and what phosphocreatin does is get stored into most of fibers and it's there to donate a phosphate leaf to your ATP, which becomes ADP after, you know, release the energy. So, this is the phosphate leaf and it's the storage of ATP levels. So, basically, the more creatin you supplement in your body, the more energy you'll have for maximum muscle performance. I also like to do conjugated linolic acid. I use that for weight management purposes. It's set to decrease your appetite. I take omega is right in the morning. I use them for their insulin-free energy, no blood sugar changes. I also supplement a branch phenomenon acids. Now, branch phenomenon acids are vitally important to have in your diet and they're very important to supplement with. I take them in the morning. I take the full workout to take it in my postwork out shake and I take it even before bed. Now, this is why it takes so many is because during an intense workout, your branch phenomenon acids are profoundly broken down. And your body can't produce branch phenomenon acids. So, it's important that you supplement with them so your body has sufficient amount. By supplementing with the branch phenomenon acid, you protect your muscle tissue. Now, you protect your muscle tissue because the body will break down those branch phenomenon acids before the breaks down your muscle tissue. So, by having enough, it protects it. Proteins vitally important. It's a cornerstone of all sub-intention. I take that before and after workouts, I'll stick in the morning with my old oats. I prefer weight protein over any other type of protein. Now, the reason why I prefer weight protein is because it's fast absorbing. You get the most bang for your buck because 90% of it is pure protein. I don't change my supplements at all. I use supplements basically for the scientific purposes and what they offer my body. I don't really set it on or off or tape it on or off. I use the milligrams set, you know, our re-dub bottle, whatever it says, that's usually how I take it. For all my nutritional information, for my sub-intention, for my workout programs, please check out the page below. If you want to get a contact me contact me through your body space, my body space name, username, is Landback at 1025 and for more content like that, please check out BodyBloom.com.

The Muscle Builder program was developed over 15 years of working with some of the world's best experts, like Neil Hill, Dory and Yates, Bradshaw and Flex Lewis, J. Cutler, and Working with Clients, trial and error on myself and within the lab, and I've structured that 15 years of work into this plan. If you know anything about me and my approach to training, you'll know that it's just as much a mental war as it is a physical one. I try to push myself deeper into the froray and I use anger and my curiosity on how far the body can take itself as my means. That's my fuel. Every day, every meal, every rep can't move. Let's get into today's session, just finish doing biceps, carbs and abs. I felt really good, you know, five days in a row, finished strong. You know, I'm really starting to get into this momentum now. Because you're going to be training along with me following my plan following my nutrition plan, my supplementation plan, you need to take on the same mindset as well. Something that's going to work for you to get through this pain and anguish that you're going to put in front of you. Some people have said that my training is a bit sloppy, they won't render good results. Well, I've got good results from a year after year and serve my clients. Try following alongside with me following the same sort of protocol. There's a difference between sloppiness and controlled application. And I figured that this is controlled, but it's intense and that's what may be a missym. You're missing that intensity and it's alien to you. Try and find it and experience it. That's what we do. We break the muscle tissue down. We feel sore the next day because we've torn down as muscle fibers. Our job is to come in and annihilate, stimulate, get out and then recover that damage. To shoot. The techniques I've integrated into the muscle building trainer are DTP Y3T, HIT, German volume training, FST and various forms of intensity protocols such as giant sets, super sets, negative. So any training application that you want, believe me, you've got it. We're on the way to the gym right now. It's going to be week three of Y3T and you've got it. It's called the annihilation week. So let's mentally and physically prepare ourselves. All these various training protocols are designed to put on muscle mass. By targeting your type 1, you type 2, A, you type 2, B muscle fibers, completely breaking them down and using every energy system. Basically, we're going to be putting your body in the perfect environment to build muscle mass. Over the next three months, your training program is going to be broken down like this. The first three weeks will be the Y3T principle. Week four will be the FST. Week five will be the German volume start training. Week six will be the HIT. And then the following six weeks will be the DTP Extreme. So let me briefly break down these training strategies for you. For the first three weeks, you can be following Y3T. Y3T is broken down over three weeks. The first week, you'll be following mainly a lower rep principle of around eight repetitions. The second week will be following more of a higher rep when I go to 12 repetitions. But then for the third week, that's our annihilation week. We'll be going much higher volume through drop sets. And then on week four, we're going to be following FST, which stands for Fassier Stretch Training Principles. So we'll be stretching the Fassier and contracting the muscle in between every set. And either at the beginning or the end, we'll be focusing on one muscle group and one exercise. We will all do seven sets continuously back after a 50 second rest. In week five, we'll be moving on to the German volume training principle. We will be applying 10 sets of 10 reps on each muscle group. In week six, we'll be moving on to the HIT principle, which is the Dory and Y8 style of training. Very low volume and we'll be combining both compound and isolation movements into this week. For the remaining six weeks, you'll be following the DTP Extreme principles, which will be a lot of volume, but it'll be extremely heavy weights as well to put your body in a perfect and a ballic state to build muscle. You'll lengthen the workouts are going to differ from week to week and depend on that body group. If it's a larger body group and it's more volume, then it's going to take maybe an hour and a half. If it's a smaller body group with less volume at blood, then maybe only 45 minutes. I know you probably want me to tell you exactly how many days a week that you're going to be training and what body parts you're training with and other. But I honestly can't tell you because it changes every week. So it's essential for you to come back every single day to collect your workout, your body parts splits, and to understand when you're not training days are. Your chest and triceps should be obliterated and sore from yesterday's workouts. This is what it feels like if I'm tired sex for a long time. My non-gets are muscle because I'm able to do that again. Can you do that for a while? Leg press, how low? I don't know what the fuck you're doing. I'm going to go on a diet or on my hardcore trainer, you are following steady state cardio. On this plan, it's going to be high intensity interval training. The reason being as while you're putting on weight, you need to be able to apply the intensity especially on a DTP extreme portion into your weight training plans. So once again, you'll be doing high intensity interval training every single day of the plan, including rest days. Good morning at say nine. Hello and welcome back to day 10. Day 29 of the muscle builder is here. We are racing through this. Drone person there. Shouldn't operate machinery when you're drunk. Second time he's thrown up, but he's a warrior. He's going to finish this workout. Before starting the muscle building plan, make sure that you watch the program overview, the nutrition overview and the supplement overview. Expect obstacles and inconvenience. Eat those two words for breakfast, and shithead commitment and consistency.

Hi everybody my name's Jen Ranking and I'm here in Burbank, California at the Powerhouse Gym. I am a personal trainer. A sponsored athlete with the Autism of Nutrition and American Body Building. I'm also an actually ranked in PC bikini competitor. Been in auction in magazine a couple of times. Today I'm going to tell you a little bit about my training, nutrition and supplementation and a little bit about how to make the transition if you've been in athlete and you're thinking about getting into the whole fitness industry. Well after college and no longer having a coach by my side yelling in my ear telling me what to do anymore. I just really decided that I had to take ownership of my body and that I really had to take the steps on my own to do what I needed to do. A lot of it just comes down to self motivation. My first step was just getting a gym membership and getting back into the gym. Started lifting weights again, working out and then I slowly researched the fitness industry on what else was available, how else could I compete, what else was there for me. I just wanted to do something for myself. That's why I started working out again. Everyone's goal is different. Sometimes though you don't know what your potential is unless you just dive into it. I had no idea that I was even cut out to compete in the NTC or do any type of fitness competitions but as you allow yourself to change and as you push yourself to do new and different things, you'll surprise yourself with what you're actually capable of. One tip that I would give the girl who is scared and intimidated about taking the next step is to just slow down and take it one step at a time. A lot of the times people try to do too much, too soon. Changing your lifestyle doesn't happen in one day. You're not going to wake up and have everything figured out. You're not going to wake up and have brand new habits. You have to do it one day at a time and one step at a time. Training for me, I believe that it needs to be broken up in two separate days. It's really important to give your body adequate time to rest while you're working out. The way I split my routine up is I'll do upper body on Monday, lower body on Tuesday, maybe plyometrics on Wednesday and then I'll hit upper body again Thursday and lower body credits. I do take the weekends off. I might do an active rest day on the weekend if I feel like it going for a walk or just doing something active and fun to keep my body moving. But otherwise, on the weekends I take that time to do other things for myself. Lifting weights is huge. No matter if your goal is to build a muscle or to lose fat. I think that's one of the biggest misconceptions involved with weight training, especially for women. Most women come into the gym and their goal is to lose weight. So they get on the treadmill and walk for days and days and days. But if you don't weight train, you're missing out on building that lean muscle mass, which is going to increase your metabolic rate and help you to burn fat even faster. The more lean muscle mass that you have, the lower your body fat percentage, the leaner you're going to look. If you just go in there and walk on the treadmill, do cardio. You might lose weight, but your body won't really have shape. All the girls that you see in the magazines and on the red carpet, they've got the hourglass hers and you get that by doing exercises that incorporate weight training. When I first started weight training, I took it back to the basic and I focused on lower reps with heavier weights. So that way I could really build a foundation for my body so I could build strength and build endurance. Now I have made a transition to where I focus a little bit more on intensity. So I can keep my heart rate up. Burn fat in between exercises. I take small rest. Usually, no more than a minute and a half. Then I hit the next exercise. Now my body's at the point to where I can be more intense and still get an awesome workout and use medium to heavy weights. That he runs into things like hitting a plateau or becoming bored and different things like that, not seeing the results that you want to see. The best thing to do is, or what I do, is I change up my workout. If I walk in the gym and I'm feeling bored or not getting results that I want, maybe I'll go swimming for my cardio that day. Get my mind back on track. That way the next day when I come in the gym, I focus my body feels good. It's ready for action. Then I can continue along my path. But yeah, it's good if you break up your routine about every six weeks at least because if you do the same thing over and over and over, your body gets used to it and it knows what to expect. So when you go on the gym and do that same thing, it's already like, hey, I don't have to work hard today because I know I'm doing 10 reps of this exercise and that exercise. So that's why I have to change it up. Keep your body guessing. That's just a little insight to my overall approach for the gym. For my full workout, check out the link below. Now we're going to talk about my nutrition. I really believe that nutrition is the most important thing involved in total training. You can work out a lot, but you're never going to see the main results unless nutrition is the biggest part of it. I believe that nutrition should be simple. A lot of people try to make it too hard because there's so many new fat diets and cookie diets and celebrity plans in this and this and that. Just go back to the basics. You know, remember that there's vegetables at the grocery store and you know, eat lean protein, cook at your own home and make things that you know are healthy for you and your family. I usually eat about six to seven meals per day. I break it up to where I have three or four main meals and then the rest are smaller meals or snacks. I eat about every two to three hours and when you eat that often it helps to keep your metabolism right up so that way you're constantly burning off that food, your body's using it as energy and fuel. Diet is just scary. People think that they have to stop eating or they have to make huge major changes. One of the easiest things that you can do to start off is portion control. You know, just eat smaller meals at each meal time and then from there make one more change. Maybe try and adding in one vegetable at each meal. Then maybe try and add fruit for breakfast or fruit for snack. You know, it's just like any other habit it takes time and it won't become a habit or a lifestyle unless you keep practicing it over and over again. My nutrition plan every meal usually includes a lean protein source and that's usually I get mine from chicken or lean ground beef, maybe ground turkey, those are my favorites. Then I'll have a slow digesting carb and I'll have that for the first half of the day. Then in the evening I'll kind of shimmy out the carbs and use more vegetable sources for my carbs, such as broccoli or spare-gins or green beans. Then my fat sources, I usually have fat sources and every other meal. People tend to taper off their carbs throughout the day because carbs are your main source of energy. If you do your most activity in the morning, maybe throw out lunch, then you do your workout and after that you're usually just going home to sit on the couch and relax. And so there's no need to load up on a bunch of carbs when you're just going to go sit around because then your body can't burn them off. I don't like to cheat but sometimes I do. I guess around special holidays or things like that I'll indulge a little bit, especially right after a competition. That's what we all live for is that moment where we can eat whatever we want. Typically for me it gets me out of my routine and it gets me off course and off focus when I start just, oh I'll have a cheat meal here in a cheat day there and this and this and that. So I try to stay more on track so that way I don't undo all of the new habits that I've made. If you're going to indulge in dessert or a hamburger or your favorite fried chicken whatever it is, share it with the friends so that way you're at least cutting the calories of that in half. So don't forget nutrition is the most important part. See my full meal plan. Check out the page below and now we're going to talk a little bit about my supplementation plan. I think the supplements are really important especially when sometimes we don't get all of the nutrition that we need from our diet. That's where supplementation plays a key role. My supplement change I guess on what my goals are. If I am trying to lose fat then I'll add in a fat burner. If I'm trying to bulk then I'll maybe double my protein intake. The supplements are kind of a scary situation especially for women that they don't know what's good for them and what's not or if they're only for men that's a big misconception. Supplements are good for you. They're to supplement what your diet can't always provide. Most of the supplements that I take are things that are already found naturally in the earth or naturally occurring in my body already. So it's just about getting what you need into your body to help you reach your goals. And so don't be afraid to do that. If you are scared then research it a little bit on your own. Ask somebody else who knows more about them so that way you feel better about it. The three supplements I would recommend to someone new to exercise, a new to supplementing would be protein powder, a visual and a multivitamin. A protein is important because it helps you build that lean muscle mass. And again the more lean muscle mass that you have the faster you're going to burn fat. Visuals are important because it's a healthy source of fat and fats are important for a lot of functions in our body. It helps your brain function, it helps your skin, your hair, your nails, a lot of different things. Multivitamin, that's really the staple for everything. I mean every single person in the world should be taken a multivitamin just because we don't get everything we need out of fruits and veggies. Not many people eat all of the servings of fruits and vegetables that we should. And so that's the easiest thing that you can do is take a multivitamin, get it in, know that you at least have that one and your cover. I definitely think supplements help you reach your goals faster. To get my full program on training nutrition and supplementation, please check out the page below. And if you would like any more information on what I do or how I got there, then please feel free to see me on bodybuilding.com and body space. My screen name is TX Physique and I would love to talk to you.

Hi, my name's Kathleen to sorry. I got my pro card in the figure in 2009. I was on the Mestland Fitness First Cover in 2010. I was also a finalist in the body space book's not a search. Today I'm going to talk to you a little bit more about my beliefs in training, nutrition, supplementation. I'm also going to talk to you about how to stay on the health of Fit Life's Style regime while working a nine to five jobs. It can be busy, it can be challenging, but it can be done. Working a nine to five desktop day and day out to make training and things on health of Fit Life's Style really challenging. But if you get into a routine and you plan ahead of time, it can be done. Obviously there are certain things that have to be done. You have to go to work to count this work. You have to pick up your Fit's School or you have to hit your body back to whatever you have for a semester. So get the things that you have to get done, done, but then fit in what you want to do somewhere in between there. If you can only hit the gym for 15 minutes during the day because your day is so packed, take those 15 minutes, you can get a great workout in plus, you can feel accomplished and you've kept on your routine in the state that helps you keep on that healthy Fit Life's Style by keeping a nice, solid routine every single day. I would use magazines and I'd use the online resources at BodyBelling.com to kind of figure out what to do as far as diet and nutrition and even training in the gym. But then as I wanted to get into competing more, I knew that I had to dial it in a little bit stricter and with working full time, I just didn't really have time to think about that and to understand because I work in logistics. I don't know all the science behind training and nutrition. So I hired a trainer and a lot of people say, oh I don't have that kind of money, but you've got to decide where your priorities are and what your hobbies are. For me my hobby is speaking out to people being a lifestyle coach and I wanted to do really well the competition so technically you're only spending a little money at front for a lifetime of lessons that you can be used till you die. We don't have enough time in the morning to be preparing meals to even put a sandwich together. So if you think that you're going to do that every morning, you're setting yourself up for failure, you really just have to have it ready to go in the fridge. Saturdays and Sundays, I use those mornings to prep and cook my food pretty entirely. I'll bake a whole cookie sheet of fish, boil a large pot of chickens and pre-bagant pre-measured and have it already. So in the morning I just take my cooler and I can take my already pre-cut washed veggies, my protein, my meat, pick a few protein chicks and hit throat and that way I have what I need for the entire day until I get home. After you get up a long day at work and your head is totally mentally drained. Sometimes you don't want to go to the gym like you just want to go home but I know that as soon as you do like 10 minutes in the gym you're going to feel alive and energize for the rest of the workout. To lose the weight and to give the disease that you want such a long time that you just want to stay on it healthy lifestyle and the way that you feel inside, you know those infernocials that are always like, oh, if you do this you're going to feel so wonderful. That feeling is really true and so when you get that feeling and you experience it, you don't want to lose it. Like I said before, even if you only have 15 minutes to just hit the gym, that 15 minutes is going to be well worth it and you're going to feel like you're the compost your day. There's so many different ways that you can sleep, hands and be successful during the week when you don't have a lot of time to plan each day. You pre-plan it. And now we're going to move on to talk about training, talk about some of the beliefs that I have and how I've been successful. My approach to going to the gym has changed dramatically over the years. You start out really simple and depending on what your goal is or what you're trying to get ready for, you can increase the intensity. I just think it's important to establish your team and just make sure you get there when you say you're going to get there. Also when you're trying to plan at the gym when you're not really sure what to do, get on to bodybuilding.com and use their search feature. Go on there and type in legs and you'll have tons and tons of articles with ideas and then write down four or five exercises and write little notes on how to do it the proper form and then take it with you to go to the gym. I work out five days a week but even on my off days I wouldn't say they were truly off days I'll go rollerblading or hiking but actual training in the gym I do try to hit gym five days a week. However if I'm getting ready to say a cruise or wedding or event competition I'll do six days a week. However my morning cardio has now at seven days of week. It's something it's almost like my coffee in the morning reading a newspaper. I only need like 20 30 minutes on the treadmill and I am pumped for the day I'm thinking about everything that needs to get done and I'm ready. So let's just say a good thing to follow is at least five days in the gym five days in cardio and give your body two off days if needed. About third days my body is really really tired from training hard so third days it's a great off day for me and then I kind of take a look at my social schedule what I have going on whether it's barbecue or work parties and then I'll plan my second off day around around my outside life. I do have a structure schedule that I have like day legs day back day shoulder day but I definitely just listen to my body and if I'm not feeling like I have a lot of energy I'll go ahead and do shoulder but if I'm feeling super pumped and I know that this would be an awesome lighting I'm going to hit length go with what is going to be best because what you bring to the gym the energy level is and the mindset of what you're going to do is how well and how effective you are going to be in the gym. If I'm trying to build muscle I'm going to stick to sets better more 12 to 10 rep range just to the traditional body building. Right now I'm trying to shed some size into muscle so I'm getting a lot of circuit training where I do six movements in a row take 45 second break and again do six movements in a row so my training is totally tailored to how I'm feeling what I'm getting ready for and I switch it up all the time and I'll even take two weeks for all I do have some fun classes or take advantage of a good weather outside and head out hiking or whatever. I always tell girls that are afraid to get big and bulky look at me what I've never had a girl tell me whether they're telling you the truth or not say that I look too big. I'll have my 8 to 10 weeks cycle where I'm trying to hit heavy but the thing to remember is if you're trying to tone which all the girls say I'm trying to tone but if you have nothing to tone again what are you going to how you're going to tone you have to have some type of foundational base underneath so that the toning has something to lay against. We're not built with a lot of test sauce thrown and we are not going to eat enough to ever build that much muscle anyway. So get an aerodope scare. Plus the more muscle that you have you're going to burn more calories your metabolism is going to increase and you're going to get the results you want. So muscle is a good thing because it does so many wonderful things for weight loss and great disease. Next we're going to go and talk about my nutrition and for my full training programs you can check out the page below. When I first meet somebody and they're wanting to get in shape and look like me or look like somebody else. I tell them 80% of it is nutrition and only 20% of the gym. I hear ladies all the time in the gym saying that they're working out hard as they never worked out on the treadmill or whatever doing cardio but their nutrition I've seen them in the office because I work with them during my nine to five and their nutrition hasn't changed at all and I so badly want to tell them until you get your nutrition in mind nothing's going to change you really have to get that. I kind of based how many meals I have based on what time I get up so during the week I have to wake up about 354 a.m. and so I obviously have more meals during the work week but on the weekend if I don't wake up till 7 then I'm going to have less meals but from the moment I you wake up every three hours from there just grab yourself a perfectly portion meal I always say two fifths one for the protein one for the car not makes your perfect meal and just make sure you do that every three hours. I always treat eating clean like a savings account so you're basically saving up money money money money money and you only spend it when it's worthwhile spending so you won't really catch me eating a cheat meal sitting at my house alone I'm gonna wait until I have something fun to go and do and then I have almost like a motivation am I going to cheat on my dinner am I going to cheat on my drinks I'm going to cheat on dessert I got not going to have all three but it's not because I'm trying not to have all three because really mentally I don't want to have all three so I always order my meals no oil no seasoning and I'll just have them bring out like a side of all phomic vinegar add or something and so I might want to cheat on my drink so I'm not going to have a dessert is my dessert going to be my drinks it's definitely establishing healthy habits and for those of you that have never started and you're watching this video and you're about to start I think one of the biggest tips I want to give you is heart slow so future is soda and you go out to eat every meal or out to lunch every day start with that just here at a soda just do that for four weeks that's one helping habit if you can establish that for a month and you get into a good routine hey let's move on to the second thing keep it simple do it slow and steady phone steady always wins the race you definitely need to make it a part of your life and just make it a fun lifestyle and realize that this is going to be something that you do and feel your no longer care so we've been talking a lot about nutrition and it's important to keep it simple keep it fun and realize that this is a lifelong journey and not just something that you get to do for 12 weeks and then everything's been well on correct it so make sure you check out my nutrition's plan below and now we're going to move on to supplements we need to make sure that we keep our bodies really healthy fit so we need to make sure that we give it the extra new chance supplements needed to keep us at a normal state because we're doing so much to our body that we need to make sure that we take a little extra time and supplements really help that for you ladies that are worried about getting big and bulky I want to consider myself big and bulky and I I have tried so many different supplements I always keep it to the basics you need your mobile vitamin your fish oil your glutamine and your protein a lot of people do not have time to cook fish or chicken for six meals a day like really it's just not going to happen so if you have say two supplement shakes you just have them in the small bottle shake it up ready to go and also if you think about it fish is like six ninety nine a pound chickens two ninety nine a pound normally protein hottershake for only ninety cents so you get a meal for ninety cents it's a great it's effective and it's time saving and it saves money I think as soon as you can establish a good routine on remembering to take those four you'll be good to go and to move on to other things and obviously moving on to other things means what is your goal what type of training are you doing are you building are you leaning are you getting ready for a marathon and so once you can get the foundations started then you can move on to tailor it to your program we have my full plan on nutrition training and supplementation check out my page below but if you want to get more information on what I'm doing my goals to ask me questions please feel free to contact me on body space my body space name is Kathleen to sorry I'm very active online and I love helping people get started and if you want more content on nutrition work out if you have questions there's so much great content on bodybuilding.com it's such a great tool I hope you use it and I will talk to you often

Hey everyone, I'm Kassil EGM and we're here at the Powerhouse Gym in Burbank, California. And I was the bodybuilding.com amateur of the week, also part of their lift life campaign and one of the top finalists in the body space spoke to model search. Today we're going to go through three things, my training, nutrition and supplementation plan and show you how I use March to Large and Bodybuilding to get this a VGA AMS today. Now I started March last when I was 15 years old and I've been doing it for about 10 years now. The main reason I started March to Large was to improve my physique and incorporate more discipline into my life. And we all know that this is going to part of the most important part in March to Large training. So after a while I have to train it for so long, I look for another venue to increase my discipline and confidence and then I found bodybuilding and I was very, very important. It changed my entire life once I put those two together. The way I can incorporate the two March to Large and Bodybuilding is bodybuilding is my tool to improve my March life performance. I use Bodybuilding as a way to get stronger, the way to get faster, that way when I do March to Large, everything is a breeze. If I train hard in the gym, then when I work out in March to Large, it's going to be a lot easier. Just like in a life you work hard through your training, then life is a whole lot easier as well. discipline, we say this is do something over and over and over again consistently until you improve your overall growth and that's what Bodybuilding is as well. That they say that in Sanities when you repeat something over and over again but you expect to create outcome but in Bodybuilding and in March to Large success is when you complete something over and over again because you have a clear vision which outcome is going to be. That's how I have used Weight Training to improve my March life. It doesn't matter if you're in football, basketball, any other type of extra curricular activities, Weight Training is always going to improve that skill stack. Now let's get a little bit into my training. My training beliefs are the way I approach the gym the same way I approach March life. You train hard and you'll achieve it, you'll achieve greatness later on. So when I go into the gym I leave everything there. I push as hard as I can. I have a pretty much crazy split and I'm honestly what it is I do cardio in the morning and it's usually high intensity cardio and I do my weight training in the afternoon or the evening. I split up that way because doing cardio in the morning for me really brings up my energy. I mean a guarantee if you do cardio especially high impact in intensity cardio you're going to feel a lot better in the morning and then I do my weight training which is a little bit lower, heart rate but it's just strength, strength, building strength, building strength over and over again. So that's the way I do my split and I do it every day, seven days a week. I do cardio and weight training seven days a week. You're entering that same exact weight fitness six to five days out of the year and the reason I do that is because life is going to find ways for you to slow down. If I push myself to train all the time then it's going to be a lot easier for me. It's going to be a certain chance to stop you here and there but as long as I'm still training it's going to be consistent. The way I break up my workouts is by body parts and the reason I do that is because I train so often I want to make sure that I isolate a certain muscle group every single day and I'll do arms and I'll do chest and I'll do back and I'll do shoulders and I'll do legs and I'll cycle those through again. So I have a five day rotation that I'll just keep cycling through. I cardio pretty much stays the same in the mornings. It's a separate Saturday to Sunday, rather a little bit swimming cardio. My cardio ranges between 30 to 45 minutes. I try to stay around around 30 minutes because it's high intense like I do straight intervals 30 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, and I like that heart rate because in martial arts when you're sparring you're moving around this time where you need to achieve active and you get the slow down. You have to regain that energy quickly so high intensity training works for me and improve my martial arts. My rep range is usually around six to eight reps but I always try to shoot for failure no matter what. I mean there are certain days where I'll go two weeks when it's just six to eight but then I'll just throw in a 12 to 15 reps range and that changes up the whole thing that shots your body into growing a lot more in my belief. Like I say, plets will be very important because you can't have a breakthrough before you hit a wall. You have to hit a wall for it before you break through it. Isn't it right? The reason you get burned down in the gym is because you have to push enough there. When you're in the gym and you reach failure, your mind is telling you to stop, your body says you can't get any more but you find that energy to break through and get that last rep, you feel so accomplished. You walk out there to champion. You walk out there with your shoulders high and that's that feeling, that's this real feeling that you're feeling. You're going to want to go back in there and feel it again. So that's why I never get burned down because every time I'm in the gym, I find that feeling there and I come back and I find that feeling to get it. Feel it again. It's almost you for it. I say it all the time, the gym is my drug pretty much and I'm not going to stop. Write down your goals or write down what you've done and then repeat it the next time. Because that's the only way you're going to grow. So first thing I say is you get a plan, then attack it and you follow it with every single step of the way. Fitness is not what you know. It's pretty much what you do. So make sure you just go out there and do it. Now that was my training philosophy. Now to get out of my full workout plan, check out the page below. Now let's go into my nutrition. So I think it's probably the most important part of the whole aspect. It's very much cut and dry. We all know that if you take this supplement, it'll grow and it'll do this. If you go to the gym, you lift this, it'll grow that. We've got that basis count. The diet is a little bit more keen and it's going to be a little more fine too, especially your particular body type. So researching things and using things like bodybuilding.com to find out what other people have done and you go to the site find out what works best for you and then testing it out, taking those pictures and putting it in a fine will find out which diet best for the worst best for you. I think diet is probably the most important part of everything, especially if you want to have a different physique, their ideal physique is your looking for. My belief in philosophy on nutrition goes like this. You put into your body exactly what it needs. Access is too much. I mean, if you look at other worlds of the country, there are people who don't have food in this world, in this country, we're pretty much obsessed. You can go to every single store, you see fast food chains here and there. We overindosed a little bit. So my belief is just to put into my body what my body needs to fuel it to get officially to the whole day. So I stick to, you know, if I'm hungry, then I'll take something. I'll use supplements to get through the day. You have to find out what your body is accustomed to. And I've been researching it for so long. That's why you can see on my body space page that I've had over 320 pictures because I was trying out different things to find out which one works best for me. I eat when my body says it's time to eat when it's hungry. When it tells me that that means I need to fuel it. So I don't do six to five meals. Sometimes I have two meals a day and I'll use supplements throughout the day just to work it off. We all know the three basic things that we have in our diet, the fats, the carbs and the protein. Those are very essential. And the way I like to do it is I pyramid it out. I'll do my carbs in the morning. My protein stay consistent to whole day and then I do my fats in the morning too. Now because I do such low carbs, I try to increase my fats a little bit that way I can maintain my body size to the calorie index. So I'm very important to me too as well. I don't focus on measuring at one point you'll start to learn your body. The only thing I do count is the carbon take for the day. Now I try to stay within 50 to 75 grams of carbs. I know that's very low for some people. Pretty low for me, especially with my workout. But because I do the fat, I have the energy to use it out. But protein is consistent to whole day. Forget about cheat days. There's no such thing as a cheat day from me. When you plan out your day, you see how much calories or what you've eaten for the past three weeks and you know what your body can take in and you have a piece of cake or a donut, you should have counted as a cheat day. That's part of your nutrition plan. You're going to need that. You already measured out what your body needs. So you don't count as a cheat day, especially you don't use the word cheat day because you will overindulge in it. Counting is like a cheat meal or a cheat snack. Do I have those cheat meals? Yes, because your body doesn't need it. I believe your body doesn't need it. It needs that spike. And he's that change. It can't fall into a same rut. You need to adapt it every once in a while. That way your body keeps it guessing. He keeps it in the tab of lies in the whole time. We all have social lives. I mean, it's not just one thing. It's not just weightlifting. It's not just martial arts. We all have social lives. You tell everyone around you, everyone around you needs to be aware of who you are. And once they've come accustomed to that, they're going to start to believe everything that you do. So when you go out to a restaurant, you go out to a club or something like that. And they notice that you're not drinking in order to say, you know, indulge in. Just if you're really your friends, they're going to try to follow you and you're going to agree with you. It's better that way because they're going to hold you accountable. If your friends see you drinking a beer, he's going to say, I thought you were fitness trainer. I thought you were martial arts expert, you know? So it's very important to tell everyone what you're doing right away. That way, you hold you accountable. You don't deviate from your plan. Now that you know a little bit about my strict diet plan, I know it's amazing to talk. But it'll get you to physique this year one. To get my full meal plan, look at the link below. Now let's get a little bit to my supplementation. If you think about any other sport, let's take baseball for example. Baseball player did get up to bat, right? They have a batting glove. Now if they didn't have that batting glove, can they still hit the ball? Of course they can. But the batting glove is there for better grip. They just supplements what they're doing. You know what I mean? Or the same thing in basketball. They have their hand wraps. They have their wrist wraps. You have their head best to keep the sweat out. If it wasn't there, they still be able to train because they're still going out there and doing it every single step of the day. So these things are supplements that help your performance. If you don't have them, doesn't mean you're not going to stop your growth. Sublimitation is very, very important to your overall goal and your diet. I mean you set out a plan, you have your workout, you have your nutrition. Sublimitation is going to get you there quicker. I'm not saying supplementation is going to take over all the other things that we talked about. Like I said, it's going to help you improve the get you goals a lot faster. Three main things that I must have is the way protein, my glutamine and my BCAAs. Especially in my martial arts training, those three things are going to help maintain muscle mass and give me the growth performance that I need. Sublimitation is our vital part of my diet. As you see, I maybe want to do meals a day. So I'll have an RTD. Especially in this lifestyle, we are very hectic. Sublimit has improved a lot. So grabbing a ready to drink here and there and you're good to go. It has definitely helped me achieve my goals. My supplements do change depending on not so much my goals, but my exercises for the day. For example, if I'm doing three workout day and I have a martial arts training, I will increase my BCA as in who to me. I don't break down too much muscle mass. So they do adjust based on my training for the day. I noticed sublimit world at first can't seem daunting for anyone that's starting out. I had no idea about supplementation. Going to a site like Bodybuilding.com and you could see all the reviews that everyone has done. You can see what people have taken, everything that they've used and you get to credentials from them. You can see their physique and how they've proved them as well. So learning from people that actually experienced it has helped me as well. So using Bodybuilding.com has definitely helped me understand supplementation is a lot more. When you have the knowledge for something you're a lot less afraid of it. So go out there and get the knowledge. Even if I didn't have supplements, I know I would still reach my goals no matter what. Because you're a part of a community especially using BodySpace.com. You're a part of a community who pushes you every single step of the way. So you want to achieve. You want to do more. You want to do more. So it starts with the mind. You know, it starts with the mind. Set it out your goals and make sure that you achieve it. The measurements will help you get there faster. I believe, but don't rely on them. Don't lean back on them the whole time and then sit back and do nothing. You know, the whole day. The bridge between our goals and our achievements is the action. So your job is to take the action. Not just once, but every single step of the day. And your supplements are going to be like your crutch as you be sure to go. More information about my nutrition, diet and training plan. Check out the page below. You'll like to learn more about me. You can look at my body space on the kids MVP. If you're more content like this, check out BodyBuilding.com.

Hi, my name is HIKIya Zayman and I am the 100th dollar Optimal Nutrition Transformation Challenge winner. I'm here today to share my journey with you, I'm to tell you about the steps that I actually went through to get here, basically through my training, my supplementation, and my nutrition. Everything that I went through from the inner challenge until now, they brought me to this point. I'm a Vama IV and I have four little ones I ran from age to age. My husband had initially started working out and then I decided to kind of take, you know, take his lead, he went on a ditted and then it was such an example. And in December I just so happened to jump up and like, okay, I'm going to start working out. And I said I'm going to do a pro-fountain buddy from dot com. That same week was when the challenge was actually announced. And I introduced it to him and the funny thing was he didn't even want to do the challenge to start with, I actually had to talk and listen to him during the challenge and then from there he just, you know, put everything in, signed up and just went at him and I made it a challenge between the two of us. And so they're like the challenge itself. It was kind of like a competition amongst us, you know, just keeping each other up and on back and forth. How are we going to do it? You know, keeping one another accountable throughout the whole two of week. Given the fact that he is a contractor and he travels extensively with work. So he was gone throughout the 12 week challenge. He was offered the 11 week team was actually only home with me that last week of the challenge when we did our photoshoot. But throughout the time we would talk to every day, we would talk to one another, see us guy. And just really kind of go through training, you know, ex help at the job that you know how was your training going, what did you do. Born on this journey has definitely been a benefit for myself and for my husband, but he's huge benefit for our family. Now that we're basically leading by example, our children see that and they acknowledge that, you know, when we're fixing, you know, our meals, they know, okay, mom is going to have a protein right now or mom is eating her chicken or telapia. And it's funny because my four year old, I'm getting muscles too. I remember one morning I was married to go to the gym and my two of my younger ones were in the family room. And they were on the floor, doing crunches and leg raises. And I like, we're getting sick muscles like mommy and daddy. With anything, it's always important to say goals. You have to really detail what it is you're trying to achieve. And I only think that I think it's really important to be able to visualize the end of the goal. Once you have a good to do that, it's been easier to try to achieve it. With us, like I said, it was just no matter of setting those goals, it's really being in the term, it's just go for it and go loud and get it. And I think that I want to get down to 10% body fat. I made a T 11 as a 10 of the challenge. It's really great because I started with 25, 26% rate. Maths and my husband, his body fat, he actually got down to 4% which is just amazing. Really, what's more impressive to me is that over the last year, we up to the inner challenge. He has lost over a total of 100 pounds. This challenge in itself has just been a phenomenal experience. From start to finish, even up into this point. When you set your mind full of utility things, you can't let anything take that away from me. And let anything stop anything that you don't want. Well, now that you know a little bit about me, let's go ahead and jump into details about my training and what I actually get to give me to this point. When my training in itself is in 10, but I've also learned that with my training, it brings me a sense of peace. When I go in, I know that when I go to those gym doors, I have a job to do. I go in and I focus and my thing is to execute everything on the floor that's on my plan without any excuses without understanding myself. But it's going full force because when I walk through the gym doors to go back out, there's no shahas. No could have, no would have. I have to leave the hall to the gym and it's going to go in the books and I stay. Throughout my training, like I said, I did a five or six days split. Typically, I would start out Monday. I would head back and have on Tuesdays. I would do chess, abs, and cardio. On Wednesday, I would do leg two cardio on Thursday. It was kind of like a more so I'm not gonna say off day, but I wasn't actually training like both words. All I was training, it was calves, abs, and cardio. Friday, shoulder, abs, one of my favorite, so workout. I like to see the striations and the shoulders. On Saturday, five and trice. That's my ultimate favorite. I love doing my arms. Well, with the challenges up like now, I do a combination of low rep and high rep. I pretty much stayed in the range of eight to twelve. And just really try to go with heavy as I could with everything. I would follow each training section with, or you training session with cardio. I intend to do cardio. And that consisted of 30, 35 minutes. The only thing is that at the end of my challenge, the really focus on bringing that body back for the center style, I pretty much, you know, select another form of cardio, which was just walking on a treadmill at a slow pace. So I did a high impact low impact. And that's pretty much it. My days were Saturday with Sunday man, all the course. And typical off day for me, it's my kids like we're not going to the gym. Like, what are we doing at home? I do so much training during the week when it's like, we're constantly going that when Sunday comes around, I really just need to dedicate some time for them. It's a little family thing. Now that you know about my training program and all the steps that I took to get to this point, we're going to move on to details on my nutrition. If you want to get full detail, go by actual workout in a training that I did, look below. I really don't like using the term diet because it's a lifestyle change. Once you can make sure it, this is not just short term. That's something we're going to do for a quick fix for one week or two weeks. It's about changing your mind, changing your life, committing to it, and then striving hard each day, you have to maintain, you have to go at it every day. Day in and day out, making sure you're getting a meal of time, making sure you're in what you're supposed to because if not, all your efforts are getting what's going to be built at that point. My meal plan was actually creating the guide for me by my trainer's seat pointer. Basically, it really contained a lot of the staple, I guess, clean eating items, oatmeal, to lobby a chicken breast, of course the veggies and then bananas, sweet potatoes. Very clean, very regimented, same thing every single day. I pretty much follow where I would do my regular meal and take the same thing for three to four days, and then rotate it a high card day. On my high card days, I would include bananas, sweet potatoes, two, three of my meals. Like I said, simple clean eating, protein shakes are in there. I have a couple meals, you have the four to five ounces of fish to chicken, and then you have your veggies. So it was really simple, I have six meals a day, and I pretty much almost stick on the time. I have timers that goes off two and a half hours tops, I'm having my next meal. I know it's very important that I have to pack my meals in advance. I like to do everything well in advance, I know preparation is a stream, king, anything we're training or eating. If you're not prepared in advance, then that's when those slip ups happen. I've learned that with doing any time for swimming, any time for change, eating, training, I mean just anything in life is mental. You have to really set your mind for it because if your mind is not there, if you're not both who's wanting, it's going to be hard to do. In the very beginning, I'm not going to lie, it was imperfect. You know, you had those days where you wanted something, I mean I have four little ones, have a pantry full of snacks. I have to go in and fix lunch, so every day I have the conscience, we make that effort, I'm going to eat clean today, I'm not going to have this snack. And then once it becomes routine, that's all it is, it's routine, and it becomes easy for me, and now it doesn't even bother me. I'm not going to know about my nutrition and all the details of what I did throughout the journey, but let's move on to my supplementation. If you want more details on my nutrition and everything that I did, look below. Starting with this journey was the very first time I had to start it when doing any time for supplements. So I was going to challenge, I was against it, completely. And the reason I did, I can't say, is that I didn't want to take anything, I just thought like, okay if I work out, go to cardio or train, then that should be enough. If not realizing that, you know, if you're following a cleaner approach or treating your training with a certain intensity, the supplements actually are beneficial in can help you. And so now that I do it, I actually do have a regiment that I follow and I stick to it every single day. From the time I wake up, I start with, you know, my fat burners, during my actual meals, I actually have vitamins and months I find them as that I take. I'm additional to the months I find them and I think it's super be complex. It's just something that I need by choice. My free workout, I take amino energy, which is by far my favorite item. In addition to the amino energy, I do the national dioxide, the white fluid, and I combine those. Also, do a school football, BCAA, it's by optimal. And that's all prior to my workout. After my workout, I do protein training, and then I also add a school football, you know, energy. It's just for recovery after the fact which is really great. I also do the fat burners later today. It's one of the cap ones, the two cap cells. I think it's prior to my third meal, not the steak and, and then the other supplementation is just the protein that I have as meals, and the other thing that I do is I do my night before or my case. Depending on which one I'm going to take that night. But from the weavering, you need to know what you're taking, what, you know, the retaining kind it, or to get the full effect from it. Because some people just take stuff, you know, you have no clue. I think it's extremely important and beneficial to really know everything that you do for yourself. I think it's important that it's going training. You need to supplement all the areas if you're taking care of your training. You're putting the full thing about it. You also need those supplements. It's going to help build the muscles that you're trying to create. It's not. It's kind of like you're going to edit and you're not getting the results that you want. And that's the only way you're going to do it with them. It's going to make those things. Now that you know all about me, it's like it more details on my training, nutrition and supplementation. Make sure you check the page below. Or you have questions for me. Make sure you're looking up on body space. My username is N.D.Y.C.E. To get more information like this, make sure to check out Bodybuilden.com.

It's been 13 years since my first trip to West Side Barbel and now I'm back. I'm back to see what's the same, I'm back to see what's different and I'm here to see what's possible if I dedicate four weeks to training under the best system on the planet with what they do today. The West Side Barbel has a 30 plus year history as the pinnacle of strength in the conditioning was founded by Louis Simmons here in Columbus. And over the 30 years Louis built West Side over 100 world records Olympians, gold medals, world champions in a myriad of sports he did it all. And when I first came here I was a broke 21 year old kid with dreams of becoming a professional strong man and Louis invited me down taught me about the West Side system and gave me the tools and the knowledge and the belief I needed to ultimately become a professional strong man and a strength coach myself. Now about two years ago Louis Simmons passed and he handed the gym over to the man who had been his second in command for over a decade Tom Berry. My name is Tom Berry, I'm currently the CEO of West Side Barbel. The question is what is West Side Barbel? Will West Side Barbel means different things to different people for us who came here. It is where Louis Simmons pioneered the conjugate method of strength training with the greatest power lifters on the planet. They had the world's strongest gym and he developed a culture and a strength training that can never be replicated. Our goal now is to work with athletes and help them recalibrate how great they think they can be through strength training. Now as we did this he also left Tom with the directive that the gym was no longer meant to focus on power lifting. We were lifting the thing that had been the core of West Side was now out and over the last two years Tom's built an athletic training program here where they trained professional MMA fighters to gypsoo athletes, lacrosse players. Again athletes in a myriad of different sports are coming here to get the best strike in the new year possible. So now I've come back 13 years after my very first trip to seek two things. Number one is West Side still West Side. Despite the fact that the power lifings have been taken out despite the fact that it's now in the hands of Tom Barrick. What is West Side? What is it today? Does it still have the same heart that it used to have? And number two if it does have that same heart. Taking this system that Louis created the conjugate training system and directing it to this in tense focus on overall athletic performance. What's possible under that system? Because I know what's possible in the original system that was just focused on pure strength. But in this system what's really possible that is what I'm here to find out. With the project this month obviously we need to figure out exactly how to measure a win a loss if I'm succeeding if I'm failing if any of this is working. So to measure my results during the month here we've teamed up with the armory which is a medical center located here in Columbus that has the most advanced and comprehensive facility I think I've ever been to. So going to the armory the first testing we did we did in the initial VO2 maps and we also did a Dexis scan to check my body fat percentage versus lean mass. So that's going to think and we also did a blood panel and to be honest I don't intend to do too much to change the blood panel but that's there so that anyone can see that I'm not taking a bunch of performance enhancers to get the results over this project. Now here at West Side what we're going to be doing in my first workout we're going to be measuring the amount of density which is the amount of work I'm capable of doing per minute average out over the workout and that's the score we're going to use to determine if I'm increasing my abilities in the gym if I'm increasing my performance because obviously I'm going to get stronger over the month training here but I used to be a professional strong man I was I was pretty big and pretty strong that's not a new thing to me what is new to me is the athletic approach that they're taking here so we're going to be using that as a metric for success. So going through the testing when I got my body fat tested I scored an embarrassing 20% body fat. I'd like to make some excuses about like I married I have kids I've focused on coaching and I might own thing. Not great. Came in at 20% body fat. I'll put up my VO2 max scores you can see exactly where that ended up as well and then we'll give you after we do the first workout where my workout density was as we started but looking at all of these metrics this is how we're going to determine success or failure over the project and to be honest the attention no matter what happens is to share these results as we go. So if one improves you're going to see the end. If one stays the same you're going to see that at the end. If one falls off and crumbles as much as it will crush me you're going to see that at the end too. The only goal on this project in terms of sharing it with you is full transparency of everything that happens here and all the results that come from it. Good, bad, or ugly. Next week I'm going to be sharing the results of what happened in my very first workout and telling you exactly what my plan of attack is from here going into the remainder of the month. But I need you to come into the next episode with very low expectations. Maybe I had a phenomenal workout. Maybe I had the worst workout of my life and thought I was going to die. You'll find out in the next one but I'm excited to share this adventure with you in really. Can't get worse than this.

My name is Ronnie Coleman and I'm an ATHMistilentia and current I have really broken. And I'm here today to tell you guys more about my training, nutrition and supplementation. Good week! Real quick before I give in that, I'm going to tell you a bit more about me. I got into bodybuilding and I did it working full-time as a police officer. Kind of goes back to growing up when I was a kid, my mom pretty much had a strict regimen that we followed. Before she went to work she just laid out everything she wanted us to do before she came back. When we went to school we had to come home and do a homework right away, you know, before we went out and played and stuff. If you weren't done when you got back you was in a lot of trouble. A whole head make a real solve behind. Just follow me all throughout my life. I've been training all my life and I had a pretty good background in just training but you know not training as a bodybuilder but just training just to keep in shape and training for football and training for the power of the team that counts. With the college for years and got my degree for the VF degree in the county and kind of graduated with honors and everything so I had the top of the class. Couldn't wait to get out of school so I can go and give a job in the county. So I go out and I put in probably about at least a thousand resumes. I get caught on some interviews and the thing that they wanted most I didn't have and that was experience. So I was bored so I buddy of mine said I want him going to Dallas. I like okay but I did what you can say and then do home. So I get to Dallas and I'm like now, you know, I got to do something, I need a job. I got a job but we know working with Domino's teacher part time and stuff. And I figured that I just stay there until I can get a job in the county. So to the chase through you down the road and I still don't have a job in the county. You know I'm thinking what's going wrong here? I just get to pay for every day and the only job that they had that you didn't have to have experience with a police officer. I just have a buddy of mine and like you need a plan. Like do that. That's the crazy job in the world. This time's the crazy job to like you know two years. So we just broke down and I applied and I was hired to probably about three months later. I've been on a cause where you know before I got there you know it was a big army going on and people, the other and screaming at each other and then I was sitting on walk up and they look at me and they stop right away. Then the focus is on me man you could be. Yeah a little bit. I didn't know anything about a buddy of it when I got into it. Well you've listed now I try to tell people all the time it was like a hobby for me and the reason why I started to convince me is that if I worked out. Now you saw what I said no. I got to the point where I got tired of saying no. I'm like they asked me why I'm working out and maybe I should work out and see what you can take me. So that's why I started working out. It was all a step in stone was what I was trying to say. Typically about eight, nine years of dieting, training, working to full time with the police department trying to organize all this with the family and first we had to get you know out of the amateur and we had to get to the pros and we had to get the stab just as a pro and then we had to get good enough where we could you know when the muscle amp is. Yeah buddy. That's how I try to train everybody point about twice a week. So I try to train like six days a week. It's been about an hour, about 15 minutes a day on training alone. And if I'm getting ready for a contest and stuff like that then it's another couple hours a day at cardio. I take the Sundays off one day a week. All right, the rest day is like you know, get up early about nine, have a little bite to go to church, come home, take shower stuff, get ready for work. People always ask me how do you feel muscle and how to get strong and all this kind of stuff. There's two different things that I did both, you know, the pile lifted and when I was the pile lifted we only did like a few reps at a time and we like to do like six for two or like that. That would be a strength but the build muscle you know you do a lot of repetitions like 10 and 15 20 and that's how you build muscle. It's all lightweight to me though. It wasn't a big transition because I only did pile listen for about maybe two or three years. Now when you get like eight hundred pounds of weight on your back and you really think about no competitive you think about trying to get the weight off you every rep that's what you're basically thinking about. I've always wanted to train with a partner if it's somebody that can you know challenge me and do the same weight that I'm doing but if not then I'd rather train alone. Coming up you know we push each other and it worked out really good for us. I'm much rather train with a training partner than train alone. I like to tell people just you know do like I did it. You get a personal trainer and that way you know what you're doing you're doing it the right way and then you're not going down the wrong way you're not wasting your time. If you don't have the right nutrition you're not going to grow and I learned that the whole way but I learned it in a good way. When I was a playing football and just doing stuff like that and not actually trying to get to be all I did was eat hamburgers and try chicken and all that kind of stuff. I was wondering why I wasn't growing in muscle because I was eating a lot of food but I wasn't eating a lot of good food. Protein would be a muscle but it got to be good quality protein. I try to eat about six meals a day or what I try to do is get like two grams of protein for every one pound of body weight. I try to take in about six hundred grams of protein a day like the hundred grams protein for a meal. Mass building muscle techniques of chicken, steak and turkey. It's a strict diet and we don't deviate in that one bit. Nutrition to buy the building is what our engineers do to a car. If you don't have the right nutrition it ain't going to function properly. It's like a car if you ain't got an engine in it it's going to be kind of hard to drive around and get to where you're trying to go. Without something in the patient you can't do it. When I first started in bodybuilding we didn't have as many supplements as they have today or we just basically taken stuff like amino, protein and you can't get one ounce of muscle without protein. You kind of like you know learn with the curve at time when on course you got to pre-work out drinks and post-work out drinks and get you a nitric oxide, video, you know, good. So before you get in the gym and you get good pump once you get in the gym you get you a little bit of motivation also. It's got better and better as I've gone on after years. My top three basically amino protein, creatine, basically all you may want. Bodybuilding is all about building muscle who got the biggest muscle, who got the best muscle and got the most quality muscle. I don't think I could have dead bodybuild them without something there. I'm out of fact that no one could have done anybody better without something there. Yep, if you get the right one. That's the key right there. For my full training, sub-intention and nutrition program, check out the plays below. I'm Ronnie Coleman, a time-miss Olympia and for more information for the bodybuilding.com.

Hi, I'm Brian Stan and here with Bodybuilding.com. I'm a kind of newweight fighter with the Open Fighting Championship. My Bodybuilding.com and gives far enough nutrition to sign an athlete. It's been five years in the United States and it requires an infantry officer. What I was awarded is Silver Star from my actions and more so the actions of my continuing around. Today with Bodybuilding.com I'm going to take you through my training on the Military, to make some martial arts. I started training martial arts in Marine Corps martial arts program. When I got back from my first tour in Iraq, I wanted to fight again. It was kind of my way and my release from all the stress and things that I dealt with in combat. But I figured I might as well at least get paid for it. And I got my first chance to pro-fight, and I got my first chance to get the opportunity to fight against the guy who's an all-American wrestler from University of Wisconsin and knocked them out in the first round. That fight really catapulted me and that's when I signed with World Extreme Cage fighting. And that was kind of my stepping stone to eventually get signed by the UFC. The transition from military to martial arts for me really was just spiritual and it was more about family. I started having children and my family was growing and me being gone all the time to combat really just wasn't in the best interest of my children. So I decided to get off active duty and I started fighting full-time and I haven't looked back. Now that you guys know a little bit more about me, my notes are clear, my fighting career. Let's talk more now about my training and the training that helps me keep the energy and then fight in the cage. You know, my approach to the gym and my strength conditioning training is really all centered around my performance in the apathy. I have three different phases to my strength conditioning program depending on how far out from the fight I am. When I come into the gym, it's always a set workout. I never come in and say, okay, maybe I'll do a little bit of this, maybe I'll do a little bit of that. It's always going to be some kind of power lifting, some kind of speed training followed by some very explosive cardio that's really centered around. Getting my heart rate very, very high and then training me to recover that heart rate at a medium level while I'm still doing some kind of aerobic activity. Because that's like a fight. It takes a work ethic like this for six days a week for at least two months before a fight. I'm going to do a lot of padwork, striking work with my kickbox and coach. Very high intensity cardio workout. And then I move into more grappling where we'll drill for about 30 minutes and then we'll do live grappling for about five, five minute rounds and night. Tuesday is very, very heavy-spying. I'm going to do anywhere from three to five, five minute rounds. After I do about 30 minutes, it drills to warm up. Each round is going to be with a new fresh opponent that goes in there to mimic my upcoming opponent. And I'm out there to execute my strategy, but also goes hard as I can so that I hit that wall. Learn how to face exhaustion and still be able to fight when my body feels like it's completely depleted. After that, it's really centered around power. So I'm going to do power cleans, sing along, snatch, weighted pull-ups, explosive push-ups, walking lunges. A lot of sled pushes and sled pulls on our turf. And my coach absolutely wants to know how many reps with what kind of weight I'm performing. We want to make sure that as I go through this training camp, I'm not over training and I'm actually getting stronger. Not just in better shape, but I'm getting stronger, more powerful and faster. So everything's going to be measured by weight, by speed and by time. On Thursdays, where I do my circuit training, everything's measured by how many repetitions that I get in 30 seconds. How many repetitions that I get in a minute? How long are you going to take me to complete the circuit circuit? We'll pick anywhere from four to 15 different exercises. We're going to do them for time, match the repetition in that time. Usually 30 seconds to a minute. And we'll go through and do anywhere from five to eight minute rounds of all those exercises. And I do it under six minutes, can I do it under five minutes? Now we can really measure what kind of shape I'm getting. Fridays are a special day, where the team will come in in the mornings, and we do our grappling and submission grappling training, followed by some kind of very high intensity, altitude run outside. We'll either go in the peak in a sandy mountains and Albuquerque, a 12,000 feet, or you can do stairs, you can do a long distance hill run, or we'll go to the sand dunes. If 15 is high at the highest, you can go on a treadmill, imagine a 30-kilp. This cardio really isn't designed around the sport and mixed martial arts. It's really designed around the mental side of mixed martial arts. You'll get so tired that you want to look at your coaches and just say I'm done. It's all about getting comfortable in that ultimate state of exhaustion, so that when you get there and fight, you're used to it. You don't lose fights in the third round, we win fights in the third round. One of the things I like to do is I like to set goals. Before I go into every single workout, I try and think about three things that I know I need to work on. I set those goals and I establish my workout to those goals, and then when I finish my workout, I ask myself, did I work on the things I came here to work on? That way I know I didn't just come in, I know I'm tired from all the training I do, and just kind of go through emotions in today's workout. If you're discipline in the gym, you care about your physical fitness, you care about your health, and you want a better physique. People that do those types of things are the same people who care about their job performance, who care about how good a parent they are, who care how good a wife or a spouse they are. I think it's very important that you really care about physical fitness, because people that I know both in athletics and business and in life that are really talented and motivated at those things are the same people that are really talented and motivated about their own personal fitness. They care that discipline that you get from being physically fit in other grades is it leaves over another aspect of your life. My full training plan, check out the page below. Now that you guys know more about my training, how I make my weight all the way down to 185, how I keep my physique and how I get ready to fight in the octagon, let's take a little bit more of a look at my nutritional side that really is a secret behind being able to train with such high volume and high intensity. Nutrition for me is paramilon. There is no way an athlete can perform the way I'm performing you're trying to perform this sport without nutrition. In fact, my weekly diets are actually posted on Excel spreadsheet, given me and I have to follow them in very much detail. They need to at least eight meals a day, keep my metabolism active. When I'm training three or four times a day, I need a lot of calories to get in there when it's got to be the right calories so that I lose enough weight to make the weight I'm fighting at. You know, a typical nutrition day for me is wake up and I'll immediately take a protein shake just because my body still could be catabolic from the evening before. About an hour later, I'll have a high fat meal, usually all natural peanut butter because I'm getting ready to train. As soon as trains over, I take a shake that's full of protein and really good club of hydrates that help recover my glycogen and my energy source for the next workout. From there, I'll eat a meal that usually consists of some kind of fish, normally salmon is what I prefer, maybe a little bit of gluten free bread, and then high-metched those high greens. And now, after that, I'll take a shake that's multi-vitamin and greens to help lower my acidity levels, flush my body with antioxidants and get me ready to fight. Then I'll take another high fat workout, usually a scoop full of all natural peanut butter. I'll take some protein and then get ready for my next workout. My next meal in the two new workouts, usually beats your something really quick, some kind of eggs, egg whites, a little bit of fat, a little bit of gluten free carbohydrates, that's it and I'm working on it again. As soon as I finish that workout, I'm taking another protein shake and another carbohydrate shake to replace my glycogen stores. At night, when I cook my largest meal, usually I call it my plate of protein. I don't have any carbohydrates late at night just because I cut a lot of weight. So I'm looking for really good proteins like chicken, fish, turkey, no red meats, lots of vegetables, lots of vitamins. And then before I go to bed, I'll make a huge egg white omelet with chicken and turkey in it. Maybe if I'm really doing well with my weight, I'll have some turkey bacon just for some flavor, followed by protein shake and our later before I go to bed. My diet, it really is a lifestyle. When you start eating healthy, like I eat healthy and perform, you feel better. You're more energy throughout the day. When I come home from training all this all day, I'm not depleted and have to lay on my couch. I'm on the floor playing with my kids, it's time for me to be a father. So for me, even in between flights, I love to eat healthy because once you start getting great results and you feel great and start looking good, you can addicted to it. And it becomes that lifestyle. You know, when your wife looks at you differently and you're looking at good and you're feeling better, your kids are happy because you can play with them all day. That becomes addicted and it becomes your life. You're just always that way. Now that you guys know more about my nutritional program and why it's paramount to sustaining the high level and high intensity workouts I do, let's talk more about my supplementation. For my full nutrition plan, check out the page below. Sublimitation, very much like nutrition, is so paramount for me to perform at the levels I need to perform. I'm a professional athlete. This is my job. If my body cannot function at the levels I need, the function at. I'm going to lose and I'll no longer be able to do this anymore. Supplements are the things that my diet's just not giving me. And except what they do is their performance and answers. They really are. There's things that I can't get into foods that I eat every single day. And these are things that I absolutely need for all the high intensity workouts I'm doing. Things like glutamine, things like protein shakes, things like recovery shakes for my glycogen stores. These things are essential in my training program. My supplementation is very detailed. The right kind of multivitems, amino acids, beta-alamine, and protein and carbohydrates to recover from all these demanding workouts. You know, for people out there who are afraid to take supplements, they need to realize that this is an industry with so much research behind it. It is proven that these supplements can help you reach your fitness goals. And it's important. It's important not only to get in better shape, but also to feel better, to be healthier, which is important to everybody. Whether you're professional athlete, whether you're just a business person, regular professional, or your parent, or your teenager. It's essential. And I think it's a key ingredient in your overall nutritional program. It's really important to do your research. Make sure you know who the brands are and research surprises as well. There's places where you can get things much, much cheaper. But make sure you educate yourself on the products, what's inside them, and what they can do for you, and then read testimonials. See what other people like you who are normal people trying to do certain goals, what they think of each of these products before you want to spend your money on them. But while I was serving overseas in Iraq, it was difficult. You know, to maintain a physique, to get the right kind of nutrition without a doubt. One of the things we all did was we would usually request from our families back home, please. Don't send me a toothbrush. Don't send me the odor. I have that. Give me some supplements. Protein bars were great. We'd shove them in our pockets on the middle of the patrol. We could take something get some calories in this. Because when you're in that kind of heat, and that kind of terrain patrol with all that weight on you, you are burned in so many calories that your body could go catabolic on you very quickly. So, multi vitamins, amino acids, protein shakes, protein bars. You can get very easy readily made tuna fish. It needs things like that in small packets that can help you maintain the nutrition while you're out there. Now that you guys know more about my training, nutrition and supplementation, and you've listened to all my plans and progress, go ahead, make your own plan. It's your turn now. You've established your goals. Have a plan for your fitness, for your workouts, get in the gym, and see the results. Feel better. Live your life better. Have more success and get the physique you guys want. To find out more about me or ask me a personal question, check out my body space page. My username is Brian Stand. I'll be happy to answer any of your questions or give you some motivation. For more content like this, check out BodyBilling.com.

Hi, my name's Blastramarrow. I'm the figure competitor, the Sparry sponsored athlete, and owner of AV Pro Physiques, a private personal training studio in Gilbert Arizona. I've been training now for about 10 years, competing for six. And now here I am, top 10 finalists for the Body Space Books Model Challenge. We're here today in Burbank, California, powerhouse gym. Today I'm going to teach you how I eat, how I train, and my supplementation. I've been a gym owner now for six years, and I'm going to teach you girls some tips on how not to be intimidated at the gym. Girls, I know it's scary going to the gym, and sometimes it can be super intimidating, but you don't have to be afraid anymore. When you're heading to the gym or you're researching gyms, you want to make sure that it has all the equipment necessary for you and your goals. What do you want to do? Do you want to lose weight? Do you want to tone up? Do you want to just have some where to go and just kind of escape from family life? Whatever. Check it out, check out the amenities. You kind of kind of cardio equipment they have, but I always recommend a trainer for some foremost. First, you want to make sure that you are correct for them. You don't want to get hurt. You don't want to injure yourself in any way, and you want to see results. And I truly believe that a trainer can help you get there. You want to have a trainer, no big deal. Bodybuilding.com has a huge exercise database for you and for your fitness goals. You need to have a plan, a workout plan already when you head to the gym. Have it down on paper. Even if you want to bring in the piece of paper with you, print it out from Bodybuilding.com, whatever. At least it's going to help you get through the workout, and you're not just walking around aimlessly around the gym. We have a gym, you almost have to somewhat be a little bit selfish. You know, you don't want to spend hours at the gym. So get in there, work out, get your workout in, and get out. Now that I gave you guys some quick tips on how to conquer your intimidation, how to choose a gym, and how just to stay motivated, we're going to go ahead and get into my training supplementation and nutrition. So let's go ahead and get into my training beliefs. Training. This is what I believe, back to the basics. The key to my success has been consistency, and with consistency has been pretty basic. Basic workouts, basic diet, and consistency. This has got me the body that I have today. A lot of girls overthink things overanalything. They get to the gym, and they want to take shortcuts, or they want to try some new trendy workout, which is fun. It's fun to do every once in a while, but you want to see the results. You got to be consistent. You got to be basic, and you just got to eat a clean diet. You truly don't have to overcomplicate things overthink things. Just have a plan and stick to it. There's no right or wrong way. It's just having something to follow, and following it, and being consistent. My workout split. I weight left five days a week. I do two shoulder days, one back day, and two lower body days. Sun days are my true leg days, because I can rest. I'm a little bit hungry here on those days, so I eat a little bit more on my leg days. Legs have always been kind of like my challenging body parts. My workouts are definitely measured by reps and sets. Let's say basic shoulder workout. Let's say I start with shoulder presses. I always start with like a heavy movement shoulder press versus like a lateral or a front raise. But yeah, I'll rest about 30 seconds in between. I'll start out with the warm-up set, and I usually do three additional sets. My rep range is anywhere from 12 to 15 depending on the weight, but I'm really, really, really picky about form. I'd rather go lighter and keep my form really, really good. Versus go heavier and just look sloppy. I probably change up my workout about every six to eight weeks, right? Switch up the types of workouts or exercises or just the intensity. I think it's different from person to person as far as intensity. I use my diet to form my body, so I don't necessarily have to kill myself in the gym. I'm not a lot of people are surprised. Oh, you must spend hours and hours in the gym. Well, no, I don't. You know, I 30 minutes late training, maybe, and then 30 minutes cardio. I do cardio almost every day or some form of cardio. My cardio changes your round depending on my shows. So, users start out pretty basic 30 minutes a day, and it increases if it gets closer to the show, and how my body is progressing. If I'm losing body fat and I'm losing and I'm seeing the results, I don't necessarily need to kill myself in cardio. My workout is a pretty moderate, and they're not really heavy, but they're not light either. Basic shoulder workouts, because my shoulders are already kind of where they want them to be, so I just kind of train them so that they stay full, stay in shape. I would stay my leg days are a little bit more complicated. I'm always trying to think of new exercises, target different parts of my legs. Again, always thinking about my competitions and how I look on stage. So, I have to make sure that my body looks the way it should on stage. So, my training is cohesive to that. And I do have an outdoor day, so, like, I do track, which helped kind of build an athletic leg. In my off season, or when I'm not trained for a show, I like to, I like to switch it up. I'll do a full body on some days. I'll just spend classes, I'll do things like that, just to kind of switch it up a little bit. To overcome those plateau, you can do a variety of things. Again, increase the intensity. So, we come back to that word intensity. Switching that up will help you kind of peak pass that plateau. You just basically need to change it up. Your body starts to adapt to things, starts to adapt to whether the workout starts to adapt to the diet, so, starts switching things up, trying new foods, trying new foods in your diet, trying new workouts, trying new different cardio machines. Some people just stick to the same cardio machine to the older used to. The hard stubborn areas for the females are a little bit different, and the moment I meet with somebody, and they come to me and say, I want to get rid of my belly fat, or my saddle bags, or whatever, I tell them that the abs are made in the kitchen. I always, always preach that. You have to have a clean diet. And then again, along with the clean diet, you can supplement that with abs training. I tell girls, you know, they want to just slim down their abs, so you don't necessarily have to do a lot of weighted abs per se, and if you did, keep it very, very light. But honestly, just slowing down the movement and making sure you feel each contraction. So you can follow my full train routine, just check out the page below. Now, we're going to go ahead and move on to nutrition. So nutrition is what brings everything together. Abs are made in the kitchen. Your body being sculpted is made in the kitchen. The nutrition is so vital and important, and it's going to help you reach your ultimate fitness goals. I eat about six meals a day. I try to space it out every two and a half three hours. Keep it very, very clean. I mean, my body, so regimented now, that it tells me, that two and a half three hours, my body's like, oh, I'm hungry. I got to eat. I do measure my food based on on me and my body structure and what I need. Obviously, I need more protein. For me, I do about a gram and a half of protein. So for my body weight, I measure out my carbs. Yeah, I have them with three out of my six meals, depending on the day, and you know, the way that I do it is everything's based around my workouts as well. So on body parts that I really need work on or need to maybe grow or sculpt in a way, I eat a little bit more carbs. So on my leg days, naturally, I'm going to get a little bit more complex carbohydrates. I crave fats. I love almond better as my ultimate favorite. I love almonds. I love macboiled mac-daming nut oil. I'll put over my fish. So I do love fats. Bats are essential. The essential fatty acid that all women need helps with hair, skin, nails, helps the brain function. So I definitely never recommend completely omitting fats from your diet. I tell girls all the time, do not be afraid of eating additional protein or drinking protein shakes. As long as you're overall calorie based for the day as low, adding proteins not going to add all this, you know, bulk and muscle. And this is now, it's just going to help you regulate your insulin levels. It's an amino acid, so it's going to help keep you strong and help keep your muscles hard and tight and help you burn bodies fat. It helps you stay full. So there's so many benefits to protein that women just don't understand. Carbs are fuel. As long as you're eating them, you're just not eating them just to eat them. You eat them for a purpose. Carbs are so essential as well. You know, you need them. You need them for energy. You need them to stay focused. Oatmeal for breakfast is such a great thing to start out with because it's going to help keep you focused and keep those informed levels study for the rest of the day. I wouldn't say that I'm on a diet, 365 days a year. It's my lifestyle. It's how I eat. When I first drank my first show, I was like, I remember telling myself, oh my gosh, what am I doing? Why am I doing this? But it was so crazy because at the end of that journey, I was so hooked on this lifestyle and I felt so much better. I just see it as eating clean and living healthy. I definitely believe in cheap meals. I don't necessarily have cheap days. I may be a little bit more relaxed on the weekends, but I don't have full on cheap days. Cheat meals are essential, though. I think they're important to have. What I tell my clients a lot of the time, 85% super clean, 15% room per play. That 15% I'd rather them have a couple of pieces of chocolate through the week than have a whole day of binge eating. Order out of restaurants has been one of the biggest challenges especially for a lot of my clients who travel or who just, you know, I'll get these messages on my gosh. I don't know what to order. Most restaurants are super accommodating, but you always want to stick to the basics and the principles of protein and a vegetable. Always stay away from like the cream sauces, things like that, always ask for no butter. Even though you don't want to seem like a picky eater or like just really high maintenance person, but if it's for your own benefit in livelihood, do it. Don't be afraid to ask for what you want. To follow my nutrition plan and to reach your ultimate fitness goals, please follow the plan below. And we're on to supplementation next. Supplements are super important. Here's why. You're supplementing for what your body doesn't have or depleted it. If you want to sculpt your body, you want to reach those ultimate fitness goals, supplements are extremely important. Training in the gym. You need supplementation for the gym. You know, you're working hard, you're training in tents. A lot of those supplements out there are going to help with that. I do have a post workout shake after my workouts. I think it's so important to get that fast-adjusting protein in. I do away isolate. So it's quick digesting. It's going to get into my bloodstream quicker. And my body's just going to use it. My muscles are going to use it. Supplements have definitely helped me reach my goal a lot quicker. Again, that comes along with consistency. Like with any plan or regimen, just like with diet. You have to have a supplement plan and regimen. You have to be consistent at taking at the same time every single day. It's a lot of research. I mean, even when I first started out, I did research on bodybuilding and bodybuilding.com, on supplements of what they do, of why they do it. The nice thing is, you have to figure out what your goals are. So you know, you write down the list of exactly what you want to do, and then you research the supplement for that. You know, whether you are having a hard time with recovery from your workout. Well, who do we and will help with that? But if you did research, you would find out, okay, well, who do we need help with recovery? Girls, these are the top three supplements that you need when getting started and starting your training program. Definitely way protein. Research the different proteins, find a protein that you like. Number two would be BCA's. Branch gen amino acids. They're so essential. Having free flow in amino acids in your body all day, it's just going to help not only with muscle building but also burn fat. And number three, multi-vitamin. Daily multi-vitamin is so important. I mean, when you're dieting or when you're in a lower calorie research or you're training really hard, your body is going through a lot of inflammation or stress or whatever. Multi-vitamin just helps help keep your healthy. Basic multi-vitamin, so essential. I can't stress it enough. To get my full workout supplementation, nutrition plan, check out the page below. And again, if you have any questions for me, what's the level about anything we talked about today, check out my body space profile, F Romero, and for more content like this, check out BodyBilly.com.

I'm an image coach of Power. I'm here at Powerhouse Jeeven, Boroughak, California. Let me tell you a little bit about myself. I'm an optimist for this sponsor of the athlete. I've been in several magazines, reps, trying to muscle exercise for men. I'm also a sponsor for the body space for a smile and circle. I'm a coach of Powerhouse Jeeven, and I'm a coach of Powerhouse Jeeven. I'm going to tell you how I did just my training and supplementation and nutrition program when I was overseas. I also showed you that even if you don't have gym access or access to equipment, you can still get your workout going. You can still get your nutrition on track. I'm also going to be an assistant in Alzon, Iraq. I've been in Alzon a little bit more difficult, because you don't have any kind of equipment whatsoever. In fact, we were the first people on the scene on ground. I'm at 11. I'm literally literally the first people on ground. That made the interest in. I thought about how long you took me to get to where I got to. If I just sit and not do anything, I'll pretty much lose my job, my hard work. It'll be easier to maintain what I already have than the lettuce lie. Then go back home and have to build everything back up again. That was the driving force for me. When you look at nutrition and you look at training, it's pretty much as long as you got some form of resistance. As long as you stay within your maintenance of our calorie wise goes, you're going to be on track. So, if our resistance calisthenics works perfectly. I use sandbags and you use the rusted poses to pull ups. For instance, you have a sandbag. You can do sandbags swings. That's a great workout, but you work in core. You work in short. You're pretty much working over all body. Or you use the same sandbag and do curls with it too. So, if you're using it in a skew, it's going to be a lot of work. I don't feel like trying to do this and do that to maintain what I got. It doesn't take that much effort. It's only a third of the effort to maintain what you already built on. Not as you know a little bit about me and how I adjust my workout program when I was overseas. Now I'm going to tell you how I got my physique. I work out today. Much of what I do on the gym is pretty much stand-in. I always try to stand and everything I do is stand-in. That way, I'm engaged with core. I'm engaged with my abs. If you look around, I'm a part of the equipment-wise. Everything requires sitting. Like you sit when you're doing dumbbells, you sit when you're curling. So, I try to avoid sitting down. You're exercising. You're not supposed to sit. I do curls standing up. The shoulder press I do is stand up. All my back routine friends is all pull ups. All different variations from pull ups are really touching machines. I try to incorporate as many muscles as I can. And to work out, however, the main purpose whenever you're standing up is using abs a lot more than you would if you were sitting down. You see a lot of people do endless amount of crunches and abs work like three or four times a week. I try to do them. The most I do as it's probably twice a week. I like working now so it's five days a week. But it typically involves working the largest muscle groups twice a week. With a larger muscle group, you tend to burn more calories. Your calorie, your calorie, partitioning is better, which means the food you eat is going to go towards the muscle instead of fat. So, I start off with legs because that's the hardest to do. That's when you have the most energy. You start doing chest. You do legs. That's what I always say. And then I do back and shoulders after that on a Tuesday. And then on Wednesday, I do something like a chest and triceps. Thursday is usually off. But I take off. I take completely off. That my body recuperates. It's a full-on rest. They know cardio. No weight training. I think Friday and Saturday starts over again. Where I do legs of Friday, back and shoulders of Saturday. Direct arm work. I try to like lace it in with legs. So I do probably like barbell curls on Monday. And then next time do legs, I do dumbbell curls. If I had a plateau with my back or if I had a plateau with my legs, I would have my foot shot the day with it. Or just keep on increasing the weight. Sometimes you just have to just break through it. Just increase the weight anyway. Or another thing to do is just change the reps scheme. So for instance, if you hit a plateau with, let me give you example of front squats. You're doing it on 225 on front squats. And you can get past it. Instead of just backing down on what I have. You just do 225 five times with a pause in between. I don't notice it. Whenever I don't have a log, you just tend to stagnate. And these are what mean. This is a good way too to break through a plateau. Because you look at your last exercise and you did say five reps from that one. So you might try to play with the numbers. You say, okay, you do seven sets, three reps of 225. That's a post to just doing five sets of five, which is same amount of weight. And I actually liked some passing the number you did before. Now that you know a little bit about my training program. If you want my four workout program, check out the page below. Now let me tell you a little bit more about my nutrition. My whole approach in the nutrition is at the end of the day is pretty much calories and calories out. You know, if you eat in above your set maintenance, you're going to gain regardless. If you're eating below your maintenance level, you're going to lose. The easiest way to do is use a muffin fire. I mean, you 16, if you're a guy with a fat metabolism 15, if you're a metabolism average, 14, if you're a woman with a fat metabolism. And that's actually into a country of T.E.F., you're therming to pick a food and you're resting in the public. It takes account of everything. When I first started working out, I was making gains in strength, but I was making gains in size. And I was wondering, like, what's going on? You know, I'm going stronger, but I'm not getting bigger. Like, yeah, you're not eating, and that's why I was forced to do nothing. And then about body composition started changing. And that was the first clue I used to mean about how I'm foreign nutrition was. I based the number of meals on my mental calories I had to eat. So, without effect, it's usually about four or maybe five times a day. I used to space on my own every three hours. My protein sauce is fake, chicken, fish, and this meat. This is a cow, this is a lamb. I'm going to eat it, you know, pretty much. I'm not particularly, I look at this as a lifestyle. I don't look at this as one time event or get, you know, get it shape once a year. Because I always, you know, I like staying in shape pretty sick of five. I always tell people, try, I'll train your nutrition. It's like trying to, I just want to bear. Eventually, you're going to catch up with you. So, it's like, if you're doing all this training and all this, you're busing your butt in the gym and your nutrition is so far. It's like, you're running in place. Because without nutrition, you're not going to adapt. You're at the patient to resistance training. It's not going to be there. It's not going to be there. You're going to hit that plateau every single time because your nutrition is so far. If your nutrition is not online, you're not going to reach your goal. Now, that was my philosophy on nutrition. You check out my full meal plan. Check out the page below. Now onto supplementation. Being overseas, supplementation was a huge role. I mean, it's probably, I'm probably understanding how big the role is. Even after I got up from Afghanistan, for instance, and went to Iraq where you had, when you actually have facilities in all of that, and everything, food was like cardboard box. So, it's like many times, you just don't even feel like eating, and standing over and over and over. So, you don't have access to like best fresh vegetables. You don't have access to like fish, you know, for over a good 3, and all that stuff. So, being able to order stuff from what I've been in that comment and have it coming in 2 days, that was like a lifesaver. I think if I didn't have that supplement, I thought it would be 90 pounds right now. You're not always going to hit the micro levels that you have by far as protein was. At least I learned that lesson a long time ago when I had a plateau at far as size wise. Because I reached a certain point, I still wasn't gaining. So, and then I looked at how much protein I should have, and I was like, I looked at it, I was like, well, it was no way I could satisfy all of this with nutrition I have on hand, without supplementation. So, supplementation feels like I got. I would have to say definitely protein, and if I didn't have the way, in case I'm protein, I don't think I would have reached my goals as far as, you know, gain size. Fish show is definitely because it's official, it's probably one of the most underrated supplement out there because it controls inflammation. It's involved with 60% of the brain function, it's a precursor to hormones to mouth of item, of course, is essential to it's like most people always neglect that, but it's I look at it as like the cheers sitting there, but you don't pay attention to screws that's holding that chair together. So, those screws are the mouth eye vitamins. So, if you neglect that, that's cheers you on fall apart. So, you always don't have the time to supply your body with the micro nutrients you need, or the micro nutrients you need, so, something is still a huge role. We check out my full workout, the nutrition and supplementation program, check out the page below. If you like to ask me any questions, check me out on body space on username, it's Matt Time. For more content like this, check out BodyGillet.com.

Hey guys, it's Lindsey K. I'm in Burbank, California at the Powerhouse Gym. I'm certified personal trainer, nutritionist, and Santa Barbara, California. I'm lucky enough to be one of the top five finalists for the body space that was small competition. I've also done some fitness modeling in such magazines as oxygen magazine, rest magazine, and Santa Fitness. And I'm here to tell you guys why girls should look heavy in the gym and also give you some nutritional and training tips. I think a lot of girls are afraid of looking heavy in the gym because they're afraid they start lifting a little bit, they'll get too bulky, a lot of girls say they tend to gain muscle really fast, but that's totally, it's not true for most people. Girls won't get bulky as men training in the gym because we have to eat a ton more than they do. We're just not built like them and we just don't have the testosterone almost like they do. Some of the main questions I get on clients when asking about training exercises or when they're asking me about oh why am I doing all these manicure sizes like that. It shouldn't be just about guys and girls. It all benefits your body. You need those large exercises to be able to properly fill. You really shouldn't label things as just guys after sizes and girls like their sizes because you can always do lighter weight whatever fits your body, whatever your body can do. You definitely shouldn't exceed it and go for that man. We you know like squat 300 pounds. Start off with the bar and work on your form and it's the same exercise. A lot of girls want to cut fat a lot faster. A lot of girls want to tone up faster and it's seriously. This is the quickest way. So have you ever you go the quicker you'll raise your metabolic rates and that's your burn fat a lot faster. To make girls a little less intimidated go into the gym and start a routine and just to research it. Truthfully you go on bodybuilding.com. Look up some extra exercises. It tells you exactly how to do it. Ask your friends. It's just super easy to go in there. You shouldn't be intimidated at all. Basically if you're lifting too heavy in the gym if you or if you can't go over five or six reps you feel in your hands that's probably a little bit too heavy. Girls should expect after a really good workout to be sore. You're not going to be able to go upstairs a lot of times. You're going to be tired and you're probably not going to want to work out again but it's all worth it. It's all part of training and working out. It's all good for you. You should definitely get a guy who workout partner or a girl. Someone that's knowledgeable and don't be afraid to learn some new exercises. They're good at telling you your form is wrong or good or just teaching you anything about going to the gym. The top three exercises that girls should do in the gym to scope a great body is squats and I think they should do stiff like it deadlifts and maybe some preacher barbell curls. Girls should definitely not stay away from upper body exercises. Girls tend to contour on their arms and say tend to gain battle at more in their arms faster so I think everyone that has little toned up shoulder to lose and try steps. They tend to like battle up better. I love heavy because I know the heavier I go the more muscle I'm going to get staff on. That's what my goal is. I really want to gain a lot more muscle so definitely want to look around and I see some guys that are a lot bigger than me looking the same way. That gets me one of the up it up a little bit and I get excited when I'm like yeah. That's kind of fun. Alright so those are some of my tips on why girls shouldn't be intimidated to go into the gym and let heavy. So now we're going to talk about some of my training tips and my workout philosophies. Yeah I weigh train six days a week and I do cardio about two days a week. I'll do heavy for a few weeks and then I want to change it up. I'll do a week about some lighter weights, a little more reps just to change it up for my body. I change my program around probably probably three months I'd say. I like the mind my body to get really used to it. It's important to change up your routine because your body kind of plattoes get used to the same exercises so for me to change it to a pushing pulling movements doing actually different body parts it was really good to check up my body. It's shot to up and I'll be able to gain a little bit more size that way. On my heavy days my tend to go up maybe five pounds, two pounds, it matters what kind of exercise I'm doing. I'm usually for shoulders I can go up five maybe some bicep pro like go up like two more pounds. Right now I'm not trained failure. I used to do that and that worked really well for me but like I said I kind of plateaued with that routine and now that I'm on the one where I don't go to failure it's still working out really well for me. I need a specifically train on my glutes to gain a little more size so I do the stair master if I feel like I need to do a little bit more like I didn't let this heavy in the gym for legs that week I'll do one extra day of the stair master. It's a love that exercise. I don't train my body part anymore I used to. I just started the power hypertrophy program which is the combination of pushing and pulling movements certain days and power exercises where you had a power up with little bit heavier heavier days. For my rest days maybe I'll take a bike ride around the lake I definitely just don't sit on my blood and do nothing. If you have a specific body part you're trying to work on a little bit more. Sometimes it's better to go up in a little bit of weight not too much so you don't hurt yourself definitely learning new exercises. To overcome your plateau look up on bodybuilding.com for a different training routine everyone's got tons of ideas maybe going on the forearms and have somebody. Hey I'm plateauing on my routine having new exercises for this specific body part or the time. So that was my training philosophy so for my full workout to the page below and now we're going to talk about some matrition. You can train as far as you want you can take as many supplements and you want but nutrition can be about 80% of your outcome. I eat about four small meals a day. I throw in a couple of shakes in there that's a mixture protein, a couple of shakes in shape before I go to bed. Every two hours is how often I eat. Certain places is important where you get fats you can't just have some fried chicken for your fats you have to get some good sources like avocado, olive oil, some almonds. It's still fat. It's going to help you counter your bad fats and definitely eat in muscle growth. Yeah definitely keep it down to a may brown 20% of your diet or less matter what your goal is. Well have card mostly in the morning but there's definitely protein in every single meal I eat. Where you get your calories is super important you can't just have 2,000 calories of rice taste. It has to be properly broken down to protein spats a little bit. The reverse after your workout is really important where you get those calories from. The way I break down my macronutrients and micronutrients I have certain goals like if I'm trying to cut down maybe I'll subtract certain amount from how many I need a day on at a set in theory level. But if I'm trying to gain a little bit I'll probably gain about at an extra 500 calories to my overall calorie intake so I can gain a pound of pound per week which is pretty healthy way to gain. I definitely will hate out and measure all of my food except for vegetables because you can kind of be as many as you want for that. Vegetals are very important to get proper nutrients to the best way for you to body to properly absorb those. Sproccely is great. Green beans are excellent. The spare gas is one of the best ones. A spare gas is a natural dioretic. Broccoli is great for your digestive system. Cup or two of broccoli is like 40 calories. It's insane how much you can eat. When I'm in a ball king phase I adjust my diet to I definitely have a lot more protein. I have a lot more carbs and for my cutting I definitely cut out all sugars except for maybe banana right after my workout and I cut out carbs made except for maybe a breakfast. I mean we'll eat this much during the day because I bring my meals with me. I make it super important. Maybe I'll find somewhere that has something super plain if it's early maybe all disco grabs and sushi with some brown rice for rest on that's probably the cleanest thing I could think of for eating. Make sure it doesn't have any of those bad mayonnaise sauces and sugary eel sauces and things like that in it. That's what the bad things are in the sauces. How they prepare the meats, people use butter. I mean even on those menus for chillies I'll say oh you know 500 calories in this meal when they have like this special section you get like the cook back there that's like oh I don't care I'm just gonna make it with butter and this and that you know you really have to watch it. So you have to ask for which is hey it's cooked in butter. I eat clean yes all you're along but I also have those one cheat days a week. You can't properly build muscle unless you have a cheat day. You need to have something to shop your system. When I say a cheat day I don't mean like going out to McDonald's when eating with McDonald's all day I'm talking about something like a really good bicing burger with sweet potato fries. I'm a cheat day I'll probably eat around two cheat meals but I'll still have all the healthy stuff like oatmeal the morning and my egg whites and things like that. It's very important to me to eat clean 365 days out of the year because I don't know when a shoot is gonna come. I don't know what's gonna come up. I might get offers for something and big thing is I want to look great for my boyfriend and truthfully if I start eating bad if I start cheating a little bit more than I should it's really hard to get that extra fat off. It takes a while longer than you think. When I cheat I do feel very bad about it. I actually look it up and see what's on all the ingredients and I know in my head what's with that thing with your body. So wait a really really shakes me and I don't want to cheat again. Alright so that was my philosophy on nutrition for my full meal plan to get the page below. And now let's talk about my supplement. Supplementants I've really gotten to my goal faster. I'm able to take in protein a lot faster than I'll have to make a whole meal and I have pre-workout supplements that really get me going in the gym give me some extra energy. Most important one to me is multi-bidemons. CLA, fish oil, take carnitine. On my off season I have creatine. H&B will just super important as well for me. For me, if I want to have a new client that's looking for some supplements to take the top three, I'm probably H&B, CLA and definitely a multi-bidemon. A lot of females want to break down fat and they want to they usually have a lot of lower belly fat. They just want to get rid of their mid section and help to tone it up and CLA really helps with that. It really helps you break down fat and the study say you can people that quit working out and put their diet. They tend to keep their muscle a little bit longer and maintain their stomach to be a little bit less fatty. For H&B, it just helps you keep that muscle on a lot longer especially when you're leaning out, doing cardio. You kind of lose a little bit more muscle. H&B helps keep that on and multi-bidemons just great for overall health. I definitely probably wouldn't be to be able to gain as much as I have if I didn't have picks or protein. The case in at night to help feed my muscles all night long. The pre-workout supplements to get me a little more energy to get into the gym. I wouldn't be where I am if I didn't have the supplements to help me. I've had a lot of girls ask me, I'm afraid to take supplements what should I take is it okay to have protein shakes they're afraid they're going to get too bulky and they say I tried one and I got fat. Well basically you'll blow it up for maybe an hour or two and then it'll go away. It's just perfect for feeding your muscles especially for maybe a meal or placement. There's some shakes out for that. Don't be afraid to take some shakes or take some multi-videvins. Only one thing changes for me. I cycle pre-asteen. So when I'm on a ball can I gain a little bit more muscle. I'll take some pre-asteen but when obviously when I'm cutting down I'll cut that out. Probably learn a little more about supplements. Definitely research it. Reads of bottle. You can go on buyable.com for some excellent articles on why they're good. This is in that which one they recommend. I'm definitely fitness magazine as well. Alright so those are all my tips for my full program. Check out the page below. So ask me any questions go to LINCK at BodySpace.com and from our content like this check out BodyBilling.com. You're right okay.

My name is Mary Murphy. I'm from Seattle, Washington. I'm a 2012 body space spokesman of finally. I'm a member of Team Bomb Show and I'm an MPC bikini competitor with three shows and top five placings and all three. I grew up playing fast-pitch softball. My play it all through high school and in college and out of college I just I really didn't know what to do with myself. I've always wanted to model but I didn't really know where I kind of fit in. I know that I'm athletic and I have that body type. I just talked up with my trainer and he's like if you want to really get serious and get into it, you know this is how you have to do it. Get into these shows. That's exposure that you're going to want and that you need so signed up for my first one not knowing anything about it, not knowing what to expect and I think that's what's been so awesome is I've had no expectations and so many amazing things have come out of it so far. I feel my best when I'm eating healthy when I'm active and it's also nice to know that you're helping and encouraging other people. So with the lifestyle that they want but they just mean like a little bit of help getting there, getting started, getting the push. If you believe in it and you live it, other people are going to see that and be inspired by that. You have to surround yourself by those positive people and people that are going to support you. You know it's really tough not to have a strong support system. We're all there for the same reason. You know we're all willing to to share, give tips to inspired and motivate and I think that's really important because a lot of people don't know where to grow. Like we're even start where to go to take that first step in the gym is scary for a lot of people so think if they kind of have an idea and you know a place to go for those resources and training tips, I think body space is great for that. When I step into the gym is on, no I don't have a whole lot of time like if I'm there I'm going to go hard, no messing around. I train five days a week I do cardio steps. Usually I hit legs twice a day and the other days is more focused on upper body. I step to usually or four to five and about 15, 12 to 15 reps. Most of my sets are super-setted so I try to move quickly through each exercise each set. Most of my cardio is hit anywhere from about 45 to 50 minutes to an hour sessions. When I'm getting closer towards the show I'll turn up my cardio a little bit but basically all my lifting stays the same. I don't lift heavy, you know I'm used to lifting heavy right now that's kind of out the window and I'm just strictly you know toning so I don't I don't go overboard with the weights which is nice so it kind of keeps me moving through my set. You know I'm always changing I've never just like oh I'm at like a standstill. Nothing I've done has been the same which I like keeps it interesting. You know I haven't really hit a major major plateau. Some days my rest day I really try to take advantage of it. That's kind of my day where I get to just hang out with my boyfriend watching you know football. It's also a day that I do all my cooking from my meals. I just try to remember that rest is really important so during the week I'm usually in bed at like 830. You know start with goals that are realistic for you. That's someone else keep it for you. When I started you know training and stuff I didn't really realize how important nutrition was you know I've always been a healthy eater so then when I started training I just didn't realize like how much I needed to eat like you know to even lose weight I was like you could cut back but it's totally not true you know you got to keep eating. So basically I just make sure that everything at eat is really clean that eats six times a day each meal consists of a protein, a complex carb and a either fruit or a veggie just kind of depends when I can switch it up and there were their small meals and I try to eat every two to two to half hours I'm kind of finding myself when I hit three hours it's like a little bit too long for me like I just kind of start crashing. I don't season any of my food because I find that I have my cravings have gone away when I don't season anything. My diet doesn't change everything remains the same. I tried to just remember that I'm not dieting it's lifestyle that I've chosen because when I say that we're diet people they don't know how to take it and so thinking I'm not eating or you know it's a tricky word. When I'm in competition mode and I'm training I'll give myself you know a Saturday night cheat meal. I feel like it's okay I don't overindulge and I definitely stick to my portions like I know a lot of people drink top just start cutting that it's like really simple just take that out you know you don't need it replace it with something else condomants I would say start just taking those out you don't need for me it was sour cream I love sour cream for me just taking out that sour cream or the cheese like that just that little extra stuff that I really don't need you'll start seeing changes especially if your body's used to it just a little things like that you'll see results pretty quick stick to your yearly proteins chicken fish and complex carbs of course oatmeal brown rice potatoes are great and veggies and for you can't go wrong we just don't know what we're getting in our food anymore and we're coming from so I think it's really important to you know make sure you're taking something to fill those nutritional gaps without being completely balanced you're just not gonna get the results that you want if someone we're just getting started I would recommend a good multi vitamin I mean that's a great way just to make sure that you're getting all the nutrients your body needs if you're not getting it you know in the foods that you're eating I would also say good protein powder you know they come so many different flavors now find one that you like and that's a great meal of placement if you want to take it after a workout it's good for on the go it's convenient and then I would say your brand chain of amino acids honestly I just kind of started taking them not that long ago and I have really seen a difference especially with my body I like to stay nice and lean but turned into it really helps me hold on to that lean muscle supplements definitely help my body recover so then I can do it again tomorrow to keep me up all day you know keeps me going especially this in the any you know I make sure to take my multi vitamins and my in the step in the morning so that I can last throughout the day when I'm running around chasing you know three kids all day I need that extra energy the first step is always the hardest just be committed take that first step you will not regret it I've never once walked into the gym and regretted going be committed and do it for you we do so many things for other people every day give this to yourself for more of my nutrition diet and supplement tips check out the link below you can also find me on body space when the username is MRK 55 and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com

Hi, I'm Neil Hill. I'm here with bodybuilding.com. I'd like to tell you a little bit about myself. I'm an ex professional bodybuilder, trainer and nutritionist, Gus Barri TV and also writer and communists for either publications. He had talked to you a little bit about training, nutrition. You know, the importance of supplementation, how to bring your body to the next level. I actually got involved with bodybuilding really just by chance when I was 19 years of age. It wasn't a sport that I inspired in a sense because where I live back in the UK it's in the middle of nowhere so bodybuilding never really existed. But I sort of met up with a guy one day, went to the gym, I'm a straight away, I got the bug. I consistently trained heavy because that was the way that I felt was the way forward to build muscle mass. But what I found is I consistently picked up injuries and it wasn't due to the fact that my form was incorrect or sloppy. It was just the fact that maybe my body from mechanics as an athlete were maybe not in the same way foundation is maybe a power lift or weight lift for for instance. So what I actually have to do is I had to reduce the weight that I was lifted and actually increase the rep range just to try and buffer the injury that I was carrying and maybe a shoulder injury that I picked up upon bench press for instance. And by getting away from the ego lifted and even though my form may look perfect to the eye what I wasn't doing is contracting and squeezing on each repetition. And by dropping the weight down that I was finding that those loads of stress that were going directly to the muscle that I was trying to hit. What I actually did then is I played around for a number of weeks and months, I started forward and what I felt was what was right for my body. I know a period of about 12 years now with my experiences of an amateur athlete, a professional athlete and the athletes that I've been helping over the last 16 years or so that I've come to formulate my history too. This is something that I've had to myself probably for the last seven years. I didn't bring it out to the open because obviously like any training, you're tristness, you want your athletes to be better than your competitors. As my database of clients became greater, I had to make sure I treated all my athletes as equal for instance. There's some athletes who will never be professional bodybuilders. They may never even actually win a state show but if you can actually help them to become beyond their genetic potential and you give them a protocol or a program or a dietary or supplement program which is going to enhance them and bring them to the next level. Obviously that's exactly as a training trick and is what you should be trying to do for instance but it doesn't just work for a bodybuilder. It can work for every person, every sort of man, lady involved with any sort of form of physical exercise. Now you know a little bit more about me, let's touch space with that training. The view of that Y3T is very much a three-dimensional workout. In my eyes it's the only three-dimensional workout which is out there and there's a lot of people trying to jump onto this because they do see it's the new revolution in training principles because they said in week one you go heavy. You'll just like you would be in hit basically the old Dory 8's methods. You the rep range would be anywhere between six or eight reps but even when you're doing those rep range it's important that you squeeze and contract the muscle. When you squeeze and contract the muscle those lows will go directly to the muscle and they'll get taken away from attachment points and bone compounds and the reason why that takes place is because even though it's a compound move and it's heavier week one for instance because your squeeze and contract and you will never be able to lift the same kind of weight if you didn't squeeze and contract within the same week for instance. So week one is compound week two is compound and isolation movements. As your rep range increases your number of work and sets has to decrease slightly as well. Otherwise you could go into an over-trained mode on week two and as you increase your rep range in week two you could say it becomes like a two-dimensional workout and then week three when you implement three week three where you're actually doing more rep range for instance that's when it becomes more three-dimensional. What I found is that it increases your heart rate increases the fact that your body is losing body fat, your cardiovascular system is recovering your body so much quicker because you're getting more oxygenated and ricks blood flow around your body and then week one you go back to compound again week two it increases week three it increases again and then you go back to week one again it's normally be a sort of a nine-week period so you do week one week two week three week one week two week three week one week two week three and then you take anywhere between five and seven days of training and find that more and more athletes have spent a more and more time in the gym as a professional athlete as an amateur athlete I only trained four days a week. I saw I did why did I train four days a week because my body needed to rest that needed to recover. You don't grow in the gym you grow out of the gym as a athlete or a bodybuilder people want to be three dimensional they want to be turned from in their quarter turns where you see very few weaknesses where their intricate tie-ins or muscle groups are attached better you get more flare in for instance and that's a beautiful about this type of workout it brings all those three things into play and what I find is my athletes they're excited about going into the gym is because they're not bored this challenging it's easier to get under a squat rack and if five or six plates if you're a strong bodybuilder but that bodybuilder jumps into that squat racks and let's buy six plates on squat rack for sort of six to eight repetitions with much prefer to do that then put three plates on the bar and try to do four to your 50 repetitions it's more challenging and if you think of the philosophies behind it all those loads and stresses are still going to go directly within that muscle and because the weight is greatly reduced risk of injury is greatly reduced even when you're used perfect for even when you're cautious in the gym you can pick up injury you know tender nights is a very very common injury with all athletes from you know from tennis to baseball to basketball for instance and sometimes those injuries are just there's no logical reasons why they actually take place for instance especially with weight training I think the most important thing is what I would say is definitely gets a good rehab you know sports massage in my eyes is a must you know I think people are seeing the real benefits of sport massage sports massage will really be able to help break down those information in those key areas the ligament and tendon attachments for instance try to be sensible when you're in a gym don't lift with ego lift with sensibility now you know a little bit more about the training follow the page below let's talk about nutrition nutrition is very much the key success for any athletes I was actually a high level international swimmer at the child I swam for my whole country which is Wales back in the UK from the age of eight right up to the age of the 60 I also played a high level sports including including rubby soccer and also I was a very high level surfable lever on not but what I what actually was never sort of implemented to me when I was actually doing these active sports and nutrition really was an important you know to eat one two small and nutritional meals was no different to maybe somebody who wasn't doing any form of physical exercise it wasn't an education which was forced upon us for instance so I started by magazines I did a little bit of reading look the pictures that these athletes were eating certain food princess and obviously that then in myself told me I have to change my eating habits around what these athletes were doing I believe just like my training you have to be three dimensional exactly the same to train in and nutrition you have to be three dimensional that means you want to try and get as many key ingredients vitamins minerals trace elements carbohydrate proteins healthy fats from a array of different forms of food for instance because if you consistently put every meal is chicken your body though it would digest it over a period time it's like your training it becomes bored it becomes stale your body doesn't break down those protein bindings and the same way it does when it when it's not used to that food for instance it endorses it draws more nutrients out of that food for instance the thing I do want to touch on the most this is what I feel is the most important reason why I see games with my athletes is because we eat in the night even while they're dieting they eat in the night I mean though this will actually speed up your metabolism and even when you're taking really good slow release proteins into your bloodstream before you go to bed I wake you up about three or four hours in the evening which you should anyway because obviously the most vital sort of part of your life is water and I would definitely advise anywhere any athletes a relevant what type of sport they do to get a good five liters of clean water in a day get another night time and need to them little night to me it increases your metabolism straight away it allows your body to sort of really capitalize on those nutrients and you know your body is producing growth hormone your body struck your recovery everybody knows your body doesn't grow recover in the same way in the gym even if you put the right supplements it grows out of the gym it grows at nighttime for instance so if you've got a bed at say 11 p.m. you get up about two three a.m. in the morning you can have a protein shake again make sure it's a time release protein shake you could take a small form of complex carbohydrate in maybe you know some oatmeal for instance mix it up eat it and then go back to bed I'm a big huge advocate on cheat meals even when my guys are dieting for shows they still get cheat meals that doesn't necessarily mean they get in bad food for instance like burgers or fries but they do get bonuses for instance because I need to make sure they get rewarded for their hard work on a weekly basis for instance and again as I said I keep basing on to be three-dimensional it's a three-dimensional lifestyle then you don't have to be this sort of athlete who doesn't think about anything other than eat sleep and training to me you eat meals you forget about training you're only think about training until you get to the gym try to be a normal human being get your life when you mind away from being an athlete and only think about it when you need to think about it now we've gone into nutrition click on the page below to go into my entire program now I'm going to talk to you about supplementation if you're about supplementation is that when you take it your body can newly absorb those things quite instantly because they've already been broken down from their key say ingredient for instance like if you were to look at the chicken breast it's high in protein, high in amino acids for instance but your body's got to break that source down and actually digest it and put it into the bloodstream it can be a little hard on your body it can take an hour and a half it can take two hours it can sometimes take long of certain types of food to be broken down and utilized by the body the beauty about supplementation is because they've already been broken down into key elements your body can absorb those things very very quick into your body you're maximizing everything like you're trying to achieve and now it's obviously maximum performance bringing your body to the next level for instance the supplementation as the benefits of getting into your digestive tract and causing you know very quick results very very quickly after training you've got an open window you've got about 45 to 60 minutes of a window which is open to you as an athlete capitalise on getting as many key elements in your body as quick as possible to put yourself into a very very antibiotic state and that will happen straight after training the reason being is because in a sense your body is going into a very negative position you know your mental state is negative your immune system state is negative your your muscle density is being greatly hit you know your amino acid you glue to him in those key areas are being damaged in a sense and the beauty about is to open window is your body can absorb more more nutrients in that one hour after training any other time of the day so I would advise a good 50 to 60 grams of fast act in way isolate protein or some kind you know another thing that I'm also a big advocate you're in is making sure you get a really good multi-bit minute because even though when you're reading balance you can see this consistency balance going on there the diet is three-dimensional for instance the right supplement do taste great they should taste great you know people want to see buy something which works but actually buy something which tastes nice far as any fears concerns is that when you use a brand and you look at studies which proves that these supplements work you've also got the guarantee that these supplements are actually healthy for instance there are some in crepe key ingredients in food which are in the supplement anyway so in a sense there's a certain amount of nutrients in food which are in key elements of supplementation and when there's supplements are taken in moderation at the right time for instance it is only going to be healthy for the athlete it was expected what type of sport they do you know what you're finding now nutrition peak performance it's gone way beyond where people thought that this would go within any industry for instance not just bodybuilding as I say we know we're hitting on track of field even the military you're pushing there you know they're so just to make sure that they're using supplementation to get the best performance out of them for instance you know it's it's so so so important it's vital to make sure that you do make make maximum games peak on that given day get the best of your work out so allow your body to work better grow it it combines everything together if I had to name my top top three then for instance and I would definitely say a good quality time release protein powder best definitely another one would be a good quality isolate protein powder and I would say the next thing would be definitely a really good recovery sort of into work out drink which is obviously sort of helping your body you know slow down the breakdown and muscle tissue slow down the fact that you be in anabolic in the gym and it's also slow you start to allow your body to recover either as well so that's what I would say my top three is but in ideal world you could probably throw 10 or 15 different other supplements in play but if you touch on to the fact that making sure that your reach in quality food different type of food sources you get they get lots of different vitamins minerals trace elements different compounds of protein carbohydrates so that will have an effect on tying everything in together. I get my full training nutrition and supplement program follow the link below click on the program I hope that you get a lot of educational material from this to bring you as an athlete irrespective of what type of sport you do to the next level you know you can do it and for more information like this click on bodybuilding.com

Hey guys, I'm Scott Dorne, SMD MN from Body Space here in Burbank, California at the Colorado's Jim. I'm kind of over my training, supplementation and nutrition program. Kind of make it a little bit easier for you guys so you don't have to go through the struggles that I did to get to where I'm at, so let's go ahead and get started. So there's a time when you're training for so long where you realize you're really not making any progress. You're kind of stagnant in your routine. And for me there was a time where I literally started getting sick from working out because I was over training so much and I just was not seen any results. And so at that point I decided to take a week off from training and spend that week, literally educating myself for an entire week. When I stepped back after that week and came back into the gym, it was a night and day difference. I literally had so much information and so many different principles I could apply in the gym. Once I found BodyBilling.com and started really educating myself using those articles and really learning the proper way to train the proper way to use supplementation, nutrition, was when I really started seeing those results. So last two years that I've been training, I've definitely seen way more results in those two years than I have in those three years. So just go to show you the power of the education when you really teach yourself and understand the principles of the common training. You're going to see those results rather than being the guy who you have the motivation but you don't have the education when you can compile those two, you're going to see those results. So I already have one piece of advice, one crucial tip. It's not what you're going to want to hear because in my opinion, there's no perfect program for somebody out there. There's no ideal program, it's trial and error and that's not what I wanted to hear. It's not what we're going to want to hear. But you're going to have to go through that time to see what works for you personally and tell you're going to be able to see those changes because no two people are identical and yeah, it would be great if there was a program out there that I could just go, okay, this one's for Billy, this one's for Todd, just go do it and you're going to see results but it's not that way. You have to literally trial and error your way into a program that's exactly what you need to see results. Do your research, put your plan in place and you're going to reach your goals a lot faster. So I said let's go ahead and kind of get started with what I do specifically for me personally with my training regime. Training for me is huge. It's the basis of my day, each day kind of is planned around my training. Not to say it's the only thing that I do or the one thing that I do but it's structured my life and keeps me organized and it's a huge part of my day. If I don't have my workout in I just don't feel right so for me it's kind of that center point in my day. With my schedule actually I'm able to go in. I'm pretty flexible, you know whenever it fits into my schedule I have a schedule where I can sometimes be in there in the morning, sometimes in the afternoon so it's pretty flexible when I actually go in and train. What typical workout for me is going to last anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour 15. I like to keep it under that, anything over that and I think you're, you know, a little excessive if you're in there a little bit longer than you need to be. I vary between five and six days kind of depending on my goal at that time but I don't like to train seven days a week. I really feel that a rest day is huge and letting your body recover. So a typical training schedule for me is typically like a two on one off three on one off. Most of my workouts are basically structured around a specific muscle group. I really like to take a muscle group say for example, your try set. I like to hit each head of that muscle and focus on that muscle group as it's his own. The actual part of the muscle, the individual head of the muscle is almost as if it's own muscle and you're training each individual part of that muscle and I train that way to really fully develop the muscle and so when I train I'm only going to be training one muscle group at a time. You know as far as sets in reps go it's really individualized for me personally. I like to do four sets anywhere from 10 to 12 reps. That's what's worked for me best is to break it down that way. I'm person that you know depending upon what my goal is and the way I'm training, there's times where I'll take no rest say for example a superset. Are those times where if I'm lifting heavy for like a larger muscle group like your back or your legs, I'll take an extended rest period almost up to three to five minutes to really allow myself to put a full effort in. As far as changing my program goals it's really something that kind of comes naturally for me. I really listen to my body and I really like to do exactly what it's telling me. If I'm stagnant and exercise I'll switch something up and put something in different and that kind of comes as I'm in the gym actually looking at a piece of equipment saying you know what I haven't used that before I'm going to try it. I'm going to give this a shot and all of a sudden I have a new workout program kind of just by gradually changing things in and out. It's not like I sit down and plan something out. I just really say you know what this muscle group isn't the way I want it to be so I'm going to switch it up and change it up and try and see if I can get some more growth somewhere else. A plateau is probably caused because you're doing the same thing for so long otherwise it probably never worked for in the first place. So when you see that you know realize it and change it you know try something different. If it's not working why are you going to continue to use it. As far as like a workout partner goes I really actually typically work out on my own and the reason is it is working out as kind of a personal thing for me when I'm in there. My hats low, my head bones are in and I'm in the zone and I don't want to be having a conversation with somebody about what's going on in their day because when I'm in there I'm in there to train and I do that best by myself. Your interest in it actually following my personal training routine check out the information below the franales move into my nutrition. You can really train as hard as you want you can have a perfect training routine but if your nutrition is an on target you're not going to see the results you're asking. My life is based on meals out anywhere from two to three hours you know don't like to push over a much over three hours like to get some form of nutrition every three hours. So the foods I eat never really change. The foods that I eat just change as far as portion sizes. I mean the actual types of foods are always there that's good quality sources whether or not my goal is to add weight they increase, decrease, they decrease. So how I basically break down my meals is I'm always going to want to have some sort of source of protein, some source of carbohydrate and then a source of clean fat within that. As far as protein goes you know you have your chicken, you have your lean beef, your eggs, your cottage cheese, weight protein. The carbohydrates you're looking at you know, a good solid carbohydrate source of oatmeal, sweet potato, brown rice, whole wheat rice. As far as fat sources go you look at your almonds, all the codos, olive oil. Kind of breaking down those nutrients for protein I like to stick with anywhere from one to one and a half grams per pound of body weight. As far as carbohydrates carbohydrates are really based on your goal at that time if you're looking to add a little more size more of a bulking type of phase you're going to have more if you're doing a cutting phase obviously you're going to you know slim down on those carbohydrates. If I'm preparing for a competition or something like that I'm going to actually bust up the food scale and actually start weighing this stuff out. But if it's just during during the time of the year I'm not going to sit and weigh everything out after you spend some time weighing things out you really get a better understanding proportion sizes and you can look at something and go you know what that is roughly 40 grams of the protein and that's good that's what I need. My diet is really based around goals all year round you know whatever my goal is at that time because it's the fourth of July and a month and I want to look good I'm going to change my diet for the fourth of July if it's winter time and I'm going to be wearing hoods sweaters all around I want to be bulking up a little bit so that's kind of how I just my diet how do I want to look at that point and match my diet up with that. So as far as nutrition you know it's not something that you only do at certain periods it's a lifestyle I mean I've sure you heard that all before too this is a lifestyle it's something you need to do day in and day out. I'm not a big believer and going out and getting some dairy clean or pizza hot. A cheat meal for me is eat as many clean carbs as I can in a day and that's fun for me I mean I don't have the desire to go out and eat a piece it's just not something for me there's nothing wrong with that if you limit it but for me personally I'd rather eat a whole bunch of clean foods than go out and have a pizza. You know when you're out and you're at a restaurant you're going to go out to the restaurant and you're going to order what you want to order. Tell the waiter exactly what you want if you want your sweet potato with no butter on a tell him that you just want a sweet potato you want some broccoli and you want a piece of chicken tell him that no bring that to you it's not like you're required to order what's on the menu you know get what you want and they'll don't prepare for you. Let's all have for nutrition if you want to see the full plan below check it out let's move on to supplementation. Supplements aren't the one thing you need it's a combination of things you know they're definitely one of the things you need to add in to the successful and work out of this thing you know. It's basically adding those things in your body needs that you're not getting natural I like to sit to the basics. I like my way protein my cats and protein I like some sort of a waxy maze product as far as like a pre post work out also like a multivitamin you know some sort of a you get your a magazine with a fish oil and a black and those are the basic you know not a big fan of crazy claims saying they're going to you know add 10 pounds of muscle in a week I like to stick to basics where there's actually some scientific data behind something saying that it's legitimately going to work but I definitely feel that supplements are a huge part of reaching your goals you know it's there when you know when the real food isn't you know if you need a shake here you need a shake there it it feels in those gaps and it's a huge part of your success. Say for example if I'm trying to get really lean you know I might add in a fat burner I'm trying to gain I usually do that with food alone. Get my full workout supplementation and nutrition program check out the page below you have questions specifically you can check me out on body space at SMDMN otherwise the more contact like this check out bodybuilding.com.

I am Sean Hart, an active service member and the U.S. military. I'm the winner of the 2010 Military Challenge and I'm currently a bodybuilder and calm team member. I've been working out with injuries my entire life when I was five years old. I got burned on my arms and my back and legs. About 75% of my overall body and I was paralyzed for about two years. I didn't have four use in my left side and I still don't have complete use in my left side, which is a bit of a challenge. My physical therapist started me with some training like medicine balls and things like that. From there a lot of my training allowed me to bring my arms back to almost four use. And I went on and lift weights and become a lot bigger and stronger from it. And I've been inspired by some and I've been inspired others and it's just I get really motivated by one of the jump because it means more than me than just lift some weights. It's a lifestyle for me and I continue to do it for the rest of my life. Well I really didn't have a choice. My dad, he was in the training and my brothers was in the training. We started out with like water weights and eventually we graduated to the cement and then I got my first set of steel weights. And so I just fell in love with weights from the beginning. It was like the big thing in my house and we all wanted to play football and play different sports. And we all just got into weights and we just really enjoyed it. We did it as a family. The motivation is all the service members. The army, the Marine Corps Navy, Air Force, Reserves, National Guard doesn't even matter. All of those guys out there and I've seen a lot of them overcome a lot of obstacles. And since I'm active service member, I just motivate me to just give it them all. I see them give their all every day. And I see some of them pay with their lives. So that just gets you pumped up. And when I get into gym I just go home. Now that you know a little bit about me, I'm going to take you through some of my training principle. When you don't range, like we like to call it, if you don't range, you do it a lot of different obstacles. Some days you won't be able to work out. Some days you won't be able to train at all. And if you can't train, then you just got to overcome that. Next time you come up to that next training day, like say for instance, your back day was on Monday. And you had the work or you had to be out of the wire on Monday. When you come back in, you make Tuesday your back day. But if you out the wire and you want to keep some training up, you can do some push-ups. We wear a vest that weighs about like 12 pounds. And we look that around. So you can plenty of work out. But the traditional workout is a little bit different for us. So you just got to find ways to create workouts. Do push-ups. Maybe buddy assist to push-ups or buddy assist that on military press. There's just a lot of different things you have to create. You got to just be very creative. Pull-ups are really good as well. And sometimes we take tires off on. And then we take him into a big truck and we'll flip those tires. And that can be a great work out as well. So I do back in biceps on Monday, chest and triceps and Tuesday. On Wednesday I normally take an off day. Thursday I'll come back with my legs. Then I'll hit my shoulders and traps on Friday. And on Saturday I'll come in and do biceps and triceps. And that'll take another day off on Sunday. I rest two days a week. And I'll arm me when I'm back home and I'm not deployed. We do plenty of cardio because we do cardio every morning. We run about five miles every morning. Because I get so much cardio doing work, doing my own work time. I don't really need as much cardio on my off days. So I kind of straight away from cardio. I let off day be a complete off day. And I just stick to my diet and that's all. Pretty much all I do. I normally train compound movements. And I lift as heavy as I can. Because I figure as long as my nutrition's right. I just like to build as much muscle as I can. So I'm going there and slap as much weight as I can and try to use a best form. I keep set to rest around eight to 12 repetitions and set somewhere around three to four. When I have a plateau it's always good to have a partner because you can help you do negatives. You can also do peer meets and all the stuff that I've learned on bodybutton.com. And if I'm really stomp, I'll go on bodybutton.com. I find a new workout because maybe I've been working that same workout too long. Maybe I need to adjust fire and go ahead and try something new. So I'll pick up another guy's workout and attempt to do his discipline. See if that works. I have a partner in there because a partner can motivate you. My partner will motivate me when I didn't feel like getting up. I've been working like a 18 hour a day. He's kicked me in the butt and say, hey, come on. Let's go on this run or let's get up and get in the gym. And that was pretty hard because a lot of times you don't want to do anything after a long shift. Or you spend in a guard point. You just want to go to sleep. But he gave me up and I get him up when he was motivated. So you need somebody over there. You need a buddy. And you get in the gym when you get in there and you just give it to him. To get my four training program, look at the page below. Now let's get into nutrition. Just my diet a lot because the food is not as plentiful down. You don't have as much food to eat. You may end up having to drink a lot of protein shakes in order to keep the protein and take up. Have a good support system at home. My family will send me things constantly and so do Zangil. I'm not proper company with send me things like tuna and chicken and packages. And I would use that to keep my nutrition up. I believe in eating clean. I try to eat about six meals. I spaced them out about two to three hours of park. Three of those meals are made protein shakes. The rest, my eating some tuna. I like eating all of the court tuna. It's really good. Maybe squeeze like a lemon in there. It tastes really good. Also eat a lot of chicken. When I can afford it, I'll get some salafia. For car, I'll eat like sweet potatoes or whole grain rice. Right before I go to the gym, I try to take some carbs. That's when I'll eat my sweet potato or some brown rice. I just mix it up. Depending on how I feel, sometimes eat carbs after the gym. But that's pretty much it for carbs. Every meal after that will be vegetables. I start my day around like six in the morning. I eat a meal right before I go to PT. I'm after PT, I'll eat a meal. Somewhere around like eight or nine o'clock and go from there and have this continued space out three hours. I try to stay pretty consistent throughout the whole year. When I do walk up, I try to do it in small portions. Try to stay around like 35 or 40 grams of protein per shape. You keep my weight around 187 to 194. That's the pound that just tries to stay. Yeah, I do eat some cheat meals. I'll go to a restaurant. And it's really not considered much of a cheat meal because I still eat salmon. I still eat broccoli. It's just prepared a whole lot better. And I might drink some juice. But I try to stay all my meals are pretty healthy. I stay my be a cheat meal for me. Like I may eat a tea bowl. Has a little more fat on me. Well, you got to be, you got to pre-plan. You got to plan ahead. We do get to, I'm sensing stuff ahead in tough box. So we can pack up a box and send it to the head before we actually get overseas. And it'll meet you over there. But I did up packed up my bag with a bunch of tuna. And a lot of pre-package on. You chicken and different kinds of foods. So I'd have the right amount of protein once I got over there. Because you might not always have to be able to eat in a defect or a lunch room. So if you don't have that food, just be prepared that you might have been a complicated situation with food. And if you sense some over, you might be alright. Now you know a little bit more about my nutrition. You can get my full program in the page below. Now let's talk about supplements. The supplements I use, give me that extra boost that I need in order to get those last two reps. I'm not going to even get up and go on a gym and be motivated from beginning to end. So supplement is very important. Pretty much my supplements are our key. I take them every day. And I get off in a gym and it helps me stay motivated. Right off the top protein because I need to be able to supplement meals because I'm not always going to be able to eat a full course meal. So you gotta have your protein. You gotta have something to pump you out while you're in a gym. I like the nitrous oxide. Yeah, I've been changing up my supplements a lot now. Just trying to find something new for muscle building. Because you can use a supplement too much. You can stick with the same supplements so much day. Your body gets so used to it. That's not having the same effect that I had before. So sometimes you need to come off one. I'm also trying different on protein because they got the casing. And they have a lot of different kinds of protein that burn slower. I'm also looking at on finding out a lot more about the vitamins like B12 B complex. And I try to build on my vitamins. A lot of guys come up on my body space. They're on bright me letters and asking about the supplements to take in order to gain weight or to get stronger. And nothing can replace hard work in the gym. But if you're going to supplement like always giving advice at you research and look on there and see exactly what the supplements sound on the back is if it'll work for you. And then you've got to experiment sometimes. There's no exact science to taking supplements. You just gotta do a little bit of experiment with yourself. Alright, to get my training, nutrition and supplement program. Check out the page below. And if you want to ask me any questions, go on body space. My username is Shond.Hard. And for more content like this, go on bodybuilding.com.

All right, so the first question why do people fail week three? Honestly, how much time do we have? I say you get two minutes. Okay. People fail at week three because the excitement and the allure, the new program has now worn off and they're realizing that maybe the five things that you have to do to be successful and get your body to where it needs to be. I mean, to be, have to be applied every single day. Week one, you're really excited. There's no problem with sticking to your transformation in week one. It's brand new, you're super pumped and excited. People are supporting you. Week two is kind of more of the same. It's just days, you just don't feel like doing it. You end up going out of town for the start of the other. And hard to stay focused and go day to day. And that takes discipline and it takes sacrifice and it takes the willpower to say no to certain things, perhaps like alcohol and sugar. After that second week, it's kind of like a huge wake up call to your life. We have so many weekflaf to get to that huge body transformation. At week three, you go, I've been doing this for two weeks. I don't suddenly look like Mr. Olympia, I'm out. And week three is kind of that pinnacle week where you really need to dig deep and find something. We've all seen people start a goal and say they're committed to something. Only to fall off several weeks later. If you ask someone what their goal is, they'll usually tell you something very generic whether it's a want to lose weight or a want to build muscle. Looks shredded or slim down for that Vegas trip or a wedding. That just never sticks. First up, regardless of kind of what your situation is is really finding a plan. And whether that's a plan that someone else is going to implement with you in the form of a trainer or a plan that you're going to go on a site like bodybuilding.com. Get the plan, join the gym, take that plan with you to the gym, set little goals, even daily goals. Take a workout, lift five pounds more on your bicep curls, the second time you do bicep curls and then the workout you had last week with bicep curls. Think about how good it's going to feel to achieve that goal, really visualize it, picture it in your head. What is that going to look like? What's it going to look like when you drop those pounds or fit into a smaller dress size? How does that feel? How does it feel when your family or friends patch on the back and they're just ecstatic for your accomplishment? Because you look at yourself in the mirror every day, right? So when you're trying to make a change over a 12 week period, it's hard sometimes to see that progression in yourself. And so tracking is really important to help you to move forward towards your goal so you can look back and reflect and see what's working and what's not working. That's what keeps me going. That's why my workouts are interesting and very single week. I know that on December such as such, I was able to bitch 250 pounds. January 1st, I was able to bitch 260 pounds. If I didn't track that, I would never know. How this transformation is not just going to affect their body, but it's going to affect their job, it's going to affect their personal relationships, it's going to affect their confidence, it's going to literally change, take every area of their life and improve it. So in order to be successful in this, you have to make it a habit, you have to make it your lifestyle. Dedical, find a plan, track your progress, stay motivated, make it a lifestyle.

It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at Bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. It's absolutely possible to change your life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to Bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Go to Bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free.

It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. Now it's completely disgusted with the way I look, not so myself. I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline and I wasn't happy anymore. Bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change a life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to Bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle, and become your best self. Go to Bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free.

Start with a dumbbell in your right hand facing your torso. Place your left knee and your left hand on a flat bench. Keep your back straight with a slight bend in the knee and bend forward at the hips. Your torso should be almost parallel to the floor. Make sure you keep your head up. Your upper arm should be close to your torso and parallel to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the floor as you hold the weights. Your upper arm should be a 90 degree angle formed between your upper arm and your forearm. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arm stationary, exhale and use your triceps to lift the weights until your arm is fully extended. Focus on moving the forearm. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbell back down to the starting position.

Start with a dumbbell in your right hand facing your torso. Place your left knee and your left hand on a flat bench. Keep your back straight with a slight bend in the knee and bend forward at the hips. Your torso should be almost parallel to the floor. Make sure you keep your head up. Your upper arm should be close to your torso and parallel to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the floor as you hold the weights. Your shoulders should be a 90-degree angle formed between your upper arm and your forearm. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arm stationary, exhale and use your triceps to lift the weights until your arm is fully extended. Focus on moving the forearm. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbell back down to the starting position.

Attach a straight or angled bar to a high pulley and grab the bar with an overhand grip as shoulder width. You'll want to be standing upright with a very small forward lean. Your upper arm should be close to your body and perpendicular to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the pulley as they hold the bar. This is your starting position. Now using your triceps, exhale and bring the bar down until it touches the front of your thighs and your arms are fully extended. Your upper arm should always remain stationary while your forearm's move. After holding for a brief pause in the contracted position, inhale and slowly bring the bar back down to the starting position.

For the True Muscle program, is a nine week brief-based program. What you're going to expect from me is the coaching staff. Don't swing them up. I'm Steve Weatherford. I am a plentcher for the New York Giants. Priority number one is performance, but it's a constant battle because I'm not a football player who loves fitness. I'm a fitness guy who plays football. The primary goal is to build muscle, but it's not the only goal. You know, anybody can come into the gym and train as hard as I can for one day. But can you do it day after day after a month after a year? To win the True Muscle program, I'm going to take you step by step. You're going to get the sets. You're going to get the reps. And a lot of cool form cues to help you get better results. We're going to condition the muscle. And we're going to help you build the physique that you've always wanted.

It's time to break free, to kick the couch, to become your best self. It's time to experience the power of your body, the joy of energy, the strength of muscle. It's time to change your life. You don't know where to start? We have your guide. You think fitness is complicated? We make it easy. You don't have a trainer? We have the best in the industry. 30 days, 30 challenges. We'll teach you the essentials, training, nutrition, supplementation, what to do in the kitchen, and how to perform in the gym. Everything you need to live the fit life. You have the right to be fit. Take the first step. This is the ultimate 30-day beginner's guide to fitness. I'm Steve Koch, International Fitness Personality and Optimal Nutrition Athlete. And I'm Kathleen Tessori, bodybuilding.com athlete and fitness model. And we are your beginner's guide coaches. For the next month, we'll help you build a fitness foundation. You can use for the rest of your life. After just 30 days, you'll know how to train with barbells, machines, and even just your body weight. You'll learn how to mobilize and stretch and how to become explosive and more powerful. You will learn the basics of building muscle and losing body fat. And in the short time we have together, you will work just as hard in the kitchen as you do in the gym. The development of these skills will be a progression. Laying one brick at a time until you get to the end, realize you've built an incredible fitness foundation. When you have completed your objective for the day, you'll be that much closer to the body and knowledge you've always wanted. This is fitness, one day at a time, one challenge at a time. Instead of blindly following a workout program or wondering if it's right for you, you'll be able to take control of your fitness journey. You'll learn the underlying principles, techniques, and strategies that mark the difference between positive, progressive change and a lifetime struggle. You'll have the knowledge and ability to control your body, your nutrition, and your results. We're here to make sure you never have to give up on fitness again. You have the right to be fit. We can help you exercise that right with confidence. We need decided to distill the fundamentals of fitness into a program specifically for beginners, for people new to the gym, who have been to the gym recently, and those who want to ensure they've really got the basic stance so they can keep growing. This program is simple and progressive. Instead of obsessing over your food, you learn how to make wise choices and manage a busy lifestyle. Instead of following workout cement for professional bodybuilders, decades of experience, you will practice the basics of fitness and athletics. This is exactly what this guy delivers, giving you daily incentives, information, and advice completely free. Every day will present a new challenge. It will be simple and specific, and will give you everything you need to complete your objective. In our first week, you will determine a starting point. Learn the important parts of a workout and learn the basic principles of nutrition that fit this professionals rely on every single day. In the second week, we'll tackle more advanced workouts. Learn the basic principles of movement and recovery in the essentials of supplementation. We'll also guide you through meal prep and other important nutritional strategies. As you move into week three, you will uncover key strategies to carve off body fat and build shape we muscle. You'll be able to see how these concepts are incorporated into many different workouts. And you will begin to use food to cheer thematically, shape your physique and performance. The final week teaches you how to raise the bar and continually progress in your workouts. Cooking will no longer become a daily chore. It'll be a part of your planning and preparation for success, particularly as you learn to feel and recover from your training. After one month, you will have completed 30 challenges that teach you how to move, control and transform your body. Your wishful thoughts will become goals, and your goals will eventually become your reality. You will be ready for a new challenge. If you're ready to learn the fundamentals and get fit for life, check out the page below for complete details on what you need before starting day one. I'm Kathleen Tessori. And I'm Steve Cook. And it's time for you to take your first step.

Hey guys, this is Frank Asad. Today we're going to take you through a massive hip workout, high-intensity interval training. We're breaking it down into three phases. Each phase is a circuit. So the first circuit is going to be explosive strength. The second circuit is going to be strengthened in endurance. And the third and final circuit is going to be straight endurance. So the point of this workout is to get you in and out of the gym as quickly as possible. Because you're hitting the strength, you're hitting the endurance and you're hitting that cardio. Typically this workout should only take you 15 minutes. Now if you're a little bit more beginner to this, it's going to take you probably 20, 25 minutes because you're going to end up resting a little bit more. It's going to be a little harder for you. To make it through this workout, it's going to be a bitch. You're going to be pushing yourself pretty hard. And by the end of it, you're going to be laying on the ground. Grandit they might be 15 to 20 minutes. This can be the worst 15 to 20 minutes of your life. Let's break down each circuit into more detail. First circuit in this workout is going to be explosive strength. It's broken down into eight different exercises. We have no rest in between, so it's going to be tough. So you're going to start off with 20 seconds of boxing with five pound dumbbells. You're going to go right into 40 seconds of burpees. 20 seconds of boxing again. 40 seconds of run jumps. 20 seconds of boxing. 40 seconds of push ups. 20 seconds of boxing. And then we have 40 seconds of squat jumps to finish it off. Once you finish with that first circuit, then we go right into strength and power circuit. We're going to go with 30 seconds of boxing. Then 30 seconds of sprails. 30 seconds of boxing again. 30 seconds of lateral squats. 30 seconds of boxing. 30 seconds of side to side push ups. 30 seconds of boxing. 30 seconds of in and out squat jumps to finish it off. You finish circuit two. We have a third and final phase of this workout, which is our endurance. Give yourself about 60 to 90 seconds of rest period in between each one of these. Let's go with 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of high knees. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of quick checks. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of spiderman. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of jumping knee-tucks. The goal of this workout is to burn fat. So if you're doing a program or six weeks long, whether it's four weeks long, whether it's two weeks long, I recommend you do this at least three times a week. The full breakdown of this workout is detailed below. Here at Bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about this workout or any other workout, please feel free to contact me on BodySpace at cassette 44 Instagram at cassette 44 Facebook, Brankessad or Twitter at Brankessad. For more free videos and articles from athletes like me, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

That's him. The green half. Let's try to stay together and maybe kind of come up from behind. I'm trying to get it. Excuse me, Matt. Hey, Robin. You got him, cheating. This is 24 team bodybuild.com. I'm a $5 transportation child winner. So the game plans today is made from underwinter. So we're trying to track down one of your members who we've selected as the winner. We have our locations selected. Tak on, Amaris, come here. Tak on, Amaris, come here. Then. So, it was so awesome. I just got back from the last trip of our 200k transformation challenge. Surprise! What we do at Bodybuilding.com, we really do change lives. I walked out and was holding all of the money this morning. And it's not just these people that win that we get to go take, you know, $8,000 of cash to jump out, you to surprise how they're gym. The lives that you change and the ripple effect that comes from that eye. Wish everyone could be there for that moment. You guys get a glimpse of it in the video. But just to live in that moment is just unreal. So we've just closed the Diamond Ties and Bodybuilding.com, 200k transformation challenge. So many contestants were able to complete the transformation challenge this year. We've more than tripled our completion rate of last year. And the team is in the room ready to rock and sort through all 4600 contestants. It's going to be a very exciting and very long day as we do that. First sorting, meeting of the year. So I think most of you guys all know the great news, but we had almost tripled our completion rate of the transformation challenge. We have 4600 people to sort through. And that's great. Which is really, really awesome. And it seems like it's going to be tough. Some of them have already posted their progress pixel along the way and before and after is then look really compelling. So it's going to be tough for us to sort through and. And decide who is voted into the next phase. So that will be me on Tuesday. We can actually finalize our top 20 and get those up for the people's choice voting. She did shows before. Yeah, she does show. Oh wow. Yeah, that's great. Sounds good. Yeah, it's good. The train is going to be on the field. It's just a couple of them see. It's a couple of them see. It's a couple. We look as much as drastic but the scale weight. All right, so Dean Plan. Game plan. What are the only 2,000 people? Yeah. We've got the weekend to sort through these 2,000. By Tuesday, we have to be at our top 20. Yeah, top 20. And we have to also figure out what time it ties to. Yeah. Yeah. They want to have say in the top 20. Yes, we'll probably rate. Rethos and then send them. Nice hair. What is it? Is it up? Sorry. That is not filling. That is not filling. Yeah. My fingers hurt. Yeah. Yeah. It's been a long day. Yeah. I'm going to. Yeah. You're going to drop. Okay. So the game plans today is we need to come on here with winners. We've got 40 people to review. 20 females. They all look awesome. We've narrowed it down from 4,600 finalists. Yeah. We started with the females first. Well, we told you we actually dropped the 33 pounds. We did act as long as the body is finished. You can act as long as the body is finished. She did be able to lift it and get it back. And then, like, on the sixth stage, we did not have that much time to return. Yeah. Yeah. We've got 20 more. First act. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. So we've got 20 more. This is the X-T-R-R. Yeah. This is going to be tough. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. It's going to be great. It's going to be a game engagement too. We've got to look like the same person. I think it's going to start that. I need to. How old are those are on winners? Yeah. Boom, crazy. So we selected the winners of the 2015 bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. And now we're kind of stocking them a little bit to try to find out where we might intercept them to surprise them with the cash prize. We identified that the girl winner looks like she was working with a training coach. So I'm going to attempt right now to reach out to her coach, try to make contact and hopefully set up a phone call with her just to explain where hey, when your client is one, can you help us kind of trick her and it being somewhere at a specific time, or at least give us a more information on how we could find where she is so we can go change your life. Yeah, I mean that's the hardest part is making this first contact. Okay, and I must have the wrong number. Okay, thank you. All right. Sorry. Bye. That was a good test call. I think doing it last year too makes it. I feel a little more confident that we can actually track them down and do this and everyone's like so hyper connect this on social media that if you dig it around in a field find where they are and someone will tell you where they're at. Who know that's kind of sketchy. It's Samantha. It's Keith from Bodybuilding.com. How are you? Good. Thank you so much for calling me back. I'm so, so excited to have you for it. And the fun part is now that we go and surprise her with her prize and I figured you'd be more than willing to help us. Okay, that's awesome. Yeah, cool. Oh, thank you. Yeah, no, thank you so much. So beyond excited. Awesome. Hi, Cindy. This is Collector from Bodybuilding. Hi, how are you? Good. How are you? Good. Thanks. And we are calling about the cash for our prize winners. Okay. We have our locations selected. Hi, Marina. My name is Keith. I'm actually with bodybuilding.com. Are you familiar with our website? Uh-huh. I don't know if you know our transformation challenge we do every year. Yeah. So we're trying to track down one of your members who we've selected as the winner. Ideally, we'd fill the gym bag up real nice with the tens, but if you say you can get that amount of cash and some other denominations, we're open to that too, because we understand we're really putting a crunch on you guys. The tens would definitely be preferred. You guys, I'm really excited about this one. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. We made it. We're going to change some more lives as yours can be so pumped. Yeah. So we're on our way to the bank to go pick up the $80,000 cash. What up? We are going to go meet up with Sam, the trainer, and we're going to go, you know, talk some some shop, make a plan, so we can surprise her with her. We need to. So it's the eve of surprising Chandler with his prize. And I was just kind of sitting here reflecting on what it's like to give this guy all this money. I don't know for me it's cool to see it. Intense stacked up on my bed. It's kind of cool, but you know, we're really giving this to someone that busted their butt. That most likely could really use this money as I'm sure any of us could. So not only has he found a new path to fitness and this new physique and this new lifestyle or reconnected with an older lifestyle that he used to have, but he now has access to some funds. So get up right in early tomorrow. We're going to meet in the lobby at 4am and make the hour plus drive down to Max Jim. So we hope to be set up there and ready to roll and surprise the heck that was. Alright, we have a few minutes till Chandler should be here. So we're all getting ready in the back room. Get a little nervous, get excited. It's almost go time. So we got to make the count. We're going to surprise them. Hopefully there's a great reaction and we're good to go. And hopefully you show them. Yeah. Oh yeah, PS. I hope you show us how to work out today. Hello. Okay, could you actually give her permission to come up? Can you let her into the elevator? He's not going anywhere. He's going to go lift. Yeah, that's a sweet bit. Hi Nina. Hey Chandler. Hey, what's up? Can you hold my bag real quick? Yeah. Thanks. I just want to do our see. 10. Hold on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. It's a sour. 70. 80,000 dollars. Congratulations. Congratulations. I don't know. I just should have. I'm not even wearing a bow. You're the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. Transformation Challenge winner. Power by Domitas. Congratulations. It's a stop shoulder. Yeah. Well, thank you. Yeah. Views are great. And it's a big relief. I guess because we're just starting out. It was kind of like now. And how are we going to get some traction? We'll save here. So it's nice to know that's one worry that we don't have milk. We're going to just start now. So it feels wonderful. I'm so happy. I guess. I honestly already felt like I wanted something really big, just by finishing. In the beginning, the money meant a lot to me and that got me going. But later on, it changed into something deeper than that. I was just so sick and tired of being unhealthy, having these bad habits. And I think it was making me more more depressed. It really brought down my energy. I just wanted to stop all the negativity. Like my negative thoughts, my negative body image. I wanted to feel empowered. I wanted to feel energized. I wanted to feel alive and doing my best every day. My dad was in the fitness. I would get into it for a few months. And then I don't know what was just too hard or other things would come up. And I'd make excuses. But mentally, I was always kind of leaning that way. And I wanted to do something with it. I just almost couldn't find deep down what I needed to to really just go on. And I guess the focus and drive that a competition like this gives you can make you do more than you thought you could. If I really think about it, the hardest part of this transformation was my mind. I had so much negativity. So that was the hardest part. Just calming down and focusing, doing the things I needed to do without getting too emotional. Without getting too caught up in what if. But you suck and you don't look good enough or I don't think you'll make it. Like all that stuff I had to just kind of go, okay, you're there. But I'm still going. It wasn't the prize money aspect of it. Honestly, it was my wife that that's what kind of changed form. It's like not just the countable to me now. I can do this because she believes that I can't. So I didn't want to let her down. I didn't want to let me down. And that's what really drove me to do it this day. I can everyday live this way. If I'm going to give us a chance at a starting life that this is a really good opportunity for me to. And if I put in all my effort, then at least I won't look back and go. If I only done this different or that different, I wanted to just look back and say, I wouldn't change a thing that I did. I lost because somebody was just better. I was so crazy about wanting to do this before it started. And I was so driven throughout. I would feel weak sometimes, like tired, exhausted. But I just wanted it so bad. I got a coach that I trusted. And then she told me how to eat, how to work out. But then I supplemented all that with bodybuilding.com. Like I looked up a lot of the exercises that I've never heard of that she told me to do. And I'd watch the videos. I really paid attention to perfect form. I did where you can create your own program. I like that freedom to be able to tailor it to how I was feeling or what I felt I needed to hit more. I'm so grateful for where I am now. I'm a totally different person. Not just the physical looking at me and everything, but I guess it's just my attitude. I'm happier. I'm really in. I want to be in the fitness industry somehow. But I don't really know where I fit in. I love motivating people on Facebook and Instagram. I like just posting stuff and getting people inspired and excited. And so that's where you need to start. You need to start with what are my reasons for doing it. And then find your strongest reasons and realize you're going to have to use those through the whole process. And those are what you're always going to go to on the weekdays and the days when you don't want to go to the gym. You've got to fall back on that reason and really think about that and have it drive you. Hi, I'm Nina Namm. I'm Chandler Candid and I'm the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. $200,000. Transformation Challenge Winter. I'm depositing some cash. It's kind of a lot of cash. I have it in my bag.

Excuse me Matt. Hey Robin. This is insane. We have a nice $50,000 check for you. So we got our $80,000. We're changing the lives. Made it to the land. We're Missouri. We're going to change some more lives as you hear me so far. So it's the eve of surprising Chandler with his prize as the male winner of the 2015 Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. So get up right in early tomorrow. We're going to meet the lobby at 4am and make the hour plus drive down to Max Jim and Park Hills, Missouri and surprise him at the gym. He comes in at any time between 6 and 6 and 15. So we have to be set up there and ready to roll and surprise the half out of him. So we're on our way to the bank to go pick up the $80,000 cash for Nina. The female winner of the 2015 Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. We're going to invite the surprise of the hotel with her coach. It's kind of cool. We really know it's too expect when she opens up her work. Alright, we have a few minutes till Chandler should be here. So we're all getting ready in the back room. Get a little nervous, get excited. We're in a surprise him, hopefully has a great reaction and we're good to go. Hey Chandler. Hi Nina. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Hey, what's up? Can you hold my back real quick? Yeah. Thanks. I just want to do a lot of see. 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10. I just see a bit. Oh my god. 60, 70. I'm not even wearing a bow right now. 80,000 dollars. So I'm Keith and we're here with Bodybuilden.com. So you're the 2015 Bodybuilden.com Transformation Challenge winner. Powered by John. I'm a big fan of you. And that's your bag of cash right there. 80,000 dollars. That's okay. Congratulations. You're a big fan of me. You're a big fan of me. Yeah. Feels great. And it's a big relief. Other people have noticed the changes. Not just the physical. She's just trying attitude and a happier, really. It's out gosh. I don't know what to say. I already felt like I won. I already won the biggest thing, which was knowing that I can do something if I really commit to it. I guess the focus and drive that a competition like this give you can make you do more than you thought you could. I'm grateful to Bodybuilden.com for changing my whole life. I'm Nina Nam. I'm Chandler Candin. I'm the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. $200,000 transformation challenge winner. I'm depositing some cash. It's kind of a lot of cash. I have it in my bag.

Boys and girls as time for some recovery so we're gonna do a bunch of stretches that you're gonna use a box for This is the cash stretch on a box really good for opening up that hip flexor Stretching out through that quad I would like to say you want to probably maintain about 60 seconds to two minutes in these positions gonna help a lot This one is also one of my favorites. This is really good at opening up the triceps and the lats Just making sure your ends of your elbows are up on the box From here I love an outstanding upright pigeon pose getting stuck into those glutes and a little bit of that lower back as well Make sure you don't feel any knee pain here if you do just decrease the range From there guys, I'm gonna go into a bit of a salaya stretch So getting through that ankle trying to increase that range so we can get deeper down into our squats This is a really good one one of my favorites. It just takes a pressure off if you would like to increase the stretch Intensity you can use one of these kettlebells just to increase that stretch here Now we have another one we're going through a little bit of lower back and hamstrings This one's really really good for just lengthening out a little bit more But don't use a heavy weight if anything Go lighter than what you expect. This is really good for just lengthening out and creating some space One of my favorite ones is one from there guys We're gonna go into a bit of a upright struttle Falancing ourselves on that box getting stuck into those the duct is one of my favorites as well enjoy

I might be petite, but I'm still a badass. I grew up playing hockey and I've spent the last 10 years in the gym, building lean, sexy, muscle. You think I lift like a girl? I'll take that as a compliment. I'm Katie Cheng-Wa. Today's workout is one of two workouts that I designed for you. It's for people that have minimal workout area with minimal workout equipment. Today's upper body workout is going to be used primarily with resistance bands. If you don't have resistance bands, I provided a whole list of alternative exercises below that you can do. So today's workout is going to be primarily an upper body workout consists of 12 different exercises that shouldn't take you longer than 20 minutes. So the first exercise you're going to start off with is burpees. It's a full body exercise. You're going to do three sets of 15 with minimal rest in between each set. The next exercise group that we're going to do is a superset of back rows and chest press. It shows this exercise because you can wrap it around a bent post or anything that's stable. There are going to do as many as you can depending on the resistance of your band. So you're going to do three sets, say, between 15 and 20. The next exercise is push up with rows. You can do with weights or without weights. If you don't have a dumbbell just find something that you can grab, maybe a can is too. You want to do three sets, try to get between 15 and 20. The next exercise group is a giant set of bicep curls, tricep dips, and upright rows. You're going to be doing the resistance bands for the alternating bicep curls and then you're going to be using the side of your bed, a chair, a box, anything for your tricep dips. And then again your resistance band for your upright rows. If you're going to be doing three sets of this, anywhere between 15 and 20, if your triceps are burning out on a lower rep round eight, you can bring your feet into make it easier. The next exercise is going to increase your heart rate again. It's going to be three sets of 20 jumping jacks with this minimal rest as possible. The next exercise is arm circles. You're going to do it with your thumbs down because that's going to target your shoulders. And it's just one burnout set so you do as many as you possibly can for as long as you can. The last exercise group is going to be for your core. You're going to do v-ups, leg lifts, and planks. Now for your v-ups and your leg lifts are going to do as many as you can. And then for your planks, you're going to hold it for about a minute to a minute and a half. And you're going to do that for three rounds. So that concludes one of two workouts that I have built for you for your small dorm room apartment, minimal space, minimal equipment workouts. If you want to check out the lower body workout, you can click the link below. And if you have any questions for me, you can find me on body space at Chengwa. For more videos and content like this, make sure to come back to bodybuilding.com.

Grab an easy crowbar or barbell with an overhand grip. Use a grip that's slightly less than shoulder width. The bar should be resting on top of your thighs with your arms extended and a slight bend in your elbows. Your back should also be straight. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and use the sides of your shoulders to lift the bar. Keep the bar close to your body as you raise it. Continue to lift the bar until it nearly touches your chin. Your elbow should drive the motion and should always be higher than your forearms. Remember to keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to the starting position.

Alright, so this squat variation is the front squat with no belt. I'm still wearing a heeled shoe so I can get the proper position. You're going to set up with your pinkies right on the rings or thumbs a little bit off the smooth. Now, one thing you want to make sure your conscious of is creating that shelf with your lat so the bar can sit on it. So, when you come up under the bar, flex your lat's hard. Take the bar out and force your elbows high as you're going through the movement.

Alright guys, we are going to hit a squat workout together. Okay, we're about to start the work set. On one of the absolute king kings' songs of exercise, which is the back squat. It is incredibly important that you focus. You want the much way that you can handle with perfect form, but you want to stay focused every single rep. On big movements, on heavy movements. Staying in the zone is key. So here you have to do before the set. Get your head right and we got five of these to do. Let's get to it. That is our first work set. Out of the way we got one more to go. What are bigots back in the day? We're talking 70s body building like classic. They believe going up and weight on your squat, built every muscle in your body. You talk to an old school guy like I want bigger arms. He's like cool squat. I want to bigger back squat, bigger legs squat. And I can't guarantee you it's going to make your biceps explode, but it is going to make you a bigger, stronger, better, more capable human being. It is dynamite, but you're going to push. You've got to push to get those results. When you pick this up, when I'm picking it up, there's part of it's like, who? That I make the right choice. That's a lot of my back. It should feel like that. And then you go nail it. Full focus, full aggression on the squat is the key to success. And we're only got one more of those to go. As always, I'm going to try to push my pace a little bit so you're never waiting for me. But if I'm going a little fast and you need the pace, I'm attempting to keep here. It's not the pace that's absolutely necessary. If you need a little more rest, you know, it's paused the video and come back to it. I'm going to take another 15, 20 seconds baby. And do the last heavy work that. Kind of like I said before, the last set. You've got to get your head right to perform squat well. If you need a couple extra seconds, if you need a stand there and breathe, if you need to focus, whatever head space you need to get into, just stay ready to squat. And this way, it's trying to crush you. That's how it feels at the bottom. If your head's not right, you can get hurt. You can miss the weight. You can not get optimal results. You get your head right. And let's get through our last heavy work set of squats for today. Oh. Alright, let's do this. We made it. We got one more set of squats left, but it's not a heavy work set. We're going to do a back-off set. We got our two sets of five. We'll draw every time we're going to try to push our weights as much as we can. Next to the back-off set, you're going to take off roughly 30% of what's on the bar. And then do as many reps as you can for one all-out set. You're going to target hopefully eight to 12 reps here. It's probably a little under 30%. But I'm going to take off a plate from each side. So it doesn't have to be exact, but roughly 30% is what you want on your back-off sets. Okay, with the squat. The squat is probably the number one lift. For people to ego or excitement about adding on weight, takes them in the wrong direction. I want you to push this as hard as you can.

Hey, bodybuilding.com, coach Kristen here. I hope you are ready for this leg, glute burner workout. So squat position, you're going to squat down prime the glutes and hamstrings, explode up, repeat. Two more. And rest, make sure you get a nice soft landing when you're doing these jumpsquats. Take a breath. You got two more rounds. Do you want to grab some dumbbells? We're doing front squats next. Ooh. I need a breather. Let's get those legs primed. They're going to come into that squat position again. Explode off, land nice and soft. Do you turn with me? You got this. Last one. And rest, awesome job. We got one more round. Okay, guys. Get your breath. Grab some water. Don't rest too long. Really trying to get our legs to be explosive. Get that power. All right. Let's go back in. Ten more. This is your last set. Make a count. Last one. And rest. Awesome job. Okay. We're going to go toward dumbbell, front squat. Grab some light or moderate dumbbells. Catch some water. Breathe a little bit. Me and me back here. Whoa. All right, team. This is your dumbbell, front squat. So you're going to bring the dumbbells up to your shoulders. Try to keep that core nice and engaged. You're going to squat back. We have eight reps here. Quot. Control that back up. Exhale as you stand. Two. Half way. Two more. Last one. And rest. I love this movement. Especially in that rack where that front squat position. Because it's going to pull the weight forward. You have to use more of your core to stabilize. And it's a great way to fire up your quads. And so when you do that front squat, you gain a little bit more abdominal work. With this movement, we got two more rounds of eight. That felt way too easy. Grab a little bit heavier. Grab some water. How off? Take a little longer if you need to. All right. Bring it up. Front rack position. Nice to be breath on the top. Exhale. Half way. Two more. Last one. All right. Be mindful when you're doing this movement that your knees aren't following in. You're really driving your legs through that floor. Keeping your core engaged. Or so in a more upright position. All right. We got one more round. You can rest a little bit. Take it out. Meet me when you're ready. You got eight here, okay? Down bell is up. Rack. Inhale. Engage. Half way. Two more. Last one. Awesome work. That was your three rounds.

Hi everybody, bodybuilding.com, Master Coach, can you here and I'm about to get you through a strength for athletes workout. We got kettlebell squats, one more rows and leg lowers for our first set of exercises. We got locked and loaded. Come up. We're getting some nice squats. We're gonna push. Big key here. It's getting a big nice stretch. Really pushing with those legs. It's a quad exercise. If you're not feeling your quads, you're not doing it right. That's the only thing I really want you to focus on. Drive with those knees. Feel those squats. Last one. 15. Perfect. Next up we got Renegade rows. You're going to step back into a side lunge, support your elbow. We're going to pull and sweep this back feeling our legs. Big stretch and pull. We got 10 each side here. Big squeeze. Big stretch. We got last one for 10. Great. We got the other side. Same support. Pull and stretch. You look back and be like a little bit more. Last rep. Great job. Blum more rows. We're going to go into leg lowers, put this weight to the side. Go we lift those legs up. Hands flat. You're going to drop. Try to keep your pelvis nice and neutral. Only goes far as you can go. We're still feeling your abs. This is in a back exercise all the front of your abs. Keep going. We got five left. Last one. We're all done with that first round. Take a second. Nice easy breathing. We're going to grab our kettlebell and just one second. Ready to get that kettlebell squat? One at the end. Here we go. Nice steep squat. Keep your form real good. Pressing those legs out. This is our concentration was quiet. Double left. One more. Great job. Check it out. Deep breath. We'll take a step back into that side lunge and we'll get that long more row. There we go. Extratch and pull. Last two. Last one. Great job. We're going to switch sides. Step back. Brace. And pull. I was moving that stretch. Driving back. You should feel in your legs. Last two. Last one. Good job.

What's up, bodybuilding.com. It's Master Coach Gabe Snow here with you today. We've got a great poll day for you. We're going to get those biceps nice and pumped up. Get the back lid up. Maybe show you some new moves that you're not used to and something new for you to take home. And maybe some old school stuff that you've already been doing. If you're first set, we've got three sets. Three exercises here. Three sets of each. So the reason I say like to moderate is for the fact that I want you to really emphasize your form today. Okay, we're going to be doing a lot of reps same day. We want 15 to 20 of everything. Again, keeping it light. The reason I had you focus on so much of the hamstring stretch when we were down on our butts is for this hinge. Okay, when people do better rows, most of the time they just kind of fold their chest down, fold it the waist. I want you to hinge your hips and find your hamstrings. So you should be feeling a stretch in your hamstring as we get down into this position. Okay, from there, I'm driving my hips into my hands, excuse me, I'm driving my hands into my hips and I'm squeezing my shoulder blades together. Okay, that's a nice proper bent-over row. You're not logging it back and forth, keeping everything nice and controlled do it light, do it right. Okay, I'm four or five in here, keep that form, exhale as you pull. Okay, same thing, don't lose your hamstrings. Keep fighting that stretch. The more you hinge, the more that you put your weight in your hamstrings, the flatter your back is going to be. And the more you're going to save yourself and possibly pull in that lower-lumbar back, which we all know, F and socks. So really protect yourself, do everything nice and smart here. Okay, we're training smart, more than we're training hard. They'll be time-per-hard, you just wait. Okay, we go four, three, two, one. Okay, so there's your bent-over row from there, we're going to go standing up right-row. So first that up right-row is okay. You had that upright row from the floor, we were in that half-needed position, now instead of the bend, we're using both hands and we're using a little bit of legs. Okay, I got a little bit of a decent weight here, so I'm going to load my quads as I extend my legs. Guess what I'm doing? Does it put up that winter coat? Okay, I put it up to the winter coat, but it's got two zippers, but that's okay, because it's the same motion either way. Maybe some of you have to just use two hands anyway, who knows? Okay, so we got 20 of these bad boys. Again, if you want to make this a little bit more challenging, a little bit more upper body focus, maybe you are a body builder, maybe you are somebody who's really looking to isolate the delts and the upper back. What I'm going to have you do is not load the knees, lead forward, wait in your toes, and you're just going to bring the hands to your chin. Okay, just the hands, not using any lower body, no hips, no quads. Let's go about three more, and then we got our first set of curls, which I'm feeling a little bit intimidated with right now, because I feel my biceps as we speak last one. Here we go, swap into the curls. Don't even have curls, have you or like you're brick and weak, but I don't really train arms like this anymore. So body building days are behind me. Here we go, first set of curls. After you're a lot of pulling, you're going to get a little bit of bicep activation throughout, so you're going to be a little bit depleted, so be humble and wait for it. So these 20s are going to feel happy for me. So what I'm going to focus on 20, perhaps start what I'm going to focus on, more than anything is my form. I'm going to keep my elbows really tight to my body. I'm going to make sure I get a nice good contraction, and I'm going to let them fall slow. Okay, I don't want to see anybody swing in these, obviously I can't see you, but you can see me, but if you can see yourself, don't do that. Okay, keep your elbows tight, let them fall slow. If you're getting bored with that hammer curl, you can go ahead and supinate, turn the hands up, and you can see the little knots you got going there and the biceps, make yourself feel good. It's all around with a little static training, and I'm your functional strength guy, but I did bodybuilding for a long time, and I think I got it, because otherwise I won't have anybody biceps now. Okay, ready to go four more, three, two, last one, let them fall slow, elbows tight, good, what the dumbbells down, shake it out. That was your first block of dumbbell strength. Okay, good pull day, solid form. There's the way to grab before I feel in light, go up slightly, but maintain form today. Again, everything when we pull, we can't really see. So you can't really see your lads, you can't see your scapula is moving the way that you want you to, so I want you to focus on how it feels to the exercise. Okay, if you're lower back to hurting, after that set, that's probably because when you were in your dumbbell but on a row, you were rounding a little bit. So do try to push the hamstrings out a little bit more, keep your chest and back flat as you row, or you can go back to the floor stretchers, hamstrings out that'll make that exercise a little bit easier. Okay, we're about to make our way into our second round. All of this set, all of your first dumbbell block. Grab your weights, open up those hamstrings, knock those on the top of the thigh, slide it down, nice to slow and sexy like, chest is up, shoulder blades are pinned. First, rep, we'll 15 to 20. See how you guys are feeling?

Hi everyone, this is Coach Yaya. Welcome to your athletic upper body workout. We're going to move straight onto our primers. We're going to need two things here, a band and a fixture that we can tie it up towards. And we are going to need a medicine ball. So we don't want to pick anything too heavy here. We want to pick something that's light that can be explosive. And we're going to start off with that band. We have two sets of 10. Now with this band, we want to be able to loop our fingers on both sides. We want that band to be about chest level. We're going to create some tension here by creating some distance between you and the fixture. We're going to go for a 10 ballistic reps. Bring those elbows towards our base. Here we go. Two, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three. And rest team. We are going to immediately go over to our bent over medicine ball slimes. And we're just focusing on power here, staying in that hinge position, really crossing that ball into the ground or going for 10 reps. And rest. That was round one team. We're going to do one more just to get that blood flowing. After this, we should be nice and warm in that upper body. We're going to go for those 10 reps once again. Here we go, all the weight in your heels, making sure your shoulders is back on top of your hips. Here we go. And rest. Last one of those medicine balls. Feeling nice and warm already. Here we go. Hinge position. And rest. All right team, we'll be seeing that medicine ball a little bit later. We're actually going to get started. We're at our first superset. For this first position, we're going to grab a dumbbell straight into a single arm dumbbell press with a band that I so hold. We're going to bring that band down from where we had on our ballistic rose. I'm going to start off with the band on my left side, creating some distance between me and the fixture here. Pop in the dumbbell up on my hip. Starting position. Here we go. Hand right over my shoulder, squeeze in my boots. We have 10 reps. And rest. Beautiful team. Now the way to switch over here carefully is just to place the dumbbell on the opposite side. Take a look back, find that band once again. Create some space between you and that fixture. And we have that opposite. And three, two. And while I'm really making sure you're creating tension on that band, here we go. And rest. Awesome team. We're going to transition over to our superset, which is the Gorilla Rose. We're going to bring our Katabas into position. Now we have that one, one, two counts. Four, five reps. All right. Here we go. Starting off in three, two, and one. That's one rep. Two more. Bring the pushing your feet into the ground here. Bring that elbow towards your rib cage. That is set number one team. We have vertical push here with some Gorilla Rose for those lats. And between each set, you can take about 60 to 90 seconds. Drink some water, catch your breath. You can meet me on the ground once you're ready. No need to rush here.

What's up, bodybuilding.com, coach, Harry Vargas here. And today I'm gonna bring you guys this really fun upper body strength and conditioning workout. And let's get it started. So let's get that kettlebell ready. We're still gonna be in that high plank position, just like you wearing your pushups, except instead of going up and down, we're gonna go ahead and drag that kettlebell side to side. All right. So we have about 10 seconds left. Let's get ready kettlebell on either side, doesn't matter if you start off on the left or the right. Plank position, ever going in three, two, one and go. You got 60 seconds to get 20 of these pull-throughs, each time you pull to one side, that is gonna be one rep. Keeping those hips nice and steady. Make it sure you're keeping your arms straight and hands right below your shoulders. Halfway there, let's go to team, use that core, keep that body stable. Or more. And let's put not least. 20, there we go. Take that rest time, take it either. We got about 10 seconds left. Next movement, we're gonna get into a tall kneeling, dumbbell curl to presses, dumbbells curl, coming into effect. On your knees and we're going in three, two, one. Curl up to your shoulders, press overhead, come down, reset, we're going for 15, two, three. Making sure you're squeezing your glutes. Keeping those hips tucked in, abs engaged, making sure they're standing up nice and straight. Yep, that burning sensation. It's gonna start kicking in right about now. We gotta push through a team, we got about 15 seconds left. Let's go, last three reps, two, nice and last one, up, down, down, nice, we got about 10 seconds left. We're gonna hit our last and final movement of the E-MOM before we start from the top again, coming down into that low plank. On your elbows, we're going in three, two, one and go. Now, when holding this low plank, this is the last movement of the E-MOM. So this is an active recovery, right? Gonna focus on gathering your breath, call me yourself down, keep your nose elbows, press against the floor, and then you're gonna get your breath. Corning, the closer together your feet are, the harder it's gonna be, the more you spread them open, the easier it's gonna be. That burning sensation is now gonna go away, fortunately, but that is where we're looking for. So let's go ahead and we just make sure that we're pushing through it. Right team, we got about 20 seconds left, let's go. Catch your breath, all right? Once, these 45 seconds are up, which is right about now. Let's go ahead and take a breather before we get into those pushups. Got about 10 seconds, let's go team. Shake it off a little bit, get that blood flowing. Go into that next round. Second round, coming up in three, two, one. Let's go 15 pushups. Two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two. As you start to fatigue, please do not let form and technique go out the window. Always wanna make sure technique informs crisp. No matter how tired you are, let's go, we got five more. Two, two, two, and time. Nice, left, whatever's left over of that minute. Go ahead and take that rest time. Right, we got about 30 seconds rest. Go ahead and shake it off, get that blood flowing. Let's go ahead and get that kettlebell ready. Put that second set of pull-throughs. Remember, once again, doesn't matter if it starts on the left side or the right side of the plank. As long as you're pulling through and making sure that your hips are nice and stable as you pull from one side to the next. We got about seven seconds left. Let's start in that high plank position. One in three, two, one, and go. We got 20 pull-throughs, let's go. Two, two, three, two, three, two. Two, three, two, three, two, three, two.

Rastame Starch is a star tree's carbohydrate that comes from a certain type of corn, then when you cut it and put it on the microscope, it looks waxy. And that's why I got the name Waxi-Mane Starch. Rastame Starch actually is a slow-dad gesting, low-glaced seemic, low-inch-slim-spicic carb, and it raises blood sugar gradually, and brings it down so it's a good long-distance or long-term carb to use without a blood sugar crash. Rastame Starch because it enters the blood slowly, give you a person that are involved in long periods of training, or people that have a blood sugar crash when they take other carbs, because over a long period of time it doesn't lead to a blood sugar crash. Rastame Starch, you can use it before training, you can use it about an hour before training, to allow the slow-dad gesting carb to get into blood, or you can use it right after training, to combine it with protein, and because it leads to slow gradual insulin rise and a slow blood sugar rise, it can be something that can be used for recovery if you get a blood sugar crash from other carbs.

I'm Lawrence Balinger from Diamond Size Interition. January is the start of the transformation season in the annual bodybuilding.com and Diamond Size 200K transformation challenge. All December alone, we're helping you prepare for your best year yet. Join us for the next six weeks as we help you prepare to challenge your life and when a thousand dollars each week leading up to a 200K transformation challenge. This week's challenge commits a fit. Let everyone know that you plan to succeed in the new year by sharing the transformation page and telling your friends to join you. It's really important to share your transformation goals and your social media just because it holds your accountable. It also helps keep a nice tight network of other people willing to keep you motivating and keep the motivated as a great group circle to close your accountable. So this week you have an opportunity when a thousand dollars on store credit on bodybuilding.com. All the details on how you can win are in the clickable links below and also on the landing page on bodybuilding.com.

I'm Lawrence Balinger from Diamond Size Interition. January is the start of the transformation season in the annual bodybuilding.com and Diamond Size 200K Transformation Challenge. All the symbol of law, we're helping you prepare for your best year yet. Join us for the next six weeks as we help you prepare to challenge your life and when a thousand dollars each week leading up to a 200K Transformation Challenge. This week's challenge is all about sharing your plan. Join the official $200,000 Transformation Body Group and share your transformation challenge workout plan. This plan could be either one of ours on our site or one that you create it yourself. So a link for the official body group is in the link below. As well as on bodybuilding.com, 4-slash Transform. This week's winner will be announced on December 15th.