Guys, we are one day out from the Arnold Classic Ohio 2026. I just wanted to make this video to first of all thank you guys so much for the incredible support over the last couple of weeks. It's been an amazing journey so far. I had a longer offseason. I skipped the Olympia and all of this I did because I listened to my own body. I listened to you guys. I listened to my coach, to other people in the industry, Honey Ramot, Phil E, Jay Cutler, all these legends telling me, "Don't worry about what all the others think. Just do your thing. Grow, be better, be a bodybuilder." And that's what I've been doing the last couple of months in the offseason. still going to all the shows, Fittsburgh. I went to New York to see Steve, to get some feedback on my body. I went to the Olympia to see Rammon Dino win the current classic physique class. It's been just an amazing journey this offseason to make myself a better bodybuilder, but to also see the rest of the industry transform and evolve. And I knew I had to make some great improvements to make you guys proud again. Because when I compare how I feel now to how I felt last year at this exact moment, let's just say that last year was damage control, it was really trying to uh, you know, save a losing battle, a losing body where you get so sick, but you still respect the Arnold more than you can ever imagine. So I still did the show. I didn't want to let you guys down. didn't going to let anybody down who, you know, got there for me, who was the fan of the sport, wanted to see me in that class of 25, but it didn't go according to plan. And ever since winning the Arnold first time, I knew the potential is there. My physique can actually win a bodybuilding show of this caliber. and meeting Arnold, my absolute idol of bodybuilding, my absolute favorite bodybuilder of all time, my ultimate passion to be like an influence, like a dominant physique on stage like Arnold was. That is my goal. That is my dream. We did it once and we're not going to stop until we do it again. So, uh, without even thinking about the placings, this is just has been an incredible experience. I got the fun back, the fire back into my life, into bodybuilding, and that's all thanks to you guys because you are standing behind me. I of course I look on my YouTube comments, the Instagram comments, what people repost, what people say about me, and it's so much more positive than negative that brings a lot of joy to my life. You have to imagine bodybuilding. It is my, you know, it's not just a hobby. It's my passion. It's what I do for a living. It's how I support and provide for my family back at home. You know, I'm here right now with Marley while our two kids are back at home with my parents-in-law living in our own house. So, uh, yeah, it's very special that I'm able to do this, but I'm doing this a whole lot for them as well. Not just for my own accolades. That's just a secondary thing, but for them is the is the most important reason. I just wanted to get this matches out there. So, one day out from the Arnold tomorrow. It is going to happen. We're ready to rock. Ready to show you guys an incredible classic physique show. And I just wouldn't have been able to do this without you guys, but also without the team around me. And the team around me is very small, but very strong. And without them, I wouldn't be able to sit here and talk to you guys like this. So, uh I know Marley is back there making the way drip >> way dripping everything. >> She uh has needs a little moment to finish the way drip. >> Funny thing is she actually never tried the way drip before until she got here and then she tried one of one oatmeal dish and she put the way drip on there and I think she's pretty sold about it right now. I forgot the special spoon. >> She forgot the special spoon, which means the rubber spatula to get all the way drip out. I mean, I I taught her this. I taught her this >> and still forgot it. >> It's her fourth time making it. >> Smell it. You you >> one for me >> and one for the cameraman Neils because he's also a big part of the team >> and without them I wouldn't have been able to do this. So I want Neils in the camera as well in the frame cuz this man is also always behind us. He has been going to the shows with us since 2022 basically to the AR Classic UK when our journey really started and ever since then. This team right here has been supporting me day in day out to make sure I'm at my very best. So you guys, you see me behind the scenes there are a lot more going on. I don't need a lot of people around me. I need the right people around me. And these two are the exact right people I need to make this show a success. So regardless of the results, we've done we've done our best. We've done everything we can to make it a hell of a show. I'm very happy. My coach, of course, Stephan Kensel, we just checked in. He's very happy as well. That's all we can do, guys. The placings is up to the judges, but you guys already made me feel like a winner. So, thank you very much. Don't want to make this too long. We're one day out. Let's keep carb loading, golden rice, rice pudding way drip and all that good stuff. So guys, see you on stage. Don't forget to stay golden and thank you for the incredible golden support.