Good morning, guys. It is now the next day, the day of the weighin. So, the plan pretty much worked in terms of the weight. So, I loaded for one day quite hard, the second day with a bit of fat and carbs, and today I woke up at 111.5. So, I need to weigh 112 maximum tonight uh in about 11 hours. Uh yeah, about 10 to 11 hours. So, what I'm doing now is I'm eating only fats, higher protein, and a little bit of vegetables. just to help you know get the intestines moving as well. So higher protein meals right now um they will cause more shedding of water diurises water loss basically and that has been uh stated in literature all over but it's just simple true if your body wants to uh you know metabolize protein water is needed and will be excreted along with the toxins that come from protein. So your body needs to get rid of it so you pee it out. And I'm also going to restrict water today. So I'm going to be weighing a couple of times today to see if I still am under the weight limit. And that's going to be awesome. But let me show you the first meal. So it's very simple. We have an omelette here, some spinach, a little bit of zucchini, three eggs, and right here, wo, we have a nice fish. Just some cod fish. At least I think it's just a white fish. So that's the one I'm going to eat. It's about 250 g. So, that's quite a high protein meal. No carbs, uh, medium fat right here. That's pretty much the kind of meals we'll be having today. And, uh, we'll see what that does with the weight. And obviously, because I was drinking so much the past couple of days, I'm going to keep peeing out water, which will further lower my weight. So, we'll see exactly how it will balance out. But for now, let's enjoy this. Okay guys, it's time for meal number two. Pretty much the same meal we had in the morning. The only difference is the vegetable sauce. So, we're going from zucchini to pumpkin. A little more delicious in my opinion, but at the same time, very low carb, very low fiber, which is exactly what we're going for. So again, we have the three eggs right here. Going to make an omelette. We also have 250 g of codfish. And uh that's pretty much it. So we're not adding actual sodium as much as potassium. So this is 66% potassium, 33% sodium. And this is the mixture we're using on the meals right now to make sure that the water is kept in the cell and not outside below the skin. And yeah, this is going to be uh an awesome meal. Again, I'll show you exactly what it looks like when it's done. And this is the final result. Looks very delicious. So that's the codfish. This is a three eggs with pumpkin and uh spinach. And spinach, by the way, contains potassium. So I'm guessing it's about 40 g of spinach. So in total, of course, not a lot because we still want to reduce the food volume. And most of the volume in here is actually water. And the protein will help get rid of extra water. So I still weigh the same weight even after the first meal. So we're just going to maintain this throughout the day until the weighin. Okay guys, uh I still weigh 111.5 with all the clothes on. So that's a safe feeling walking to the uh venue right now where the contest is being held and the weighins will be. So uh yeah, walking there. No idea what we'll see, but uh let's hope it's going to be smooth. I think I see some bodybuilding figures and that always means you're in the right spot. Only was 10 minutes from the apartment, so that's very nice as well. So, let's now just find the wayins for classic physique. think that she Okay, so plenty of space. That's good. So, we are now being directed to the right hall. Even though it's not really being directed by anything else, but this is it. Oh, yes. This looks a lot better, doesn't it? Check that out. Now, this is what I like to see. This is a stage and uh it's high quality, a true Colia qualifier stage. [music] Uh if you would like to uh we can take a picture uh with your phone uh on the background and also we are taking photos um like our photograph photographer is taking photos. So um just like that we will just wait few more minutes and then we will start. Thank you. [applause] When we're hiding, we're doing the hiding. Make sure you're not wearing a wig. No wigs allowed. Oh, [laughter] it's funny. We've had that already. We had somebody wear a wig. Oh, yeah. We know. You can stay just Welcome to the hide or wait first. One more time. Tundi, Chris Taylor, Germany. 111.4 with that height. I'm allowed to weigh 160. He's on the way. I'm not your name. All right. So, as you saw, I weighed in at 111.4 with a shirt and a shorts on, but my height was 190.4 cm, which means that is 63, which means I was allowed to weigh 116 kilos. However, I learned from the past that when I'm forced to weigh less than the allowed limit. Um, I come in much better shape. That happened in the Royal London Pro where I won my Pro card and ever since then I was allowed to weigh heavier and I got in a little softer every time because you always want to get close to the weight limit. So, I think it's a good thing. We are going to standardize how I stand at the height measurement. So, I always will be 190 cmters in the in the future because it's late at night now, which normally you are shorter, but now I'm still at that uh height. So, but anyway, we got the three tickets, my pro ticket as an athlete, Marley's coaching ticket, and an audience ticket. So, we are set. And now, let's go home, have a slightly bigger carb meal, and uh I'll see you guys tomorrow morning and see how I weigh and I look. Thank you for watching and don't forget to stay golden.