 So guys, we always do a check-in for the coach, we always do a check-in for the coach, so we can see the body weight correlation, with the shape, and we always have the same setup here, a nice strong light, to make sure he always gets the same angle, the same distance, the same camera, and the same lighting, so we can assess what to do for this day. Body weight was the lowest since the prep basically, well it was a little lower before the Arnold, when I got, out of the airplane, out of the airplane, out of the airplane, because it always happens for me, but, uh, it's been the lowest since I've been in a higher carb state, after the Arnold, so, I'm gonna be doing these check-ins throughout the day, every time I have a next meal, right before that next meal, I weigh myself, to see how much weight did I actually gain from the meal, and then I take pictures, to see what effect did that meal have, and then you can correlate the body weight, to a perfect look, you achieve somewhere in this day, for example, after four meals, if you gain like 1.5 kilos, and you see, okay, this is the look, and then you're like 115 kilos, for example, you know, okay, this weight, we need to hit on stage, and then you know how heavy you need to be the day before, and how much you need to eat before the show, anyway, that's the theory, but the more pictures you take, and the more data you have, the better you'll look on stage, anyway, time for pump training, and some breakfast. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Done. Really quick, nice workout to activate the very sciency GLUT4 receptors. In simple terms, it means the muscles are now open for the carb load to begin. And let's enjoy. Anyway, well, all supplements have been consumed for the morning. Athlete stack, omega-3 magnesium. Always doing that in the morning, right before the breakfast. But this is just meal number one. We're going to have seven equally carbohydrate-filled meals like this. Four of them will be like this. So this is just rice pudding, 30 grams of whey isolate and some banana. No fats at all. The total fats are like 12 grams for the entire day to keep digestion going. And if I do notice a hypo or something, I always talk to Stefan to see if I need to add some fats. But for now, pure carbohydrates. And the other three meals. So I have this alternating with jasmine rice and a codfish meal. So very clean. Minimal fiber. The only fiber that's really in the day is from the banana. And a tiny bit from the... Actually, the rice pudding doesn't have any fiber either. So from the jasmine rice itself. So that's like 10, 12 grams of fiber a day. So this is what I'll be eating as the first meal. Seven of these meals to about 900, 950 grams of carbs today. Loading day number one will begin. And don't forget to follow me on Instagram. Because I'll be showing you guys the behind the scenes as well. As we'll be doing right now. Next meal guys. So this is meal number two. I'll be alternating between the first meal you saw and this meal the whole time. We have some golden rice. The golden rice is not caused by turmeric. But something a little bit more luxurious. Saffron. So I took some saffron with me from home. It just makes this a bit more luxurious. A bit more delicious. Some Indian... You know, we are in Dearborn after all. But saffron is being used a lot. So we're going to eat there after the competition. For now we have 165 grams of jasmine rice. And 130 grams of white fish. The fish is right now ocean perch fillet. We're going to get to the grover to get some more cod fitted. Because that is the most clean prep perfect fish we have. Digest quickly. There's no fat in here. I only use the ESN oil spray to make sure the fish doesn't stick to the pan. But that's it. Let's enjoy. Let's enjoy. So guys, the shaving process is beginning. It's Thursday now. Saturday is the show. So we always do the shaving one day before applying a tan. Because then you don't have irritation on your skin. So tomorrow we're going to do the tanning. And guess who the expert is in both? That is Marley. She has done this for many years. And she's mostly an expert on one body only. Which is mine. So we're going to get the perfect result in Detroit with the perfect lighting. Let's make it happen. We are sitting far apart like this. Not just because... Not because we don't like each other a lot. Because in the middle of this couch... Just like in the other area. You sink in it. You sink and sink and sink down. It's all about being comfortable at the moment. And the cuddling. Trust me. It's happening. Alrighty guys. That was another fun, exciting day for a body loader. As it was just loading carbs. Not doing much. Just having a nice pump workout in the morning. To once again open up the body for all these carbs. I must say. The shape has been improving. You know. Throughout the day. Every time I took check-in pictures. The coach was getting more and more happy. The weight's slowly climbing. And the funny thing is. After this full loading day. I'm still below the weight limit. Even though I drank 8 liters. We had close to 1000 grams of carbs. Still below the weight limit. Which means the metabolism is really active. And we're ending this day on a tradition. Of course. Always. The victory oven cake. There's just some rice flour in here. A little bit of banana. Some whipped egg whites. And that's pretty much it. And of course. The delicious. Way drip. Cinnamon cereal flavor. Code Wesley to give it a shot. That flavor is one of the most popper ones. It never fails to amaze me. Anyway. That was the video guys. Tomorrow. I'll be one day out. So let me know down in the comments. Exactly what you want to see. As one day out. There will be the weigh-ins. The athletes meeting. We'll be going down to the venue as well. Maybe some delicious stuff waiting for us there. Who knows. And of course. We'll be carving up once again. Depending on how heavy I wake up. The morning of the. I mean the tomorrow morning. The shape check. Because Stefan. The morning of the meal. My coach. He's back at home now. Five hour difference. So he asked me. To take some final pictures. Which I already took right before this meal. And also to wait. After this meal. And then. He can see it in the morning. When I'm still asleep. And the moment I wake up. He will have. His response ready. Which you guys will probably see. On my WhatsApp anyway. So yes guys. Thank you a lot for watching. And of course. Don't forget. To. Stay. Golden.