Good morning. It is the day after the show. We had a little bit of a night's sleep. Yesterday, quite late at night, we had a, you know, a celebratory cheat meal of after the show, as always. Quite a lot of sushi means quite a lot of sodium. Drank quite a lot of water. I just drank a liter of water as well. But today is going to be a full day of cheating, eating, enjoying ourselves for the first time ever and having fun and having fun because it's growth season. No more staying in shape to look good with social media. We're going to be bodybuilders and we need to get back to a healthy body percentage as quickly as possible with a healthy mindset as quickly as possible. And the best way to do that is in America enjoying all the incredible food they have here for the first time in my life. Examples, I've never had a donut here before. I've never visited any fast food chains other than McDonald's and In-N-Out. I think that's it. Yeah. All the others are unknown to me. So, we're going to have a party today. But first, in the morning, I'm going to weigh myself to see what the difference is going to be between now, tonight, and tomorrow morning. So, we are at 116.7 minus a liter of water cuz I already had a liter of water. So, let's just say 115.7 is my starting weight. So, I'm going to be weighing myself tonight as well, just to see what the damage will be. But not the damage, the gains. Dumped some glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents down my throat so we can enjoy these donuts with minimal damage. Okay, this is just a honey glazed donut. Let's review it. Cheers. So, this is the first donut I've had in my life in America. And maybe I have had two in the Netherlands ever. This is nothing to compare. This is really nice. Really nice. So, as I mentioned before, we're going to compare these later on to the Crispy Cream versions cuz this is the Donutville version. And I don't want to disappoint all the American fans cuz I've heard so much about the other brand. But this one is pretty good. Let's see if it's uh Cheers. This is more dry than the previous one. Yeah. Way drier. I just I never going to eat this one. No. Again, it's uh waste of five out of 10. No. Three. It's a waste of calories. Yeah. My ranking system will probably adjust the more I eat because I don't have any reference. Yeah. But when you taste the honey before Yeah. that was like I think a nine. Eight and a half. Eight and a half. Nine. And this was a disappointment. But this one I look for forward to because I like fillings. So, this is the buttercream filling one. Let's test this one out. Yeah, that's better. It's like kind of marshmallow inside. I would say pretty nice. Yeah, it's like um Yeah, not a a regular custard. It's a marshmallow. Marshmallow. That thick whipped cream kind of flavor. I like that one. It's an eight out of 10. Now, this is We had to get this one. This is called the Dutch crown. So, obviously, we need to see if they can um match the Dutchness. It looks thicker filling. This is a weird one. It kind of tastes like a muffin. Yeah. Cake. Cake. It doesn't taste like a donut. It's like a donut shaped cake. Yeah. I already saw that the structure inside was like Yeah. It's It's crumb more crumbly. It's um It tastes good though because donuts are normally deep fried and this doesn't This is like more baked something. Tastes pretty good. It tastes good. But yeah, it's not a donut. No, but it's a good It's a good pref snack. But which one was now your number one? Yeah, the honey The honey dip was The honey dip was the number one. Just that's what most people tell me that the regular glazed donut is the best usually. And the woman behind the the bar or counter behind the counter said also the honey that was the most one. So that's true. Yep. Okay. So this was something to give the stomach a small layer on the bottom as a foundation for the breakfast. that's about to come and it's going to be a big one. Stay tuned. Thank you. So, of course, a little snack in between. You know, we could have gone for the big Cinnabon, but I just wanted the flavor of it. So, I got a mini BUN. Let's see what it tastes like. It's pretty heavy for a mini BUN. Never had this before in my life either. Let's test it out if I can find a way. No, a nice top up in between. Round two. So, we started with the donut. Of course, we just had some uh delicious cinnamon beignets. That was like a very small starter. Now, it's time for round one of this breakfast. Some bio buns sliders, some chips. And of course, this is my second coffee already, which I normally never drink. Let the carnage begin. It's time for the dessert of the breakfast. So, we have some cinnamon glazed pancakes. We have some apple crumble pancakes and some Nutella uh banana pancakes. These are for the manite, the camera, and Marley. But they probably won't finish it entirely. So, we'll see. I'll eat this entirely, and we'll see how much I have to eat of these. Let's go. We arrived at the Turkish village. So, um, we did shopping, try to find something for the kids. But now it's time for lunch. We're starting out with balloon bread, as you can see here, with some nice dip sauces. And I'm going to choose something protein rich because we got to hit our protein for the lunch as well. So, probably going to go for something uh like half a chicken with uh some special rice, some vegetables or something. The lunch is going to be the least special because after this, we're going to pick up some crispy cream donut donuts. uh cuz I still got to try out those. But for now, we got to fill up our protein demands, get some more calories in and uh yeah, get the day going because there's not much to do here in Detroit after having done the shopping. So, what do you do then? You shop around for food and that's what we're going to do. But for now, let's enjoy this beautiful balloon bread. Second order of balloon bread with some more hummus style dip sauce. We have baba ganous right there. One of our favorites. hummus with eggplant with tahini as well. We had that at home quite a lot. We love that. And some different styles of dips here. So, Turkish village, guys. The main course. We have half a chicken deboned, some grilled vegetables, and some golden rice. Of course, we can't miss that on a calorie challenge. So, let's enjoy this one. Finishing off the day, of course, with a traditional fast food chain in America. We have to choose one, but this one was very close. Dairy Queen. So, cheeseburger and an uh Oreo f brownie fudge blizzard. So, never had this one either in my life. And um yeah, let's enjoy this and tally up the calories. But don't worry, tomorrow I'm still getting the crispy cream cream donuts. But, you know, it was simply too busy of a day and we had to pack the suitcases and we were just very full. But hey, they're closed now. But for now, let's enjoy this one. Well, one lesson we have learned and that it's quite easy to eat 10,000 calories or more. I don't know the exact numbers, but the cameraman is going to put it in the screen. the amount of calories we literally ate today. You know, an estimate, but it's very close. But it's super easy to do because, you know, yes, I feel full now, but I could still eat if if I wanted to cuz, you know, the funny thing is I actually felt fuller before going to Dairy Queen than after. And I ate like almost 2,000 calories or something there or 1500. So, it's so easy to overeat on fast food, which is an important lesson for everybody that, you know, it's cheap, it's convenient, but it has a lot of calories. And mostly that third thing is very important to keep in mind um that you can overdo it in the calories because it's so cheap. So, compare that to getting the same calories in with whole foods, with fruits, vegetables, protein. You'll be a lot more full for sure. But uh let's just see what the weight is after uh such a day. 123.7. So that's uh what did I weigh this morning? 16 16 something. So that's let's just say it's around 6 and a half 7 kilos in one day. So, it's super easy to gain that weight of obviously it's all food waste water holding water because I haven't drank at all pretty much yesterday with the show. So, I'm going to be holding on to this water for a while. Uh, but it's so easy to gain so much weight. Probably will lose some weight overnight a little bit, but not too much cuz I'm going to be holding water for the next few days for sure. But yes, this was just a test to see, you know, how easy it is to gain that weight, to get those calories in in America. And there's no way I could have been doing this with my own diet. But it might be a, you know, an interesting experiment to do at home by actually following my regular diet and converting it to a 10,000 calorie diet with the exact same foods like the the fruits, the vegetables, the protein, the rice flour, the golden rice, just to see if I can make the 10,000 calories with that and to see how full or bad or whatever I feel with those kinds of food. So anyway, but there's one thing you haven't tried today and I think we're going to do it tomorrow. The crispy cream donuts. Yes, I still got to give my uh review on those. But in the morning, we're first going to train probably on an empty stomach. And then I already put in a pickup. Still a full stomach. Yeah. Or I'm still a full stomach but fasted. Uh, but I already put a delivery uh a pickup appointment with Crispy Cream cuz it's only a few minutes away from the gym. And then I'm going to give my review on those for you guys as well. And then it's going to be done with the unnecessary amount of foods. We're just going to be eating what my body tells me to eat for recovery. But I just wanted to try out this once in my life because I've never done this before. Until tomorrow. See you then. Heat. Heat. Well, I promise you guys, we are here at the original Crispy Cream location. Let's see what I ordered. So, we have the original glazed crispy cream donut. I got one for each of us, of course. Marley, meals, thank you. Whoa. Yeah, I have to say this one beats the donutville. So, what what would you rate it? This is in terms of I think a a glazed donut. I don't think you can beat this. How can you beat this? So, it must be nine and a half or higher. It's like I think it's a 10 out of 10. Yeah. For the donuts that I ever eat. It's like a for the Dutch people an oat bowl, an oil ball, but then more airy, more crispy and not as heavy. It's just perfect sweetness. Yeah. Normally in olib I already eat it. It's like completely gone in 20 seconds and I don't have a feeling that I eat any anything. So the donut. Yeah. Yeah. Normally when you feel have have oi bowl more dense. Yeah. You already feel that you eat one even though we can eat 10 of them also. But that is your but um once again that's so easy you can eat. I think this is but I never had a a little warm donut. No so fresh that it's so the rest we have to eat at home quickly as well because it's also still warm. And I had a lot more as you can see. So, we have six more at least. But we trained the legs. So, hey, we got to recover. But I think this was like 180 calories each. And that's like 180. Oh, that's okay. Yeah. But how easy that was. Yeah. Like if you want to do that with with yogurt or something, you it's going to take a while. All the special Hershey's versions, of course. Um, let's begin with the cookie crumb, which is this one. Oh, that feels more substantial. It's kind of like the glazed one with cookie crumb on top. Hey, that wasn't enough. It's a good one. It's a good one. Okay, next. I don't know which one this is, but it's uh more chocolate. This is a nice ganache filling. I mean, topping. Yeah, that's pretty good. It has shada vlog like we know in the Netherlands. This stuff, these little flakes, they put on the bread in the Netherlands on a sandwich with butter, which is then pretty much a donut anyway. So, tastes like home nostalgia. This is the ultimate version, the filled one. Let's test it out. I haven't gotten to the filling yet. Well done. This is Marley, guys. She's saying the filling is ghost cheese, which I highly doubt. on the basics and simples. Okay, we tested out crispy cream. Pretty good, but nothing beats the regular glazed version. But now we uh conclude this uh full and a half day of eating. My jaw is tired of eating all this food and I can't wait to get back on a regular diet to be honest. Just with obviously most bodybuilders, but now go to like a protein and vegetable diet for a few days, but I'm going into full recovery mode, which means energy needs to be supplied. So, we're going to move back to a golden rice victory meal, fruit, vegetable, fiber, omega-3, salmon diet, and that's what I'm looking forward to. So, um yeah, be on the lookout for a lot more of those videos. How am I going to improve my body? How I'm going to get bigger, stronger, and just better overall for classic physique. And I have a year to do it. So, let's do it. This is the start. We already bumped up the body fat percentage a little bit to get into the right zone already, but yeah, I can't wait to get back to a a bodybuilding diet with more calories. Anyway guys, thank you incredibly much for watching and until next time and don't forget to stay going.