What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding, and I'm going to show you guys classic bodybuilding in 15 days. Wow. Two weeks in one day. It's Thursday right now and Friday, September of 23rd. In the morning, that's my turn, the junior division class. And on Sunday, I have to go again up against the heavyweights. So, I'm excited, guys. As you can see, I'm doing some fastest cardio right now. After this, I have my first meal. And from then, every two to two and a half hours, I'll have another meal. And I feel great actually for being 2 weeks out and I have the best shape of my life. So yeah, I feel like I'm in the best shape of my life. And um just awesome, you know, I'm I'm on schedule. Everything looks great. I I'm seeing striations I've never seen before. And it's just an awesome feeling to know that I'll be able to represent classic bodybuilding the right way on that Arnold Classic stage. And I'm going to try to record everything as I mentioned before several times. And you know peak week is coming up in 8 days actually. Well yeah Friday of next week that'll be peak week. Now a lot of people think peak week is something magical. You know when you look know average before that week competition comp competitors think they can look amazing after that one week. But anyway, peak week is nothing special. It is only to get rid of extra water weight and put some more carbs into your body. So, it makes your muscles pop more. You lose the water under your skin trying to put it into the muscle. So, you'll look five, maybe 10% better. But if you don't look good already before that peak week, you won't look good at the end. But yeah, I'm gonna do my best to look the best I possibly can, and I'm not going to do it as extreme as I did before. What I did before was three days of no carbs while training like a maniac. No heavy weights, but a lot of sets, a lot of supersets, drop sets. This time, I'm going to take it more easy because why shock the body in the last week before competition? There's no way of knowing how you can rebound your body back to a proper state above what it previously was. So, what I'm going to do now is simply lower the carbs to probably about 50 carbs a day, you know, for 3 days and then gradually up the carbs until competition day. Every time looking in the mirror, seeing how I look. Um, and you know, not even going to adjust the water intake. Just going to keep it high throughout. At the last day, only sip water and that'll uh do the trick. But I'm going to record all of that for you to see. Look at this, man. Look at that beautiful scene. At least I like this. Look at that. Wait, a rabbit. Come on. Isn't this like a fantasy world? It's amazing. You don't even realize you're doing cardio. All different kinds of plants, trees, animals, sounds, and the best thing of all, for some reason, there's almost never anyone here except for me. But yes, uh this is actually the day after the training that I'm going to show you uh after uh this uh fast cardio. And I did chest and triceps in a different gym. I like to switch up gyms towards the end of my prep because different machines, different angles, you know, still the same exercises but different ways of performing, you know, of how the muscle feels during the exercises. Even the the bench press, the bars are slightly different, the machine, everything. So, so that's what I prefer to do. And uh actually the gym you will see me working out in is the gym I started out for seven years. When I was 14 to 21 I trained there which is pretty awesome. I've only trained one year in the gym after that and one year in the gym I started this vintage genetics channel in. So the roots are in the gym you're about to see. Oh, and if I don't forget, um I'm going to show you my first meal of the day as well. Uh which is an oatmeal. I think I don't think I've showed you yet, but I'm going to keep it in until the very end. Um I just love it. It's oatmeal is one of the best carbs for my body. You know, it's perfect. It's a low insulin spike carb. It has some fibers in it. There some protein, some fats in it naturally. Tastes amazing. And uh I just like to eat it in the morning and post-workout. I've been doing that for weeks now. And the effects are just amazing. Amazing. All right. All right. Just got back home. Look at that. I put my oatmeal actually already in the fridge. Put right there. Just close up the fridge. But uh this is just because I don't cook my oatmeal. I like it cold a lot better. So, I let it soak in almond milk. And I like to put in some banana. You know, fruit is healthy, guys. Regardless of what anyone says, I love fruit. It works. So, it's soaked right now, but I'm going to add some stuff to it that I'm going to show you now. So, obviously, the first thing we're going to add is whey isolate. And I'm just going to add 30 g of this. Well, 35 g of this cuz this is the fastest absorbing protein sourced for me in the morning. So, let's do it. I'm going to add some liquid egg whites, 100 grams of this uh to my uh oatmeal. So, let's do it. All right, we added it. And this is actually uh you know, the best biologically available protein for your body. So, I like to combine this in the morning as well. All right. So, here we go. We have the protein and oats meal with banana. And this tastes amazing. Actually, this is uh one of the two sweet moments of the day. Uh the way I taste great vanilla, you know, I like basic flavors. If I got chocolate or strawberry, banana or something, you know, I would not like it after a while. Vanilla always stays a staple uh as a taste for me. So yeah, I'm going to enjoy this and about 2 hours later, I'm going to have another meal. But let's enjoy. All right, guys. I have arrived at meal four, the preworkout meal. I just got back from the uh tenning bed, you know, went under there for 20 minutes. It's time to have my post or my pre-workout meal. I'm going to work out in about see 2 hours. So, you know, I like to at least eat 2 hours before working out because especially today it's hamstrings. So, you want an empty stomach. Anyway, let's check it out. All right, so here we go. What do we have here? First of all, what is this? This is sweet potatoes. I used 175 g. Uh, it is cooked/baked. You know, it's cooked sweet potato cubes, but I baked them a little bit. I only added 5 g of oil, total oil in all of this. Rape seed oil, actually. High in omega-3s. And this is white asparagus, big ones. And I added 300 g of pock fish, white fish. And that's my meal. It's simple. I didn't add a lot of fat. I did add the carbs for the workout. Add enough protein and some vegetables for the healthy and filling part of this meal. Anyway, I'm going to enjoy this and then train some hamstrings. Let's do it. Well, I just said we were going to do hamstrings, but I said earlier in the video that I was going to show you the workout of the day before. So, I did do hamstrings, you know, right after that meal, but I'm showing you the chest and triceps workout I did the day before yesterday. Um, yeah, this is at another gym and we're starting out with the bench press. And this is a gym that I started out in for 7 years. So I build my base in this gym. This is basically where it all started. Uh this is another city, you know, basically a town. I we moved basically. And that's the reason why we went to another gym. But when you start somewhere and you build your base somewhere, every time you return, it's just like, you know, going home, you know, feeling at home. And that's just awesome about this gym. you know, you still know all the people. Uh, all the guys who work out there, all the personnel, they know you, they understand you, they, you know, they like it when you're there. So, it's just awesome to be there again. Anyway, to the workout. We just did the bench press, as you can see, and I did go to 140 kilos or three plates of 20 on each side for 10 reps. So, I'm very happy that my strength remained intact. And that's what it's all about, guys. Keeping your strength even when cutting down to lower body fat percentages. I probably weigh around, you know, I don't know how much I weigh, but I weigh several kilos lighter than than the than the last time I did the same amount of weight. So, being still able to do it means my diet is on point. And this exercise is, you know, it's a slight incline uh chest press machine, but it's kind of it mimics the the bench press and it's but the difference is it's two different handles. So, you can stretch all the way down and it takes away the risk of a loose barbell. So, you can go all the way until failure without risk of injury because you don't need a spotter. The machine saves you. And this another machine, you know, as I mentioned, I like going to a different gym for the different equipment, doing the same exercises I usually do, but under slightly different circumstances. And this is a prime example. I am doing normally I would do dumb flies or a seated fly machine, but this machine is unique to this gym, so I'm using it. And it just gives this unique feeling. It's incline as well, but you're stuck in a position and it just goes very smoothly. You can stretch, you know, as far down as you want and there's no risk. You can uh save yourself at any time. You cannot drop anything. It's a safe movement and it's very easy to help cuz you know I'm standing behind Kane right now and I if I wanted I could just grab those two handles and help him do the weight. You know, you can do a lot of force reps easily, but the main thing here is to stretch all the way. And the nice thing about a machine like this is that you don't lose the tension at the top. So, when you go down, you stretch, but you can also go all the way up and contract. And that's something you cannot do with dumbbells as you lose the tension at the top. And then we move on to the chest machine dips. And you got to take a look at how I perform these. My body does not remain absolutely still. My upper body, I move it in accordance to how my chest contracts. So when I go up, I lean forward a little bit, stretching the chest. And when I press the weight down, I go backwards a little bit, allowing my chest to fully contract. So guys, if you want to work on your lower chest and you don't like to do body weightight dips or you just want to try something different, try doing a chest dip machine, you know, uh, put the handles as wide as you can cuz you can switch the handles from wide to narrow. Narrow would be for the triceps and putting them wide would be for the chest more, you know, emphasis on the chest more. So, when you go up with the handles, you angle your body forward, which means you get a bigger stretch. And when you go down, you angle your body backwards, allowing you to contract the chest and build some manly chesticles. And then next up, the cable chest pullovers. And the nice thing about this machine is that you can adjust the height of the cable itself. You can put it as high or low as you want and that's also unique to this gym. Uh we did in my gym pure fitness in uh Brada where I usually train. They didn't used to have those kind of settings but now you can. But still in this gym they have always had it for all the years I trained there. So I was used to it. But the nice thing about this pullover exercise is again I'm using my body in accordance to how my chest contracts. So I don't stay absolutely still. When I let the weight go up, you know, when I stretch, I pull my body downwards, angle my body downwards for the extra stretch on the chest. You know, it's kind of a feeling. It's kind of an instinct you have. You got to have a mind muscle connection, but once you do, you will be able to benefit a lot more from every exercise you do. And also, this machine is awesome. It's a safe way to build the long head of the triceps. It's an overhead tricep extension. This looks a lot like, for example, a French press or a skull crusher. It has the same effect, but because it's a machine and because you're fixed to a cable, you can go to the absolute max without risking injury. You can also go a lot heavier on this one without risking, you know, hurting your elbows because at any time you can just put the weight down, lower the weight, adjust, you know, your positioning and try again. But this is a very safe exercise. usually the machines and the cables, you know, with the ropes, it's all safe on the elbows. So, if you really find skull crushers annoying for your tendinitis and the elbows, which is understandably quite common, you know, it's a diff cold exercise to do, right? You can do machines like that and pretty much get the same result. And we arrive yet at another great machine, which I don't have at the at the other gym. And this one works the medial head and the long head because when you look at my triceps here, you know, when I do the movement, you don't really see me, you know, it's like I'm not fully contracting the triceps. You know, you can see the small head contract a little bit, but it's all about the long and the medial head here. You got to remember this is kind of like a pressing movement. And normally to train the small head of the triceps, you got to think about push downs, you know, rope push downs. But I see this as kind of a pressing movement with the triceps. And when you do a pressing movement, you work the medial head a lot more. And that gives you thickness of the triceps, which is exactly what I want to work on because triceps is one of the weaknesses of my arms, you know, basically of my physique. I just want to improve it. So improving the sweep of the triceps will make the arms look that much better even if you have a big bicep. The triceps will make or break your arm. And guys, this was the workout of today and there's a lot more content coming. The weekend is coming up and I'm planning to do a couple of videos for you guys. And I've had some posing practice and I can promise you one thing. You will be amazed by the performance that I'm going to aim for at the Arnold Classic. Well, in all seriousness, I'm just going to do my best to represent classic artful bodybuilding. And guys, do not forget to stay golden.