 It's lowrbanr First launch, first of the line. Time for Birmingham. Alrighty, so we are now at Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, waiting for the flight. I, of course, have my victory breakfast muffins. Instead of the oven cake, I just turned it into muffins. Same macros. And we've got the Made for Winners whey drip that we're going to make right now. There are 60 grams of whey in here, so I'm going to be adding 55 ml of water. Just like that. Mixing up with a silicone spoon. Absolutely important. But this is just a proof to you guys that this kind of breakfast you can have anywhere, anytime. You can always take it with you. Just prepare, and you'll be your best self you can be. So I'm going to use this as the whey drip dip to dip the delicious muffins in. Alrighty, a lot of muffins. Put them in there. Look at that. You can't beat this. Pure protein. Mmm. Mmm. You want to play caters again? Oh, with the car, with the suitcases, yes. I'm curious what he, what we get this time. I hope a van or something that would be suitable for the, I don't know, seven, eight, nine, nine plus suitcases for a week. I don't know how we get it, but it will fit at the end. At least now you already accounted for something big to take home with you. There will be a price. And there will be goodies. And there will be kid stuff. So I think we're going to need it. The chauffeur is testing the car, getting used to it. You know, we are in the UK, so we're driving on the other side of the road. The drivers, the wheels on the other side of the road. But we, as you can see, we had a van once again. Well, we had a minivan in the USA, and this is a proper multi-van. Volkswagen, or German. So that should be enough space for us. And the one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten bags we have. If not more. Well, guys, we finished the Tetris puzzle once again. But I like it, you know. Taking suitcases with us. With two children. And a possible, well, we need to take a trophy home with us regardless. You don't, you know, even when I was fifth, I still had to take a trophy with me. So we need space for that. And we love the foreign, or the overseas, or the different country supermarkets, the stores. And we always raise them, because it's close to Easter. And they have Cadbury chocolate here. So that combination is pretty epic. So we're definitely going to make use of that with the special Easter eggs and additions they have here. The caramel, guys. The caramel is unbeatable. This is a nice cozy English apartment. What I always do is check out the bedrooms to see which one we're going to select. We are in a vintage house again. Oh yeah, we gotta go for the vintage style. Okay, bedroom number one. What do we have here? Closets. And bedroom number two. We also have an upstairs. Number three. This reminds me of Detroit a little bit. Oh yeah, this is the one I'll take. Yep. Not the largest mirror. But I can adjust it a little bit. To check out the details. Yep. Alright. Let's unpack. And eat. And do the groceries. And do the groceries. There's always got one supplement that messes everything up. But that's why I love this. To be able to clean it immediately. Gold bunny. Lind. Lind. Oh. Deze. Dark chocolate. This one I actually found in Birmingham last year when I was here with Abel. Biscoff. The Biscoff version. We need that. A rice cooker guys. Because I literally just blew up the American one. Trying to put it in the outlet here. So we need to get that one as well. Again. As a premonition of 2024. Jesus. Are you kidding me bro? We got to get back here as well. They've got the Biscoff here. They don't even have it in the USA anymore. The pistachio overload. These are much more expensive than the American ones. Yeah. That's for sure. These look pretty like what I like. Ripe bananas. The riper they are. Compared to like a green one. The better they will digest. And digestion is everything during peak week. Can I take a picture? Yeah. Of course. Of course. Thank you man. I think I see one of your videos in the time. I looked for the food. Can't be. It can't be. You're amazing man. You've got amazing physique. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Inspiration to train harder at the gym. Yeah. Come from the gym as well. Oh awesome. Great. I just put the shoulders. You're loading enough proper food I see. Yeah. Nice. Good and healthy food. Yep. Perfect. Of course. Did you come first or second? First. First? You're doing the next shirt as well? I'm going to do the Arnold UK. Yeah. In like four days. So it's going to be Friday. Hopefully I can go and see you. Yeah. It's in the NAC. I only live around the corner so I can get tickets for that. Yeah. You can. You won't see me. My more name is Luis. Oh awesome man. Keep it up with work when you've got an excellent physique. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Can I take a picture with you? Yeah. Of course. For a lack of pumpkin we need some carrots. If they don't have it. Did I get the best eggs is the question. I did. I can't ignore when it says golden. I gotta trade. I gotta trade. A few moments later. Time for the pre-workout for Dino's gym. We have some beta-alanine right here. Yeah. It's going to be Wednesday. This one will be 20% off at least. With code Wesley. What beta-alanine does. Is it takes away the lactic acid at the end of a set. And it helps you pose for longer. It pretty much helps you just not feel that burn as much. So you have to take it every day for the effect. And then. We also take some crank pump 2.0. No caffeine though. Because it's already past 5 p.m. But I honestly don't even take it past 2 p.m. nowadays. As caffeine is a very very long half-life. And I take 40 grams of this. Because then there's an enormous amount of L-citrulline. To give you a very nice pump. And. It tastes incredible. This is a peach iced tea. Always a safe flavor to go with. Then you fill this up entirely with water. Just to ensure. The water and the ingredients will get into the mussel. And we have bought some bottles of water of course. Because the tap water here. Well. Did you guys know that the Netherlands has the highest quality tap water in the world? So we're used. You know. We're quite used to a lot. So. Whenever we are somewhere else. Like America. Even England. It doesn't really matter. The flavor is really not as good. And the quality also. I mean. I'm not making it up. It's actually the truth. So let's put this in. And bottled water always tastes better. Yes and no. You plastic fanatics. Don't like. The plastic being leached. In the water. But. It's what we do. And yes. This kitchen is a little smaller than what we're used to. So we have to make. We have to make do with what we got. But. We got it. And we're happy with anything we can get. As long as we have the space. And the possibilities. It's going to happen. Anyway. There's space. Yeah. Oh. That's it. That's it. That's it. It's funny how you can really look forward to. Drinking a pre-workout. Anyway. See you at Dino's gym. So Marley. How is it to be back? Good. As usual. Feels the same. I think he's more organized than before. I see. Re-react rates. So. It's good. Great. To be back at Dino's gym. The old school atmosphere. You can feel immediately. Just look at this machine. I mean. This is where you can feel at home. It was also the first time I came into contact. With the original. Gym 80 equipment. Gym 80. The 80s. And that's exactly what the gym is about. And which is. The source. If I eventually got you maybe for my own gym. Today is just going to be a simple back workout. Nothing too extreme. Exactly what I'm used to. To really make sure we're fresh for the competition. Throughout this day it's been amazing. As I mentioned before. The UK people. They love bodybuilding. The atmosphere is great. They really respect the sport. And it's so funny. Because it's pretty much. It's the same time zone pretty much. Feels like home. The flight was not even. Not even 15 minutes in the air. So it's so close. It's so different from the Netherlands. Whereas here they really truly love hardcore bodybuilding. And you know. The entire bodybuilding community here is just great. So really thankful for how much at home they make me feel. It's funny we have this modern version of this machine in our gym. But it still feels just as amazing back then. It's really unique. How's your matey dog? Able is having their birthday sale right now. 60% off. Up to 70% off with my code Wesley. For everything I've been wearing during my entire prep war. This is your chance. No excuses. Check out the drops. Check out the discount. Again code Wesley. This helps me out enormously but also yourself. Able does not do a lot of discounts. But this one is quite extreme. Up to 70% off with code Wesley. And thank you as always for the golden report. I thought the person felt lighter than the one at home. but no this feels just as time for a truly old-school cable pullover for the lats you know I always have to finish the back off with something like that and it creates those unique serratus muscle and probably also I don't even know what it's called the terras minor like on the back there like near the lats a lot of people have used me as an example how to create that and probably kill pro for some of the movements I always did it for the serratus and the V taper but you know that's just a necessary a bonus but you get also good good you know we're back what an earthy been eating what a difference we had to make a difference to get the title back yeah just to be sure got it back you know wow holy shit hey Bailey very good very confident looking forward to the show and we're back home in Dino's gym yes so the combination can't be beat yeah mate I'm telling you that yeah let's have a look here lats that's a reaction that's just a good one that's a good one holy as you know the guy behind the camera I've known him since he's that big but I have I was looking at some old photographs the other day it's amazing and we've all known each other for I mean I've literally just dropped Sam back just dropped him back oh really literally and then Dave phones up said some camera dudes trying to get in the gym I said don't worry it'll be nils but no mate what a difference I mean the difference from me taking you from upstairs bringing you down with your dad your mind and you know your girlfriend at the times I mean I looked at the boat she was tired yeah yeah yeah yeah and now you got you got having two kids yeah so many titles yeah yeah yeah whole family yeah no it's great we keep coming back yeah yeah coming back to the roots but it's it's a special place not just because you guys come here so it's the community and you can see they're all trying they're all looking across at you but nobody will bother you true yeah I also mentioned I get so close to home literally but the atmosphere is so different yeah yeah the people who love bodybuilding it feels it feels really like it more like something yeah yeah yeah so it's it's amazing but anyway nice to see you mate yeah I can't believe the transformation yeah I can't believe to be honest not only in its physique can I see the transformation but in your face as well because how can we put it went through a bit of a a rough time through because when things because I'm not saying you haven't hurt it but you've been on an upward trajectory yeah since day one yeah and then sometimes you know they get those little knocks whether it's an illness an injury or a couple of wrong decisions shall we say and you not so much to confidence but you know I could see it affected your personality but that's kind of proof to you how bad do you want to keep going absolutely absolutely yeah it's easy when it's going up yeah yeah that's when I was Arnold says you only fail is you don't get back up absolutely so we got back up and we made it happen again yeah brilliant and this is going to be the cherry on top for sure yeah it will yeah well sure it will to be honest I mean I don't know who else in this I'm not I know Mike left it but yeah the way you are at the moment I just think you're unstoppable and the leg developments as well that's the biggest difference yeah yeah we always talk about the legs and proportions it's been largely fixed now yeah and he did the offseason of last year yeah so I mean I'm just going to go into the show with a lot of passion and fun for bodybuilding yeah whatever the judge will decide is their decision yeah I hope Mike shows it at the very best so it's going to be a great battle yeah yeah whatever they choose if the classic champion that's what they choose but I'll just be at my best but that's for sure I think you've got that more of that egg shape now where you know where's no don't take this wrong way you're still you're still developing so you work I wouldn't say you was blocky but you're definitely more aesthetic now true do you know what I mean it fits more yeah yeah because I used to have like my waist is the most narrow yeah so if your legs go straight down yeah yeah it's like it doesn't go back in yeah yeah so now you have exactly that extra to really accentuate yeah the waist looks no smaller yeah bigger yeah yeah so but you've got a great sweep and your lats have popped out I don't know how I hope what's happened with the lats but but the sweep on your legs as well I noticed yeah yeah I mean that extra anyway that's that's enough talking otherwise if he doesn't get first place and it's going to be down to me because I'm fucking his trainer anyway this is Dean Dino and the current current current current Arnold champion Mr Wesley Vizzas let's see how he's going to do in the UK I think he's going to win it we'll do our best because we'll do our best can't go wrong in this gym and with someone so packing us Dino so let's keep going the detail in your dalt now son fucking incredible mate beautiful beautiful son piece of fish oh okay so white boys where are you white boys compared to uh well I was now measured at 63 a little about 63 so my weight limit went up six pounds more oh okay I used to weigh around 245 and now I'm at least on the show day 255 okay at least a good 10 pounds yeah yeah different I'm allowed to weigh 256 or something on the weigh-in yeah but I weigh a lot less during the weigh-in anyway okay okay so usually I weigh around 250 around the weigh-in so there's still more room to grow luckily but yeah we definitely made some weight improvements you know these surely you look 20 pounds heavier yeah just sets an ill's house and you look minimum of 20 pounds heavier put on the right places that's the illusion about classic bodybuilding yeah like yeah if you keep everything that's supposed to be small small and only the part of the eccentric the physique bigger then it looks a lot more impressive and your body looks healthy you don't look tired no you look to be tired you know yeah time yeah I feel I feel very very good yeah good thanks after the Arnold after Detroit yeah didn't tire me out at all I just kept going and I kept fueling me so I feel great yeah for sure yeah but you look like you put on at least 20 pounds to me it's madness it's madness I think this next offseason the weight will shoot up quite quick okay okay to you know just during the prep you're always going to bleed it down yeah you don't really reach on real weight yeah so I think after the spread the rebound will be quite quite intense yeah it's creature curl time for biceps you really don't want to go too heavy like with the concentration curl 35 is my max 35 pounds or like maybe 15 kilos then on here it's just the same nice and light and controlled even this is too heavy gotta go lighter again okay now we're there so and that's it guys that's already the very simple but effective Dino's gym back and fight workout done okay we got back from Dino's gym amazing experience obviously as you saw and now it's time for the post-workout victory meal rice flour and rice pudding some banana and of course the delicious you guys know it say it with me drip anyway I always eat this after the workout make sure to give designer weight a try guys make sure to give it a try right now still 20 off everything so check it out and otherwise if you use code Wesley you will always get the best possible discount on anything at ESN but that was the workout that was the video it's gonna be amazing we are four days out well the time really does fly tomorrow will be the last real serious workout Wednesday a pump workout and then the weigh-in so uh every single day we'll be posting a video if you want to see something in depth please let me know in the comments but this is going to be the third one in a row competition we're going to do so very very excited and of course thank you for watching and don't forget to stay good