What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it's all about classic bodybuilding. And it's been a while since I have uploaded a leg day video. And legs are definitely an important part of a balanced physique. So, here we go. And this is another type of training. switch it up a little to make my legs, you know, experience something different. They're my weak point, so I'm working on them hard. So, the first exercise is the leg press. Warming the legs up. I personally don't go much lower than 90° because then my lower back, if I would go lower than 90°, would take over too much. You know, you would feel a strain on it. And that's not what I want because I want to feel it purely in my quads. I want to feel the constant tension there rather than involving other muscles. So the next exercise now is the famous back squat. And what I've known about myself regarding squats is that I'm simply not flexible enough to go much deeper than 90°. And for all you guys out there like me, the thing is usually it's your ankle flexibility that is a culprit when you're a tall person. And that's why I'm using a little platform as you can see about 4 cm or so tall to put my heels on. And this reduces the angle in my ankles when I go down. And this allows me to go much deeper on the squat because you don't have to be as flexible with your ankles. And but you know, uh I'm doing a 100 kilos here, but after this video, I had I've already been able to squat much deeper and do a lot more weight. Uh if you're not used to squatting like this, it'll only take three to four weeks to get your regular strength again because you really have to get used to this, you know, to this depth and to this stance. But um you know now you will squat properly and target the quads, the hamstrings and the glutes to the max. And actually it feels a lot better. You know I used to feel it way too much in my back because my ankles wouldn't allow me to go deep enough. I couldn't go deep enough straight. So my back would just tilt over. Uh well, I'm glad that's over now. And I might do a specific video on the difference that it made for me personally. And I would recommend you guys if you have trouble going deep enough on the squads to use a platform like this and let me know how you experience it because I am loving it. So now it's time for some dumbbell lunges. Walking dumbbell lunges. And I try to incorporate these into every leg workout from now on. One day it would be the walking lunges as you can see right here and the other day it's stationary lunges using a platform to step on back and forth. But the walking one is the most difficult. The reason I'm doing lots of lunges now is because I went to this guy who does deep tissue massages, especially for legs. And he has lots of bodybuilders as clients, but he told me that the muscles in my legs are really tightly held together. You know, they're really tight. And that's why it's always been hard for me to get a lot of separation in the quads when on a bodybuilding stage. Even when I died down, the separation is still, you know, it can be better. And it was really hard for me to actually get in between or it was actually hard for him to get in between the separate quad muscles with his hands because they are so tight. So he recommended uh doing stuff like walking lunges, using my balance, using those intricate balancing muscles while using wide steps to stretch out those quads and loosen them up a bit. So that's why I now also like doing deeper squats, deeper hack squats, Tom plats, hack squats, etc. to improve my legs because the tighter the muscles are, the more difficult it is to make them grow. So, as I always say, the stretch is the key to growth. And now it's time for the hamstring portion of the workout. And I almost like lunges in between the quad portion and the hamstring portion because lunges target both. So, it's a nice time. So, this is probably my favorite hamstring exercise, the laying leg curls. You stretch the hamstrings all the way out, feeling the burning stretch. You know, you really want to feel the stretch. Not just stretch it out, but feel the stretch. And then squeeze hard when you're at the top. Try to keep your upper body flat to the bench uh you're lying on because this makes sure you involve purely the hamstrings and otherwise your lower back and glutes would assist you in the movement. And normally this doesn't matter that much, but when your hamstrings are a weak point, you really want to target it specifically. And trust me, you will feel the difference. And what I like to do for hamstrings is really fill them up with blood. Then when your hamstrings are pumped up, I like to stretch them out again in the next exercise. And I like to do at least two different exercises be before I do a stretching exercise for the hamstrings. So this is the standing leg curl. If it's not available in your gym, try the seated leg curl or even the laying leg curl with one leg could be an option. But the thing is that you are really able to feel that deep squeeze and contraction when doing the standing leg curl. And this is the best pumping exercise for me because it's so easy to use the hamstrings here and not the lower back or the glutes. Now, some people do ridiculously heavy on here, but I try to stay at a pretty light weight because individually, without aid from other muscle groups, the hamstrings aren't that strong. So, don't force it. All right, now it is time to stretch out those hamstrings we just pumped up with those two exercises. So, the better the pump in your hamstrings now, the more effective the stretch will be and the easier it is to feel the stretch. And try to keep your legs just very slightly bent because sometimes when you keep your legs totally straight, it will put a strain on your lower back and especially when you go heavy, you don't want to do that. So go all the way down. Feel the weight. Pull on your hamstrings. Really feel that stretch. Don't stop going down until you feel that stretch. And Tom Plaz used to do a lot of stretching for the hamstrings like this as well. And we all know how big his legs were. And then go back up contracting the hamstring and the glutes. And this is a great finishing exercise for the hamstrings. And it's more of a shaping movement for hamstrings and separation and detail. Now we move on to the calves. And I'm only doing one exercise here, but you will understand shortly why sometimes only one exercise does the job for calves. One thing you have to always remember, the calves are probably the most frequently used muscle in the body in terms of stretching and contracting throughout the day because when you walk, you push your body upwards with one calf contracting it and the other calf is in a stretching position. Now, because your calves are used to this movement, you want to do something they never experience. First of all, stretch as far as you can. So go as low as you can and go up as high as you can. You have to use your calves beyond what they are used to. And on top of that, as you can see, your calves are only used to your body weight, but they are not used to 400 kilos of strain on them. You know, this is almost 900 lb. And Arnold himself used to do heavy weights like this to make his calves grow, and it certainly paid off for him. This calf exercise is called the donkey calf raise, by the way. One of the few exercises for calves that you can go really heavy with. And as you can see, in Arnold's time, they didn't always have this machine or it simply wouldn't go heavy enough. So, we just use some of his gym buddies as weight. A great solution indeed because his calves did grow tremendously. You know, for calves, you sometimes have to go really heavy. Now, I'm not saying you should go as heavy as this. Always make sure to keep good form because, as you can see, I'm still going all the way up and down. So, choose a weight you can do six to 10 clean reps with as your last set to really tell those calves to grow. And that was the video for today, guys. I got a huge list of videos ideas to work out such as lean bulking and the cutting video golden recipes. Number two, how to use the Actifry and the recipes for it. Some people have requested that quite a lot to in person actually. another Q&A and lots more nutrition and supplement videos coming up as well. So, keep on the lookout for those guys. And I want to thank you for watching and don't forget to stay golden.