I'll probably say something useful in about 5 minutes. This is going slower than I thought. What's up, guys? This is going to be a very special and interesting video. As you can see by the title on the thumbnail, I've been uh you know doing something very different from usual as a bodybuilder cuz I'm going to do the graft hybrid competition and endurance competition which means it's going to be 1 hour at least of hard work, endurance work, stamina work, aka the exact opposite of what I normally do. So, why would Wesley Vissers, the Dutch Oak, the bodybuilder who wants to win the R Classic, the Mr. Olympia who wants to build muscle, why would he do an endurance event? Well, we are in the offseason. We're getting heavier and heavier. And a lot of bodybuilders think cardio is a waste of calories. It's about building muscle in the offseason, not about burning energy. But highintensity cardio is very important for heart health, for keeping stamina high. It directly helps you uh recover from heavy exercises, especially during a leg day. And you guys know how important leg day is for me, especially with techniques like the FSD7 from Hani Ramut, for example. Very important for me to be able to recover from this. So, I'm doing the ski movement for example, as in high-intensity training to make sure I get my heart rate up, get my heart healthy. So I was like, well actually Marley was like, why not do the graft hybrid which is basically like if you guys know high rocks but then without the running. Yeah, it's uh really challenging. It's really going to be at least yeah an hour of endurance, a lot of sweating, a lot of effort. But I just wanted to experience this once. Obviously, this is not something you should really do full force as a bodybuilder, but it does kind of motivate you to do the hit cardio in the offseason. Challenge yourself to do something different. So, this is actually going to be my first full training for the graft hybrid. I've been doing the separate movements on my stories if you follow me at Wesley Vis Instagram to the ski movements, the bike, but never having done the complete workout. So today's the first one and the next one you guys are going to see is going to be the real deal at the EMS. >> Okay guys, we're here at the EMS holding a mic because it's so loud in here, but I'm here for ESN. I'm Jim 80 mostly. But Marley persuaded me to do something I would normally never do, an hybrid craft endurance event. So there's only one thing left for me to do. And of course taking my trustworthy crank golden pump for the best possible workout performance. So, let's take two suits of this to get ready for that event. Let's do this. That should do it. There we go. >> Warming up, but I have no idea what I'm doing. >> Marty, how confident are you? My chins are not so comfortable with the Barbie box, with the wooden box, but we will see. >> Confidence is now the seven I think a seven out of 10. >> And the confidence in Wesley uh to be honest, >> a six out of 10. So I know some some things will he do one of the best but uh it depends on we have a long day today. We start the morning I think around 7. We are here the whole day already making photos and etc. So you're a little bit tired so you're not fresh in the race but we will see. We do our best and that's it. >> So how is your confidence level right now? >> Over 9,000 of course. Well, what I'm on right now is going to be the most difficult obstacle of the whole course. The rest you just get tired, which is something that I'm used to, but this is going to be technical. I have to be careful here. So, the only thing I'm not going to rush is the burpy box jumps, which sounds horrible. I know. The rest I'll just uh do my best to do as quickly as possible, but uh this one is going to be the challenging one. But yeah, we'll see. Kind of excited. So, it's going to be a an interesting one for sure. >> We're ready to start >> with Ali and Wesley. You guys are ready? >> The truck is ready. Let's go in 10 seconds. Stand by. 3 2 1 go. Heat. Heat. Heat. This is going slower than I thought. Hey, Heat. Why does everything have to be in a CrossFit way? Front drag. Come on. The least flexible possible way. You don't get over here. Open up. Hey, arms. Oh, >> I'll probably say something useful in about 5 minutes. >> Before you say a six out of 10, what you what do you think afterwards? >> How I'm feeling? >> Yeah. >> Or what? >> And also, what do you think of Wesley's performance? >> Now, I'm feeling like a five until six. We could be better in the future if you like, but this is of course not Wesley's sport. you're not you cannot be good in bodybuilding and condition as well but for a bodybuilder he did pretty good and he gave everything he could so that's the most important thing for me if he like lacking of performance or didn't give 100% I will be annoyed but he did give everything he could so I'm proud of him so he did just fine >> okay I uh I knew of course this would not be a success but I really wanted to experience this at least once. Some of you guys know we have our own vintage gym. Used to be a CrossFit gym. This is not CrossFit, but it comes pretty close. Kind of like High Rocks, but then without the running. So, I was like, "Okay, if it's not running, maybe I have a chance." At least I think, you know, the time wasn't the most terrible possible. So, obviously Marley carried me through a lot of these movements, but uh I have a lot of respect for these endurance athletes for sure. And I still feel it in my lower back, my quads, my shoulders, everything is on fire. So, uh, it was an amazing experience. Probably lost two liters of water. So, after this, we're not going to go out to eat, of course, to refuel the muscles cuz this was just one thing for fun in between. And once again, lot of respect for people doing this kind of sports. Anyway, time to uh enjoy some food. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.