competitor from the Netherlands. Travel isn't over yet. The rank will go just up classic all the time. Wesley Pissers. Three. There is some slap back off that wall. One, two, and we are now uh in the backstage area. So, this was the dressing room yesterday where we were relaxing. So, now you can kind of a view what looks like backstage at the finals. And then here was the tanning touchup for the lights. And this was the pumpup room as you can see. Kind of like uh benches, the bench press, dumbbells, a lot of cables and stuff, mirrors, which is important. That's always nice to have that the Arnold provides. This how does it feel to be back here? Feels pretty good. This was the stage where it all happened and now this is going to be the stage once again where Arnold will be on the same stage as myself. So that's always amazing experience. All the chairs already there for all the winners of the Aro Classic and I've always watched this live at home and now I'm one of the guys who's actually going to be sitting there. So it's still a surreal experience and it's going to be an awesome one. So, in about um three or I mean 45 minutes, I think it's going to go down and uh it's going to be a nice one, guys. A true one-of-a-kind experience. I'm really still over the moon about what happened. And I think everybody is shocked. Yeah. Yeah. Including myself. I think everybody's shocked about it. Yeah. Him. Yeah. He's just not just a coach, he's also a friend, supporter of us. And you can see how much he cares. And now I'm happy for him as well because he deserves to be recognized as such a good coach. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing. All right. This next gentleman is the epitome of classic physique. He looks like he could have climbed out of 197 something and he lit up this stage and finally got himself an Arnold Classic Championships. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome your new champion, Wesley Vissers. What's up, big man? All right. So, I know Wesley from a few years ago when we started the uh international expansion of the MPC worldwide. I actually uh got the task of putting on the shows in the United Kingdom. And this gentleman uh showed up at our very first show in London. Uh got himself a pro card and I said then I think this guy's got something, man. He's he's going to be good. And uh I remember that like it was yesterday, Wesley. And I know you do, too. We were talking backstage and here you are. You find yourself on the Arnold stage. You got to be nose to nose with the with the man himself. Uh a man that you've emulated. You look very similar. A lot of people think you like you would look like a Arnold 2.0. So congratulations. How how' it feel last night? Yeah, it just feels as I mentioned a lot of times before just unbelievable that literally almost to the day six years ago I was indeed winning my pro card in the classic physique for the first time and now to win the Arnold Classic guys is just unbelievable. I mean, thank you very much. It's um it's a true dream come true. Not only did I win the R Classic, but I also met my idol Arl himself. He awarded the prize. He awarded the jacket. So, I couldn't be happier than this. Well, you had a good good premonition or preview, whatever you want to call. Uh Arnold actually made his way to the athletes meeting this year, which I don't think I ever remember him coming, but came in a day early. He says, "I want to go to the athletes meeting." Uh you actually got to get a selfie there with Arnold. So, I saw that was important. Is that the first time you've ever gotten a picture with with Arnold? Yes, that was the first time I saw him walk in. I was like, "Okay, this is my opportunity." And it uh brought a lot of luck and fortunate because, you know, now this happened. So, literally every single day since I was here, I've seen and shook Arnold's hand already. So, very special. Well, it was a special moment on stage. Um, Raone Dino was the favorite coming in by far and he's been right there. He's been on Sebum's heels at every Olympia. These two go neck and neck. He came in as a heavy favorite. I'm sure you knew that as you follow the sport as well. Um, when did it occur to you that I got a shot to beat this guy? Was it the prejudging? Did you think you were close? And then they were going into the night show. But when did it dawn? I knew like I think I can win. I think I can beat them. Well, actually during the meet of the athletes, which is the day before, I did a check-in with my coach. So, I snuck outside for 5 minutes, told everybody, just wait for 5 minutes. We got to do a check-in. Very important. And that's when we realized, wait a second, we actually got a chance tomorrow. And then I went backstage. I saw everybody get undressed. You kind of look at your competition. And then I also realized, okay, this is going to be a battle, not just a comparison, but an actual battle. And after the pre-judging, we saw the pictures and my coach also gave me some incredible feedback. And then the battle was on. And then later that night, we won. Well, this was your all-time best. I've seen you in many shows, called many of your shows throughout the years. I feel as though this is the best I've ever seen you. You agree? Yes, for sure. Way better than ever before. Everything came together, the fullness, the classic package, but also the conditioning, which has always been the thing people wanted to see. Now everything came together and it shows as uh yeah, the result that was uh what I wanted to be. Well, this was huge. Not just the fact that you won the title, uh but you put yourself in in that little elite crew with hers, who looked fantastic yesterday, of course, and Raone Sebum. Um I'm sure he's got at least another one in him. So, but your name's going to be in there with that crew now of possible contenders for the title. So Wesley, congratulations. Your Arnold Classic title and another number one contender to the title Jub. He's filming you. Look at that. See, you got It's all about social media, isn't it? Hey, Johnny. What's going on, brother? There you have it, folks. Winning class of 2024 here at the Arnold. No, congratulations. Yeah, I'm in the company of greatness. No, no, they're in the company of greatness. Let's Let's just get this right here. Okay, buddy. Have to say is two words that are not his name. Yeah, buddy. Give it up for the other eight time Olympia champion, Rody Coleman. Huh? No, man. Listen, man. Come on. We go back, bro. You ain't coming out with no sleeves, not hitting the arm shots, man. Come on, bro. When you talk about the people's champ, he will always be that guy. Give it up for Jay Cutler. Jay, Ronnie, Jay, Phil, Lee, Haney. This new guy is Wesley. That's Hottie. You know, Hottie Ramad, right? What's up, champ? Everything's great. Gee, what a welcome everyone. Or I can learn Dutch. You know, maybe you teach me some Dutch. Hardest language in the world. The hardest. Um, I would love the challenges. You know that. Um, Wesley, you you're seeing some some bodybuilding royalty here as it would be. Some of these guys, I'm sure you grew up idolizing and going into bodybuilding, but when you started, I don't even think there was a classic division yet. What made you decide to go classic instead of open? Well, the very first competition I've done in 2013, um, I fell in love with bodybuilding, just like Ronnie Coleman during his first competition and I was already called the Dutch oak without me even realizing what it really meant. Of course, Arl himself is the Austrian oak. And actually, from that moment, I started watching the bodybuilding documentaries and the first one I watched was pumping iron. And that's when I realized, wait a second, finally a tall guy like Arnold who were pretty much the same height also looked incredible. And I saw the resemblance. So that's why the knowledgeable people within bodybuilding in the Netherlands told me, "Hey, you're actually kind of like Arnold back in the day. And it's been so long since we've seen someone like this." So calling me the Dutch oak, they wanted to motivate me to keep this up because at the first competition I was tall but I was no nowhere near the mass I have today. So they wanted to see that potential come to fruition and um you know watching Iron but honestly also Ronnie Coleman's videos really motivated me because one thing you need to do when you're tall is fill out your physique and the only way to do so is simply lift heavy weights. And that's what I need. That's heavy ass weight, correct, Ronnie? Is that right, and solid? There's a difference there, Ronnie. Right. Everybody want to be a bodybuilder, but don't nobody want to lift no heavy ass weights. And Ronnie, for the record, I'll do it every time, though. What is the difference? Like, where's the defining line between heavy weights and heavy ass weights? A heavy ass weight is heavier than as only Ronnie could say, right? So now you know where that line is. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's clear. They're heavier. Yeah. But I I could tell from that video they were pretty heavy. Oh, you could. Yeah. You didn't need to know nothing. All you do is watch that video and you could see exactly where that line is. Right. Ronnie, you went way over the line by the way. So that's for sure. But uh do you see yourself Hotti Chupan started in the 212 and he was a very successful bodybuilder in the 212 but he he outgrew the 212 Mr. Olympia. Is this something you see down the road for yourself and I know your career is fairly the beginning stages but with your physique, your height, uh uh size, shoulder width and all that. I think a lot of people could make a case that and I'm sure you've gotten this a lot. Hey man, why don't you go in the open? you can be standing next to these guys, the best in the world. I've actually heard this a lot, but I heard it mostly when I didn't um you know fare as well as I do today against the other guys in the classic physique uh competitions, but right now I'm you know since two days ago pretty much at the top of the division which is still yeah unbelievable to me. Where are you with the weight? I mean obviously as most people know the your division has a heightened weight restriction. Uh what's the cut off for you? For me, it's 249 lbs. 249. So, where do you come in? Uh 246 with the jogger and the t-shirt on. So, there's still room to grow. Um Yeah. Well, listen, 3 lbs of pure muscle is good muscle, right, Honey? I mean, that's not that's not an easy thing to do. Three or four pounds of muscle is going to really fill out his frame. And I was very impressed with the package you brought. Thank you. You looked amazing. And I think that you're going to continue to grow, especially as you start to bring that confidence now that you won because you didn't place second a couple of times at a show like this. You came kind of as a dark horse and then was so exciting to see you win and I think uh that brings a lot of momentum to you. So congratulations. Yeah, thank you very much. Appreciate that. Wesley. Um, one of the other considerations of course isn't just in the physique because easily you could probably be in great shape and put 10 pounds on and be in that uh position to be a contender for the Open. Uh, but the paycheck's a little bit bigger. Difference between 50,000 and, you know, 500,000. That's a that's a heavy ass check, Ronnie. Right. Uh, so was that a motivating factor? And again, we're not talking about right now. I mean, the shine right now. Listen, you're the champ. you're going to the fresh off a victory that's going to put you in a great spot going for the Olympia obviously, but but I'm talking maybe two, even three years down the road. Is that something you might consider? Well, first of all, I want to say that I respect the open class a whole lot, even more year after year, because it's not like I am not trying to become bigger, right? It's like I'm doing my very very best. You're not holding yourself back. No, no, I'm not like purposely not doing an offseason because I'm close to the weight limit. I'm doing my best to max out my physique. So, it's not just an easy thing to be, okay, in two or three years, I'm going to be with the open guys and be with them. It's a it's a higher level of bodybuilding for sure. You're in So, you're in no hurry to stand next to. No, no, no, no, no. Nobody is exactly as yesterday. I mean, just was incredible. It was incredible. Well, you were incredible and um your routine was incredible. I mean, you have just a consumate I've said this since I met you six years ago when you turned pro uh the United Kingdom. When you say classic physique, and this has always been a big question, right? Because what is classic physique? And it's, you know, it's got to be more than this, right? Cuz we see a whole lot of these and a whole lot of twisting uh poses, but is it a look? Is it the physique? Is it just that the trunks are, you know, back what they used to wear, right? They're a little bit bigger and all that, but I think you have the look of classic physique. Meaning like I could put you I could open up a magazine from 1978 and if I saw you in it, I'd be like, "Yeah, okay." Like that wouldn't shock me. But you have that throwback look to a physique of that era, which I think is kind of indicative of what the class is, right? Yes, I believe so. It's like like you say, you know it when you see it. It's not like something you can describe on a piece of paper. And that's where where the judges come in. They are the ones who decide what the true classic physical look is supposed to be. And I do think a statement has been made by making me the winner of the Aral classic in the classic physique class. So I uh Yeah. Well, it's a great statement and I'm uh there's no doubt in my mind you agree with the judge's decision. Of course. Of course. I mean, there's no better person than Arv calling me a golden era bodybuilder from the time that he was. How cool was that? Yeah. I mean, the cl the class is called classic physique, referring to a time of before to the golden era and back when he was the best and Laro, he was challenging him. So, when you're compared to those guys, Arnold himself, I mean, what better compliment can you achieve? Yeah. I mean, it's as literally it's as as good as winning the the title, right? I mean, just having those accolades coming from I mean, that's Arnold, right? That's the guy. Exactly. I mean, that's it has always been my childhood dream and talking, you know, being on this panel today is still I can't even fathom that I'm part of this right now and that I've talked to Arnold to face to face with him. I mean, I've been watching him, as I said, for more than 10 years now as my idol in bodybuilding, and to then be awarded the prize by him is just an incredible feeling, and uh it motivates me to do way better in the very near future. All right, thank you, Wesson. Please welcome the man, the myth, the legend, Arnold Schwengger. Yeah. Yeah. My own mic. He's got his own He gets his own microphone at his own Arnold. Everybody Everybody Arnold. Lucky me. Look at that. Arnold, congratulations once again. Your team did an outstanding job. What a great weekend. You saw a return past the co years last year, but this year it looks like we're back to business as usual. Expo jam-packed with people from all over the world and the show fantastic. Congratulations. Well, thank you very much. And I just want to say that that it feels so good to sit up here on this stage in front of all of you with such great champions. These are the people that have all contributed so much in building the sport of bodybuilding and making the millions of people out there getting kind of turned on to bodybuilding and going to the gym. Everyone always needs inspiration and I think the ones that you see here on the stage have given so much inspiration to so many millions of people. So I really appreciate that the great work that you've done. And so we also very happy that we were able to give Chay uh the lifetime achievement award and uh because you know it's one thing to become a champion and not only a champion but a great great champion but then there's another thing to really go all out in promoting the sport and I think that's what Jay has done for you know his whole life and so it's really great he's very articulate the way he speaks and everything like that and so is everyone else here on this stage. It's really great. You know, Arnold, I think some of that can be attributed to by the addition of our classic physique division. It seems since we brought that in and the popularity's gone through the roof that a lot of the bodybuilders, not just in classic, but in open um have taken note of that and the posing has improved and the stomach control and the vacuums have come out and of course your three quarter the iconic 3/4 back pose is got to be in anybody's routine now. Um and we saw some of that great with with Wesley Visser, your 2024 champion. Uh posing absolutely extraordinary uh and a pure throwback. I think Wesley um epitomizes the look of classic physique. So I think that has really helped uh to do everything that you're saying. Absolutely. And I have to say your posing and uh your physique was extraordinary. I mean, you're the true winner of that uh uh category and uh I think you were fantastic and I think that people will be looking up to him for a long time to this kind of a physique. So, thank you very much for the great job that you have done. Thank you for the incredible compliments, Arnold. You're my idol in posing. I've been watching you for literally 50 years, your old posing routines, slowing them down on YouTube, seeing exactly how to how the transitions are that you do. and I've been learning and uh by your teachings on YouTube and trying to mimic that every single day and I'm glad that uh I was able to show it at the AR classic stage. So, thank you. Thank Thank everyone up here on the stage. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you all for being here today. We appreciate it. So, what do what do you think about it? It was a beautiful experience and yeah, what the [\h__\h] All those great heroes on one stage. As you can hear, I lost my voice. I screamed a little bit too loud but uh it was like an amazing experience and I think that Wesley was in a dream dream dream come true and I don't know if he realized it but uh in a few weeks we are home and then I think that it's coming in and it's such an amazing experience. So uh we are going to enjoy this and uh yeah just enjoy How did that feel with the greatest on stage? I walked backstage. So I was the first one then walks in like Jay Cutler, Phil Heath, Ronnie Coleman was sitting there, Hanny Ramadi, I mean all the champions of the our classic. It was just an unbelievable field of highlevel legends in bodybuilding. And I'm super, you know, I was sitting with them at the same panel and actually being recognized as a champion. And I think um well, I'm going to make sure that this is just the beginning of a lot more because you know the feeling I feel right now is what I've always been chasing for many years, what you guys have been telling me for many years as well. And now it finally happened. So we got to grasp this and never let go. So this is just the beginning of a lot of many fruitful years partly but mostly thanks to you guys. So uh it's been incredible and now it's time to eat something because uh this was quite a few hours even though I was sitting there. I was forced to wear this leather jacket and I sweat out half my body weight. So it's time to replenish. Okay. So, I was sitting there for well I only had my breakfast at around 8 a.m. and uh we've been sitting there for like well we weren't done until 1 or even later. Now it's 2. So it's been um a lot of hours let's just say since I had a meal. So it's time for the pre-workout victory meal. Some rice flour on top. Some frozen berries, strawberries and blueberries. Health is key, guys. Don't underestimate this and also makes it delicious. On there is some uh design away milk chocolate flavor to get the protein there. So why is this my pre-workout meal? It contains carbohydrates to fill in the glycogen stores energy for the exercises. So I'm going to train the chest today. So whenever you do a chest movement, you contract those muscle fibers and those use up glycogen and you get a very nice pump if you get this carbohydrates in the system. also put some salt and some ESN salon cinnamon throughout the rice flour and on top of course the design away which I told you about but that's the protein source with all essential amino acids to ensure that I won't go catabolic that you will get an anabolic effect from the training and uh throughout the whole training and also post-workout where I have a similar meal like this but anyway let's enjoy all righty we are here at the beautiful Armory Gym once again. It's now a Sunday, which means I still have today and tomorrow to train. And Tuesday will be a very interesting workout with a lot of legends, current legends in the sport. So, be on the lookout for that one. But for now, we're going to train the chest. Nothing too heavy, probably just an hour of training, but we're still going to use the muscles accordingly to get back in the groove. nothing to failure. Sticking around two sets from failure, not forcing anything, just getting the blood flow going because I already have, if you watched yesterday's video about the legs, uh I already had muscle ache in the legs from that workout alone. So, uh I'm going to have the same experience here. So nothing too much because too much muscle leg is too much inflammation, too much water, blurring the visuals, and we want to keep this shape pretty much the same to assess getting even leaner for the Honor Classic UK. Incline chest press, hammer strength feels very good. I'm actually keeping a fairly wider grip than usual because then my lower arm is in line with my elbow and it feels like a very natural press. Just really focus on the chest. Not try to extend all the way out because then the tension is on your elbow and it will cause too much fatigue. All the stimulus is in the stretch part. So go up around 80% and go back. Keep the tension there. Go for the maximum stretch and go for the stack of the wrist on top of the elbow to make sure the line of force is agreeing with your anatomy. Now, we're going to do some steps in between sets to keep the uh energy output high, to keep the fat burning high, cuz I'm super motivated to show that for you guys at the next competition. The bodybuilder in me wants to keep going, but the smart man in me tells me, "Stop before you go too far, because then you can still show this ultimate definition. All right, chest flies done. That was all for the chest. Now we're going to move on to the side delts. This is pretty nice machine because it's a great stretch, but also great retraction. Let's not make it too difficult if it doesn't have to be. I'm automatically getting, you know, hitting close to failure quite fast because yes, I did load a lot of carbs, but you expend a lot of them as well. And then the energy is low in your system. You just notice that you can't really extend the set as much and then you should not do that because if you do there's only fatigue and not a lot of steaminess. Dino's gym. Do you hear this? That's a sign that we're coming to the UK with a lot of good charm and good luck. See you there, man. The pump has been achieved. old side tricep extension as I'm used to 100% fidgety our own gym you can do anywhere as long as you have ankle cuff put it around your hand and do extension like this in line with the upper arm zero elbow pain 100% tricep stimulation feels really good man this it is what's keeping me on a high level of execution even in the last days before a contest. Pick movements. They're light on the joints, heavy on the muscle. Oh yeah, great stretch. We just pumped up the triceps. Now, every time I go down here, enormous stretch, as I always say, is a stretch that causes the most stimulus for muscle growth. All right, got a very good pump, which is a good sign. The body is fresh, even though two days ago I already did a trillion push-ups backstage to pump up for the show. a lot of bicep curls, push-ups, side raises, back uh growing from that. I actually didn't have muscle ache, but I did have muscle ache a little bit in the legs and the glutes from contracting them very hard and sage. But these workouts feel really great. I can finally put some energy back into the training itself. Get a very nice pump. And now it's time to fill those muscles up with some fresh pose workout glycogen with the postworkout victory meal. Let's go. I think I used this whisk a little too much today or I mean this whole week cuz this is not mine. This is from this Airbnb. But I finished at least the base of my post rocket meal. Let's just uh try to make something out of it. Put it away. Hope you'll notice. But um this is the base. Gonna put some well, you just literally saw what it was going to become. So, I'm going to put some frozen fruit on there. Fruit. Put some salt in there as well. Some ESN salon cinnamon. Once again, salon cinnamon is different from the cinnamon in the supermarket, which is usually cashia cinnamon. This you can eat every day as much as you want. Cashia cinnamon you can't because it creates toxins. It builds up toxins in the body, which is not a joke. Look it up. And this causes insulin sensitivity, which in short means these carbohydrates will more easily go to muscle cells rather than fat cells. So that's in there. I also, of course, I'm going to put on there designer whey protein. Trust me, guys, these flavors are absolutely incredible. I make the whey drip from this, which you can see always on my Instagram, Wesley Visitors, and you can always use code Wesley for the maximum discount on the ESN website. And I really thank you if you use my code for that support because it means the world to me because that allows me to be investing in these shows and the investment I made in the Armor Classic has been paid back a millionfold with the victory. Not just the victory but also everything around it. I mean I met Arnold Schwarzenegger. He talked to me multiple times. It's a dream come true guy. So you played an active role in making this happen. So, also I'm selling these clothing and also the Dutch oak tank top that I just wore and a lot of other golden era apparel on vintageics.com. And right now, you can use code Arnold 20 to celebrate my victory and to celebrate a discount you can use to get all your favorite classic bodybuilding clothing for the gym and casual wear. If you want, let me know if you're missing anything. Let me know what you think. Let me know what you're getting and of course, thank you for the support. Leave a comment down below what else you want to see. We're really doing our best to pump these videos out for you guys. Much more is coming. Trust me, this is just the beginning. And don't forget to stay golden.