 N-theretherex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex.therex. What's up guys, welcome to Vintage Genetics where it is all about classic bodybuilding and today is a Q&A and I asked you guys to ask me questions on my Instagram at Wesley Vissers and I got some of your questions down here at the computer so excuse me if I'm looking to the left to read your questions but that's just how it's going to have to be. Let's start with the first question by M. Satiki. Is training three days on, one day off, over training? So that depends on your intensity and the intensity is the amount of weight you do, the amount of volume per session and pretty much you know if you're able to recover from those sessions. So personally I can recover quite well from three days off, I mean three days on, then one rest day and repeat but you do have to make sure that those three days are designed smartly in a smart way. So for example I first do my legs so first you have a rest day, you're fully rested then you can attack the legs with full energy. In between then we have a chest workout so a push workout so nothing you know stressing the posterior chain or the lower back or the core and then a back workout and then another rest day to rest from the back workout. So there's a rest day in between the two biggest muscle groups and to me the chest is a stronger muscle group so I put it in between those two bigger muscle groups and the chest to me is a less taxing muscle group to train so for me that is very easy to recover from. But some people like to do for example push, pull, rest, legs, rest, repeat for example. If you're not able to recover from three days on one day off you have to find out which train frequency works for you but try it out first before not training enough because ultimately the more amounts you can train the more frequency you're able to adhere to per body part per muscle group the more stimulus they will receive and the better and bigger they will become. Next question by The Fitness Fads. Hair loss prevention on cycle. So when you're on a cycle you probably use testosterone which converts to DHT and DHT is a form of testosterone that attaches to the hair follicle and when it attaches it starts it of nutrients or blood or it prevents it from growing and eventually if it's attaching to the hair follicle receptor it'll basically fall out because it doesn't get the nutrients it's supposed to get to make the hair grow. That is the very easy and short way about it. So in order to prevent this what you need to do there are two things you can really do. Lower the amount of DHT conversion. You can do this with finasteride which is you can take it orally which blocks testosterone from converting to DHT or you can take a natural supplement like saw palmetto which also does the same thing to a lesser degree but not a lot of people have good anecdotes regarding that. Finasteride works for a lot of people however that can have side effects as well like you know in the sexual part of your brain might not work as efficiently as before but besides the point something else you can do is do something topical on top of your head which means locally and that would be even better or combining the finasteride with something topical and one of the peptides you can use is called RU51 something. Not even sure what the name is but I put it right here and that is a topical that you can use that locally you know replaces the place of DHT. So it already binds to the receptor site preventing DHT from binding to it however you do have to do it every single day maybe even twice a day to make sure it's continually you know bound to the RU peptide and not to the DHT peptide. So those are a couple of things you can do to try and prevent hair loss and you know the compounds you use as well there are a lot of DHT derivatives so for example Primo, Mastron or other compounds like this could also exacerbate hair loss at least anecdotally according to a lot of people but you know it really depends if you have all the methods to prevent it in place because almost no one does and the longer you are on a particular cycle the larger the chance will be of hair loss and that's something we all want to try and prevent. Next question. Craig Semi asks how much rest do you take between sets? So I train according to warm-ups and working sets every single exercise has at least two working sets at least right now in between working sets which means sets that go to failure I take as much rest as needed for example if I train the biceps it might be a minute maybe one minute and a half before I feel entirely ready to attack the next set with full energy and full power but when I've done a belt squat for example to failure I might wait three to four minutes so it really depends on the exercise and the intensity and how much literally how much rest do you need in order for your heart rate to come down enough for you to be ready again to attack the next working set. If you want to keep the pump that is a different story that you can do with super sets for example or drop sets but that's an entirely different training technique. If you want to build the most amount of muscle you need to increase the mechanical tension every single time you work out and the only way to standardize this is to have enough rest in between the working sets so you can attack the set with full power. In my opinion that is the best way. Next question let's see next competition by Abhaid0508. My next competition will be as late as possible in 2022 before the Mr. Olympia so I qualify doing that show and then hopefully a couple of weeks later there will be the Olympia so I can have as long as an offseason as possible for the most amount of gains. Next question by Andres XMF. At what body fat percentage should I stop cutting and start my lean bulk? Currently at 15%. So it depends on how long you've been cutting for if you're feeling that you're losing strength on some movements but mostly you're still 15% so in my opinion you should go lower than that. To me 15% is like the max you should have when bulking so you should go pretty much up until the in between the 8 and 12% to me is the ideal range to be for a lean bulk because then the food that you eat will be able to go more efficiently to the muscle cell rather than the fat cells. So that's exactly what you want. The higher the fat percentage the more fat cells you will probably create and the more fat cells will be filled up and the more difficult it will be for your body to put nutrients you know this is called nutrient partitioning to partition them towards muscle cells rather than fat cells because the more of your body the if the most of your body contains of fat cells your body is going to be more likely to feed into those. It has to do with hormones it has to do with insulin response but to make it very easy if you're fatter you'll easily gain more fat as well and the leaner you are the least likely it'll go to fat cells. It will most likely go to muscle cells if your diet is in check of course if you're not doing anything crazy like a cheat day but all in all try to go in between 8 and 12%. Be happy with how you look. This is also very important. Be content with your look then start a lean bulk very slowly trying to adhere to the diet as much as possible so you can actually keep that dry shredded look for as long as you can. All right next question let us see Majin Raji 03 what is your placing target for the Olympia 2022? My placing target I've pretty much this is the third time going to say it but this time I'm confident on a higher level that I'll be able to achieve this and that is a top six. I have seen every Olympia Classic physique competitor up close this year and the only thing I need is simply more muscle mass in the right places. I already achieved the conditioning that is capable of achieving the top six so I know how to do this. I know we can achieve this. We've also done three heavy days of loading carbs and even then I kept my conditioning so I know I can load a lot more if only I deplete enough beforehand. So what do I need? I need more muscle and fullness in the places where it's necessary to make my physique balanced and that is the legs in general of course so the hamstrings the glutes and the quad sweep and a little bit of the upper body of course it'll always automatically grow as I keep training it because those are strong points for me but once the lower body is a lot more muscular if I can add a couple of pounds of muscle there it'll drastically alter my look it'll also make me look more conditioned as the bigger for example if you get bigger hamstrings and glutes the striations and the lines in those muscles will become deeper as are simply more muscle to show. So that's my strategy for next year's Olympia and when I achieve this oh yes you will see an entirely different package. Okay next question by Jeroen Nadeneche. Best product for getting the pump? So there's not really a best product but there are a couple of products that you can use to achieve a good pump and mostly those are pre-workouts and those pre-workout supplements need to have a couple of ingredients you know most likely and most preferably a combination of ingredients such as L-citrulline and arginine and others. Here are some examples for you know for example you have a nitro surge which is a stimulant based pre-workout. If you look at the ingredients we have L-citrulline we have beta-alanine for example that won't be for the pump but more for the performance aspect but that's why this is a combination of getting a pump and stimulants and performance enhancing boost. What we also have if we take a look right here is pump surge right here both by Jack's factory by the way and what we see here is we can see L-citrulline once again we have that betaine and hydrous 2.5 grams the L-citrulline is 5 grams what the most poor thing is here guys is the amount of each ingredient so for L-citrulline that's why I like to combine both of these if you have at least six or more grams according to literature you will actually know that's been proven to help with getting a very good pump getting the nitric oxide boost in the muscles and really getting a benefit throughout the workout because remember one aspect of growing muscle is mechanical tension the amount of tension on the muscle which corresponds to the amount of load that you're using but also metabolic damage and the swelling of muscle cells so the combination of both will yield the most growth of everything so once you train very heavy without a pump you're missing out on the pump part enabling more muscle growth so taking a supplement a pre-workout like this that enhances the pump and also adding guys adding Himalayan pink salt to a pre-workout like this helps wonders driving water into the muscle cells and making them swell up and the swelling effect actually already sends a signal to the brain for growth as well but also the buildup of toxins in the muscle metabolites that will also cause muscle gain so using supplements like this actually does help gaining more muscle then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then then gyms that are all the plate loaded ones, pretty much the ones that take up a lot of space. We can't have that here. So what we have is the ATX line, which is also heavy duty, you know, very tested equipment. So it's literally tested to be able to withstand a lot of weights. We also have the plates all calibrated. So it's a very good brand, especially for gyms that are a bit smaller that want to save space, but still have very functional full range of motion equipment. But if I could put another piece in there, it would be more of the ATX stuff. But next to it, also, I think the prime fitness kits that have, for example, the three pins where you can load different plates. And depending on where you put the plates, you can put more tension or more load on the stretch position or the contracted position, for example. So I like those a lot. But honestly, I have everything I need in this gym to truly grow my physique to the next level. Next question by Surendra05. Hi, Wesley, you said you need more inner thigh. So why don't you just purchase an adductor machine? So that's a good question. And some bodybuilders think the adductor machine is a holy machine. That's the only way to build inner thighs. But if you watch my latest leg video, I explain that yes, it's a good addition to have, you know, in addition to the compound movements you do for further growth. But the basic compounds, like the ATX belt squat that I love, or a strength machine squat, or even the leg press, if you use a range of motion that goes all the way down, you know, the trick here is you have to go all the way down without impinging your lower back or stressing your lower back. And the only way to do this, in my personal experience, is using the belt squat, or a reverse banded hack squat, or a reverse banded strictly seen squat, for example. But the belt squat is still the number one, because it literally puts the pressure and the tension around your hips, and not on top of your back. So there's no tension on the back at all. But anyway, to get to the point, the deeper you go, the more stretch all of the leg muscles experience, especially the inner thigh. So if you stand a little bit wider, you go all the way down until you literally cannot go deeper. So you really have to dig deep into that position, and then get strong in that position, then you will build solid adductors. And I have increased in size a whole lot since I've been doing that. But I simply, you know, bodybuilding, it takes a while to actually show the results. But if I see a couple of years ago, my legs were a lot smaller on the inside than they are now. So those techniques definitely work, you just have to keep doing them. Okay, next question. Let's see. By Saxon Snook. Jack Factory Pro pre-workout versus nitro shirts plus pump shirts, one scoop each which you prefer. Well, that's a very good one. I actually prefer a pre-workout depending on the workout in a muscle group I train. When I train legs and back, I like to go for the pre-pro series pre-workout because it has a bit higher dosages. For example, also the caffeine is higher dose, which gives you that extra power, focus, drive to give it your all during the workout. And the nitro surge and the pump surge both I like to use during the chest workout. As I mentioned, chest is a stronger muscle group. So I don't need the strongest pre-workout every single time. And that way you can vary with flavors, you can vary with the effects of pre-workout. And it's just a lot of fun to experiment with different kinds of supplements to see how they affect your workouts. Next question. Let's see. Thormody Bessie asks, favorite supplements for general health and staying alive on cycle? And the cycle is actually like a little bike emoticon. That's a nice one. Okay. So some of the supplements I like to use, obviously, omega-3. A lot of people just take two capsules a day. That's not enough. It's about the EPA and DHA content within the omega-3s. So you have a capsule, right? That's a thousand milligram of omega-3. But the EPA and DHA content, which actually deliver the cardiovascular protective effects, those need to be high as well. So you have to look carefully at the supplement ingredients and how much the dosage is of those per omega-3 capsule. And then I take two of those capsules with every single meal. So that's 12 capsules a day. Plus, I take a krill oil capsule with meal one and meal six. So that's already 14 grams of essential fatty acids. I take in extra on top of my diet. So first of all, the diet has to be on point for you to benefit of all of the supplements that you use because supplements, the supplement on top of what you're already doing. So what you're already doing has to be on point as well. Enough fruits, enough vegetables, enough fibers, good balance of macronutrients, not too many cheat foods, not too many inflammatory foods, et cetera. What else would I like to use? So to keep cholesterol in check, we have citrus bergamot, two times 500 milligrams a day. You could also choose for red yeast rice capsules, but I think citrus bergamot is a bit more proven to be effective at lowering LDL and putting HDL a bit higher. That is more difficult to do, but it hasn't proven to do so along with the omega-3 and the krill oil. I also take astragalus powder, about 10 grams a day for the kidneys. And those will actually, you know, kidneys are very difficult to get back into regular blood levels if you've already messed them up. So it's best to prevent any problems with them. So drink plenty of water, make sure you're always hydrated because one of the most dangerous things for the kidneys is before a show is to get dehydrated. Every hour you're dehydrated, the kidneys won't like it at all. So your GFR value, for example, I like it to have above 80 at least, mostly above 90 to be very safe. And that almost stands for the percentage of how well your kidneys work. So just imagine if you're 60 or below, the kidneys only work for 60% or below efficiently. No, that's not what we want. We want to be higher. What else am I using? Also stuff like, I use so many supplements, sometimes it's difficult to see which ones are the ones to really mention here. Apple cider vinegar tablets. I used to actually use the bottle of apple cider vinegar, just drink a teaspoon of a tablespoon with each meal. But first of all, the flavor is horrible. It's a hassle to take with you every single time. So what I like is capsules. I take about one and a half grams of dried apple cider vinegar with each meal. Also magnesium, 100 milligrams per meal. A lot of people miss this essential nutrient because you use a lot of it during the workouts and muscle contractions. And it's one of the most deficient minerals in people and bodybuilders that there is. There's a lot more, but let me just say one more here. For example, before I go to bed or in the morning, I take a supplement called joint and that's by Jack's factory as well. So it's from the pro series. It's called joint to really fix your joints because it has curcumin in there. And it's 500 milligrams. That's what I like to take each day because it has been proven to, you know, pretty much lower inflammatory values in your entire body and prevent a lot of different ailments in the body. It's been proven numerous times in literature and I've always been using it as turmeric powder on my rice. It's called curcumin and you combine it with a special technique that mixes it with its natural oils to be able to absorb it. For example, then you have a very, very useful supplement to use. So make sure to check the links down below, by the way, to get 20% off most of the supplements that I just mentioned. And if you wait until Friday, wow, who knows what will happen on Black Friday. Just make sure to use my link down below and you will reap the benefits of all of the discount actions. Okay, guys, let's go for the last question. By Diego R7 Vera. How long can I stay on a calorie surplus? You can stay on a calorie surplus pretty much as long as long as you want slash need or until you feel ready to prep for a show. So it's hard to answer for you specifically because it depends on your body fat, for example. But I mentioned before, if your body fat goes above 12%, you notice your appetite is dropping, you notice insulin sensitivity is getting lower because you measure your blood glucose in the morning. And it's above, for example, five and a half European measurements. Then you might want to go into a cutting phase, maybe a mini cutting phase for a while to get the values back in check, both insulin sensitivity, body fat, appetite to get our hormones balanced again, and then get back into a caloric surplus. Or of course, when you feel ready, if you gain a lot of muscle, enough muscle to attack the next show. For example, in my personal case, only in the offseason, I'm in a caloric surplus. And then I prep for about 16 weeks before a show. Then of course, I have to go in a caloric deficit to lose the body fat in order to be conditioned on stage. Anyway, guys, thank you a whole lot for watching. Don't forget to check out today's Black Friday deal. Buy two clothing items and get one for entirely free. All clothing, guys. Link down below. Once again, thank you for the incredible golden support. And don't forget to stay golden.