 who is going to win the Arnold Classic Open Class? In my opinion, I'm not getting younger. My career is limited in a time of years remaining, so... Alrighty, guys. Back day to day. How many days are we out from the Arnold Classic right now? Exactly 37 days from the Arnold Classic Ohio. So, we're low six weeks out, guys. Now things are getting spicy. My body weight is climbing down the stairs at the moment, but at a good pace. We're not losing any foomes at all, which is my ultimate goal. But recently, I did a Q&A on my Instagram. So, follow me at WeatherlyVisitors if you want to see what I'm doing on a day-to-day basis. But I've gathered some of the most interesting questions on that Q&A, because I get these in my DMs quite a lot as well. So, might as well answer them in this video during this back workout. And let's just start out with one of the more interesting questions, which is, how much do you weigh right now and what your stage weight and limit going to be? Well, my weight right now is actually pretty close to my ultimate stage limit, but not in the way that you think, because I've been oscillating up and down. When you're very close to stage, we of course will do the glorious carboating procedure, where normally you gain some weight, so the stage weight will actually be above your right limit. Let's just say, as of this moment, I'm 8 kilos heavier than I was at the previous RL Classic. And of course, I got sick. And the conditioning is pretty close to that stage. So, we are going to go for a very relatively high body weight, higher than ever before. So, I'm going to be the closest I've ever been to my weight limit at the RL Classic. We already received when the weigh-in we're going to be, it's even better. It's going to be at 10 a.m. in the morning, which means that in the morning I can just wake up, maybe have breakfast or not, weigh in and then be ready to carbo. So, that's really going to be the goal. But it'll be higher than 249 pounds for sure. So, you can aim for maybe even 250 plus pounds for the Dutch oak on stage. Oh, yeah. Man, guys, for months, if not years, I've had a bicep that was messed up, which I thought was the tendon here, but it actually originated at the shoulder. Because it's a trigger point here that kind of leads to the bicep. It may sound boring, but if your rotator cuff, your external rotation is weak, you will get injuries on other places. And it would never allow me to do these exercises or any other back-end movements without pain. But it's completely gone now because it's been going to top support, which is a company in Netherlands who specializes in top Dutch athletes, like people who do soccer, professional level, fighting sports, but also professional bodybuilders. So, they really helped me out. We're doing all these movements and it feels incredible. And it's exactly what you want as a bodybuilder here in CREP. This really is one of my favorite movements, pretty much of the whole gym. It's really a unique back row by Gym80. And somebody also asked, are you going to get any more machines? Do you have any more room to put machines? Well, we always have some room if we really see a good piece, but honestly, we might be looking into expanding to a whole different gym environment. Nothing is set in stone at all. We're still looking around to see if there's something else. But if we do get something else, there'll be probably four to five times as big as this area, which would automatically mean a lot more machines. So, trust me, that's my ultimate dream to create the best gym in the Netherlands by far. It's only a matter of time before it's going to happen. But for now, the focus on the competitions, and with that goes well, we will look seriously into expanding the gym for sure. When we turn around at the R-plastic stage, I want the effort of this movement and the rest to be shown. When we turn to the back, the truth will be revealed. Oh! Time for the next. Yeah! I'm really happy with how things are feeling, how things are going. Yeah, we're on a good track, guys. So, people also asked me, are you still with Stefan Kienzo, boss of Outlaw, which is my coach, obviously yes. I'm still with my coach. We have a very good relationship, I really like him, he's very smart, and he knows exactly what he's doing, and it's going very smooth. Remember, we did win the R-plastic 24 together, and many other shows. So, Kienzo, my training camp, will be happening February 8th. It's going to start, so pretty much right before the show, we're going to get deep into it. It's going to be amazing. And people also asked, well, you're doing the R, not Ohio, you're R-U-K, are you going to do any other show? Well, in my opinion, I'm not getting younger. My career is limited in the time of years remaining, so if I'm in shape, I might as well probably do some other shows, which are pretty close to those two big shows. So, you know, be on the lookout, stay tuned for those announcements, but I'll probably do more than just the two Arnalls, guys. Make sure to stay tuned, especially on my Instagram. Oh. Already looking forward to the post-rock and meal. That is one thing about prep, is you start to become a little food focused, as long as you keep your food nutritious and purposeful for the prep. And a part of that post-rock and meal is, of course, one question that people ask me, which is, what is your favorite supplement to use, for example? And, you know, you have many supplements for health, for performance, but when you're in a prep, you want something that tastes very good. I love designer whey drip. And, of course, I like my own flavor, the strobe wafer flavor, but many other flavors are there as well at the moment, but more importantly, right now, you have 30% off with Code Wesley on all designer whey. So, give it a shot. If you have not tried whey drip yet, give it a shot. 50 grams of whey, 50 mils of water, mix it up, put it over your rice flour, oatmeal, whatever. You will not be disappointed. If you have tried the whey drip, let me know down below which flavor you like the most. All right, another interesting question is, and this is about the open class at the Arnold Classic. Who is going to win the Arnold Classic Open Class? Now, we have several good bodybuilders. We have Andrew Jack, we have Martin Fitzwater, we have Nick Walker, and we have Hardy Chupin, of course. Probably going to be the top four right there, but, you know, I'm not really someone who has a superstition, but there may be one exception. We all remember what happened when Hardy Chupin won in 2024, both at the Ohio and the UK. I kind of want to, you know, replicate that memory. So, I would like Hardy Chupin to win the Arnold Classic, both of them please, so we can, you know, make a repeat happen, at least. It will be pretty awesome, right? That will be pretty awesome. But in our series list, Andrew Jack, man. Andrew Jack, he looks really amazing. Of course, he's a tall bodybuilder, so very impressive on stage. He nails his conditioning, which is not as easy as it sounds next to Hardy, but if he nails his conditioning and Hardy is as good as he was when he won the UK and the Ohio, there's going to be a very tough battle, but it might still go to Hardy because he was absolutely incredible, but Andrew is one of a kind bodybuilder, so it's going to be a tight one, so Hardy and Andrew is going to be the top two in my opinion. Music Music Music Music Music And of course, a question, and I also get what do you like to wear the most when you're in prep? Well, in my opinion, right now it's pretty cold in the Netherlands, but I still want to be able to show off the guns, of course, so I like to tuck in the tank tops right now a little bit, whether it's a stringer, a compression tank top, or a ripped classical school tank like this. Abel has them all, so he's code Wesley as well, for always the best possible discount, and who knows, there might be an interesting collection coming up on the website, but thank you as always for the golden support. Music Music Music Music Music Music A popular question I get, of course, is how tall are you going to be at the R Classic? So I've been thinking, I should at least get to around 6'3", right? But then I was thinking, why not go for 6'4", maybe, maybe, maybe. We're going to go for 6'5". I am called the Dutch Oak for a reason, and what does an oak do? An oak grows, guys, an oak grows, so I'm going to go for around the 6'4", 6'5", mark around there, but at least 6'3", we'll see. What do you guys think? Okay guys, that was the back, rear delt and bicep workout. Things are going great, I'm feeling happy about the progress for sure. Thank you for the questions, of course, and whenever I do a Q&A on Instagram, you have a big chance, your question might be answered on my, either through my DMs or the stories themselves, and they might be stored for a future Q&A video. But thank you all for watching, we're less than 6 weeks removed from the Arnold Classic. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.