 convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey convey with the rotator cuffs not just because it protects the you know from having pain but also it allows you to do the external rotation on the back of a bicep the posing which will be very important in three days let's go how are you feeling good man feeling good very good how is the flight over good yeah nothing nothing compared to detroit yeah so are you suing from from here from the netherlands yeah yeah so it's not even an hour he's not so that's that's nothing no jet lag nothing so it's like it being at home you know yeah the olympia is going to be great but let's first do the arms my focus always on the next best show this show means a lot to me it's uh you know an arnold championship and uh you know there's some exciting olympia stuff coming up which i can't tell you guys about yet but it'll be exciting for sure in a couple uh of months so that's going to happen but we're going to take a vacation first before we go into the preferably olympia and hopefully within this short offseason after this show which i mentioned yesterday's video i think this rebound will be pretty intense and i'm going to take everything i possibly can out of this rebound to make sure the olympia will be an improved package from what i'm going to show at the r2k for what i've already shown so that is the goal the entire prep i've been sticking not to a lot of reps because i want to maintain the muscle okay i used to do you know with the mindset of more steps more time in the gym more volume just to burn but then you eventually also burn the fullness which i now have so sticking to you not you don't worry about getting injured or no because i feel like the the form is perfect okay so and i feel nothing at all and i've been doing this the entire prep so that's a decent weight this is a few days out mate yeah it is sometimes your mates aren't your best friend because they'll be like oh yeah you're gonna smash it oh my god you're gonna smash it you haven't even unzipped that oh yeah you've won yeah yeah that's why i love my coach because he's always very honest good yeah even when i think i look great he's like oh fine yeah let's continue to die it like i'm like wait a second uh this update was pretty good you know yeah but then i'm like also humbled i'm like oh i don't care let's just follow the plan yeah regardless of what i look like what i think i look like this is the plan we're going to follow it on the show day itself that's when it matters but also it means more when you know a guy like that actually say to you one day you look great exactly oh you know that's that's what happens around the show yeah a few days out when it's when you can't change much anymore anyway then he's like okay now you look you look ready you know it's really the emotions come out yeah yeah that's that's always a great moment for sure yeah well that's like when i seen you last night i'm going out here i'm up phoning a few of my buddies it's just it's not like with business now it's like phil heat and business together yeah sorry sorry about that yeah that's great it's always great to talk with dino he always tells the truth old school guy passionate guy we know each other since like 2017 maybe even 16. been a long time since i've been in this gym great memories but anyway let's do the working set and as i mentioned i'm doing this quite heavy because i can still hit around 8 to 12 reps which is the perfect stimulatory reps without wasting too much energy wasting too much carbohydrates and lowering the cortisol instead of you know increasing it by doing too many reps anyway enough talk let's do this convey By the way guys, this Abel vest is one of the new ones from my future collection coming out relatively in the near future. We've been working on it. Another, the Dutch Oak X Abel. As you can see, the signature edition. Very proud of it. Vintage, retro, a lot of this stuff is coming out very soon. But still right now, the birthday sale is going on with code Wesley. Yesterday, I mean two days ago actually for you guys. So many people responded and got something because I can see the conversions. It means the world to me. Thank you from the bottom of my heart because this really elevates my status and elevates my ability to make this truly my career, to keep making these videos for you guys, to make sure we can keep traveling to these places to really show the world what classic bodybuilding is all about. So if you're interested in the best workout equipment and apparel available, check out Abel with code Wesley. Thank you for the incredible support. I always stick to pretty much the same movements, especially when you're one week out or a few days out from the competition. Always stick to the same movements that you're used to at your own gym just to make sure your body, your muscles, your tennus are not like, wait a second, what's going on? Nothing is going on. We're used to this. So same weights, same movements as much as you can, which I'm doing with a shift machine. This one feels a little heavier than the one we have at our gym. So you adjust your weights a little bit, but you know, it's not about going as heavy as you can. It's about being consistent and not doing anything strange. So if you see new machines that are entirely different, you want to try them out, I'm sorry, wait until after the show. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is the sport, Emma. Just the exercises. The tears, as you said, are just the sport. Nothing else manipulating how it looks. To me, classic bodybuilding is. How they looked in the 70s and 80s. Be prideful and honourful on how you're attaining that muscle. Absolutely. And any other way is just... But all these machines and all the things, which are great, and they are fabulous things. You know and I know, if it's back in your garage or your shed or your bedroom, you're going to be getting a set of dumbbells every time. True. They do the job. They do the job. There's nothing better than holding a set of dumbbells. Yeah. Especially a set like these. Old school movements are just unbeatable. It is. I mean... What was you thinking? So when you were on those last two or three reps there, I was going to spot you, but I thought, better not, because you're dieting that. What are you thinking there? What's in your mind, Guy? What are you thinking? Well, as I mentioned yesterday, I can see the muscle in my mind. I can see it stretch. I can see the fibers in my mind. Yeah, yeah. Like the mindless connection. Yeah, yeah. I can see them contract again. Yeah. And you... And my mind is inside the muscle, literally, as Arnold liked to say back in it. Yeah, yeah. And the arms are just an extension of... Absolutely, yeah. To be able to put resistance on the muscle. Yeah. But it's just... I'm not even thinking about... The angle of my arms are naturally in that position just to be able to feel the muscle the very best. Yeah. That's it. So really... I mean, you've got to the stage in your life now where you're actually pulling with your chest, aren't you? Beating every fiber. Yeah. You know where the stretch is there, where you're overstretching, and where you're getting the contraction, where you're bringing your elbows forward, where you're at the top there, where you're getting the squeeze. Yeah, yeah. You know, because you can't waste those rips. You can't waste those rips. True. Exactly. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you don't want to overdo it. Either, like some modern training people, they like to say, over exercise your stretch, maximize your stretch, and a contraction doesn't matter, but if you do that, if you do it too much, you'll get to the knees, you'll go too far, you'll, like top plats. You used to be a fan of that, actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You used to be a fan of that, actually. He tore his bicep on this exercise. Yeah, I was talking with Suki earlier, I mean, I'd be fortunate to spend a lot of time with Tom, you know, and he would literally be going until, you know, there was nothing later. And this was after a seminar and everything, so it was inevitable that was going to happen. True, true. Even my good friend, Mr Yates, he'll hate me saying this, Dorian could never take his foot off the pedal, it's in his mind's eye, some guy in Japan or this, he's going to be training harder than him. True. Do you know what I mean? To be honest... The difference between training harder, sorry Dorian, and sensible, because I've got, you know, you know and I know, quality reps is going to give you quality muscle. Yeah. You know, it is. To be honest, I used to be that way as well, but we talked about yesterday that I also wanted to do more and more and more, but sometimes less of a more in bodybuilding, especially during this period. Yeah, yeah. When you don't go, I could have done a few more reps. I was like this, so I'm looking at Neil's and I'm thinking, put your camera down, give him a couple of reps. You know, you're looking. It's a time of placement. When people ask me, should I splash you, I'm like no, because then I'm going to push too far. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now it's, in the offseason of course, and we go all out, but now it's not the time. Yeah. Yeah. Stimulation, got stimulation as Lee Haney used to. Lee Haney, exactly, exactly. He's read his books, he's watched the videos, he has. Burtle Fox, one of our greatest. Now he was a strange guy, Burtle. His form was all over the place, but the reason why I think my arms were so good, just quickly, about Burtle Fox, I was curving like this one day, and he goes, no Dina, he got my elbow, I did it up to there, and he got my elbow, and I did it up to there. That's over Greg. Yeah, yeah, and the nature's transformed overnight, after spending weeks with him. But yeah, but yeah, that's good mate, looking great. Yep. Great. Time for the next. I weigh probably less on the day of the show than at the weigh-in. Because you first carve up, but you're a little bit watery, and you lose the water the day before the show. Then on the day of the show, I usually wake up a little flat, then you eat like two meals, and you're pretty much exactly where you want to be. It sounds difficult when I explain it, but because we've done it so many times, we take pictures before every single meal, so if you really see, okay, now is the time to cool back down, or now is the time to eat a little bit more, for example. Can you see that visually as well? Yeah. Because we have a… But yourself, you can see it yourself. Yeah, we have like a light, the same light, every single time of the day. I can take the same picture under the same lights, because we take it from meals, he always takes the camera lights with him, so I can use the exact same settings. My phone is on the exact same height every time, and before every meal I take those pictures, and you can see myself. From the morning to the evening is such a huge difference. Like when I stand on the front of the legs, first you see a gap in between the legs, but at the end of the day it's completely closed. Really? That much? Yeah. Okay. So it's really a huge… for me, I burn a lot of energy. And what about you? Can you see the difference? I mean, no one's seen him more than you, apart from his wife. She sees it all. She sees it all, unfortunately for you. But, so, would you have the strength of character now, because you've been with him forever, to say to him, listen Wes, you know, you're not looking… would you actually say that to him? Yeah. Or do you know when to say nothing? Like I already said last time, we're in Ohio, we really saw a real big gap, because after we got to put it back, we really saw our legs, were really popping out, but also on the day of loading, we watch them in the morning, and then, you especially see it in the arms, and then actually it's 10, and you see the arms are even poor, and the vein that's on top, it really pops out all the time. Okay, yeah, yeah. Yeah, usually the vascularity just stays… when you carb-loaded a few meals, the vascularity just stays there. In the morning I barely have anything, because you kind of flat, your blood pressure is very low, but during the day as I eat more carbs and more water, you really see the vascularity going, then you know, okay, something is happening here, and you really want to balance that out, because the last thing you want is a lot of conditioning. Yeah, yeah. I know I'm the biggest guy on stage anyway, I don't need extra fullness, I need the correct balance. The conditioning is something I'm 100% sure, because Bill, the head judge of Detroit, told me, if you come in like Detroit, then you're going, basically. You can have a small condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. This tells her more condition. All right, guys, that was the workout. Been depleting for about three days, four days, five, four days. Tomorrow the carb load is probably going to begin. But it was once again a great workout at Dino's gym. Very excited. Tomorrow is going to be a very interesting workout. Don't miss it. But for now it's time for the post-workout victory meal. This is the post-workout victory meal, which I always take with magnesium. And that is right now 20% off with the code Wesley. Check out ESN. And a lot of other vitamins and minerals which keep me in shape, keep me healthy, keep me looking good. Because magnesium is actually necessary to also drop water away. The combination with sodium, potassium, all that stuff. But magnesium doesn't come in the diet that frequently. So make sure to take it. But anyway, post-workout victory meal, rice pudding. We have the banana, the whey drip, obviously. So we're going to enjoy this. This is just meal number two. We have the rest of the day to go. But I think the meals you will enjoy a lot more during the loading day. Which will most likely happen tomorrow. Along with a very interesting and exciting workout with a special somebody you guys are going to want to see. Anyway, thank you a lot for the golden support. I'm very excited. We're three days out. Wednesday and Thursday. And then Friday will be the show. So two more exciting days coming. And then the show will begin. Thank you once again so much guys. Comments truly mean a lot. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.