What's going on YouTube? Wesley here representing the rise of the golden era here at Vintage Genetics. Today we are doing a classic workout chest combined with back. Now, the reason behind a workout like this can be summarized. As Ronald himself used to say, super sets drain the body faster, causing you to burn more calories and will make you lose fat quicker in the long run. I myself notice the increase in effort a lot during these workouts. And you first target chest, but while doing the back portion, as you can see here, your chest muscles actually get some rest and get stretched, which allows you to work harder, more efficient, etc. And overall, your pump is pretty insane as you basically fill out your entire upper body. I like doing these kind of workouts when I want to cut, especially for a contest. Trust me, doing super sets like this throughout your entire workout will make your workout feel drastically different from a regular one. We started out with a chest press and a let pull down, and now we're off to start the incline dumbbell press and the T- bar row. I find this superset one of the most taxing ones as they are both, you know, both sets are done with loose weights basically and both exercises demand a lot of the muscles you are working. See, I'm already rocking the tank top since it's just way too hot in a hoodie. And normally this takes me at least two to three more exercises to be sweating and worn out like this. But it just goes to show the difference between a workout like this and another. And this is the dumb flies where stretching is really important. Imagine expanding the rib cage. Don't use too heavy of a weight. Just focus on the stretch and whether you can keep your arms in a locked position. The moment you fail to do this, it turns into a pressing movement and you got to lower the weight then. And we superset these flies with twohanded dumbbell rows. Normally I superset this one with barbell rows, but today it was much more convenient to do it this way. And I like to mix it up. Never let your body get used to anything you do. The military press that I added to emphasize the upper chest some more is shown here. I don't let the bench be completely straight, but I like it at a very slight incline. So, the pressure is off my shoulders a bit and more on my upper chest. Also, I think stretching here is important because the contraction relies on how far you stretch down. So, make sure you hit the full range of motion. We superset this with another rowing movement. This time a wide grip on a machine. Again, this looks a lot like a bent over row, but you're able to isolate the lower lats more, and you can also stretch deep with this machine. It wasn't possible to do barbell rows right then, but a machine like that will do the job. Time for some classic golden era body weight dips. This is a nice finisher for the chest. You can get a nice stretch on this one and you can basically rep on your last set to really hit every last fiber. If you have shoulder issues though, you might want to swap this one with a machine, a dip machine, because then you can more easily shift the tension uh to your chest. Anyway, we superset the dips with a pull up machine. And the reason why I chose for a machine instead of doing regular pull-ups is because at the end of a workout, if you're able to rep out pull-ups, you did not train hard enough. Besides, you can contract and focus on the back muscles a lot better when lowering the weight. Last exercise of the day will be a standing rope pullover. No need to do a super set because you're able to contract both your chest and back during this exercise. It's an amazing finisher for a workout like this. You can switch it up with regular dumbbell pullovers. It's the best of both worlds this exercise. Just make sure you contract hard at the end of the movement and try to feel a stretch in your back when you go up. Soon we will be posting more about nutrition, supplements, and basically full days of eating to show you guys how we do things. should be interesting as I'm preparing for a contest. So, this will be useful for people who want to cut, but everyone will get their fair share of tips out of it. Thank you for the support and we'll see you next time.