 ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex ex invest in new equipment like this. Anyway, it's a chess day. So, we are sitting down here at a bench at around 55 degrees, which means it's a bit steeper than the 45 degree angle that most inclined bench presses have. Why do I do this? Because normally my inclined bench press is about 25 degrees, so the minimal incline setting there is, apart from flat, because it is zero degrees. So, I have three different chess rotations, and this is the third one, and the third one has a very steep incline, one of the other rotations has a 25 degree incline, and the other one actually starts with a chest press, which is flat. So, when you're doing different chest rotations, which means different kinds of chest workouts, you want to hit the muscle from different angles, which is what I'm doing right now. So, today's a chess day, obviously, and I'm going to show you my third warm-up set, and then from then on, probably only the working sets, because those are what matters. Anyway, let's do this. Full range of motion. All right, guys. So, as I said, the different angles I like to use, because they both feel great. Now, for people who have shoulder problems, for example, I wouldn't advise to do, you know, a very steep angle, because the front delt will be heavily involved. And you really need a good, you know, mind-muscle connection to be able to really get into the chest and not as much as the front delts. And the benefit of a Smith machine is that you can position your body just the perfect way under the bar for your personal anatomy. So, a lot of people say, well, you have to let the bar drop down right below your chin or in the middle of your chest. Well, those are recommendations and advices, but you have to listen to your own body first. And for me, this position feels great. I feel nothing in the shoulders in terms of impingements or irritations. Only the chest is being involved. And this is the first working set. Now, the steeper the incline is, the less weight you're able to press. So, on the flat bench press, I'm able to press the most. And 25 degree bench press, I'm able to press a little less. And the steeper the degree is, the less weight I'm able to press up. And that is just natural. If you know a little bit of physics, that should be the case. Alrighty, guys. So, as you saw, I did this more than 12 reps. And this was supposed to be my first working set. If you follow me for a while, you know that I do my first working set in between 8 and 12 reps. I always log it on my phone. So, now I believe I did 15 reps. But regardless, I did more than 12 reps. So, that means that normally I would do 20% less weight on the second working set. Now, I'm doing a little more weight in order to fall in between the 8 and 12 rep range to create the new first working set for next time. That's why logging is very important. So, you can actually progress over time. Now, obviously, after a contest prep, you get stronger quite quickly because your weight goes up. Your food goes up. Your carbs mainly. Your fuel source. So, I'm going to ride this out for as long as possible before actually starting the true off-season. But for now, let's get our base straight back and attack this second working set with a heavier weight. I'm going to try to do more than 8 reps to make this a solid first working set for the next time I hit this chest rotation. Yeah, and it's very awesome to beat your logbook every single time. And whenever you do get above the set rep range of the first working set, then, in my opinion, in the same workout, you can go heavier and see if you can set a new first working set. If you know what I mean. I'll probably make an entirely video about this to explain exactly what I mean with this. But it's a very, very great way to progressively overload your strength and therefore also your muscle. So, after having done the 55 degree incline bench press in the strength machine, it is time for some old school movements. The flat double press. Now, with the flat double press, no matter how strong you are, in my opinion, you should always warm up with a couple of warm-up sets. Just like I did at the first exercise, I warmed up at least with five sets at least. And with this one, I warmed up with two or three sets. Even though the chest is warmed up already, you still got to warm up with those free weight movements, in my opinion, to save the muscle tears or the injuries or anything from happening. Now, this is my first working set. And you will see the exact same thing that happened at the incline suitesine bench press as well. Is that I'm able to beat and get past those 12 reps in this first working set. Which means that I once again have to go heavier after this one. As you can see, I go all the way down. My upper arms are going lower than 90 degrees. And that means that my chest is being stretched quite far. Now, the benefit of using dumbbells is, first of all, there are even more of a free weight compared to a barbell. But also, you can have more range of motion, especially to the bottom. Because normally, the bar might actually hit your chest already. But with dumbbells, you can go, you know, towards and by your side, allowing for a greater range of motion. And also, a greater, you know, freedom of motion, basically. Because if you look at my hands, they don't go straight up. They actually go up and to the middle, which is actually the function of the chest. So, it's even a better movement than only sticking to barbell presses. So, this, by the way, is my chest rotation number three. Which means I do three different chest workouts throughout the week. So, this is number three. And every chest workout has its own design. So, the first two movements I did don't really give me the maximum contraction. So, I at least wanted to put in one exercise that does give me a good contraction with a heavy weight. Because you can do flies, but then still, the contraction there, you know, it's maximal, but not under maximal load, in my opinion. So, this chest press with the hammer grip is an amazing movement to do to be able to squeeze the chest under a lot of load. And the very important thing here is to keep the shoulder blades retracted, keep the lower back arched, so you can really focus on only the chest. Here, especially at the last few reps, your front delts might get involved if you try to force those couple of reps out. And that is something you have to look out for. So, whenever you hit failure or get close to failure, make sure your form is correct. Because otherwise, you already hit failure before. Because, in my opinion, failure isn't just when the set stops. It's when your form breaks down. That is what true failure should be. Because if you keep going, when your form breaks down, you're literally training different muscles. As I mentioned, the tension from the chest will be shifted to the front delts. Yes, you'll be able to do more reps. But at what cost? At the cost of a possible injury? At the cost of not actually targeting the muscle you want to target? At the cost of more fatigue? As bodybuilders, that is not what we want. And by the way, all clothing that I'm wearing is available on VintageGenetics.com, including this vintage Army Green Stringer. And as you can see here, the chest is being fully worked. When I go all the way to the back, you can see the chest stretching. And when I go all the way forward, you can see my chest contracting. So, sometimes wearing a tank top and recording yourself every now and then, you can actually see what the muscle you're training is doing, which is vitally important for a bodybuilder to know. And then it is time for some flies, but we're not doing cable flies. We're actually doing flat dumbbell flies because we just did a movement where we can fully contract the chest under maximum tension. Now, I have a very, very good pump in the chest. And what I want to do now is focus more on the stretch. In literature, you know, we don't always listen or read literature papers or science in general when it comes to bodybuilding. But literature does state that in the stretched position, you know, from the long to medium stretch or positioning of the muscle, that's where the growth occurs the most. So, if you are focusing on that, you're sure that you will actually get an impulse of muscle growth, a stimulus for muscle growth. So, that's why full range of motion is very important. I always say this when training back, go for that full stretch. But also, that contraction will aid in muscle growth. But, as I said, we already did a movement with proper contraction under load. And if you try to contract the chest here with dumbbells, what happens is you actually lose tension at the top because there's no weight actually causing the tension. You will be doing it yourself with your mind. It does feel challenging, but the tension there, which is one of the principles of muscle building, won't be there caused by the weight itself. So, what you want to do here is maximize your efforts on the portion of the lift that is caused by the resistance, which is the dumbbells. So, we're staying in the lower to medium rep range of the rep itself, range of motion. And that way, we're maximizing the effectiveness of this particular movement. Yes, I could have done cable flies, but those all are already in a different chest rotation. And what I want to do is progress on as many different exercises as I can. But all of those exercises have to be movements that I can perform well and have a good connection with. Don't just make several chest or back or leg workouts with all those movements. And one third of those movements you don't even feel. Skip those movements, guys. Please don't do them. Only stick to the movements you actually feel, because that will give you a pump like this. Also, of course, I used Pump Surge and Nitro Surge from Jack Factory to get a lot of blood in the muscle caused by, for example, the L-Citraline in the pre-workout. And it's always just nice to check out the shape and the pumpiness, especially in the off-season right after a contest to see if your conditioning is still in check. Because when I wake up in the morning, I do look a little softer, obviously, compared to when I was in a contest prep. But when you're actually working out, you pretty much look almost as conditioned, at least in some body parts, for example, the chest, the shoulders, the arms. And that is what you want to continue to see. Once that starts to become softer, you actually might have to do a short mini cut or a maintenance phase, holding the weight you're weighing right now, until you get a little bit more conditioned, in my opinion, because you don't want to get way too soft way too quickly. You want to ride out that leanness for as long as you can, while strength is increasing. If your strength is not increasing, you have no choice but to up the food. But for right now, if strength is increasing, I do want to keep the leanness and keep riding this out for as long as possible, to actually start a true off-season in the best possible place. And of course, these were just some side-dumbo lateral raises. Still only doing one working set every single chest workout. We'll be moving to two and maybe even three working sets later on in this off-season to make sure those shoulders are capped to the max, to offset a little bit my waist, because, you know, you have to be honest as a bodybuilder. When I do my poses on stage, I might be one of the broadest bodybuilders, but also I don't have the smallest waist. So I want to emphasize what I already have, the shoulder width, make that the maximum width I possibly can make it, and then make the waist appear smaller in comparison. So what I'm working on is the shoulder width, the lats and the leg sweep, the quad sweep to make sure that my body is still in balance and proportion, which is what classic bodybuilding is all about. And after having done the chest and the tricep, I mean, and the side delts, it is time for the triceps. Now, most, actually, most of my chest rotations, which is actually a chest, side delt, and tricep rotation, has a pushdown as the first movement. So here I'm doing the rope pushdown, another day I might be doing a straight bar pushdown, and another day I might be doing the narrow grip or V-bar pushdown, whatever the case before, excuse me, before doing the heavier movements for the triceps, like a skull crusher or something, or an overhead movement. I always like to warm up the elbows even more with a pushdown movement like this. And this is also something I'm logging from now on. I actually didn't use to log the rope pushdown because it is an isolation movement. I was just like, okay, I was just like, okay, if I hit the tricep with this movement in a rep range of about 12 to 20 reps, hit failure, that's all right. But when you are working a weak point, even though it's an isolation movement, for example, if you have weak biceps, do log all of those sets, all of those working sets, and beat yourself with perfect range of motion and perfect form the next time. Because that, in my opinion, is the only objective way to progress in a weaker muscle group. So yes, I am logging this lift as well. Even though it's not a main lift, even though it's a lighter weight lift, you still want to be able to gauge your progression in strength there because then you know that objectively, you are actually moving forward. And when strength is moving forward, then muscle will follow as long as you use the correct form and the correct range of motion. So as I said, the last tricep movement is not the skull crusher actually, but the French press. So a skull crusher, the big difference here, is a skull crusher would actually be going to my skull. So this easy curl bar would then be going up and down, straight up and down from my skull to the ceiling basically. That's why it's called a skull crusher. But a French press has a longer range of motion which emphasizes the stretch more. And that is exactly what I need because this is an overhead movement because it literally goes over my head. And the bigger the stretch here, as I mentioned earlier, the more stimulus of muscle growth will occur. But also it will hit the bigger, the large head, the lower head, whatever you want to call it, of the tricep, the long head. And that is what will emphasize your front double bicep pose, for example, because that is the tricep hang. And that is something I always will need to work on because classic physique, in my opinion, is also about having very good arms. So the biceps will always be a priority in my physique because the bigger your arms are, the better your entire body will look anyway. But then you do need to accompany those biceps with strong triceps as well. So that is what I'm doing right here. And I'm only doing two exercises for the triceps for the time being. We'll be moving to three as the true off-season will begin at the end of November. Alrighty guys, just finished the chest and tricep workout with a little bit of side delts. As you saw, I pretty much beat the logbook with every single working set that I did. So either I did a heavier weight and still went in between the 8 and 12 reps or 15 and 20 reps, or I did more reps with the same weight. So that's progress. And especially, well, no matter which phase you're in, whether you're bulking, cutting, contest prep, you want to, in a contest prep and cutting, at least maintain your strength. And when you're in the off-season, when you're gaining body weight, you want to gain strength. Because if you don't gain strength and you do gain body weight, guess what? The chance that the body weight is muscle is very low and the chance that it's fat is actually very high. Anyway, time for the post-workout meal. And look at this, guys. Look at this deliciousness. So this is, let's see if it's sharp as, oh, this lens is amazing. Anyway, this is cream of rice. 120 grams post-workout. So my coach, Stefan, tells me I can either, well, I can have cornflakes post-workout because it's a fast, absorbable carbohydrate. But I like cream of rice because it has more volume. To me, it's more delicious and it actually digests a lot better. The way that I use is Authentic Whey by Jack's Factory. Use code Wesley for 20% of and trust me, this tastes amazing. So the thing is, if you have cream of rice that doesn't have any flavor, you want to have a way that tastes good to make through it. So you actually look forward to it, eat it very easily, especially when you're more of a difficult person in terms of eating enough food during the offseason. And what I also have in here is, as you saw, a little bit of dark chocolate. I know I'm not supposed to have any fats post-workout, but to me, cream of rice without the dark chocolate is almost impossible to imagine. So it's only 5 grams, but still, the flavor is there because it's 85% dark chocolate. What else do we have? We have some banana and some frozen strawberries. And honestly, the only reason I put the frozen strawberries in there is to cool this meal down so I can eat it faster because otherwise it's way too hot to eat it quickly. And we want to have that carbohydrate in our system as quickly as possible, which is why I'm going to end this video right now because I need to eat it right now for anabolism in the muscle, the chest, the side helps, and the triceps. Anyway, thank you a whole lot for watching. I'm wearing the new oversized shirt, vintage, with all this cryptic lettering. And actually, if you look closely, if it's going to sharpen, oh, it's such a good lens. Oh, yes, you can see all the words or synonyms and other meanings of vintage. So anyway, once again, thanks for watching. Check out the links in the description for a supplement discount for Jack's factory and also for the vintagegenetics.com link for all your old school apparel and clothing, et cetera. All right, guys, I hope you enjoyed this video. A lot more is coming. A Q&A is coming, actually, so follow my Instagram at Wesley Visserers and I'll post a story asking you guys to ask me questions for the next YouTube Q&A. Thanks for watching and don't forget to stay golden.