 naringin, What's up guys, welcome to Vintage Genetics, where, it is all about classic bodybuilding, today is going to be a lag day, my number one priority, in the week, I train lags twice a week, and all of the lag workouts always start with a, Leg curl variation, today is going to be the laying leg curl, full range of motion, and then we are also going to do some other movements of course to grow the rest of the legs, but for now let's get started with this isolation movement to get the knees warmed up, a very good tip for you guys, don't start with the leg extension, let's start with the leg curl, to warm up the knees without putting tension on the quad and the knee joint in general, so let's go. And as always, we start out with the leg curl, now this is not one of my deload workouts by the way, you may have seen my previous video where I explained I was doing a deload week, at least six workouts that were half the volume, compared to this workout for example, where I will be doing two working sets for each exercise, instead of one working set, which I'm doing at the very moment, so this was recorded earlier. So, the laying leg curl, the first exercise of the day, I always like to do a couple of warm upsets like this right here, just increasing the weight by like 10 to 15 kilos each time, and then reducing the reps as well, just to make sure I get a good mind muscle connection in the hamstrings, and to get enough blood in the area as well, mainly to prevent injury, but also to get the muscle used to a heavier and heavier load, so you can actually perform a better and bigger load during the working set. That kind of sounded interesting, didn't it? But anyway, the laying leg curl is one of the best hamstring builders there is, right behind the seated leg curl, because it has been proven that the seated leg curl is actually a little bit more superior in the stretch part. You can see right here, the hamstrings are getting stretched, but the seated leg curl, because of the positioning that your hips then have, as opposed to your upper body, the stretch is even better. So, if you have either one of these movements in the gym, one time I would recommend doing the seated, and the other time the laying leg curl, and do at least two working sets, the first one being a heavy working set, and the second one being a lighter working set of around 15 to 20 reps. Alright, the leg curl is complete, the hamstrings and the knees are warmed up, so now we are starting with the leg extension. Why are we always doing leg extension? Because this is the only movement that truly isolates the quads, and fully shortens the quads as well, which is not comparable to a combat movement such as a squat, because when the leg is straight, there is no tension anymore, and here there is maximum tension. So, always include the leg extension for full quad development. Let's do this. Now, I will keep telling you guys this. Do not skip or neglect the leg extension, because if you look at the muscles right here of the quads, what you see is that while my leg is fully extended, the muscle is fully contracted. This is the exact opposite during a squat, because during a squat, the maximum tension is near the bottom, or near the half of the range of motion, and when your leg is extended, there is no tension on the quad at all. So, it kind of has the opposite strength curve, almost, as a leg extension. So, the leg extension is the only movement where the quads are able to get fully shortened, and when your quads are fully shortened, that's when you develop certain muscles in the quads. As you know, quad stands for four. So, there are four different quadricep heads in those muscles, in the front legs, basically. And you will work specific ones, the middle ones you can see right there, in between the sweep and the teardrop. There are two other heads, and you train those very well with the leg extension. And you don't train them almost at all during the squat, or leg press, or a hack squat, or anything like that. So, that's why a leg extension should have its place, for sure, in any serious leg workout. Time for the first combat movement. The legs are properly warmed up now. We did go to failure on both the hamstrings and the quads, who already get some quality sets there for growth. And now it's time to truly go to failure with a compound movement, a lot more weight, so a lot more mechanical tension, which means a lot more growth. But first, with a compound movement, you always have to warm up properly. So, we're doing the hack squat without any weight first, and then we're going to add some quality reps with a lot of weight. Let's do this. All right, guys, this is an awesome exercise, the hack squat. One of my favorite movements of the legs, right after the belt squat by ATX. But I really love the hack squat. It allows me to go nice and deep, as you can see, below parallel, allowing my quads to stretch to the max. Remember, if you want a muscle to grow, you have to find exercises that allow the muscle to stretch to the max without you having to compromise your form, or without it being uncomfortable, or without you feeling pain anywhere except for in the muscle. You don't want to feel it in the joints or tendons. So, that's why I always have some things in place during this movement, such as reverse bands. If you look at the top of this hack squat, I put two light resistant bands there to alleviate pressure on the bottom. To alleviate stress from the knees, because we want to train the muscle and not put stress on the joints. Another thing I'm doing is I'm putting on knee sleeves. And the moment you squat all the way down, the pressure is alleviated as well, because the fabric in between your calves and the hamstrings is there to prevent too much pressure going to the joint. So, it helps with that. It doesn't help you lift any more weight. It simply is there to warm up the tendon and joints and to keep pressure off of it. And the third thing is me wearing elevated heels or weightlifting shoes, basically. So, they prevent my lower back from being too involved. Because if you, for example, if you're doing a back squat and you are not very ankle flexible, in order for your body to keep going down, your lower back will bend forward. So, the center of gravity remains in the center. Because, you know, it has to remain in the center. Otherwise, you're going to fall over. And otherwise, you would have to stand on your toes. But that's not an option, obviously. So, if you know that you don't have a lot of flexibility in your ankles, try weightlifting shoes like this. Or like, you know, a weightlifting wedge by ATX. They also have those available of a couple of inches of the ground, like two inches or so. To make sure you're able to go all the way down, stretch those muscles without joints being a limiting factor, like the ankle joint. This is bodybuilding. And we want to maximize working the muscle to the maximum of our ability. Okay, the next one will be a leg press. But now with two legs, actually with one leg, you don't really think about it. But the leg press is one of the most lower back injuring movements you can do. If you go too deep, the hips go off the platform, go off the seat. Your spine is under a lot of pressure. And with the leg press, you put a lot of weight down. So, for other people, that's a big problem for me as well. So, I'm using one leg, lessening the weight, lessening the rate of motion all the way down. Because otherwise, the back will be involved and we don't want that. So, let's do the maximum weight unilaterally. All right. All right. So, as I was training the legs in this video right here, doing this workout, I already felt some lower back, you know, stress. And I really don't like that. And as of right now, as I'm speaking through you through this microphone, I feel my lower back being stressed. And even though I've already done five days of deloading, the lower back still isn't completely fixed. And that's why I did the leg press with one leg at a time. Because in this video right there, I already felt the lower back hurting a little bit. So, doing a leg press, even though a lot of people don't think about it, also really puts stress on the lower back if you go too deep. And that is the difficult part about a leg press. You want to go full range of motion. So, you want to go all the way down. But the moment you go all the way down and your butt is lifted off the seat, then your spine is under a lot of pressure. You want to test this out yourself. If you're doing a leg press and your butt is coming off of the seat, that's the moment that you should go back up. Because you can go deeper, but it's not really going to help muscle growth. It's only going to impair your lower back. And that's not what you want because then, like me, you would have to do a deload. And you have to do other exercises to prevent your back from hurting more. So, trust me guys, you want to prevent things like this rather than have to fix them afterwards, which I'm doing right now. My job, you know, on this channel with this video is to teach you how I like to train to grow muscle, but also how to prevent things from happening so you can keep training those muscles to keep growing. Because having to recover from things like this is no fun at all. Okay guys, it's time for the last compound movement, the sissy squat. Remember when I was talking about the leg extension? This is the only movement that kind of mimics the leg extension. So also, possible to get a full contraction at the top. But still, it is a compound movement because you use the glutes and a little bit of the hamstrings when you go down. And this is a great, great finisher for after the leg. So, let's do this. Not a lot of weight needed at all. So yeah, you might want to be careful where you attach that resistance band. Because you never know when a handle is going to shoot off the machine in front of you. But anyway, this is the sissy squat. And the sissy squat is great. It kind of mimics the leg extension. Because with the leg extension, your lower leg is the only part that moves. And this sissy squat is the exact opposite. Where your upper leg is the only thing that moves. And your lower leg basically stays in the same position. And you're able to really squeeze and stretch the quads at the same time during the range of motion. Which makes a unique movement for sure. And it's just a great finisher to use after having done a couple of combos before. Making sure nothing is left in those legs. All righty guys, next and last movement. The calf race. Always switch around to the seated calf race and the straight-legged calf race. It can be on the leg press or standing calf race. But do both variations. At least every single week, both of them. To create fully developed calves. So right now we're doing the seated ones. Last time I did the straight-legged ones with the leg press. I'm doing unilateral ones this time to put a lot more pressure per calf. But always use full range of motion. So this is just a very simple finisher for the leg day in general. Of course, always working the calves. I know some bodybuilders, even some pro bodybuilders, who train their calves before the upper legs. But for me, that always feels kind of counterintuitive. Because, you know, the calves are at the bottom of your legs. And they are kind of the roots of your entire body. And if you already weakened them before doing the other movements. It just kind of feels like you're taking away from all of those combat movements you would do afterwards. But I can imagine if the calves are a weak point, you might want to do that. But, you know, honestly, I would then simply train the calves more often. Not only on a leg day, but also on upper body days. For example, doing back and bicep and calves. Or chest, tricep and calves. That can't hurt. Just like the forearms, the calves can, you know, deal with a whole lot of volume. A whole lot of frequency. So if you are lacking in calf development, I would recommend... The first thing I would recommend is doing more volume whenever you are training the calves. So in my case, I'm only doing one to two working sets on one exercise. Every time I train legs, which is about two times per week. So that is not a lot of volume at all. But as you can see, my calves are even bigger in proportion to what my upper legs are. So I don't need to grow them faster than I am growing them now. So I would do a seated calf raise and a standing calf raise variation. Every single time you train the calves. And one time you go with higher reps on one of the movements. And lower reps on the other movement. And switch that around the next time you train the calves. To make sure you get full calf development. You really have to go all out to make these muscles grow. Okay guys, that was the leg workout. It's quite basic, but it works. It's all about progressive overload. As you guys know, I keep the logbook. And the hex squat went up for sure. And the leg curl as well. Leg extension as well. And to me, when I increase in weight and reps, that is building muscle. The off-season, right now it's November, is starting with the recovery phase for this month. But in December, the true off-season will begin. And you will be taking along with the ride with me as much as possible throughout this channel. Anyway guys, check out vintagegenetics.com for old school clothing. Like this oversized shirt and this classic bermuda shorts. And of course, don't forget to stay gone.