So classic. What' you think? Yeah, we have to arrange it. For me, it's the first time that I'm not competing and watching a pro show for you too. Yeah. Nice. The champions of bodybuilding. Mr. Olympia, 212 Olympia, AR champion, you name it. The Pittsburgh Pro Champion, Detroit champion. Pittsburgh couldn't have been any better. What is up, guys? We are here in Pittsburgh for the Pittsburgh Pro to watch the open show and a classic physique show. is going to be an awesome one for sure. That's going to be tomorrow. But today, we still have a workout to do. So, it's time as always to take crank golden pump 40 g cuz uh even though we're abroad, we can still take everything with us. You know, I'm of course a professional bodybuilder, which I'd never think about, but when I look at how I behave, I do think the title is correct because normally people would not take a boatload of supplements with them. A lot of them. A lot of them like this. And uh that's why I take two suitcases with me to make sure I have everything with me. But uh that's makes it very easy for you guys as well. If you want to have great workouts or great breakfast, great post-workout meals, it's always possible to do so with supplements. And a lot of people ask me, is it possible to take it with you all these powders on the airplane? Yes, I take literally kilos of powders, many pounds with me and it's never been a problem. Never been accused of anything once. So, got to down this pre-workout and then work out some chest. Half an hour drive to the gym. We just uh walked back and forth, thousand steps. So, now I can finally take some delicious protein bars. This is like the white chocolate Oreo milka bar. Incredible. How you feeling? Very good. Finally long offseason, recovery, lots of food, and tomorrow watching the show. My first pro show ever I'm going to watch as a non-competitor. So I've never watched a pro show before. Wow. So I'm going to be uh Yeah. Crazy seen it from a different Yeah, exactly. going to take it in finally. You know, I haven't been on stage, so you know. What's up? What's up, man? Good to see you. It's Rammon. It's the Dino himself having a nice workout with Ramon. Hamstrings. Hamstrings. Oh, okay. Today's chest day. Yeah. Really train the legs. Yeah. And Ramon is going It's going well, right? Huh? We need to to Yes, we we should. We should. Yeah, we have to arrange it. Good to see you. Good to see you, man. What's your training? Chest. You're training hamstrings. I saw I heard. Yeah. Important. Very important. Ready for the guest posing. Yeah. Me, too. Yeah. Yeah. I I wish I wish I would because it's going to be you, Mike. You don't? No. I I would like I I have brought my posing trunks in case it's possible. So, on Sunday morning, I have to meet and greet first. Then you are around 12, right? You're going on stage. So, you know, I'll be there. So, I'll I'll try to be I'll try to be there. But, uh yeah, it's going to be great. For me, it's the first time that I'm not competing and watching a pro show for you, too. Yeah. Nice. Good to see you. Yeah. Good to see you as well, man. Yeah. I still mess. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ramon is a very, very nice guy. It was funny when I was a true Sapa Cole last year. uh you know after the Arnold around the Arnold it's always fun to create like a rivalry but in reality he's a very nice guy and I think he's going to surprise a lot of people at the Olympia you'll see at the guest posing as well here at Pittsburgh you already probably saw it when you see this video but I think it's going to be very impressive so uh I'll be either in the audience or I'm going to try to get on stage as well so we'll see for now it's time to train the chest Whenever you are in a different gym in my opinion even in the offse don't go for setting PRs. Don't go for super heavy weights. Just maintain your muscle on holiday or whenever you're traveling. When you're home, you go full back at it because all the machines are very different. And an injury takes you out the game longer than just maintaining. So that's what I'm doing right now. Hey, it's time to take off the jacked reacher pump cover. the Dutch oak times able. Check it out and other stuff at a.com with code wesley. Lots of amazing stuff available. But anyway, time to get this pump going even stronger. So, I have a question for you guys. Do you think I'm still too lean or do you think I should bulk up a little bit more? Cuz um I'm wondering I am now 10 kilos above stage weight, but um I think I need to go up higher. Jay Caro thinks so. What do you think? Let me know down in the comments. you know, I'm going to be on stage today. Well, I I'm 10 kilos above stage weight already. So, I'm like, okay, when are the stress going to leave, you know, because uh I'm trying to recover, but when you're too conditioned, it's going to be more difficult to recover from the show. But I uh I will have a holiday in Kurasau in two weeks, so I'll take care of it then. It's a Oh, nice. Nice. But it's going to be an allincclusive resort. first time ever. So, yeah, it's all gonna go in the face and nothing on the body probably. But I look good. Yeah, you know, the recovery is not like nothing but here. True. Mentally because stress stress is the worst thing. So, for me, I something happened or didn't do the shows, but I just didn't train since then. And the first four weeks, believe me, my head was like this and I got so tired and then just went out and I got so calm in my head too. Like rest mentally. I noticed that I really needed it because I was so structured and stuck in the competition diet that it was difficult for me to let go because after the competition I was like, "Oh, I I still want to take all the supplements at the perfect time." And but it took me a few weeks to kind of be more free. If I want to eat something, I'm just going to eat it, you know, because you come from an extreme. Yeah. Crazy extreme. And if you just like cuz we always think when you're in diet, you're like, when is this going to be over that we can eat whatever we want? But when it's over, you do like one day or two days and you start feeling so bad and you feel like it's like a yo-yo effect. But once you can let go of that mindset, yeah, that feeling that it's okay, you know, to enjoy, it's okay not to train, it's okay to sleep long, it's okay to eat whatever you want to eat. If you want to eat two meals a day, you you do that. Once you can do that, then you're good. Yep. Because mentally, the first time I didn't train for like 17 weeks before the last 17 weeks I didn't train. Wow. The first six weeks I thought my life was over, you know. Yeah. I felt so bad. But then like after 6 7 weeks I start to enjoy I start to enjoy. Yeah. Believe me like after 10 weeks I'm like this is life because once you get out of this bodybuilding mindset Yeah. like completely out you're going to enjoy life. Yeah. Because the first few weeks you're like you're you want to replace the workout with something else because you're like is it a void? Like normally I would work out what am I going to do now? But once you find that groove you're out of it. It's like it's like when you when you break up with a wife or ex you know first six seven weeks like you really miss the person you know or once you like get over that fast you're like okay you know enjoy your life finally very true the same with body you need to be able to like mentally let go you know wise words by Ali it's not it's not about the body it's about when you're mentally free of that stress where you can really make progress to the next level Sure. Oh. Nice. Yeah. You We really want to stand like Superman basically like Yeah. Yeah. Just like that. That's nice. That's nice. Very nice. All righty. We are in front of the convention center or the Pittsburgh Pro will be happening in less than an hour. the prejudging begins. And we all know the prejudging is the most important part of a bodybuilding competition. And this is actually the first time ever I'm attending a pro show without competing in it myself. So I'll be sitting in the audience. First time ever seeing a pro show. So there's going to be two very interesting classes. Obviously the classic physique and the open. To me personally in classic is going to be a very interesting battle. I think is just going to be between Rough Diesel and Jose, of course, Hosima. And uh Hosima is my own colleague from ESN. And he will be more conditioned than Rough Diesel. But Rough Diesel, I think, will have a little bit better proportions. So if Hosima doesn't get a much better conditioning than Rough Diesel, I think Rough Diesel will win. But if Rough Diesel is slightly off, Hosma can win. So it's going to be a very tight battle. But I, you know, if I'm really honest, you know, they could both win, but I think Raf Diesel might get the edge here, but we don't know. We haven't seen him on stage for a long time, but he has been made making great gains, and he was way below his weight cap. I know that for sure. And now he's much closer. So, going to be a tight battle. And then we also have the open class, of course. We have Nick Walker, Derek Lunsford, and Martin Fitzwwater, and William Bonak. All very good bodybuilders. I think it's going to be between Martin, Nick, and Derek. With probably Derek, if he shows up as he did at the R Classic Ohio, Derek is probably going to win as it's an unbeatable combination of, you know, how do you say that? It's like kind of a uniqueness. You can't really speak it out loud, but when you see, you know, okay, he has everything together. The peak was perfect. It's like a shine, a golden shine on top of his regular package. perfect conditioning, perfect fullness, perfect presentation, it all comes together. So then you're not 100% but you're 101%. And I think if Derek achieves that, he can win. But if he doesn't, and I know that Martin and Derek were very close at the last year's Olympia, it could be Martin as well. Uh but don't count out Nick Walker either. If he nails it conditioning wise, fullness wise, presentation wise, he could also be a very interesting competitor. But I do think Derek Lunford will win his competition. But for now, let's check it out. That's what I like to hear. I think it's going to be Nick. I think it's going to be Nick. Very surprising, but he looks on. He looks on there at number two. Martin and William three and four probably. It's a very intense guys. Very fun competition for sure. They're literally the fourth comparison already between the top four. This is one of the best shows Derek compared to Olympia and the for sure between Nick and Derek, but I think Nick has to see Martin and William as well. Great job, guys. Thank you very much. Focus on. Here we are again at the finals. It's going to be very interesting. They actually switched around the classes. Uh so now I think open will be last week in the middle and then meek first. So, it's going to be a nice warm up before the bigger and bigger guys go on stage. So, going to be exciting. Once again, I think Osima will win classic. Nick, well, it depends on the finals, of course, but from what I've seen, we'll win the open. And uh yeah, we'll see. Let's enjoy the show. the first place check for $100,000, the Olympia qualification, and the title of 2025 Pittsburgh Pro to your winner tonight, Derek Hunter. If you want it, you can get it. Let me know. Let me know. I'm about to break it straight up. Let's go. If you want it, you can get it. Let me know. Let me know. Well, it was very close. It was very close. Of course, I admit, but Derek is also a winner. So, yeah. Interesting competition. But uh it's going to be a very very interesting Olympia. So we just saw the battle between Nick and Derek. And uh you know to my surprise you know not really a big surprise but still I thought Nick would win but Derek actually won. Of course he looks incredible very amazing. He had the better aesthetics. Let's let's give him that. But I thought like in the open class Nick Walker with all the mass he kept his presentation. He did everything perfectly. In my opinion, had a little bit more mass than Derek. I thought he would win, but you know, the judges decided otherwise. And that's what bodybuilding is. You never know who truly is going to win until the last man standing. So, this was great. This was uh the Saturday and the Sunday is going to be another amazing day as I'll be here again in the morning for the meet and greet and uh you know, there will also be a guest posing. I'm going to try to do something there. Let's give it a shot. But anyway, yeah, let's have the final meal of the day in and get some good night rest because in the morning I'll be back right here. Um, let's talk about classic. Yeah. So, classic, what did you think again? I thought Hosa would would have won. Uh, you know, I'm just being honest. Rough diesel, yes, he has the better aesthetics, the better flow, the better posing, right? But to me, he was bigger and more conditioned, and he had a very good presentation as well. So, I thought he had a little bit more points over Rough Diesel, but Rough Diesel has that classic physique X factor that you can't really, you know, put into words, but you can see it. And I think that's the reason why he won over. Yeah. So, it looks like in both divisions we had aesthetics win over Mass and conditioning in terms of that. What you think? So, again, uh, lots of buzz coming out of here. a lot of people, especially in the open, a lot of Nick fans out here. But at the end of the day, um, again, let us know in the comments below who you thought. Awesome. He epitomizes what the classic division is all about. Give it up for Wesley Fisser. Here comes the Here comes the Here comes the know. I said so. I keep up in my heart like a twist in my head, but I'm still dreadful. And I got so I might call you my man. I'm the type of man that might go for some nice. Give it up for the UK's own Wesley Visser McGregor. Wesley Visser, Terrence Ruffin, Ramon Dino, Mike Summerfell, Piana Pearson, and Samson Da. All right, our gentleman in place. Let's set it down to the judges. Tyler Tyler, I know Big Steve uh took an early flight out. Are we doing elbows or no elbows today? No elbows. Back to no elbows. Okay, guys. Bicep. Relax. Terrence and Matt. Switch. Front lad spread side chest back. Double bicep. Bad glass spread. Sigh tricep. abdominals and thigh. Your favorite most muscular. Let's go. Let's hear it for these guys. They look amazing. Great job, gentlemen. Freddy, let's get some pose down music. Gentlemen, for the people in Pittsburgh, host down. Take off. off. What you want? Like a slave. from the street. You know the drill. I'm not a mill. Tell me when to go. Tell me when to go. Tell me when to Tell me when. Tell me when to Tell me when Tell me when it Tell me when to throw man. Damn. Call lambs. Tell him he broke Miller to the cross. He walk around like what's up with your cton. How many options really got? I mean there's too many options. I'm passing sometimes you got to pop out and show the up. I hear you like I'm young. You better not go to sell block one to any that talk to him and they in love. Just make sure you hide your little sister from him. They tell me the only one that get your hand downs and party at the party playing with his nose now. And Baka got a weird case. Why is he around? Certified boy certified mother. I'mma do my stuffing like a [\h__\h] tire. All right, gentlemen. Thank you very much. Yeah, please. So, the unexpected happened. Just got off stage. The guest posing with the champions of bodybuilding, Mr. Olympia, 212 Olympia, AR champion, you name it. like the Pittsburgh Pro Champion, the Detroit champion. I was very fortunate to be within those guys between those guys and do some posing and it was very awesome to do actually the comparisons as well standing next to them doing the mandatories also the front licide tries and all that stuff that was very nice to actually experience. So uh yeah this work couldn't have been any better experiencing the show as a competitor but not as competing on stage with like in the audience and then still being on stage at the last day. It was incredible and I really want to thank all of you guys who went to me, shook my hand, you know, took a picture. It was incredible to see that I'm from the Netherlands going to Pittsburgh and seeing that support for me. It's amazing, guys. Let's make bodybuilding incredible. I'll do my best to do so. And uh thank you very much for watching. Don't forget to stay