What's up guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics where it is all about classic bodybuilding which I aim to show in this video again. This is day number four, the last day, a Sunday of the Arnold Classic Europe Journey. So this is the day and right now we're preparing myself for the super heavyweight class. So this is the morning and my class is around 3 to 4 p.m. At least that's what we thought at that time. So we went ahead and tanned ourselves in the morning. You know, get the base tan on because I took a shower of course in between. So we had to get the tan on again. So then we arrived at the expo early to be able to pump up a different kind of way because the day before on the Saturday, we went to the very very small gym in the hotel and they had a chest press and I tested out what it would do with my pump, you know, especially in the chest. That is basically what changes my physique to flat or average to pumped up. So, we did a lot of sets of the chess press and guess what? I was pumped up like crazy and on the expo there are a lot of machines on display. So, I went ahead and used it. It's only a 2minut walk to the stage itself. So, about an hour before I started using the machines to pump up my muscles. And as you can see, even on the day of the show itself, I still incorporate the classic bodybuilding ways of working out. I'm doing a super set of chest and back because when you train the chest, your chest is pumped up. And right now, as you can see, going up with my arms stretches out my chest doing the back movement. And then this creates a synerggetic effect between the two muscle groups, flushing in and out the blood through the muscles, creating a much better pump in general. So that's basically what we're trying to do here, using the machines instead of uh just doing the push-ups and doing the resistance with the uh bands and stuff. So we went to try out these machines and just test out whether the pump would be greater uh compared to without the machines. So basically what I'm doing is all the basic exercises of which I know that I get a good pump. So, we started out with the chest press for the chest, of course. Then the lat pull down for the arms and the back. Then we did the tricep push down because my triceps when they're pumped makes the arms look a lot bigger. And that's Steve Cook. By the way, I'm literally in the middle of the expo with and you're not even really supposed to use the machines for this long just to test them out. But I didn't care. I had a competition about 30 minutes after this pumping up. So, we're basically doing, as I said, the basic exercises, filling the muscles with blood and getting the most out of all the carbs that I'm eating. And in a second, you can see that in between the exercises, I'm snacking on some very fast acting carbs. And this uh these machines are actually Panetta, the brand, and that's the same brand of machines they have at the gym that I train at. So, they feel familiar, but they're newer, such as this one. The range of motion is increased by a lot, especially at the bottom. Usually, you do that by doing the Arnold presses with the dumbbells, but this machine provides the same range of motion. And this is the snack that I was talking about. These are chocolate raisins. And chocolate raisins basically give you the best of both worlds. Actually, of three worlds. Because what you want to load up properly is, first of all, carbohydrates to pull water from under your skin and the rest of your body to your muscles. 1 g of carbs pulls 3 g, just about 3 g of water with it. You want to pump that into the muscle. Then you want to fill up the fat cells around the muscle cells. That's the chocolate that contains a little fat. And then you've got some salt which is in the chocolate to load up the muscles with water as well. So then we returned to this is the backstage area basically. Uh looks a little different than uh with the junior class because we stood somewhere else actually outside of the backstage cl uh the backstage area but no one cared anymore at the last day. So, everybody was just scattered around. But, as you can see, I'm already pretty pumped. Um, warming up here again, keeping the pump alive. And that's the benefit of doing the machines. You're basically pumped up, and all you have to do is keep the pump alive. Doing uh lighter exercises, resistant exercises. But my favorite exercise to keep the pump and pump up the muscles to the max is the following, the push-ups. And I'm using these two handles instead of just putting your hands on the ground to achieve a much greater range of motion. As you can see here, I can go deeper, stretching the chest muscle fibers more, allowing and forcing for more blood to rush into those fibers. And you know, even on a day like this, a full range of motion, correct form gives you the best results even when you're weak. But in reality, I don't really feel weak right now. I'm loaded up with carbs. The only complaint that I have is that I have a dry mouth because I haven't drank any water that day and um basically the night before. And what I'm doing right here, I went to a wide grip uh stance with my arms to a medium grip. And this targets the triceps a little more. And I'm able to squeeze the chest a little more as well. So the first one was to stretch the chest, get the blood in, and then squeeze the chest to finish off the pump and even squeeze all the way to the top of the chest. You can see that a little bit the striations there to really get a good pump going as you can see. And now we are almost ready. We are oiled up a little bit. As you can see, the details are showing. And I want to know your uh expertise. I want to know your opinion on whether I look um more conditioned or more full compared to the junior day, which is which was on a Friday. Because what I did in between Friday and this day, Sunday, I loaded up with a lot more carbs because in reality, you cannot add any uh visible visual fat on your body in those few days. So, what I decided to do, what I decided to use the super heavyweight class for is to test out how far I can go by loading up the carbs. And the only danger with that is that you load up too much in combination with too much water. And that will cause water retention under the skin above the muscles and give you a softer look. But I avoided this by not drinking a lot water at all. Only the necessary 3 g of water per 1 g of carbs. So that's what I did to aim to improve my uh my physique on this day. And what we're seeing right here, another classic exercise, the pull over. Yes, even on the day itself, I'm still doing the pullovers because, as I mentioned in my training videos, it's great for the back and the chest. And it's possible to contract both of those muscle groups at the same time. And you can see that right here. The back, the lower back, the lats are all contracted as well as the upper chest. Um these this combination this exercise really pumps up the uh upper body greatly. And who is this? Kevin Leon. Kevin Levrone just casually walked in backstage like everybody was pumping up uh doing their own thing and the moment he walked backstage everyone like forgot they had a competition and went straight to him for a picture or talk or whatever. So that was pretty awesome to see that even when you're so close like 15 minutes out from your own show, when someone famous like Kevin Leone, a legend walks in, everybody just stops what they're doing to just get a glimpse of this Mr. Olympia competitor. 52 years old. It's unbelievable. And of course, he was almost about to leave, but I did not want to miss the chance to go on a picture with the legend himself. It's pretty awesome to see him uh close up like this. He's a really nice guy to take all his pictures backstage, you know, motivating the guys. So, that was awesomeness overload. And here I am in line. This is the line of the super heavyweights. And if you haven't noticed already, these guys are heavy. I mentioned my weight in the other video, but it was 100 kilo.7 at the weighin. Now, granted, I loaded up a lot, so I might be 103 kilos here, but these guys are, you know, most of them are probably about 110 kilos at the least. And you will see the difference here. But um in my own opinion, I still was able to hold my own. But just check it out. So there I am standing in between the guys of the heaviest class of the entire amateur Arnold Classic Europe and this is a higher quality video. This is the first call out. I was the third out of this. Maybe I could have been in the second color, but looking at these guys, you know, they are massive, especially in the lag department. But if I'm going to analyze this uh posing video, this footage, yes, they are very big, but what they should learn is to pose more gracefully. Because when you have such mass and you will be able to control that muscle mass, you will look 10 times better. Because you probably are able to see it right now, some guys are just not able to hold their pose um to really let the audience appreciate their physique a lot better. But um you know, especially in the side chest, they're just a lot thicker from the sides. That's what I got to work on. especially the legs, the hamstrings, the glutes. I've mentioned that several times before in the video. Also, uh the back thickness, the 3D effect needs to increase. Even the width needs to improve as well. I thought it was pretty good, you know, from the gym pictures, but when standing next to these guys, it is a different story. But yeah, this is a good um you know comparison between the Friday with the juniors and Sunday with a couple of days in between. Do you think I look the same? I look better, I look worse, I look fuller, more conditioned, you know, let me know what you think and know I'll be curious to hear your answer. So this was the last day of the Arnold Classic. I want to thank you for watching. Doing a vacuum boat right there. But anyway, I want to thank you for watching. Thank you for all the support. There will be a lot more videos about the Arnold Classic after this. And don't forget to stay golden.