What is up, guys? This is an amazing event. The FIBO has begun. Today is day number two, Saturday, the busiest day, but we've been here a few days already, since Thursday, and yesterday was the first FIO day I've been here as well. I've been to gym 80. I've done the ceremony, the awards for classic physique, and much more, which was quite amazing. Just take a look right here. It's uh video shoot was a success. A huge screen. I'm honored to be part of this. Gym 80 has brought an incredible booth here. Of course, you guys know our entire vintage gym is equipped with gym 80 equipment. They have some new machines here which we're going to test out very soon. Very excited for that. And they chose the correct color as well. Golden of course. So, uh, yeah, it's amazing to be part of this. Let's have some fun. Yeah. We are now at the backstage area of ESN after some nice gym 80 interaction with a lot of people. Saw a lot of good people there, a lot of pictures. But it's still Friday for you who do not know yet. Thursday and Friday is like the business days at Fibo. Tomorrow, Saturday, and Sunday will be incredibly busy. So, we're just going to have some food right now. ESN also always delivers like clean rice, curry chicken, like all deliciousness. But I also prepared my own food, of course, and uh it's some shrimps with some um how do you say it? Mushrooms. We're going to combine that with the rice and the chicken surf and turf. And after this, we're going to do the award ceremony for the clazique people who are going to turn pro. So that's always a very fun memory to have with that myself. But uh let's enjoy the food. First time ever trying bum energy. I was like, blue snow cone. What is that? What could that taste like? And then you smell it and then you taste it. You're like, yeah, that's a blue snow cone. I got to say this is one that's pretty nice. First time I've ever tried it and uh yeah, we're happy to be working together with RAW with Chris Bum set Bum Energy. Great guy of course. Great company and um should have some benefits as well which I'm going to need. Hey, but of course nothing nothing can beat the strobe waffles guys. is I mean got you got to get the designer away sto obviously but uh this is uh the Dutch oak's favorite but this one is pretty nice as well. All right, guys. It's time to do the award ceremony. Giving out the medals to some happy bodybuilders. So, uh, let's get started. It's an hour for me to do this as well, of course, cuz this is for many people. The first real big show they're going to do. So, yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun. This is the pro card. Looks like something we very proud of. The a is winning this can do pro shows and then qualify for the Mr. Olympia just like I did in 2018. The very special moment about to happen for the people on stage. Look at that. Look at the quality that ESN is providing. We have of course the protein bars. We also have more stuff here. More on ESN kind of the similar products. And uh oh, I missed this. Or is it? No, it's milk chocolate. I need dark chocolate. Look at that. All the syrups are here. Very amazing. But now it's time to eat another meal. Rice and chicken and some vegetables combined with my own cool beef from Meetup in Valtoven. Don't forget to go there. That's a nice amount. But today is going to be, as I said, the busiest day and the first day I'll be at the ESN Muscle Beach booth. So, we're going to do some sample throwing, a lot of pictures, a lot of handshakes, and I feel incredibly honored to be able to do this for you guys. So, let's have some fun and let's do this. Great things. There will be great things unfolding. Hey, Jose. What's up, man? I love my bikini, bro. It's fine. But you look look very good. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. I'm tired. I'm tired. Yeah, I can imagine. So, but Pittsburgh. Yeah. You're going to battle. It's not going to be easy for him. It's going to be a battle. Two. One. Yeah, he broke it. He broke it. He broke it. I think 82. 82 again. I'm going to beat right. If you beat me, I got to do it again also. What you say? I'll shoot this. I feel a little bit of competition around here right now. The Dutch O versus the Dutch Giant for the third time. Okay. Come on. It's how much? Oh, [\h__\h] Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's do it again. Let's do it again. Let's do it again. Listen. What do you What did you have? 88.9. Okay. So, now you have to beat me. Yeah. Now I have to beat Okay. I I I just disappeared. Come on. Can I do it? Yeah. Yeah. You can do it. You can do it. Oh, he broke the machine. He broke the machine. This probably beats the record. It's done. It's done. But we will never know the result. But you are disqualified. Oh man, man. For being too strong. Why? So guys, I had 87 and I had 92 94 and then Wesley had to uh basically qualify. Well, maybe you actually already broke it, but then I just did finishing touch. I just talked to um to your wife. Yeah. And said, "How is he?" And she didn't say anything. And I say, "Is he easing up a little bit?" And she didn't say anything. And then I say between the lines, I still see that super focused Wesley with doing the perfect checkins all the time and I said you and then he asked can we do a checkin now and I said actually we should do complete the opposite we shouldn't do a check in we should ease it up and tell the people that now having a little downtime being relaxed recharging everything is part of the very very important process to get a better athlete especially right now. Yes. And it's stupid. Right after the show, I mean, it's not even been two weeks. You can already be You still You still look super super great, but I see that you're still stuck here. Yeah. Yeah. I see that between the lines. Yeah. But we have uh two days ago we went to a steakhouse. Yesterday we had sushi. It's not about It's not It's not about First It's not about food. It's It's It's about the It's about the brain. Yeah. And as he said, Yeah. He went to a steakhouse. Oh my god, he's eating so much for me. And he ate a filt with broccoli. Not true. I I ate for 500 500 g of beef, of course, rice, spinach, sauerkraut. But I had dessert. I had dessert. So that's already a step. The dessert maybe was a rice pudding. No, no, no. It was a freshly made waffle. A freshly whipped cream with cherries. Uh, whipped cream and ice cream. It was fake whipped cream for sure. I know it was for real. I ate everything. And a few bites of Marley's Terramizu as well. So, going the right direction. But you know what I'm talking about. Yeah, I know what you mean. I know what you mean. Yeah. You enjoy it? Yeah. Yeah. I uh feel energized for sure. Important to let go a little bit. And uh tonight you will see me let go once again. Eating very interesting stuff. Stay tuned. All righty. So, we are about to have dinner, of course, in my beautiful father and son's attire, Code Wesley. But more importantly, I was just training at the gym, training some back and biceps, and what happened is at the end, I saw Jay Cutler and Phil Heath walking in and they had some very interesting things to say. So, take a listen to this. You're right there. You just got to, you know, bounce back. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Don't take too much time away. No, don't let them forget. Exactly. That way you can keep keep the pressure on them, too. Yeah, that's true. Cuz people will think, "Oh, well, he needs more time." It's like, "Yeah, but he needs time in the gym." You train angry. Get the get the [\h__\h] back in there. I will. I will. Do what you got to do. They'll remember. Yeah. So, you got to remind them. I will. And that's the good part about this sport, right? Is that you get knocked down a little bit. Yep. Think of it like this. It's like in 08 I did my first Olympia, got third. So, of course, I'm thinking the next year I'm probably going to win, right? After seeing Jay lose. Yeah. To Dexter. I got food poison the night before, placed fifth. Yeah. So, of course, I'm down. Yeah. And even sponsors were down on me. Yeah. Yeah. So, you can't worry about that. No. You just keep going. Yeah. Then the next year for me, I got second. So, it's like sometimes those things happen. It's just to figure out who who you are as a man. Exactly. That's really all it is. Yeah. Yeah. This is a test. Y he's already won the ornal. So it's like you already know what it feels like. That's the nice thing. I already know. Okay, I have the potential to be there. Yeah. My ultimate motivation to be there again. So I'm going to take the time just enough back to the venance to the homes they want to see. Then go at it. What's the next show? I don't have a show planned yet. Okay. So first make the improvements and that's needed. Now you got to kind of train it so you don't get much bigger and then hot legs cuz it's like I feel like your balance wasn't really an issue. It's just that now like maybe this area your legs are flatter than before, you know, and that could be from dieting so much, dude. Yeah, it is. You need the rebound in between to expand, especially if you have a let's say weaker body part. You got to have that time down, man. Doing backtoback shows like you're doing because realistically, how much time did you have off? Really? Nothing. Nothing. No. Right. Because you're like, I don't want to get so far over because of our weight cap. See, like even with us, like we didn't have a weight cap, so we didn't have to worry about, hey, if our weight exploded up, we just knew we had to reach a certain condition again. Exactly. But you guys always had that weight cap in your mind. It was like, but what happened if you let your body go? How big could you get, Ros? That's what I'm doing now. I know, but how big can you get? What What's Are you scared to go to a weight or No, no, I don't. What do you think you'll get to? Well, right now I'm um 265 lbs at this moment. Yeah. Then your district are done. So how how did it go? But for now it is time to eat some very interesting stuff. As I as they say as well, we got to let go. We got to grow. And we got to just enjoy the growing season, the offseason. So I'm going to try some stuff I've never tried before in this way. Let's enjoy this dinner. All right, we are here at this very special restaurant. This is going to be an simple normal appetizer, but it is round one. So maybe the secret to growing extra muscle isn't animal protein, it's insect protein. This should be also good for the environment, right? So Round two. It is time for round three. The beef round. Round four. So, this is more of a tropical round. Chicken, pineapple, coconut curry. Round five. Time for my favorite cuz I'm half Norwegian, of course. The salmon round. Round six. Well, it's time for the final round. The dessert round. Finish him. We did it. Mission accomplished. All right, guys. Just got home from that delicious dinner. We definitely bulked up a little bit. A little bit too much, but uh my coach tells me, Stefan, to let go of that, so not going to think about it. Yeah, guys, I just uh really want to thank you at the end of this FIBO really so much for the incredible golden support. It really does mean a lot to me that so many people came up to me at the ESN booth and the gym 80 booth. It means so much because, you know, thanks to you, I keep believing in myself, keep being motivated to do my best and be better and better. And, you know, it's not always about winning shows. I truly realize now that you can truly uh you know inspire people to be better. It's about the story people tell. I mean I've heard so many stories, so many inspiring transformations. It's just amazing to be a a big part of this entire you know event industry community in bodybuilding. So uh but right now I'm quite tired. It's time to go to bed. Tomorrow is still a big day for me and it's time to uh catch some sleep. But once again, thank you for the incredible golden support. Fibo was a huge success both for ESN and also gym 80. Both of them upgraded their booths tremendously, especially ESN with their own hall and own waiting hall. So if you haven't gone to the FIBO yet, trust me, you want to go. It's an incredible event, the biggest bodybuilding and fitness expo in the world. And it keeps getting bigger, better, and you've seen the video. You've seen how amazing it is. It's only going to get better, guys. So, be there next year. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.