Hey guys, welcome to Vintage Genetics where it is all about classic bodybuilding and you should feel special because I am recording this before having my first loading meal. So, you can imagine how much I'm looking forward to that. So, this is day four of the lo the depletion week or the peak week, I mean. Yeah, the carbs are still not in my brain, but day one of the loading phase. So, you've got three depletion days, three loading days, and you've got the day of the competition itself where you kind of look at your body and see how much carbs and water you need. So, let's take a look at my meal. All right, so here we have it. This is 80 grams of oatmeal. I put it put this in overnight so that it could soak in the 300 ml of almond milk. We've got a banana in here. We've got 250 g of frozen tropical fruits. There's pineapple. There is um grapes, mango, melon, stuff like that. All fruits that I'm used to. And 20 g of isolate. I'm lowering the protein content of the day. Upping the carbs, lowering the fats. That's purely about the carbs in this loading phase. So, this is my first meal. Tomorrow, I'll have this meal again with less milk, the day after with less milk again, and with less oatmeal in it. And this is to get rid of the water weight as well at the same time because that is important, too. So, in order to help me get rid of more water weight and basically push the water that I have in my muscles from beneath my skin, I'm using water cut. It's from site nutrition. It simply has herbs and vitamins to extract the water from your body to excrete it more efficiently. And you can use this when you're a little behind or just as a little extra boost in order to get a little faster to your water weight goals. But yeah, the main point is that you want to increase the carbs so that the carbs pull the water from your skin into the muscles, blow them up, and your skin will be crispy thin so that you will look much bigger. You know, it's an illusion basically. So, you want your skin to be as thin as possible, your muscles to be filled up as possible. I've got three days to do that. The last day is tweaking basically. So, yes, I'm going to use this to help me out with every meal. Uh, starting out with the first three meals, I'll take two capsules. The last three meals or last two meals, one capsule because there is a little caffeine in it and I need to sleep and with caffeine that's going to be a little harder. Anyway, guys, I'm going to enjoy this meal a lot. So, I'll see you at the next meal. I'm not going to work out today. I'm just going to do a lot of flexing posing, get the carbs, force them into the muscles, and I don't want to use up the carbohydrates that I'm eating now by working out. That will be counterproductive. So, only posing and flexing is the best of both worlds. Anyway, let's enjoy. All right, I enjoyed that first meal a lot. And an hour later, you could really see the difference already. I look much fuller, much more vascular, but it went away pretty quickly because you know your muscles muscles they fill up very quickly, but they need a lot of carbs after 3 days of depletion. So, I have arrived at my second meal. Let's take a look. So, this is a second meal. Oh my gosh, look at the colors. A restaurant quality bodybuilding meal. Anyway, so we've got the carb component, 450 g of sweet potatoes, and you guys have seen me eat this before. So, it's a safe choice to load with nice healthy carbohydrates. I don't like the very fast acting carbohydrates even on the first day of loading. So, I'm taking this 150 g of broccoli of 100 g I think. and then 150 grams of pock fish. So, I lower the uh protein. Normally, I would have 300 grams or double of this and a little more vegetables as well and more fat, but it's all about the carbs. So, I'm going to enjoy this meal a lot. And it tastes amazing. I already know. Let's enjoy. All right, guys. As you can see, I went under the spray tan booth. uh just a beauty salon, but this tan is designed to stay on for at least a week. So, it's a safe tan. And this is basically the base layer that I'm going to use uh on the show day itself. It's Wednesday today. And tomorrow, Thursday, we're leaving actually very deep in the morning. But uh to this night, we're going to apply the true bodybuilding tan on my skin. And that will be basically how it will look on stage. And then only when we get there, we have to do some touch-ups to see if some spots are lighter than the other. But yes, this is basically a nice, you know, base tan. And what I have just prepared are a lot of pancakes. And these are gluten free, which means it's made of corn and potato starch. And that I know of my stomach can handle. Now this is the last one. Going to put it on here. Just like that. It's about 20 of them. And I'm going to vacuum seal half of these to take with me to the show. And I'm going to eat half of these uh on the day before the show. So, yes, that's one of the things I'm going to take with me. It's not a risk. It's safe. It's uh you know, you don't have to eat. It's not a made meal. You can just pick how much you want. I'm also going to take rice cakes with me with jam, uh rice honey, stuff like that, rice syrup. Just safe options, guys. That is how I'm gonna do it. Anyway, my shape when you're loading, uh you have seen my shape in the gym before. Uh I do I do have quite a lot of veins, but not when I'm not pumped. So, this is the effect of a proper carbohydrate load. So, let's take a look. As you can see right here, it's dry shriated. As you can see, uh, it's not the best lighting and but you should look good on any lighting. But you can see all the veins pop up everywhere. The same on the legs, you know, the chest is pretty good as well. Let's see how I'm going to do this. You know, as you can see, so we're in a good track. You can see a little better here. You know, you know, I'm pretty lean, as you can see. So, I'm happy with how things are going. This is the best shape that I have ever had and uh I'm just excited for the show. I did my posing routine yesterday on a stage. You know, the gym owner of the gym that I go to now has actually a built and we built up large building a few years ago next to the gym for events and there's a large stage there as well with stage lights and they are very similar to bodybuilding stage lights. So, we did a posing routine there. We recorded it and that's all part of the footage that I will release after the competition to tell you guys exactly how I did everything. Um, I'm excited. Here are, you know, this is the shirt design which we're going to take with us. We're all going to wear this design. This is just the most basic design showing everything. As you can see, my name is on there. Uh, my silhouette is on there genetics just to represent ourselves at the show. And we're all going to this is a different design with this on the shoulder, the premium one. It's a very nice one as well. Let's see if I can show you. Uh let's see. Yep. Yep. Yep. There we go. Right here it is. It's a nice thin shirt with a scoop neck as you can see and with this on the side. Venetics Classic Bodybuilding. So, we're going to wear this at the expo to represent classic bodybuilding. And I'm not just going to do it by wearing this. I'm going to do it on stage. But you will see. Kaboom. What do we have here? Well, this is a common sight. This is a gluten-free, lactoseree pizza margarita. Half a pizza. This is about, let's see, 60 70 carbs. It's low carb as well for a pizza because it's pretty flat as you can see. But it contains no cheese and no gluten. So again, it's made from potato starch, rice starch, and corn, which my body can tolerate. And what I put on top is 100 g of white fish with some uh broccoli and celery. And celery again works on your water weight. it kind of excretes it a little easier. Herbs, spices, vegetables. That's the best way, you know, with food. You should work on your water retention if you have any. And these are two homemade glutenfree again pancakes. And now guys, I don't want you thinking that I'm a gluten freak. The thing is when it's gluten-free, it just means that they didn't extract the gluten, just the gluten, but it means they use different ingredients to make the product. So, usually this is wheat and, you know, grains with a lot of fibers. But this time, it's potatoes, rice, and corn that they always mix up, you know, depending on the brand. But I choose that brand and that's is what I can tolerate. Not too much fiber because fiber and water need each other. So if you eat too much fiber, you cannot have little water in your body. You know, you must drink a lot of water to get rid of the fiber. So it's a process that is complicated at first, but it's pretty logical if you think about it. And on here is some strawberry jam. So I'm going to enjoy this meal right now, guys. All right. Right here, we arrived at the fourth meal of the day. What we have right here is some boiled cooked potatoes, a little bit of white fish, some broccoli. This is actually 400 gram of potatoes. And we've got a salmon fish. That's some fat. A lot of people, they do not load with any fat at all. While the lining of your muscle cells are comprised of fat cells. So, if you want to fill them up, because as you know, fat cells can fill up or deflate, but they don't literally burn off, you have to use a little fatal load as well. That's giving you extra fullness, but don't overdo it. Just a salmon. Uh, one or one or two a day. That's all you really need. But yeah, uh I'm about to get tanned by my dad. No, the final layer. I'm going to try and record that as well. But I'm going to enjoy this meal for now, guys. Everything is going all right. All right, guys. It is almost 900 p.m. and I got to get out of bed 3:30 a.m. cuz we got to leave at 4:30. So, my last meal will be uh oatmeal with a little bit of fluid, two bananas, some uh cinnamon, delicious. And then uh I'm going to go to Spain. So, in the meantime, I won't be able to upload videos, but afterwards, a lot will be uploaded. And I'm trying to keep you updated through Facebook and Instagram. So, follow me on Facebook. Just search vintage genetics and on Instagram @ gyimw. So if you're interested in how I'm going to do at the Arnold Classic Europe in Barcelona, how I'm going to aim to represent classic bodybuilding there. Please check out those social media accounts. Anyway, guys, I'm going to go to sleep in a minute and I'm very excited. Can't wait to enjoy this weekend. It's gonna be amazing. So, yes, I'm gonna record as much as I possibly can. So, guys, thank you for your support. Thank you everybody for your comments, for your likes, for subscribing to the channel because it means a lot. It motivates me a lot to do even more my best. Anyway, I certainly won't, but you should not either to forget to stay golden.