 so the question, of course, the biggest one I mentioned at the beginning is, where am I going to place myself? Well... Okay guys, as you all know, first of all, happy new year. May all your dreams and goals come into fruition this year. And one of them, of course, my own, this Arnold Prep. It's now the new year, which means it's going to be very close. For me, at least it feels close until the Arnold competition, so it's really getting real, around 60 days out right now, which is pretty surreal. It goes really quickly. But having said that, a lot of people have asked me, what do you think about your placing, the predictions? What do you think you're going to place, who are Mike's going to place, and all the others? So let's talk about it. Before we talk about the predictions, however, I still have a lot of things planned to make sure I'm ready for the Arnold Classic. The show means a lot to me. I just want to be there at my personal best. That's my ultimate goal. So the first thing that's going to happen is, of course, Camp Kienzel, the training camp in Vienna at his own gym, which is huge. And it's not about the gym, though. It's about Stefan Kienzel being there, really making sure everything is nailed. The training, honestly, is the scholar training camp, but that's kind of a little bit of motivating factor in it. But the more precious thing to me is him seeing me in person, which means he's going to give me his honest assessment of how things are going, physique progression-wise, and conditioning-wise. I'll be going there around the end of January. So only like four weeks out from the show. At that point, usually I'm pretty dialed in. So we'll see what he's going to say about my shape when I'm very much looking forward to that. Oh, man, it's funny. Yesterday I had a ketogenic diet day, because today we had a tasting for our wedding cake at the end of the year. So of course, I had to give my opinion. But despite less carbs, I'm strong today. So that's good news. And also to make sure that Arnold is going to go as well as possible. We all remember what happened last year. Exactly one week out. The night I had to leave, I got very, very sick. Immune system was very low of virus, food poisoning. I don't know what happened, but let's just say, if I lost that amount of weight right now, I would already be below my weight limit for classics. So it was a lot of weight. To prevent that from happening, we're going to go to the Arnold at least one and a half weeks before. So a couple more days of extra safety net. So if anything would happen, you know, you're already there. You can, it's better to not travel afterwards than to have it happen and then travel. But it won't happen, guys. Don't worry. My immune system should be top notch. And it's going to remain top notch until then, for sure. Now, and another important reason why I'm going sooner is it gives me a bit more freedom and more time in the USA to do some very fun and interesting collabs there with other bodybuilders who may or may not do the show as well. So there's going to be a very fun time there. I know you guys want to see it. I want to experience it myself. So be on a lookout for some amazing collaborations and workouts in Columbus, Ohio. And let me know down in the comments who you want me to collaborate with. Who do you think I'm going to do a collaboration with in America? So let me know down in the comments and who knows that wish might come true. It feels good to do things like this, guys. every leg day is half a week closer to the Arnold. And speaking of the Arnold, here's what I think might happen. Of course the big question is, well the biggest question for me of course is how am I going to do? But for everybody else is going to be how easy is it going to be for Mike to win? Will it be extremely easy? Or will it be a little more difficult? I'm of course aiming to make it more difficult. Mike is the clear favourite. He was second at the Olympia against Chris, won the Arnold last year, second at the Olympia to Ramon, we all know this. So he is the clear favourite for this Arnold. It's going to be great seeing him again in person. You know I really want to battle him again. Since the last Arnold I wasn't at my best obviously, so I'm very curious to see how my best, better than a 2024 Arnold, will look next to Mike. And then we have two other guys, at least two who are very good. We have of course the Menegate from Brazil with a very interesting last name who I can't pronounce at the moment. But I believe he was seventh at the Olympia. So that interestingly is the same placing I have before winning the Arnold. So who knows, someone like this, he is almost as tall as me, kind of in a frame that's kind of similar. Who knows that kind of shape they might want to see at the Arnold. So he could jump up there for sure. And they have one other name that's very interesting. And the third guy is Andrea Momoli. I was at the Olympia, I watched it, I watched the pre-judging, and I saw how good he was, but unfortunately we didn't see how he was doing in the comparisons because he didn't hear his name. And I think he would have been in the top ten at least if he wasn't at call-out, but he didn't hear his name, you know, his English, his first language, so he didn't understand the judges that well. So that happens, it really sucks, he made a post about it. But he's also coached by my coach Stefan Kienzel. So we know he's going to be in shape, and we know he's going to be only on that stage when they're both happy with what they're bringing. And he's a very good poser, very good classic physique. So that might be also someone in the top three, top four. And then we have another special guest. One other guest is a proper competitor, but he's the only one who has qualified for the Arnold by winning the Arnold Classic Physique Amateur, Sam Zulich. Now he looks very impressive and his updates, you know, I'm impressed, but also there might be a slight concern, he's very in shape at the moment. So very conditioned already, I would say at his current shape, he's like at four weeks out, I would also believe he's on track, but we're about nine weeks out right now, so I hope he's going to be cruising into the show in an easy fashion. I know he's a big name, a lot of pressure, so I hope he comes in at his very best. His posing needs to be perfect, and it will be awesome to see him in a forced call out. I really want to stand next to him because he's a nice guy, an awesome guy, very popular, but very down to earth, which is what I like to see in people. So we have Mike, Manegate from Brazil, Andrea from Italy, and Sam Zulich from Columbus, Ohio itself, it's hometown, but then of course with someone else you forgot, the Dutch Oak. So the question, of course, the biggest one I mentioned at the beginning is where I'm going to place myself, well, I have an history at the Arnold, I won it once, I got it in the top five once, but the top five version, let's just say, there's not going to be the version I want to present. It was my worst version, pretty much since my pro debut in 2018, because I weighed around the same, and I planned to weigh like 7 kilos, or like 15 pounds more than back then, because I lost so much weight. When I look back at those pictures, I was like, did I even ever train legs? It was terrible because the legs disappeared from me the fastest when I'm depleted and was beyond depleted, but that's all this ancient history. I've spent this off-season growing and improving, and the spread is going very well, very motivated. I have a deadline, I have a goal, I have the Arnold in my sights. I'm very looking forward to the travel to the US, I'm taking precautions for everything, my health is so much better, blood tests came out clean, liver, kidney, all that stuff. You probably don't care about it, but it's very important to me, all top notch right now. So that means that's all I can do to be at my best. Don't let any virus, bacteria, sickness, toxins, poisons, allow into my body, and I'll be golden. And of course, the top cloud is not only my goal, it's my mandatory thing that needs to happen. My dream would be to be in a call-out with Mike and Menegate and Andrea probably, but at least I think right now a lot of people are saying Mike, me and Menegate from Brazil is going to be a top three. But I have a feeling there are one or two dark horses in there that are going to shock us, like for example, Niall Darwin did at the Olympia, who knows who might show up this time in incredible shape. But once again, I want to be in the first call-out and the final comparison call-out at least, and then show everybody at the Zeke they can be proud of. Not only me being proud of myself, but also other people when they see me, they're like, yes, Wesley is back, we're girls with the placing. I want people to believe in me once again. I have to prove myself, I know that very well, but it's exactly what we're going to do. So very much looking forward to the Arnold guys. Music Now, there are two people really in the history of bodybuilding who won a major title, lost it and won it back. We're talking about Derek Lansford and Jay Cutler. Specifically Jay Cutler to me means a lot because I spoke to him on numerous occasions now, first time at the FIBO where he really gave me some advice to grow into the off-season, really do my best along with Phil Heath who also mentioned, let them think what they want to think, you folks on you, you know you will eventually get back on top. Advice from such legends is just incredible. Then I went on his podcast again and Jay Cutler being one of those examples where if you are on top, you sound, you know, it really depends on how you handle the pressure, but your physique sometimes doesn't come back the way you want it to when you're at the very top. You have to be reminded sometimes what it's like to be once again the underdog or the one who didn't win. And I'm in that same position right now, so I take a lot of inspiration from Jay Cutler and Derek of course who both proved that regardless whether somebody believes in you or not, whether you lose or win, you can always come back on top. And that's my mindset to go to be to this Arnold Classic. And of course we always have to keep it to the bodybuilding essentials because we're sticking to the basics, the essentials, the classic bodybuilding as always. And you can represent that very same passion of mine with the able clothing, with my coat, Wesley of course. So if you want to support me and yourself at the same time, you can get this incredible clothing. And I really thank you guys for the incredible support all throughout last year. It meant a whole lot to me being able to do this like the whole traveling. You guys know it's an investment. It takes a lot of money, it takes a lot of time, but because of you guys I'm able to do all this. So thank you very much for watching this video and supporting me throughout the journey. And that's why I want to make you guys very proud. So trust me when you see my Arnold, it's going to be something that we can hopefully all be very proud of. And of course guys, I want to thank you for watching this video and a lot more is coming. Basically from this video onward, there's going to be Arnold Classic Prep style videos. We're going to see exactly what I'm doing to be at my very best for this competition. And of course as always, don't forget to stay golden.