A lot of food because we're in America. As I mentioned, it was just a little snack beforehand. As a yummy snack because I enjoy it. First time ever. Pizza on the slice. A lot of calories that I consume this. We are here at the airport because we're going from Pittsburgh to uh JFK New York. But before we do, we can't leave Pittsburgh without having at least one delicious cheese dishes meal. So, we're going to have a incredible sandwich, which is going to be quite big. I told him to make it extra big. So, we'll see what that's going to be all about. But, uh, this video is all about eating a lot of food because we're in America. We always take the opportunity to eat some deliciousness here, but I never eat at home. So, we still got to grow long season ahead. Let's enjoy. Right. So, it's time to try out one of these incredible sandwiches. It's like a pretty huge one, as you can see, pretty tall. So, I wonder how we're going to do this logistically. That's a lot of turkey. We need the protein. First time ever they put the fries on the sandwich. So, let's take a look. That's pretty good. I got a good cheese pull as well. Fries are very nice. Kla on there. I honestly thought we would get those as a side, but now it's on the sandwich. The Americans do things a little bit more crazy than us Europeans, but this tastes really good. I normally eat my fries with ketchup, so had to put some ketchup on here as well. All righty, guys. We are now in New York from Pittsburgh to New York. And uh we are on our way to our next stop. So, it's going to be about an hour before we're in New York. But I actually just had a workout at uh Steve's gym, Bev's gym. That's a good set. Check out the previous video for that. But that means we are in a post-workout window right now. So, already had a post-workout shake, but now it's time to search some delicious carbs in New York. So, let's go there and uh yeah, let's enjoy the food today, guys. We arrived at our first stop. So, about 2/ird of the way to center of New York. And uh we just parked the car here. This is the first snack, let's just say, to get the carbs in. And as you can see, it's going to be some beautiful specialty donuts, of course. Got the box. Righty. So, this is the second time I'm ever eating donut. Well, the third time eating donuts in America. The first one was Donutville, which was mad. Crispy Cream was incredible. So, we have some uh competition. So, let's go with uh carrot cake first. Feels quite hefty. This is carrot cake, but it is carrot cake. It doesn't taste like a donut. It's shaped like a donut, but it's very tasty. Right, next one. Creme brulee. So, that should be filled with kind of like a bar and cream. Yeah. Oh, precisely like creme brulee. Nice and soft. Good amount of custard. That's what you want to see. Very tasty. Number three, the big one. The salted peacon. One of the uh favorites of this doughnut restaurant. Let's try it out. You were right, Neils. Tastes pretty good. This is like a He mentioned this was more of a croissant inside which is a different flavor and texture compared to a regular donut. So very good guys. By the way, this place is called Donut Plant. So if you're in a neighborhood of New York, not sure where exactly we are, but at N6 Street, then you should check out this place for sure. Last one, the chocolate version, the blackout. I love chocolate. I love donuts. Let's see if they combine well. This is like a a brownie texture in a donut. I have to say, all four of them were quite amazing. That's good. Nice and rich. There's a reason why this is uh one of the bestselling donuts of this place. And um I'm probably pretty much at 5% stomach capacity right now. So as I mentioned, it was just a little snap in forehand. So let's go to the next space right now. Well, yeah. As you can see behind me, when you see something like this, even though we just had donuts, we just had to get the original Glazed crispy cream donut. M. Oh. Oh, yeah. That's good. That's good. And a slice. One. Yeah. First time ever pizza on the slice. Strategy of today will be to mix sweet and savory options. So, to avoid taste fatigue, let's try it this pizza slice out. Nice and crispy bottom. This is the recommendation by the owner of uh Little Italy right in New York. Very special indeed. Tastes really good. First time I've had pizza in like years probably. So now in this offseason, we're experiencing a lot of new things. Let's enjoy. Thank you very much. Free samples. Now say no to this one. Enjoy. Enjoy. No problem. Tastes very good, guys. Milkshake flavor cookies and cream. No, it's a chocolate. Chocolate chip cookie. The s'mores. If you want to try the s'mores. No, no, it's the same thing. The same thing, right? Reese's chocolate lava cup. What is your favorite Reese's cup? Let me know down in the comments. I've uh only had the peanut butter regular one, but if there's a better one, let me know. So, we have decided to go to one of the best thigh restaurants in New York. At least it has a lot of good reviews. So, add something sweet. We got to go for something savory again. And uh you know, at least we need to get some protein in as well with some chicken skewers. So, this Thai restaurant actually does things a traditional way. So, it might be a little spicy, but uh let's see. It's nice marination. It's mildly spicy. Not that spicy at all. But this is level one of of three levels here. And my main course is going to be the two level spicy. So, we'll see that. But at least the chicken has been approved. This is some braced short rib. This should be spicy level number two. Very tender, very nice. Definitely recommend getting this one. I never had short rib in my life, but it tastes good, guys. It tastes good. Remember, I used to be a pescatarian for over 7 years, so no chicken, no meat, nothing at all, except for fish. So, I'm experiencing all kinds of new things, which is also why I haven't had a lot of fast food in my life before. So, America is the place to be if you want to try out all that stuff. Let's enjoy. All right, Five Guys time. Never had a Five Guys burger or anything in my life. Of course, I choose the chose the cheeseburger as I think, you know, that's the most basic way to test out how good it is. Smells pretty good. The burger does taste different from what I can remember of McDonald's or Burger King, but all in all, it tastes kind of expected like a fast food chain burger, but still pretty more fresh, let's just say. As you can see, the beef looks pretty good. But yeah, this is a nice little snack in between all the meals we're going to have here. New York Times Square. I was just going to go in here just to see, but I catch myself actually grabbing stuff. What's happening? What's going on? I know we've had donuts before, but this is a twisted donut. We need to try every variety possible, guys. The twisted donut is going to go first. Pretty good. A little more um dense compared to the place we went before, but still for this amount of calories, 180. Not bad. So, this is a pretty special one. It looks like um croissant dough pastry with some chocolate on top. Let's give it a shot. Unexpected with a filling. That's good. Very good. This one is good enough for me to go here again. All righty. That was our cheap meal adventure in New York. Tried out some fast food chain, some high quality change, some snacks here and there, some delicious donuts, of course, every time in America. I love this food a lot. The amount of calories that I consume is right here just about. But, you know, I am a professional bodybuilder, so I'll be doing these from every now and then. But, of course, we're still having a goal in mind, and that is to win the biggest competitions in the world of bodybuilding. Anyway, we still need to grow, so don't be afraid. More of these videos will be coming. Thank you a lot for the cool support, and do not forget to stay golden.