 during the off-season I've done my very best to eat everything I could. However, everything is not always the best choice. Of course, I'm joking here because everything I ate in the off-season was sometimes just for fun to try it out in America. My calories, however, just on a regular off-season diet, were around, you know, 5,500. And the carbs were very high, fats were medium, protein was high. That's pretty much a standard bodybuilding diet. The main difference now with the prep to the R-classic is the calories are, of course, going down to lose body fat. But what goes down mostly the fats and the carbohydrates, but how do you still make these meals delicious? And how do you still make progress using these meals to be at your very best? Today I'm going to show you exactly that and we're going to start with meal number one. Alright, so the first meal will be one of my favorite meals of the day, the victory breakfast, but with an enormous twist. For this, we're first going to turn on the oven at 180 degrees to make sure it is preheated. And now there are going to be quite some steps to make this. Here we have the two molds, the silicon molds I'm going to use for this breakfast. And as you can see, there's quite some volume here to be achieved. And I'm going to do that in a very special way. Stay tuned. Okay, so we're first going to start with some water. And now the secret, guys, the secret, the secret. The very first ingredient that's going to go in is egg white powder. So it's not whey, it's literally dried egg whites. We're going to put in 20 grams. That's exactly right. And this, as you know, what can you do with egg whites? You can whip them up. But I, being the cook that I am, I'm going to add another secret ingredient. It's cream of tartar. And this is very important, guys. 0.6 grams of it is enough to make whipped egg whites much stiffer and much more airy, much more voluminous for the end result. You know exactly what I mean once you see what's going to happen now. First we shake it up. As you can see, it's already a little bit more aerated. Now we're going to put it in the wonderful KitchenAid. Put it in. And now we're going to put the KitchenAid on high for about a few minutes. And you will see this transform into something magical. We start by pouring about 200 ml of water into a shaker cup. Then we add some salt. It's important to keep the same amount of salt in every meal of the day. Also some potassium to ensure this also stays equal. Then I use an important ingredient, baking powder, at least 3 grams. Then some saline cinnamon and some turmeric to give it that golden color with some pumpkin spice. Some sun fiber, which truly helps my digestion. Then some psyllium husk, which also helps digestion and also adds some bulk to the batter. Then some extra stevia for some extra sweetness. Very important. This one is important indeed. You can add any flavor you want and it actually tastes and smells like the real thing. Flavor, powder. And then the actual carp sort of this meal, which is just plain rice flour. It literally is the best digesting carbohydrate source in my diet. Now, what you look at this guy's look at how much volume has been added to these egg whites. So it's literally whipped up egg whites, which this will add so much volume texture flavor to the whole meal. Let me continue with the steps. Here we have some freshly cooked pumpkin, which I always put in a crock pot. Make sure I have it on deck with low calorie, high potassium, a little bit of fiber and to make this entire meal nice and smooth as well. And something else you guys might not like as much, but it's spinach. 50 grams of spinach, which actually don't taste at all. But I take it for the vitamin K1. Turn it on slowly and mix this batter through it. When you're in prep, you want every last drop. Now look at that volume guys. A little oil spray to make sure the silicone molds won't stick. Because if it sticks, it sucks. Let me tell you that one. And now we're going to put it in there just like so. The other one. Just look at that, you guys. Look at the airiness. If I wouldn't have put the whipped egg whites in here, I wouldn't even have enough for one mold. That's the entire big difference. Now we're going to put it in the oven. Put it in and the time will actually be for my breakfast, 50 minutes. And that'll give us enough time to do cardio, to clean this mess up and to then enjoy the breakfast. But in the meantime, it's not finished yet. It's time for the Whey Drip Dip. Normally this will be the Whey Drip which was put on top of my breakfast. But this is the Whey Drip Dip in which we're going to dip the breakfast. You will see that very soon. This is one of the new flavors, Salt and Dark Chocolate. 20 grams of that. And we're slowly going towards the isolate because it contains more protein, less fats, less carbs, more pure form. I'm going to put in 25 grams of that for a total 45 grams here. And then we're going to put in about 55 ml of water. I want a thin mixture, not too thick, so I can enjoy it for longer. That's basically the whole thing. Alright, a silicone spoon. Mix it up until it's a smooth consistency. Just like that, a little thin now. Going to put it in the fridge. It'll thicken up in this 45 minutes. And a final part, very easy. Just going to be some berries. Alright, now we're done with the breakfast preparation. Time for some cardio. Alright, we are done with cardio. About 25 minutes, 10 kilometers on the bike. And now it's time for the victory breakfast. Let's get out of the oven. Look at those beauties. Look at the volume. Here the crisp. That's the egg whites that are whipped. So now we're going to wait a minute or so to let them cool. Put them on a plate and present them for you guys. All the pills go in. Aphidstack, Omega-3, magnesium, all that good stuff. But now guys, it is time to enjoy this beautiful, hamster breakfast. As you can see, the beautiful shape. It is one more time, guys. You just can't beat it. So that's why I take so much time with the breakfast to make it absolutely perfect and to make sure it's a good start of the day. You can do your cardio way easier that way and it's double in size as this star we also have. So it's a nice, a little bit of a surprise. We also have, so it's a nice, long breakfast to enjoy. And this is that way-drip dip. A little bit thickened up, as you can see. And usually I just take a piece of this, put it in there, and just enjoy this beautiful meal. Caterines and macros are going to be in the description for you guys. And at the end of this video, of course, and perhaps in this video, who knows what the cameraman behind the camera will do. But you will see exactly the caters and macros of this entire meal and day. Anyway, let's rip off its ear. Look at that. Look at that. Looks amazing. Yep. Meal one is going down. All right. So the food it's eating also contains, what do I drink during the workout? No carbs or no interworkout carbs. I prefer to eat the carbs rather than drink them. So only thing that's in here are some EAAs and a little bit of salt to stay hydrated and anti-catabolic during the workout. Of course, ESN, EAAsplus. You can use code Wesley for 20% discount right now. And always thank you incredibly for the good support. And if you want to see the whole back workout that I'm training back today, you can always see it on my channel to know exactly what I do to make the bag as good as possible. But for now, see you at the next meal. Just work the back. So post-workout meal time. Pretty much the same ingredients as this morning. Not only difference, no pumpkin, no spinach, no vegetables. And I made it a microwave instead of the oven. And the same berries pretty much. And the same way drip. But now it's not a dip, it's a drip. And a little bit more rice flour as before the workouts. You don't need as many carbs as after the workouts. And now we can finally say once again, way drip. So the two most important meals have already happened. The pre and post-workout meal, which is basically almost all the carbs in the day. Now we have a few more meals left, which basically just serve as a protein pulse to keep muscle on the body and to just not starve to death during the day. That really is the two only reasons. I like to do this with chicken for example, or beef or fish. It doesn't really matter as long as it contains around 40 grams of protein per meal. Today we're going to go for a chicken and a vegetable meal. So I cut up some vegetables, vegetables that really digest well and agree with my digestion. And it's going to be around 350 grams of total vegetables. So we have some zucchini, again a lot of potassium, some bell pepper, just very healthy in general, vitamin C. And we have some celery right here, which contains a good amount of anti-diuretic, or actually carcass diresis a little bit, and it's just good for the kidneys as well. So I'm going to put a few grams of that in there. I don't like the leaves as much, so I'm going to put those away. But most of these meals contain quite a lot of vegetables because it adds all the micronutrients, the vitamins, the minerals you need to really get your metabolism going and keep going in terms of the burning of fat and building up the muscle. Then we're adding one of my favorites. I have a lot of different mushrooms, so this meal is just going to go with the brown mushrooms right there. One of the only sources of food in the world that contains naturally vitamin D. And it's a very, very dark outside, so we might as well use it up while the sun isn't shining. So I just like to cut these up into little pieces. So let me do that and then show you exactly how I prep my protein. That was in 2019, right? That was in the year. So I always do the smell test. It smells very fresh. I'm not going to take any risk anymore. Even if it smells slightly off, I ditch it. But usually this is very high quality. This is from Meat Up, the butcher I like to go to with very high quality chicken. So how I measure the chicken, I just put it on the scale at zero and just take it out until I get the desired amount of chicken here. Which is going to be around 220 grams. I always like to trim off a little bit of the fat. And yes, I used to make pulled chicken in a crock pot or in a slow cooker to make it easy. But I have the luxury now that I have some time on my hands to actually make it fresh and kind of enjoy it more like that. And because I have a sleeve, I trick up my sleeve to make a chicken very tender and delicious. So at around the same time, we heat up the oil, I mean the oil spray in the pan. We first toss in the vegetables like that. And then add my secret spice mixture. Five spices to help with digestion, with immune system, with health in general and most importantly, deliciousness. Put a lid on it. Now the secret begins. This guys is a meat hammer. It has two sides, one is spikes, one that's flat. We're going to hammer this chicken down in an even shape. So it's kind of like a chicken steak. It makes it more tender. It allows the heat to catch more surface area. And it just makes it taste so much better. So no more dry chicken that you don't know is cooked all the way. Just tenderize it like this. And if you punch a chicken, I believe 3,500 times, it's actually cooked. So that's a strange little fact I read somewhere. But that means every time that you kind of inflict damage on it, it cooks a little bit. AKA it gets closer to being safe to eat. Anyway, let's put this in now. Add a bit of pepper. Alright, so this is one of my staple meals every single day. Multiple times a day, as I mentioned, it's either this chicken or it's tenderloin beef or it's Victoria fillet, like a fish. That's pretty much the three choices I have. So the macros of this meal are of course in the description or somewhere on the screen. So I have this three times a day at least. And then the last week of the day will pretty much be the same as the first week of the day, but then with less carbs. So that's kind of my day to day eating. Uranus are classic, so carbs are medium. Protein is medium to high. Fats are very, very low to really get ready for this all classic. Alright, so this was my full day of eating. At least showing you the meals that I eat every single day, exactly the same. But to still make it interesting, of course, the breakfast was quite elaborate as I have the time to make it. But it's very simple as garb sources, guys. The only garb source I really have is the rice flour and of course the berries, the fruit. Then I have plenty of vegetables and plenty of protein differences, different protein sources like we have the egg whites, we have the designer whey, chicken, fish, beef. We have it all. So this diet contains around 70 grams of fiber as well to keep digestion going. But these are my full day of eating macros. And let me know what you think of this diet. If you want to see more of this in detail or more full day of eating on a leg day or a rest day, for example. Let me know, but this is my path to success for the all classic 2026. And of course, guys, I would not be a complete bodybuilder without wearing Able. Look at the back of this shirt. This one will come out on Thursday, February 22nd. January 22nd, of course. And you can always use code WESLEY to get the best possible discount. But this one is pretty awesome. A lot more graphic teas are coming out. And of course, always thank you for the golden support. Alright guys, this was the video. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.