What is up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where, as you all know, it's all about classic bodybuilding. And today is a classic workout because it's an arm day. And it's one of those days that a lot of modern bodybuilders like to skip or neglect because they don't think very big arms are important. But I do because as a classic physique competitor, I think having bigger arms sets you apart. Plus, because there's a weight limit, having bigger arms barely will change your weight, but will drastically change your appearance. So having big arms is definitely a big plus. And I'm working out with another Wesley. His name is Wesley Rogist from Belgium. And he in this video is about a week out from the Romania. He's still an amateur bodybuilder going for his pro card, but he's in pretty good shape. And uh he's just uh also a fan and a supporter of Vintage Genetics, as you can see, wearing the Bermuda shorts and also wearing a tank top, which you'll see later on. This is the third time that I'm working out with him, at least on the video, and he's always a nice working partner to have during a training. But today is an arm day and we're starting out with the rope push down. And to me, I pretty much always start with a rope push down whenever I train the triceps because it's the most easy, convenient, and best mind muscle connection exercise there is to warm up the triceps that they really get into the workout very easily. So, I start out with a very light weight. I'm pretty much showing you every single set that I'm doing. And there are straight sets. So there are no sets of only five reps or something because I'm not leaving anything in the tank in the sets prior. It's simply going to be sets progressively getting heavier in weight and then at the last set is simply going to be a fill your set around the 10 to the 10 to 12 or 15 rep range because that is the ultimate rep range for arm growth in my opinion. If you combine it with arm safety, as in not getting injuries, because I've had a bicep tendon which was irritated, uh tricep joint tendon which was irritated as well and that only happened because I was training very heavy and to me that doesn't work. it doesn't allow me to get a full uh first of all a full range of motion while feeling a mind muscle connection throughout and which is also another reason why I'm starting out with the tricep push down because when you go all the way up you can feel the stretch but especially when going all the way down you really feel that contraction. So this is going to be the last set. So, I'm still just calling it set number five, but this is a true working set because here I'm going to failure. So, when you're going to failure on an arm movement, always use full range of motion. And the moment your form starts to become different or start to become imperfect, that's when the set stops because otherwise you're going to be using muscles that are not the muscles you're training. And for me, I'm training the triceps here. So, what I'm doing with a heavy set, I'm doing as many reps as I can until my form breaks down. And then, if I want to go past failure, I don't keep going with sloppy form. I keep going with a lighter weight, aka a drop set, which we all know, and it's a classic addition to making the workout more intense. And after the simple rope push down when the triceps are nice and warmed up, we're going to do an overhead cable tricep extension. You can do this also with a rope, but with a rope it's a lot uh, you know, more difficult to do a heavier weight with in a safe manner or in a proper form manner. And sometimes I like to do that when I don't feel like doing a lot of weight and still going to failure on a lighter weight. But today, I felt like going a bit heavier because if you're able to go relatively heavy and still go above 10 reps and still have that full range of motion, that's the best of both worlds for muscle growth or hypertrophy. So, here the overhead uh rope cable extension with this bar, it allows me to fully stretch the triceps when I'm going overhead and then also contract the tricep when I'm pushing it all the way outwards. What I'm also doing is I'm going slow on the eccentric. That's my personal belief that that is the best way to grow muscle. and they're going explosive on a concentric. So when you're pushing it out, you push it out explosively because that recruits all at least most uh motor units in the muscle fiber in the entire muscle. So if you would be going very slow on the concentric, you would not be um getting as much activity in all the muscle fibers compared to going more explosive style. So, when you're going overhead, when you're going back, that's going to be slow. That damages the muscle the most. That really gets a nice stretch on the muscle, and it's safer for the joints and the tendons. And when you're going uh pushing it forward, that's when you're doing an explosive movement to make sure every single muscle fiber is included in the movement. Now, the only and the biggest disadvantage about this exercise is that it's pretty much an abdominal exercise as well. So, if you have very strong triceps, which for some weird reason I do, even though the triceps are a weak point compared to the biceps, but still they're pretty strong. It kind of, you know, depends on how strong your abs are as well. Because if your abdominals are weaker in keeping your body in this position than your triceps, your abs will actually give in first before the triceps do. And that's not a good way to bodybuild. You don't want another muscle that you're not intending to train to go to failure before the muscle you're actually intending to train goes to failure. So, be on the lookout if you're doing this movement. and it's still too heavy for the abs to handle, then do use the rope extension, the rope attachment, because that makes it a lot more difficult and then the abs will uh experience less tension and it will be easier to only focus on the triceps and not the abs. So, that's a variation you can of course use. And the overhead movement also trains or emphasizes the long head of the tricep, which is what we want to grow. If you want to have that sweeping shape when you're doing a front double bicep, for example, or even a side chest if you want a full tricep, you're going to need a big long head of the tricep. So that's why I like to focus on a lot of overhead movements. But first warm up with the rope push down so I don't, you know, inflame the elbows or don't inflame the tendons too much because they're already filled with blood. But then we're going to do heavier movements like this. And this is the French press. We all know the skull crushers. And they are called skull crushers because you then bring the bar to your skull. And if you don't stop it, it's going to crush your skull, which is why it's called a skull crusher. But the French press, a very different name, is also a different exercise. So instead of letting the bar go to your forehead, you're letting the bar go behind your head. And the big advantage compared to a skull crusher is that you get a bigger and deeper stretch, especially a bigger stretch where the tricep is attached to the shoulder joint. So if you look very closely to my upper arm, I'm not just pushing upwards, but I'm also pushing backwards. And that allows that tension to stay there. If you if you look at my right arm right there, you can see that the tension on the muscle isn't lost at any point in the range of motion. If I would be pushing straight up, the tension would ultimately go to my elbows and not to the muscle. That is not what you want as a bodybuilder. As a powerlifter or a weightlifter, maybe because then you want to use, you know, just the A to B uh path without worrying about what the muscles are doing. You just want to use momentum and joints if necessary to get that weight there. But as a bodybuilder, you want to make the movement as difficult as possible for the muscle involved. So that your body has to evolve that muscle to grow for next time because it realized it realized that it was too weak for that movement because the muscle was involved the entire time and if it will be involved again the next time, it needs to become stronger in order to do that. And uh that's what we're trying to do as a bodybuilder. So progressive overload is also a big part of growing muscles. So on each and every set I'm applying progressive overload here. So I am still keeping the 10 to 12 to even 15 rep range here. But what I'm doing is increasing the weight every single set. So, this one will go to failure, but it's going to be more than 10 reps, which is important because if it's going to be below 10 reps, the tension would shift automatically from the muscles to the joints and the tendons more simply because of the strain of the weight on the entire arm. If it's a bit lighter, you can get more blood in the muscle. You can concentrate more on the mind muscle connection. really concentrate on the muscle that you're working and it's going to be safer and better overall. So, it's always going to be the best of both worlds in choosing a heavy weight, but also being able to do enough reps to get blood in the muscle and to prevent injuries from happening. And by the way, Wesley is wearing the classic Vintage Genetics mesh tank up here, available on the vintage genetics.com website. And I'm wearing the dropped armhole uh tank top which is very amazing to actually uh whenever you're training the back for example or even the shoulders they are freed up not covered up by fabric especially when you're a bit leaner or even if you're bulking if you simply want to see your shape when you're working out uh wearing a light and comfortable tank top like this would definitely help. All available on the website vintageetics.com. So what I just did is a very heavy French press with a heavier weight than this. And the second working set, which means a set of failure, is a lighter set. So I'm working in different rep ranges here. So the first rep range was about 8 to 10, maybe 12, and this one was more than 15, between 15 and 20 reps. That way you get stronger at both rep ranges. And the best way to grow as a bodybuilder is to get as strong as you can on as much rep ranges as you can. But in my opinion, you should never go below eight reps because then you get into strength territory and injury territory as well. We all know strong bodybuilders who all have an injury here or there. That's not what you want because even though you might make a percentage of two more progress in the meantime when you're injured, that's months out of the gym that you can't train train to your max, which will neglect all the extra uh progress you could have made anyway. So, that's not what we want. And then one of the best tricep movements there is, the tricep dip. And I'm using an assistant tricep dip here. So, this is pretty much um pull-up and dip assistant machine. So, you're standing on the plateau. And the plateau helps you uh with a certain weight to push your body weight up. And that allows you to really focus on the triceps and not having to involve your chest or your front delts as much. So you can really go all the way down. Feel the stretch in the triceps and until you feel that stretch. That's when you go up again and contract the triceps, making sure the tension in the triceps is never lost. Making sure that there's a lot of blood in there. And you can also really focus on not hurting your elbow. So, what you want to do is if you if you see those bars that we're holding on to when you're going down, you can either grip them wide or narrow. And I'm gripping them uh pretty much as narrow as possible because that allows you to have your elbows as close to your body as possible. And that will um stimulate the triceps more compared to grabbing those bars wide. because if you grab them wide, it's going to be all chest. And that's not what we're training here. We are training the triceps. So, this again is the last set of this movement. And just like the first exercise, we're doing a drop set. So, I'm doing as many good reps as I can with a heavy weight. And once I did all the reps with a heavy weight, I'm asking my training partner here to lower the weight again, wait a few seconds automatically, and then I'll do the drop set with as many reps as I can once more. That is the safest way to go beyond failure without doing force reps or anything strange like this or half reps because all of that puts uh a dangerous amount of strain on the muscle. And I'm not saying that's not a perfect technique in the offseason. But when you're only in this video, I believe I was around, you know, 5 to 6 weeks out, then it's going to be a bit more riskful if you go very heavy and go beyond failure by doing force reps because then you are a lot more injuryprone. You have a less fat, less cushioning, and pretty much the entire process of going to the stage won't make your body stronger. it'll slowly make you make you weaker and more vulnerable to injuries and that's not what we want. All we want to do is maintain all the muscle mass we have while burning the fat as we go to the stage and then hopefully end up with the best conditioning possible on stage with as much muscle as we build up in the offseason. And the beauty is when you lose all the fat, you can actually then not only see what the difference is compared to last year and see what the changes are that you made in the offseason. And for me, it's mostly the back, but also definitely the triceps. I can notice my triceps are a lot fuller compared to what they were before. So workouts like this are pretty much the same in the offseason. So when you're watching this, you can actually see this is the kind of stuff that I did in the offseason to make my muscles grow. And you can actually see that it did work over the year that I've had to work on my physique for this Mr. Olympia. After finishing off the triceps, it's time for the biceps. And this may look weird because I'm curling a bar without any weight. Why would you do that? Well, the biceps are to a lot of people indestructible, but at the same time very injuryprone as well if you make a mistake. So what I learned throughout the years is well before I had any injuries at all, well I don't have injuries but before any pains or anything I used to train very heavy with the biceps used a bit momentum here and there just because it was fun. But once you are past that phase of your life, you notice that you are not as fresh as you were before because of the fact you went so heavy and used uh too heavy of a weight that your muscle can actually handle and that inflamed and damaged the tendons over time a little bit. And if you then keep training like this, an injury is just waiting to happen. So what I personally like to do is simply warm up with the biceps as light as I can. Even if it feels too light, it doesn't matter. Just focus and practice then on the mind muscle connection. So what I do is go all the way down, then go all the way up and feel that peak contraction in those biceps. That primes me for the next few sets, which will include heavier and heavier weights. Because here we are already doing three times as much weight as the warm-up. And now I'm starting to feel it. So I'm going all the way down until I feel a good stretch in those biceps and then going all the way up until I feel a good contraction. If you don't feel either one of them, you're simply not performing the exercise correctly and you should be practicing the mind muscle connection a bit better. So this is a close grip euk bar curl. an interesting name, but the closed grip will actually enhance the growth of the outer head of the biceps. And when the outer head of the biceps is bigger than the inner head, that's when you create a bicep peak. And that's ever since we saw Arnold pose a front double bicep or any of his classic poses with those enormous biceps, we all are striving to create peaks like that. And to me, small additions and small changes to your exercises like having a closer grip, really focusing on the peak contraction, that's what will help you get those peaky biceps. At least if you compare you doing that for years to you doing not doing that for years, what you have then is a less peaked biceps. So even if you genetically can't get peaked biceps, you would still have better peaks if you would implement techniques like this. That is what I am a firm believer in. So when you're almost getting close to failure, really make sure you're not using momentum. You don't see my upper body swinging back and forth. What I'm doing is purely using those biceps to curl the weight all the way up. And that to me is the best way to grow. All right, the next movement that almost can't get any more old school, the simple alternating dumbbell curls. So, what you want to do here is also really focus on that contraction at the top. You can now see because I'm leaner the difference between a full contraction and not contracting the bicep. Because when you're going all the way up, you can see the bicep shortening. And when a muscle is shortening, that's when you know that a muscle is contracting. And the biceps are a prime example [snorts] of a muscle you can see contracting or not. So when it's fully lengthened, that's when you uh stretch the the bicep. When you go all the way up, you contract it. You shorten the bicep. And that's what you want even on a free weight exercise like this one. Disadvantage about this movement compared to for example a preacher curl bicep um a dumbo curl is that you don't have much tension at the very bottom which is exactly why contracting the bicep is very important at the top because that's pretty much the only thing that you can maximize in the alternating dumbbell curl. So if you go all the way down, you know, you can simply let your arm hang like this and there's no tension pretty much on the bicep. But only when you go all the way up, you can get a full contraction on the biceps. So what you want to maximize here is the contraction. I always also give this example with the bench press. So if you do a bench press, what do you want to maximize? The stretch or contraction. What you can do is go all the way down and stretch the pec muscles. But what you can't do is go all the way up and contract the uh chest muscles because in order to contract the chest, you would have to do a fly motion. So the the arms would have to go and move together and that's not possible when doing a solid barable bench press. So that's when you maximize the stretch. So always go all the way down and not not necessarily have to go all the way up. And here's another difference. The most important thing here is that you have to go all the way up and not necessarily all the way down, even though I do believe that is the safest way to perform this movement and the classic way as well. And what I'm also doing here is at least 10 reps per arm. So that prevents you from going way too heavy on these dumbbell curls. Also a mistake a lot of people make. You can see that I'm using a minimal amount of momentum and that's only to move my body in such a way so the dumbbell doesn't hit my legs or my sides. That's why I'm moving my upper body a little bit, not in order to make the dumbbell curl easier. But you see a whole lot of people moving their upper body just to cool the dumbbell up. It's not going to do anything else for your biceps. Your biceps are still going to be at the same 100% contraction, but the other extra 20 or 30% that your biceps don't have now comes from other muscles in the upper body, which will only add fatigue to your whole body and will slow down uh recovery for the next workout. And ultimately, if you do this every single exercise, every single workout, it's going to run you down and you're not even effectively targeting the muscles that you want. So, always keep momentum out of it. And to end this dumbo curl, I'm moving from the alternating double curl to a unilateral dumbo curl with the same weight. And you might think, well, what's the true difference here? The difference is because when you alternate, every time that the right arm does a rep, the left arm rests for one rep and vice versa. Here, a unilateral movement, the one arm that's working isn't resting at all. It's simply doing the reps back to back, which makes this a more difficult motion and movement to do. So, you can use the same weight that you did at the previous set, but you're not going to be able to do as many reps because you're not resting in between reps. That is the most important thing about the difference between the alternating dumbo curl and the unilateral dumbbell curl. So next time that you're training the alternating dumbbell curl and you do go to failure on it, then simply choose the same dumbbell weight than the unilateral movement. You should still be able to do at least 10 reps. So it's not going to be like you fill at four reps because then it's simply going to be too heavy. But that will make a big difference in going still past failure with a safer weight than going to go even heavier. uh forcing you to use momentum. This next movement is the reverse cable curl, bicep curl. So the reverse bicep curl, you can see if you look at the bicep, it stays lengthened because um because my palms of my hands are pointing downwards. So it's reverse motion of the bicep curl. And that doesn't that doesn't only work the regular bicep, but also the brachiialis which runs below the bicep and creates that bicep thickness from the front. So, if you're standing in front of the mirror and you're looking at your arms, if you want to have them thicker, you can work a lot of hammer curls and reverse uh barbell curls or cable curls like this to make the bicep appear thicker because the brachialis beneath it grows and thickens the bicep and also of course work the small head of the bicep uh I mean of the tricep to get a thicker arm as well. Kevin Levrone would be the best example there is when he does a most muscular. The small head of the triceps are pretty much big heads because they are enormous and that gives the illusion of very enormous arms which is something no bodybuilder would say no to. All right guys, that was the video of the day. As you can see, it was a simple yet very effective workout. You don't have to do anything difficult to work your arms. I think my arms are nice in proportion with the rest of my body. Of course, they can never be big enough and I still want bigger triceps, but because of those arm days of those simple arm days, the old school movements, you can grow very uh a lot of muscle mass in those arms compared to what you had before if you do them consistently. So, if you don't have weak arms at all, then I would recommend doing a pushpull legs, for example, split. But I like to do a pushpull leg arm split, allowing for an extra work on those arms. And this is Wesley posing, of course, showing me his physique about a week out from the contest. And he's also going to do the uh amateur Olympia in Portugal, which is pretty amazing. So, wish him luck for that. And I want to thank you for watching the video. A lot more is coming and updates on my Olympia prep and my thoughts and my mindset and what's going to happen is this coming as well. And again, thank you for watching and don't forget to stay golden.