His illustrous resume features eight professional injuries. The do from best Netherlands history. >> Guys, we are deep in the offseason as you can see. Sweating already. Haven't even done anything yet, but it's quite hot today. And at the same time, it's going to be the most hardcore workout of the week, the leg workouts. The weight right now is around 131 kilos. So, we achieved way past the goal Jay Cutler set for me. >> So, how big could you get, Ross? >> That's what I'm doing now. >> No, but how big can you get? >> I want to see you I want to see you at 280. >> Well, that's my goal now is to see Wesley at 280. >> Now, we are in unknown territories of weight, but for now, it's time to walk the legs. So, let's go. So, currently doing quite well in the offse as you can see. Still quite lean and trust me, I'm doing my best to eat quite a lot of food. uh well above 5,000 calories right now, especially on leg day to carve even higher. My appetite is actually unable almost to keep up with the amount of food I need to eat. So that's why it's important to uh actually keep walking, keep digestion high, make sure blood sugar is healthy, stuff like that to keep your appetite high as well. But I'm happy with the offseason. I'm as strong as ever, so that's really good news for growth. So I can also take quite a lot of volume during my leg days or other days like four sets on most movements and three sets on most uh compounds for example. So that's what I need to really grow the muscles that I want to be bigger. And that's what's going to happen in this very workout. I have um 60 grams of ESM intra in here and 30 grams of collagen which means carbohydrates, EAAs and collagen peptides to make sure everything is going to help my workout to be the best it can be. I really like doing isolations before the heavy work. Four sets of leg curls for the hamstrings. First movement always and the leg extension. Nice and heavy. I'm able to do the full stack here now. And with leg extensions, you actually don't want to extend all the way up because that will put a lot of stress on the knee joint. Whereas the stretch part of the leg extension will actually cause the most growth anyway. So, you might as well go up 85 90%. And uh also above 10 reps, not too heavy. And gym 80 was nice enough to install this belt on here as well, which keeps you in place, which doesn't distract you then from having to hold yourself down so much. So, really having a good pump already in the quads from one set, two more to go. Okay. So, of course, I'm seeing a lot of my fellow competitors compete right now. I really, really enjoy this offseason. So, you might think, "Aren't you uh missing the stage or aren't you jealous of those guys?" Well, on the contrary, I've been doing this for like 12 years now, and every single year I've competed multiple times. There hasn't really been a super long consecutive consistent offseason period for me, and this is kind of the first one I'm doing since I'm a pro. So, yeah, I will be going to the Olympia, by the way. I'll be at the ESN booth. And if gym 8 is going to be there, I'll be there as well. But for sure ESN cuz I I want to watch the show. I want to be there in the flesh to see the athletes competing there to really get motivated for the offseason as that's the only thing that can hold you back. The true inspiration and motivation that you get from having a deadline for going on stage. But uh when you keep visiting those shows, you see the guys competing, you're like, I want to be there, but only when I'm at my best. I won't be going on stage, not until I'm happy with the shape I'm going to bring. And that shape will only be good enough if I win the show I'm going to do. And that's where a workout like this is very important. Yeah. Okay. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. How do you achieve maximum stretch on the quads in a compound fashion is with a [\h__\h] squat. Usually, we're going to try a variation like this on the hack squat called the [\h__\h] hack squat. Kind of ironic cuz it's the opposite of being a [\h__\h] It's the the most difficult version you can imagine. >> That was set one. That was still an easy set. This was kind of the warm up of the true sets are about to come. The weight will stay the same, but I'm going to attach a nice little trick after I do the second set, which will make a lot of sense, but won't be fun at all. Come on. This [\h__\h] squat hack squat combination super set. The hack squat feels so light and the first two reps, but after that you feel the lactic acid build up in the quads as those truly are then the limiting factor in that lift. So, if you want to do the hack squat with not as much weight to protect the lower back, try the superset out and let me know what you think down below. Anyway, now it's time for another brutal exercise. At least for me, I've never liked this, but that's why exactly why I need to do it. Still hit themselves mentioned, of course, the walking lunges. Oh, I can imagine for a lot of people including myself, you can lose focus and the drive and the motivation when you are in such a long offseason without anything close by like a show for me. Well, for me, there's one thing I know for sure. I never want to make my physique look the way it did as at this year's Arnold. I cannot regress ever again anymore. That's my ultimate goal in bodybuilding. It's all about making progress. I'm doing my absolute best to make this offseason as fruitful as possible so that I can be sure to you guys that the next time I'm on stage is going to be a severe progression from the Arnold that I won. So, I want that shape at least with more mass on the right places. That's the motivation I need. That's the focus I need. I don't need a deadline for a competition. All I need is to see that a regret, which you have to be transparent. You have to be honest. When you go backwards one step, you got to make sure to go two steps forward. And that's exactly what I'm going to do. And that being said, let's do the next set. Okay. empty. One of the more important exercises is coming up, the inner thigh exercise, aka the adductor machine, cuz this creates uh the thickening of the gap in between the legs. So, you want to make it as small as possible, and you do that by training the adductors. So, um, I do this at least three to four times a week after every back day and after every leg day. And when I do back day, I do the heavy version. So, 8 to 12 reps. And now I'm going to do the slightly lighter version, 15 plus minus reps to create a discrepancy in volume. So, you can target the muscle slightly differently. But yes, oh this will cause a lot of illusion on stage as well in the front and back double biceps. This is the kind of workouts I like to do at least twice a week uh to make sure this offseason will be a success. higher volume, high effort to make sure I really uh target the movements I need for growth in the legs. So, yeah, be on the lookout for that. And let me know if I should reach the 300 lb mark. I think like 134 kilos or something or 35. Let me let me know if that's a goal. And also, of course, if you are also sweating like me when it's hot, make sure you get yourself some Able gymware. code Wesley super cheap however super high quality and a lot of people have done this as well as well as my Dutch O collection which I'm super thankful for it really means a lot to me which is why I can afford for example to go to Las Vegas to kind of do a report on the show for you guys what I think is going to be the result of that show as I won't be attending uh in terms of the competition but I will be there to watch the competition so follow me on this channel and my Instagram to make sure to get my latest on the Olympia uh placements, what I think is going to happen. So, that's going to be in the future for sure and a lot more offseason workouts where you can see me getting bigger and better. At least that's the very goal. Anyway, guys, thank you a whole lot for watching. Let me know what you think.