We got a really interesting story to discuss today and that is Özinski switching to men's open bodybuilding. Interesting timing here at less than a >> That is interesting. I think it's time for the next step. >> All right, guys. You must be wondering Wesley had a surgery. It's been a couple of days now since the last video. How is he doing in terms of recovery? Well, I have to say it's going quite well. Last time on the video, I got up very difficult out of this chair and a lot of people told me that uh you know it kind of sucked see me like that. Of course, didn't feel great, but right now I feel amazing. Every single daily task that is normal in daily life, I can just do. As you can see, well, you can't really see it here, but I'm putting like AI don't know what it's called, a silicon tape, a scar uh band-aid basically on it to kind of make the scar as pretty as possible, as supple as possible, so it looks the best on stage as that's ultimately also why we're doing this. It has been now 11 days. This is the 11th day since the surgery. Thank you guys incredibly much for uh also the comments on the last video. It was amazing. I truly truly appreciate it. I've seen so many people uh with their own experience with a hernia or other surgeries. So when I was sitting there with quite a lot of pain, you know, that really did help me uh get back on my feet literally. What I've done, of course, is keeping up with my daily vitamin and mineral regime on top of the collagen and daily every single day, which literally helps promote healing of the skin, tendons, ligaments, also injuries, and surgeries. I'm also taking this and right now there's a new flavor, tropical. The nice thing about this, it tastes amazing and it gives you all the nutrients you need without realizing you would normally actually have to consume seven caps of this to get the same result. The timeline is of course to keep bulking, keep adding weight, quality weight, cuz I want to get as big as possible this offseason to put as much muscle on my frame as I can to put on stage because uh right now we're uh I'm close to September basically. That gives me a couple more months of true bulking uh at least before me and my coach are like, "Okay, now we reach the physique. The mass that is needed to truly tackle the next competition to really do very, very well. The intensity I can put into my training is so much higher now. I'm completely rested. I have nothing to worry about anymore. So, I can really go all out and unlock everything that my potential has to offer." And you guys can do the exact same. Rest is when you get better, guys. and you grow. I have lost a little bit of fullness right now, but I come right back twice as quick. And it simply feels amazing to get back at the gym and make the gains and newbie games again you did at the very beginning. So, I just watched the UR's update of going to open. I'm sure you guys have as well. A classic physique, really good physique, third in the world for multiple times. So, we've also seen Sebum do the same thing last year. It goes to show that classic guys really can do very, very well in the open category. But I'm also uh you know this offseason I've gained quite a lot of quality tissue I think this amount of weight with this conditioning I think this number might have even been higher than it's offseason weight what it was this time. So you know um that really opens up a lot of possibilities for me for sure. By the way thank you so much for your congrats on the new house in the last video. It truly truly means a lot. You never know how stuff like this comes across, but I truly uh am very humbled by you guys, how you uh are so nice and positive. That really motivates me to keep doing this stuff. So, this will uh will be be in my new room. And um yeah, I uh put my example here on the wall and I'm going to put my bed here. And uh no, it's actually going to be Dexter's room. Of course, Dexter loves the Marvel universe, DC universe, but he loves The Incredible Hulk the most. How could that actually be? Yeah, I I don't I don't know. I wonder. But house is going great. Next week we got to actually move here. So, I got a lot to do. So, I'm very happy that I'm feeling quite well to be able to help out a lot. So, uh yeah, very motivating, guys. And thank you once again. So, guys, I of course am leaving something open. Hey, no pun intended. the direction classic vehicles been going to with Mike being the R classic champion with Rough Diesel going up in the ranks the last few competitions hasn't really been going my way and in open I have to say um with Samson with Andrew with uh Quinton and now of course Ers and Steph Cruz as well you can do very very well in open you know Samson is the Mr. Olympia looking quite classic. Remember Cedric McMillan? I can name a few more. Obviously, as I mentioned before, Arnold, Mr. Olympia, a lot of arrows are pointing towards one direction. So, um I have to say I'm going to stay in classic, guys. Yes. So, the reason why I'm staying in classic, I haven't been able to prove myself in classic just yet. What I have done is of course win the R classic two times uh back to back which at that moment solidified for me this is your class. You were you know you were given compliments by the man himself Arnold Swatzenegger. Steve Weinberg was the head judge which is also the head judge of the Olympia. He said yes you deserve first place. Tyler Manion said it also pretty much equally as important of a reason is as you guys know and you guys have seen I have two beautiful children but I just want to be more of a normal weight and feel good feel healthy. My stamina needs to be nice and high to be able to keep up with them as well cuz open bodybuilding simply does put a strain on your stamina and your health which both to me are very very important. So those two reasons are the main reasons why I'm staying in classic. So, I still have a lot to show in Classic, guys. And this is only the very, very beginning. But a teaser here before I retire, before I stop this whole thing, I do want to do at least one open show. So, I'm not, you know, it's still going to be an option for me. It's still going to be something on the cards at the very end. And of course, as I mentioned before, Abel has truly helped me with my surgery. How do you wonder? Well, putting on clothes is very difficult when you have a hole in your stomach. So, having nice and wide tank tops like this, this is, by the way, 2XL. So, it even fits the Dutch oak. So, that just goes to show you it's very nice, very airy when it's hot outside. So, thank you very much as always for the golden support with code Wesley for both ESN and Abel. You support me directly and yourself with a nice discount. And of course, and this time I can do the pose. Don't forget to stay golden.