What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding. And right here, I'm showing you the newly releasleased Stay Golden jacket. And there's also a matching pants for it. And they are both available on the website also in red which Kane is wearing on vintish genetics.com. Anyway, this is a leg workout. We're doing the hamstrings. That's the main focus of today and we are starting out with the standing hamstring curl. Now, the reason why we're doing the standing curl right now is, first of all, I haven't done it in a while, and you can get a very nice contraction on this exercise. You really want to isolate the hamstrings when they're a weak point so that you get that out of the way when you're still fully energized. Also, it is beneficial to start with an isolation movement such as this so that you actually kind of pre-exhaust the hamstrings before moving on to a compound exercise because the moment that you for example do a leg press after this. The first thing you will feel is your hamstrings. And that's exactly what you want if you want to work on the hamstrings. You want them to do most of the work in this workout. Don't forget to So this is the lying leg curl which is in my opinion the best exercise for the hamstring there is. It really isolates the both of the hamstrings. You can do it with one leg or two legs but I like doing it with two legs because you can do a heavier weight. And what you want to do is fully contract the hamstrings and fully stretch the hamstrings. And right here, if you want to represent the brand Vintage Genetics, and if you do stay golden, you can get one of the bracelets on the website as well. But the reason why I like this le a lot and why I like doing it heavy a lot is because the hamstrings respond a lot better to heavier weights as opposed to a lighter weight with more reps. So I try to stay around eight to 10 reps on this one. And now it's time for the leg press. As I mentioned earlier, this is where the previous isolation exercises come in. And I'm combining it with a wide stance on the leg press. And this is to really hit the inner thighs, which is also part of the hamstrings. But most importantly, when I'm doing this leg press right now, the most amount of tension that I feel is in my hamstrings, and that's exactly what I want. That's what the isolation exercises before are good for. And that's why when you want to work on a weak point, you should first do your isolation movements. On chest day, for example, I start out with usually cable flies for the upper chest or a peg deck for the upper chest because the upper chest is a weaker point in comparison to the lower chest of mine. So, when I do the bench press, I already worked the upper chest with all my energy intact because I did it at the start of the workout. And on the leg press, I like to go pretty heavy. And this is set number three of the six sets on the leg press. I went up to, I think, 330 kilos in total for 10 reps. Uh, which I cannot really record because I need a spotter for that. and you know you can record in spot accurately at the same time. Of course, what I also like to do is finish off a heavy set. So, I right now actually finished the heavy set of 330 kilos and that really overloaded the muscles. But to finish them off, I like to do a little more reps. So, I hit it up with a finisher of 21 reps, which means seven reps at the top as I'm doing right here and seven reps at the very bottom as I'm doing right here. And that is actually the hardest part of this exercise in my opinion. The tension here is incredible. And then seven complete reps. And then you can actually really feel your muscles burning. And that's exactly what you want because the lactose that's building up in your muscles will actually signal your brain to make those muscles grow. There's nothing to it but to do it. That's right. There ain't nothing to it but to do it. A famous Ronnie Coleman quote who also love to do walking lunges which Kane is doing right here. Walking lunges are great for the hamstrings, great for the glutes and the entire legs basically, but especially for your balancing muscles and your core also. In my opinion, lunges are most effective when done at nearly the end of the workout because you want to already have a pump in your legs. You want to have blood in there, be warmed up because sometimes heavier lunges can take its toll on the knees, but you don't feel your knees at all when you're warmed up like this. And what you feel most right now is, trust me, the hamstrings, because that's what's the focus of today. What I felt like doing though is doing these Smith machine squats. And you can see them. I'm going to do them deep ass to grass. As you can see right there, the ass touching the little grass leaves sticking upwards from the ground. That's what you got to imagine. That's what you got to envision when you work your legs in the Smith machine. The Smith machine allows you to focus on this stretch in the quads, in the hamstrings, in the glutes, which you can only acquire in the very bottom of the movement. And then you can actually lighten the weight as well. And I'm using a little platform as you can see on the bottom to be able to go deeper without impacting the back. And now it's time for a calf exercise. I'm doing 150 kilos here. And by that, I'm showing you that I'm starting out with a heavy exercise for calves. But even when it's heavy like this, there's still a full range of motion. So going all the way up and stretching all the way down until you cannot go any further. And this is what makes your calves grow. It's not necessarily the weight or the pump or the burn. It's the full range of motion that your cats are simply not used to. And as you saw right there, my feet were about shoulder width apart, which is going to be a little different from the exercise after this one. Right here, this is what you want to do if you want to work on the outside and the inside of your calves equally. So that's when you put your feet at shoulder width because then the tension is the same on both sides. But you guys, what I'm doing right here is I put my feet closer together, pretty close in fact. And this is to work the outside of the calves. And that's the part that is, you know, improvable, if that's a word. In my case, my calves are pretty developed already, but the outside sweep can never be extreme enough. The inside is pretty easy to work because it always contracts. And I'm actually going to show you in the clip right here, uh, that I'm working the calves in this way. So, you can see my feet are close together. The inside is contracting, but the outside is contracting even more, which you can see in just a second. Right here, you can see the muscles moving on the outside. And that's exactly what you want when you're doing this exercise. And you want to feel the contraction and the stretch to really make those calves grow. And that was the video of the day, guys. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you learned something. And let me know what you think. And we actually restocked on a lot of items in the store as you can see right here. And as I mentioned before and what I was wearing in this video, we also released a new item, a new clothing item, this jacket and the fitting pants which I like quite a lot. I like the result of it. And I just want to thank you guys so much for even looking at the website. It's really something I just thought of doing because a lot of you guys were asking me when are you going to come out with a vintage genetics apparel or vintage genetics clothing. So when I went ahead and tried it, a lot of people were interested. So I want to thank you a lot by being even interested in the website or in the brand, watching the videos, commenting. It really means a lot. Anyway guys, don't forget to stay gold. So hey, I'm