What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding. The golden era, the 70s, 80s, and some of the '9s. Yes, it's all going to happen right on this channel. The golden era of bodybuilding. So today is leg day with a huge focus on the hamstrings. Now why do I focus on the hamstrings? Because it's one of my weak points. So that is a reason why I'm starting out with a hamstring exercise on leg day. I train legs twice a week still, but one day I focus on the hamstrings and one day I focus on the quads and the hamstrings. So, I used to have a full quad day and a full hamstring day, but now I have one hamstring day and and one quad and hamstring day. So, the hamstrings will be worked twice a week regardless. But that is not the only change that I made. Just like with chest, which was one of my previous videos, which is also part of my weak points, the upper chest, I also redesigned that workout. And I did the same here. So, one thing that everybody should realize is that when you're a bodybuilder, when you have a weak point, it means that you have to isolate the muscle better. Uh you might have also picked all the wrong exercises. But usually after years of training and you have a few standout weak points despite thinking you have worked on the weak points but they're not growing that nothing's changing. That means that you need to isolate the muscle more. That is what bodybuilding is all about. Now so I start out with an isolation exercise for the hamstrings. the standing leg curl. And most importantly, especially in the first set you just saw, I do not move my upper body at all. And that is one of the most critical and important changes that you have to make because when you isolate a muscle, you don't want to use anything but the muscle that you're working. And in this case, the hamstrings. Now, what I'm doing here, this is the last set. I'm squeezing at the top for a second. then slowly coming down making sure that I use up all the energy in all the hamstring fibers and leaving nothing to chance. So I do a lot of sets with this six sets. All of them are isolated concentrated reps. Even the very first set is already difficult going all the way up and all the way down. A full contraction of the hamstring a little above 90°. If you go up too much, you automatically uh use your back and glutes, and that's not what we wanted. Now that I isolated the hamstrings, it is time to well, that's basically a pre-exhaustion exercise for a compound movement. And this is the first compound movement of the day. It's a leg press, but my positioning is a wide stance because I also want to work on the inner thighs. And because I pre-exhausted the hamstrings, the hamstrings will give out before the quads do. But what I am also doing is I'm keeping my hands under my legs, feeling the hamstrings um just being conscious of the contraction of the hamstrings the entire time. and I could feel them uh being flexed the entire time. So, I know that my positioning uh on the pad is correct. For some people, you might want to go a little higher because the higher you stand on the pad of the leg press, the higher you put your feet, the more stress will be put on your hamstrings. Um, just always imagine the extreme when you don't uh know where you have to put your feet. When you put them very very low, it kind of turns into a leg extension, you know, in your mind, even though it's impossible. And when you put your feet very high, it kind of turns into a leg curl. So that is what you have to do. That's how you do it. Let's die. This is how it's supposed to be done. So, this is the last set. And you will find out why I'm doing so many sets for each exercise. That is because I'm limiting the amount of exercises and upping the intensity per exercise. Of course, you want to get as many angles as you possibly can, but if you isolate the muscle correctly and go very hard, intense, deep, do your best, then you will hit all the muscle fibers that you need. Because usually when you do five, six exercises for a body part, you even if you don't want to, you do not put all effort into the exercises. at least not as much compared to when you do three exercises for the legs, which I'm doing today. This is quite a heavy weight. I'm using forced reps. My dad is spotting me here. So, I'm going beyond failure, but I'm always making sure that my legs go at least 90° or a little lower for the maximum stretch and contraction of the hamstrings. And that is exactly what I felt. And by the way, on the previous exercise, I pause at the top because then I'm more able to concentrate on the flexion of the muscles rather than keeping constant tension. Um, I also am more able to keep my back out of the movement. But that was that. Now we're going to do the stiff leg deadlift. And you see me using straps. uh you don't want to have a weak grip, but you also don't want the weight to be so heavy that you have to focus on your grip more than the actual muscle that you're working. So, I always advise using straps when you feel the barbell or the dumbbells becoming a little too heavy. Um, the moment that your attention shifts from the muscle that you're working to your grip, I suggest using straps because that just makes it a whole lot easier to focus on the muscle at hand. So, what does this stifflegged deadlift work? Well, the hamstrings are all pumped up right now, and what we're doing is stretching them out. And the more pumped up a muscle is, the more response you will get from the stretch, the better and more effective the stretch will be and the harder it will be to actually stretch. Um, and what's also important is that you want to include the glute muscles in this movement. So, you can see me thrusting the hips at the top, which automatically activates the glutes. you know, that way you got a better glute hamstring tie in which I need to improve a lot on. And those were the three leg exercises. I went intense. Uh, every single set felt heavy. I felt all the muscles. And this is the way that I will be training uh at least for a long while to see what the effect is compared to my previous very high volume workouts with four, five, six different exercises per body part. So I've learned from this. Even some of you guys have told me, "Wow, that's a lot of volume." And you guys were right. It did bring me up to a certain level, but I want to improve on myself. So less volume will be the subject of the next couple of months for sure. And this is uh two calf exercises. The first one was a two-legged standing calf raise going all the way down and all the way up as always using the full range of motion and a time under tension of the calves is very important. Then we go to the onelegged calf raise. A lot lighter weight because you got to imagine you're already lifting your own body weight. So you don't need to add a lot of weight to this, especially after already having done a calf exercise. Wait, wait, wait. What is he doing? Barbell shrugs. I thought it was a lag video. Yes, it is. But I decided and I got advised to do this. You can do, train, perform, uh, trap movements such as the shrugs on any day that you want. Some people like to do it during shorter shoulder day. Some people like to do it on back day, but I like to do it on leg day because it's a very separate muscle. And I'm also doing quite a lot of sets on this one. Seven sets going heavy, full range of motion, making sure that I stretch the traps at the bottom, which is very important because this is also one of my weak points. And I'll be doing one exercise for the traps, usually shrugs, three times a week for at least seven sets, going very heavy as you can see. But I'll be talking about this in a new video talking about the workout split. But this was the video of the day. I hope you enjoyed it and thank you for watching and do not forget to stay golden. Oh, this is the end result. As you can see, let me take a spoon. The sides are a little Oh, okay. The sides are a little tough as you can see, but the middle is nice and gooey, and that's what I like. This cake is delicious.