All right, guys. Welcome to another Vintage Netics Wesley Vissors video. Last time we did the chest, but this time it is time to work on the back. How do you create a massive back? In classic physique, the V taper is very important. I used to have a very wide back, but how about the thickness? So, both the width and the thickness from the side we're going to work on today. So let's see which exercises I like to do to create the best possible back in clinic physique. All right. So as I mentioned the back width is very important which means the witness of your back. So how wide it is at the top which causes the V tape to exist. In classical physique this is very important. So for me when you have not the narrowest waist it's very important to have a very wide back to stand out from the rest. And I like to start out the back workout with something that works on its width. And how do you do that? Actually, by a unilateral movement, one arm at a time. When you're doing this movement, you want to stretch out the muscle to the max at the top, but also be able to squeeze it at the bottom. This is not just something that is very easy to do because if you do this with both arms at the same time, you cannot get that good squeeze. So, I do it with one arm at a time to allow my shoulder to drop down, allowing my elbow to be close to the to the hip, to the waist, and that allows you to fully contract the lats. With that contraction and that stretch at the top, you will fully create and develop those lats to create that delicious, incredible V table, which we all want. So the amount of sets I like to do here is at least two to three. So it's kind kind of an easy movement to do as it's one arm at a time. You can't use a whole lot of weight. If you are using too much weight, you won't be able to get into the squeeze contraction which is something you want to feel here. So you want to feel a great pump after this movement. So rather do a bit more volume and a bit less weight to get an optimal range of motion here than only two super heavy six to eight rep sets. So two to three sets of around 10 to 15 reps here will be a very good start of this back workout. Yeah. Woo. That's it for the first movement. Let's go on to the second. So, how I like to structure my back workout is first start with a lat movement. So, for the Vtaper, alternate with a back thickness movement. So, now we're going to work on the trap. So, the back thickness, the rhombo, basically the upper back, creating a 3D effect in there to let those muscles build out. And that movement is going to be kind of like a hyro movement but with a chest support and focusing on retracting the shoulder blades. The biggest difference between a lat pull down or any lat motion is that with the lats you keep the elbows close to the body and for the back thickness you keep them away from the body to allow basically the traps to be contracting and the shoulder blades to be rolling back and forth. That is a function of the upper back thickness. So, if you only can remember those things, you'll already be able to train your back very effectively. So, let's get started on this one. So, one thing you really want to look out for in this movement is the width you're holding the the bar with or the handle with. So, I'm putting this at the widest possible grip because once you are in the contraction mode, you want your upper arm your upper arm and your lower arm to have a 90 degree angle in between them so you don't train the biceps too much. you will have maximum strength and tension and filled with bloodness in the muscle rather than training other muscles when when you're at it. So really the grip width should be when you're ending the move in the contraction you should have that 90° angle right here and then you know you're having the right correct grip. And if you don't have a gym pin, you can of course get it with uh code VG10. Or what you can do is find a high row, sit down on it nice and low, and make sure it has enough space on the handles so you can grip it exact same way as I'm doing it right here. Throw every single gym has a lot of machines, so you can have a lot of options there. But that's why I like to do this because then you can have one machine with any grip you want. So once you can't once you cannot get fully into the squeeze anymore into the contraction the set is over because that is the exact function of that upper back thickness which you want to train. If you can't do that anymore you're not training what you want to train. So one thing that truly helps actually with the mind muscle connection is getting a very good pump in the workout. More blood flow, more nutrients and more of that mind muscle connection within the muscle. And according to a study by wax at all, taking at least 8 g of lcitroline preworkout will enhance strength and blood flow into the muscle. And I've taken crank golden pump pre-workout of course on 145 minutes before. But it's not just eight grams, it is 10 grams. Why? Because I formulated myself crank golden pump for the best possible pump you can imagine. Increasing strength, endurance, and mind muscle connection. I really feel a very good pump now in the upper back, which is exactly what you want to feel. What you truly want to feel is like your spine and the attachment there, the of the muscle. You want to feel the pulling right there. Then you know you've worked the muscle correctly. So, as I mentioned at the beginning, first lats thickness. And now we're going to alternate to lats once again. So, let's go. Another uni all lateral movement. Yes, it may sound boring, but it's very, very effective. The only reason why we're using one arm at a time is because the shoulders are too wide to be able to put the elbows close to the body. So, you have to tilt your body to one way so you can actually get the elbow close to the body to contract those lats. Who doesn't want an incredible V taper, a wide back? No one says they don't. So, we're going to do everything we can to create that effect. Now, this seated row has two handles. Most have one handle, so it doesn't really matter. But if yours has two handles, you want to grab the opposite handle. So, if you use your left arm, grab the right handle because then you will be even pulled even further away. And that will cause a very nice stretch. So, let's do this. Okay. Whoa. So, this is an exercise without a chest support because you don't only want to do chest supported movements. So, you can actually work on those erector muscles around the spine to finish off that Christmas tree as well. So, a Christmas tree at the bottom flaring out into a big tree at the top for that beautiful vtaper. Man, you got to be honest with yourself in this movement. You want to feel that squeeze. Once you can't feel it anymore, this is where mind muscle connection matters most. Where the pump matters most. If you can't feel the mind muscle connection, you simply should go lighter, guys. Trust me. If you want that fully developed vtaper thick back, you got to listen to what I just said. All right, this is going to be the last true back rowing movement because as I mentioned, lats, thickness, lats, and now again thickness. This is going to be for the upper traps. So, the true thickness in the traps. I've made a video about this before about this specific movement, but this one you can all do the seated row. And all you have to do is change your upper body positioning. Instead of just sitting straight up, you want to lean back. The further you lean back, the more it's going to turn into kind of a shrug. So, lean back far enough so you can actually pull back the shoulder blades and not, you know, contract those lats as much because this is for the back thickness and not the lats. Let's do this. Oh, I really now feel the burn kind of at the attachments near my neck where the traps are attached. So, this is truly a difference between exercise number two where I felt it along the spine, the upper spine, and then you're going to feel it around your neck because the traps will be involved. And I'm using this handle right now. So this handle, you know, it's a little wide, but if you want to do it very perfectly, you want to do the same handle is as with exercise number two, the gym pin one. But this one just feels incredible to really contract the strap. So if you have kind of a wider handle with a neutral grip, that will work greatly for this movement. Now guys, if you want to support me and get yourself something very nice and you want to see the lats pop out, I of course am a big fan of Able. We're working together on the Able X, the Dutch Oak Collection, and all other very cheap but very high quality gear available at Able and use code Wesley to support me and yourself with the biggest possible discount. Oh yeah. Oh man, this will feel so good. You really got to try out this one if you truly want those traps. No shrugs, but leaned back seated rows will get you that thread thickness. All right, so on most thickness movements like exercise number two, where you truly want to work the back thickness, the rhomboids, I would go for at least two sets, slightly heavier sets. So this can be eight to 12 reps. Truly focus on that stretch and squeeze every lat movement, like a third one with the seated row unilaterally. I would still go for slightly higher reps. So, you know, around 10 to 12 to even 15 and also do around two sets there. The more you can recover, however, you can improve the sets to about three. I wouldn't go above three per exercise though. And the last movement also nice and heavy. 8 to 12 reps and two sets as well. So, you cannot do too much volume because you want to be able to recover. If you're deep in the offse, as I mentioned, three sets is the max, but don't go above that. That was the back workout. What I like to do right now in the growth phase, two lead movements and two thickness movements to create the V taper by working on the lats and the thickness by uh working on those rowing movements. And that is very important to create that full back. So, this is what I like to do. Uh throughout the offseason, I'll increase the volume, maybe add a movement here and there, but this is a true great basic rout to try out. Let me know what you think. Try out these movements. Let me know how they feel for you. Let me know down in the comments what you want to see next. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.