Nutrition and preparation is going to be very important. Just give it a shot. You might think I'm crazy. I hope you learned from this video what you can do when you travel abroad. All right, guys. We are actually in the UK. So, traveling from the Netherlands to the UK, having packed the suitcases and we are well prepared. Why am I here for the Able X, the Dutch Oak shoot, of course. Finally, my own line is coming out. But this does require planning in ter of traveling as I mentioned with the airplane and taking with you what is necessary for me to stay in shape and for you also if you have a goal of building muscle, burning fat or maintaining your physique, nutrition and preparation is going to be very important. So, I unpacked my suitcase, and you can kind of see right here what I kind of have with me that is important for me to keep myself on track, to make sure I make minimal mistakes, to ensure that I get my protein in, minerals, vitamins, all of that good stuff. So, right here we have some of those examples. Now, this is a little bit more of an extreme example as I'm a professional bodybuilder, but I have a lot of tips for you guys, what you can do and what the minimal things should be you should take with you to be able to stay on track and not feel guilty about wanting to go traveling with your significant other, with the family, or for fun. You can stay still stay on track without feeling guilty about it. All right, so as you can see, we have quite a lot of supplements here. Now, the first thing I like to take with me is pretty much all of my pills. So, I am a practical guy, or maybe not, but these are literally the pill boxes I have at home, and I'm too lazy to or it's impractical for me to take out all those pills, calculate which I need on which day, put them in separate containers. So, for me, it's easier to just take the whole thing with me, have it there with me. I mean, I do this with every single competition, but also when I'm even traveling for one or two days, I just take this with me. The same goes for like protein. Protein, guys, is the number one macronutrient you should have prepared. Carbohydrates, you can pretty much get anywhere in fruit, rice cakes, stuff like this, in the supermarket. But protein that doesn't come with the carbs and the fats attached, that is very difficult to get sometimes. So, especially we're in a hotel right now. We don't even have a microwave in this room, which means that we need to take some whey protein with us. So, we can at least have a protein shake or of course make the whey drip, which are actually made for breakfast this morning. You can always have the victory breakfast with you. But again, having samples take up no space and it gives you the protein you need. You can either just have the designer whey, which is like the whey concentrate, the creamy version, or the whey lemonade. Pretty much the isocar kind of a protein lemonade version you can put in your in your shaker cup and it won't uh you know make you full. It's just a nice drink to have in between. And um then lastly, that's also very practical. We have a lot of uh protein bars right here. They taste incredible, by the way. And now that I'm in the offse, it's way easier to swap these in, you know, and tag them onto a meal. If you go out for a meal, for example, but you know, wait a second, the protein here isn't quite high enough, or you're traveling with a car and you can't really prepare a meal at that moment, you can always have like a protein shake and a protein bar to kind of replace a meal like that and uh actually enjoy it and stay away from the cravings, which is something also important. cravings that you have are going to kill your progress on holiday. There are a lot of different foods sometimes where you're tempted to take different foods, but protein bars like this take away those cravings for sure, and that will make it a lot easier to stick to your diet, stick your macros, and uh be happy and proud of the progress you're still able to make even when abroad. Not be the prettiest, but we have it, the victory breakfast. As I have mentioned before, you can always make the victory breakfast. Um, of course, I already made the base. So, what I truly recommend always is having one a fridge to keep your fruits in that I used, but also a kettle to make like your oatmeal, your rice pudding, cream of rice. With a kettle, you can have boiling water. Even if you can't drink out out of the tap water, you can still have boiling water. You can use it for your oatmeal. Mix it up with a sweetener like a flavor powder or in the supermarket if you had don't have flavor powder with you can take like a sucralose or another sweetener but flavor powder in my opinion is a lot more delicious with actual pieces in there which makes again those cravings go away. Then you have the base. I also take like uh dark chocolate give me as a healthy fat source. 80% dark chocolate to put into the base. And then on top we have the um fage yogurt or quark, whatever you want to call it. You can get Greek yogurt, but again you kind of need a mini fridge for that as like the second layer for the protein. Then the fresh fruit and then of course the whey drip with you which you can always make with a little bit of water, little bit of whey. And you don't even need to use like cups or yeah I I use like uh uh mugs for coffee but you don't need actual containers to put it in. Every single hotel room at least has two cups of coffee for example which I both use for this breakfast but still we have something that is exactly the same macro wise as what I eat back at home. to at least get your day started right. Let's enjoy this one. Gone. All right, done working out. As always, the post-workout meal and the pre-workout meal, in my opinion, are most important. So, the gym, luckily, and that's also something you can do yourself. Find a gym that has these meals. So, I had took two meals and they also of course state the macro. So, I always go for the lowest fat and the higher protein. So, this only has less than 2 g fat per 100 g and around 9 g of protein. But I'm the Dutch oak. I need two meals. So, I have another one. 0.7 g of fat and 8.5 g of protein. So, together there's more than enough protein here. Around, let's just say 40 plus grams easily. So, yeah, 50 55 maybe even. So, it's high protein, low fat, medium carb, perfect what you need post-workout. You can always get an extra banana if you truly need the calories. But uh this is always a great way to make sure that you can survive as a bodybuilder in a hotel room by getting pre-made meals. So no microwave uh to prepare your meals. There's no problem. But I ask the staff here cuz it's usually a chef or a kitchen of course in a hotel to just put these in the microwave. Usually they are accommodating which is very nice of course of them. So let's enjoy this post-workout meal. Okay. Thank you. And I'm All right, guys. We are here at the Ael headquarters, but in a very special room. The rumor is all going to happen. The photo shoot for my own, the Dutch Oak line. Yes, you people have been asking for it quite a lot. When is it coming out? Well, today is going to be the day we're taking the pictures for the website. So, you kind of get a behind thescenes look at how that's going to go. So, we have some different models as well. So, it's not just going to be me because I'm not a representation for most people. So, we different people as well. But, uh, as you can see right there, we have a lot of those clothes ready for me, which is pretty awesome to see. But, it's really a privilege to be able to do this. So, if you guys didn't know yet, just to be sure, I've been working together with Abel for a few months now. We are creating our own line and with Code Wesley, you can always get the best possible discounts on these clothes. But uh for now, let's just have a lot of fun with these uh incredible clothing designs. All right. In between the shooting, it is important to keep nutrition up. So, whenever you're traveling for business or pleasure, doesn't really matter. Don't get caught up too long into something without eating something first cuz otherwise you might crave something way bigger later in the day and it might shoot over your calories. So, I'm having the same thing again as post-workout. Two of those meals I showed you. Pretty much like 60 70 g of protein, some golden rice. They actually have golden rice here. So, vegetables. So, again, low fat, medium carb, high protein is always a good option to go for whenever you're abroad. Second day officially in the UK for AOL. We're going to do another shoot here, but this time it's going to be a gym shoot, which is of course awesome. Yesterday was for the website. Today is going to be social media stuff and just action stuff. And we are actually at the strength asylum gym which we were also last year for the UK Olympia tour. So second time here which is pretty awesome. Unexpected but awesome. So let's get this shoot on the way. short lunch break right now. Obviously, again, eating the golden rice with enough protein. Protein is always very important. And also taking the essentials right here. If you wonder what those are, as always, omega-3, magnesium biscinate, magnesium complex, and some apple cider vinegar as always. And getting my um hydration in as well. Shooting days, they sound easy, but they can be quite draining. So, even then, you got to get your nutrition in for sure. So, uh yeah, but go to a gym and have these kind of meals is always a very nice thing. Or you can use like the microwavable rice with the chicken, heat it up at the gym, eat like that way as well. But anyway, let's enjoy this one. As you guys see, we are in the supermarket right now because even though I've been eating like ready-made meals and some supplements, it is very important to be able to do great shopping when you're abroad and it's very possible to still keep to your diet easily with just a microwave, for example, and maybe a fridge. So when you need carbohydrates, one very easy thing to eat, of course, as bodybuilders or fitness in people in general is rice. I love this kind of invention. Like just look at this beautiful row of different rices. Like I just pick a random one. For example, Uncle Ben is one of the best brands in the universe regarding rice. And you have like Chinese style rice, you have let's see, Thai sweet chili, you have curry, you have Korean barbecue. Ooh, that sounds pretty good. But there's so many different options here. You can always have something delicious. Again, keeping you away from those cravings. But also, if you want to be basic, you can just go for the basmati rice. But the easy thing about this, you don't have to refrigerate it. Put it in the microwave for like 90 seconds or a few minutes at least is going to be done and perfect for your carb source in every single meal. In terms of protein, you can also be very easy here. So, a lot of these supermarkets have pre-made chicken. For example, here precooked only like 0.9 g for half of this package. So, usually you have one of these for a meal, for example. Easily get in 30, 40 g of protein. And you have Yeah, this is for example just a basic one. You also have ones with a bit more flavor. Only adds like one extra gram of fat. So, if you think, "Oh, that's going to taste horrible," you can you can take the spicier ones or the more herbed ones to make it taste better, but this is what I like and love to do when I'm abroad to really get my protein in easily and not rely only on protein powder. Yes, it's a good source, but whole foods will always be superior to supplements. So, there are other stuff you can take as well for healthiness, the fiber, minerals, vitamins, healthy fats like an avocado. You can just purchase them, keep them in your room. They will be fresh and all types you can think with your with your bag for example, just adding in to your meals for a nice healthy touch, but also some um salads for example. And usually it's a tip to see in a grocery store if it's not in the fridge there, it doesn't have to go in the fridge at home either. So for example, some kind of salads you don't need to refrigerate for a for, you know, an eternity. They stay quite well. They keep quite well for a long time. You like you have spinach for example and different kind of salads, but you can very easily add like uh simple source of leafy greens to your meal to at least add some health. But especially also like let's see, we have some bell peppers right here. But usually you also Yeah, the ones I'm looking for is uh actually one of my favorites cucumbers as well. But you have like these regular bell peppers or also like those snack bell peppers you can eat that don't have the seeds in them which don't you know you don't have to cut them uh at all or these baby cucumbers. The reason why I'm showing you all this is to make you realize you can go to a supermarket and you can go to the fresh vegetable section and still see a lot of options. You can easily snack with your meals or put them in your meals and get your minerals in, your vitamins in, your fibers in, and be proud of what you've done by eating your daily vegetables. And then don't forget about the fruits. One of the easiest sources of carbohydrates, fiber, and health. And it also, you know, spices up the diet a lot more. For example, of course, blueberries, incredibly important for antioxidants. One serving a day keeps your brain very healthy. I love my berries. So, blueberries, strawberries, blackberries, any type of berries. Like right here, we have the raspberries. We have the strawberries for example. And yes, guys, you can eat the green leafy part. It's just give it a shot. You might think I'm crazy, but just you don't even need a knife to eat this. You can just eat it and you will realize it doesn't taste as bad as you think. It will save you a lot of cutting loss, which you normally would occur. It saves time and uh you will pleasantly surprised by the actual health benefits it might give you. So saves money, time, effort, and it doesn't taste as bad as you think. But yeah, these are just some of my tips in a grocery store. What you can do instead of like getting those pre-made unhealthy meals with a low protein and high fat and high oil, you can pick the ingredients yourself and still stick your macros quite easily. Okay guys, we are now back at Birmingham airport going home back to the Netherlands. So, we had a nice Able shoot. Everything will be on the website very soon. Be on the lookout for that. And of course, you can use code Wesley right now for all your Able gear. But I hope you learned from this video what you can do when you travel abroad with suitcases or a backpack. There's supplements out there like the protein bars, the protein samples, etc. And the supermarket is always there for you to get some easy stuff. All you need is a microwave, maybe a kettle, a fridge. That's all you're going to need. But uh you don't have to make going on holiday an excuse not to follow your diet and keep to your goals. Do your best. Thank you for watching and don't forget to stay cool.