I'm back at the gym working out. Yes, we are back. Finally back in the gym doing my thing. I've been resting for at least 14 full days, which is, I think, 10 more days, more than I've ever rested before. But how do you actually come back from such a long rest period, whether it's a surgery, holiday, just a break in general, illness, stuff like this? I'm going to tell you exactly how to do that right now. So, when you're resting for a very long time, you're not going to the gym, you don't have to do as much volume as before because you don't pick up the workout. exactly the same. Why? Because if you if you used for example to four sets on your first exercise like a chest press, we're going to do chest today. If you're going to do the same thing, the muscle ache will be legendary the next day or even the day after because you're not used to so much volume anymore. You have to kind of get used to recovering from the same volume. So, cut the volume in half at least. If you're used to doing three exercises, four sets each, just do two sets each and you will be golden. And the muscle will still be there. The source will be there. But you have to build it up nice and slow. And point two, something very important. You just witnessed me doing a set nice and slow and controlled with a lighter weight. This is your opportunity after a long break to actually reset your form because you don't have to look at the numbers at your log book what you did previously. Do what feels right. So nice and controlled, nice stretch, good contraction. Do what feels natural and that way you can perfect your form with less chance of that annoying injury which might have been the reason why you took the break in the first place. So you might be wondering how is Wesley doing himself? I think it's been like two and a half weeks since the surgery and as you can see I doing the vacuum again pretty much full control over the muscles around the belly button which of course is the abs and uh I don't feel any pain at all anymore but I'm still going to you know watch my type of working out no bracing exercise or stuff like this but I have to say what is what is funny is that the rest actually allows you to get rid of all the little niggles and pains I've had before. So, this is why I recommend taking like at least a week or even two weeks off from the gym when you have like shoulder injuries or little pains when doing a bench press or something. You feel the shoulder, the front delt or the elbow, the knees. If you feel like all over your body, you're feeling pains here and there. I know that you're listening out there. It's you, isn't it? Yes. Just take a week off, guys. Don't be afraid of losing muscle. You won't lose muscle. The only thing you lose is that pain and that allows you to train so much better with better form, better technique, and no pain at all. That's the most fun training it can ever be. So, I did lose some body weight during, of course, the rest period. Um, I even went from 132 to like 126. So that's you know 6 kilos of pure mass lost. Ooh, that should make you afraid of resting, right? Well, it is actually not muscle at all. It is a lot of inflammation from all the workouts you've done and also intramuscular glycogen. So the glycogen and the water that is saved up in your muscle. Why? Because the diet is going down. the the amount of carbohydrates you eat are going to be cut in half pretty much, which means less glycogen in the muscles, which also means less weight on the scale. So, people usually don't know what to do when taking some time off from the gym, but your number one um energy burner is now gone, which is you need less carbohydrates. Now, for me, it was very simple. If you have a surgery or an injury, you're pretty much also going to move a bit less in general. So, I just cut my carbohydrates in half, which in my case meant like losing 1,500 plus calories from the diet. And uh but if you're not so active, you don't have to be afraid of being hungry either. The gym usually makes you hungry. So, you simply eat less because you burn less. But it simply does me mean you have less glycogen overall. So, you lose some weight. As I mentioned, it's just water weight mostly and a little bit of fat if you're still going to be stepping up the game in terms of uh enough steps in the day. But you don't have to be afraid of losing weight. Don't maintain it because you will maintain just your fat and it will go up just to maintain your weight. That will be actually uh a waste of time. So just make sure your carbohydrates are lower. Fats will be a little bit higher and protein keep it about the same. And in most situations, what you can do nutrition-wise is whether you're recovering from illness, you're at the hospital, or you're on a holiday, one thing you're always going to need is protein. In most situations like this, you might not have the capability to prepare something, or you're just simply not hungry or don't have an appetite. There's nothing better in my opinion than whey isolate in the form of Isocar. It's literally just a protein lemonade. That's what I like to call it here in the Netherlands, but it's super high in protein. It will enable to you to recover quicker and you have hydration at the same time. It's like the golden golden combination. All right. So, I did lose six pure kilos of mass. And uh you know mentally honestly the first time I went to the gym I was like well the pump the fullness it really is not there. It was no glycogen at all. But you have to really stay levelminded and know it's just one step back to go two steps forward. Pretty much the whole reason why I'm taking off this offseason away from competition is the exact same thing. One step back not doing the Olympia or other competitions. two steps forward to do my best possible shape justice on the next competition. Which one is going to be? I don't know yet because that's exactly the reason why I have a coach. Together, we're going to decide which one is the best competition to do to showcase the best Wesley possible. I'm also not going to complete failure every time. So, I purposely leave a few reps in the tank because right now the body needs to recover and the muscles don't need to take the place of the health of the body, which is what you should do after an injury, illness, or even when you're coming back from holiday. Give yourself time before going all out. Oh yeah. Boom. So, no matter how much muscle you think you're going to lose in your involuntary or voluntary break you're taking from the gym, no matter how long it is, muscle memory is a thing. So, no matter how long you take off, if you go back to the gym, you train, you get the muscle back in no time, literally. And it's like you get all those newbie gains all over again, which is a lot of fun in my opinion. I'm noticing it right now. Like every single day I get stronger, I get bigger, more full. The scale is going up as long as your nutrition match your need. So more carbs, better workouts, incredible pumps, a lot of fun. So, how do you get back to training when you're still in situation that keeps you on training? Now, for example, if you're just sick, if you're at home, you're just having the flu or having a cold, for example. Only when you feel totally okay, then wait one more day and then go train. A lot of people ask me this, how long until after sick can I go to the gym? When should it be good? First of all, if you truly want to cover yourself, you have to recover for one full day and then train so you don't get back. The same motto, one step back, two step forward instead of going three sets back because you didn't listen to your own body. But also, you have to listen to your doctor. For example, in my case, they said at least two weeks of rest, then slowly start training again. In your own specific case, depending on the reason why you're not training, if your doctor says anything to you, listen to him because otherwise you will be back to square one and it will take a lot longer in general to get back to your lovely training. If you want some other vision to come back to the gym, getting some fresh new gym wear of course is always a good choice. Like this one, Able, affordable, awesome, fits great, nice and loose. Code Wesley, you support yourself and me at the same time. As you can see, I love it. So guys, moral of the story, don't be afraid to take a break. It can actually benefit you. But when you are ready to get back in the gym, get back in there and make more progress than ever before. If you're still sick, be cleared by the doctor first. If an injury, heal up. But in all other cases, get yourself in the gym and build some quality muscle on top of your previous self. Anyway guys, thank you a whole lot for watching this video. A lot more is coming. Awesome content is coming. So don't forget to subscribe, click the bell so you don't miss anything. Let me down let me know down in the comments what you think. Check the links. Use code Wesley to support me and yourself. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.