All righty, guys. Welcome to another Wesley Visor video where I tell you guys exactly how I like to train a muscle group for the maximum development. And this time, we're going to talk about the abdominal muscles. Who doesn't want sixpack abs, nice obliques? We all want them, but how do you train them? It's not going to be the bodyweight movements. And one movement we're not going to do is this one. Pay close attention. One of the most popular movements to do, you see in every single gym, the side bend. If you want wider stomachs, wider obliques, horrible looking aesthetics, this is what you should do. Don't do this one. Scrap it from your memory. Scrap it for your mind. Neglect it. Skip it for the rest of your life. Let's move on to the movement that actually work your abdominals and not the sides of your stomach. All right. So, one of my favorite ones to do is actually a cable crunch. You can do this kneeling down, but I like to do it on like a lat pull down machine because it allows you to put your back and your butt against this anchoring down the hips. Remember, you want your hips to be stabilized and only your upper body moving back and forth. So your abs are doing the work and not your hips. So the hip flexors are out of the movement. I like to look at my abs when doing this movement. Why? Because if you don't look at your abs, you might be able to push the abs out and you want to actually pull them in with the transverse abdominis, the layer that keeps your waist nice and tight. So let's do this one. You know, rep range 10 to 15, nice and heavy. So train the abs just like you would any other muscle group. They are a muscle after all. They respond to the same stimulus. So that's why I mentioned no body weight movements. You don't want to create a big chest with only push-ups. We're going to do heavy weights here. So look at your abs. Look at that. This stays nice and tight through the entire range of motion. You actually do want to hit failure here. So you don't want to force yourself beyond failure. That's no use of the abs because you will activate other muscles like the obliques which is not what you want. You want to activate the rectus abdominis. That's the actual sixpack abs we all want to develop. Now there is one exception to the no body weight rule and that is if you make the angle of the movement as difficult as possible and the execution as perfect as possible. We are going to go on this um glute hip drive or how do you call this thing again? GHD. That's what I know the pronunciation of. But what you can do on here is really focus on only the abdominals and no momentum at all. Such as when people do sit-ups on the floor that is body weight, but you can make them very easy by using momentum. This one we're going to use zero momentum. And it works best if you have already done a ab movement like I did already. So we already worked with a heavy weight. And then the second one can be with a body weight, but only if you can make it as difficult as possible with the rep range at the failure range between 10 and 15 once again. So let's check it out. So the nice thing about this equipment is that you can put your butt on this side of this pad allowing your hips to be locked in. And you can then actually go all the way back stretching the abdominals. So you'll put your feet in here to anchor yourself down. Then put your hips on this side. And all you have to do then go all the way back just like that. Stretch out the abs. You can feel the stretch. And then do it like that. I'm a bit tall for this machine, but for most people, this works perfectly. You can really feel like only the abs working here and that is what you want. That already makes this movement very difficult. If you want to make it more difficult, hold a dumbbell or kettle bell or a plate right here and you can make it more difficult. But there is no need to do so. Oh yeah. Now the thing about this movement that makes it so difficult is the fact that you lock your hips. It takes away a muscle group that normally would help like the hip flexors. They actually help with a lot of ab movements you guys are doing and I used to do myself. Especially when you're sitting down a lot and the hip flexors are then tight and they work a lot during the ab movements. they will be overdeveloped and your lower abs will be then non-existent as the hip flexckers are then so dominant they will take over. So with movements like this you isolate the abdominal muscles and you realize how actually quite weak they are. So keep doing this one if you really want to strengthen the abs and take out those hip flexors. The abs are on fire. And what you also want to feel, just like in the bicep or in the chest, a pump in the muscle that you're working. I feel a pump in the abs right now. And then you know that the abs are actually doing their job. So if you don't feel a pump in the muscle you're training, it's kind of a proxy for you not targeting the muscle you're actually trying to target. So keep in mind getting the pump. And guess what? With crank golden pump, you're almost sure that you will get a pump in any muscle group you train regardless. Try it out. One more movement. And this one actually my coach taught me a while back. If you want your lower abs to come in, because a lot of people they have six-pack abs, the top four abs are very developed, but the bottom ones are kind of, you know, looking soft, aren't developed. And that's because you want to be able to use, as I mentioned before, the lower abs, but not the hip flexors. And one way to do so is again, even though I'm contradicting myself, another body weight movement, but once again, we're making it so difficult, you cannot do this with extra weight. Unless you're, you know, the winner of a men's physique pro show, you probably will have the abs to do so. But for most mortals, it won't be possible. Let me show you what I mean. So, this is going to be a leg raise, but instead of just hanging down, we're just going to be laying down to make it a bit easier on ourselves to be able to truly isolate the lower abs and not the hip flexors. So, all you need is a flat bench and something to hold on to. What you then want to do is throw your legs up like this. Get your butt off the bench and only get your butt back on the bench and then push it up like this. And then you'll feel the actual contraction in only the lower abs and nothing else. And it's incredibly challenging to do, especially at the end of your ab workout. Woo. Normally, I will be doing it at the start, just so you know. Then you can do like 10 to 15 reps at least. But if you're doing multiple ab movements back to back, it's going to be quite difficult. So, normally in an ab workout, I stick to like three my maximum two ab movements, but I'm showing you three movements in this uh video so you can kind of, you know, have some variety within your ab workouts. And usually I like to hit the abs after chest or after back at least not um you know before legs for example as that will actually impact your leg movements as well as you need to brace and you want the abs to be fresh before you do anything to always hit the abs at the end of your workout. One more. One more. Damn. The end. Now, those are some of my favorite ab movements. One I haven't shown you yet, of course, is going to be the vacuum. So, the vacuum pose or the vacuum exercise is one I do every single day when I wake up in the morning. Why? Because you have nothing in your stomach. You don't need a lot of oxygen at that moment. So you don't, you know, for example, if I do it right now, I need oxygen so it's more difficult to hold my breath. So what you want to do is breathe out all the air and then suck in the belly button towards your spine. That activates the transverse abdominis, which is a sheet of muscle below your rectus abdominis, the visible abs. So you can actually create a tighter waist rather than doing these side bends, creating a thicker waist. This actually sucks everything in. Let me show you. So, first breathe in out the air and then suck in your belly button. And you kind of want to do, for example, three sets, 15 seconds in the morning, and up the amount of uh seconds by five every time you're able to do those three sets easily. But once again, doing this at the end of the workout would not be the smartest thing. I would do it in the morning when you wake up as you then have fresh muscle, no oxygen needed, and you can then practice the sucking in part. And once you master that, you will be able to master it after a workout as well. But it will not be the most efficient way to actually practice that exercise. Anyway guys, those are some of my movements to do for developed abdominals from top to bottom without the obliques because th those will grow regardless like those razor muscles on the side. You don't need to do anything specific for those. adjust the rectus abdominis, the transverse abdominis, and you will get your classic physique vtape worthy waist. Anyway guys, thank you a lot for watching. If you want to see other muscle groups, let me know down below. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.