 the title of 2024 Rival Classic Classic-Z-Chan 2-Year-Witter, Wesley Dessert! I want to tell you guys exactly why I made this decision. I wanted to tell you guys personally the reason why I'm doing the R-classic Ohio. Honestly, we're of course as bodybuilders. You guys see us through social media. It all looks great. It all looks fantastic. But it's not always the case. This offseason has proven to me that I truly love being a bodybuilder, not just growing the muscle, working for the muscle in the gym, but also the competition side. That's really what I want to do at the Arnold. When the Arnold Classic announcement came up for the applications, me and my coach, I never even thought before that announcement I would be doing the Arnold, but I just instinctively went to the website, filled out the application, and upon filling it out, I was like, why not just do it? Because it felt more and more like I wanted to do it, but there's more behind this guy. One of my better-viewed videos in the last couple of weeks was the I'm Broken video, where the offseason literally told me physically and mentally, wait a second, Wesley, you've got to take a break here. You've got to at least either maintain what you have or cut down a little bit because physically I felt pain all over. My knees, my elbows, my biceps, especially the biceps, it just sucks to have in pain when you're training. Ultimately, when I'm bodybuilding, I want to work out in the gym, I want to have fun. I don't want to feel like I'm going to tear something and this offseason, you have the feeling that you want to build as much muscle as possible, lift heavy, eat a lot of food. This was the highest body weight I've ever achieved in my life in the offseason, especially with this kind of conditioning. So two things, the body weight was the highest, but also I went to my highest body weight with the best conditioning. So I used to go to like 128, 133, even at one point when my composition of my body, my body percentage was way higher, but I thought it was part of the game. But this time I achieved a high weight, I still was in shape, and I didn't want to lose that momentum and gain more weight, not feel good, feel like I'm getting an injury, not have the stamina for my kids. Sleep gets worse, you get heavier, as you all know, you know, sometimes you hold your breath, as your neck is pressing down on you so heavily. All these things are not who Wesley Vissers is. He wants to be somebody who's healthy, who feels vital, who can play around with his kids without feeling tired. And normally the offseason is all about more recovery, more energy, more performance, but for me it was the other way around. I've always felt better at a lower bodyweight percentage, so I told my coach this around the video that I was telling you guys that I had that feeling I'm kind of broken. I told my coach about the situation and he just said, just fill out the Arnold application and send it. And I was like, okay, that's all I need to hear. I send it straight away and then I felt very good because the moment you send it, that's pretty much when prep starts. So I've been prepping for a few weeks now and at first it was like, okay, we're just going to see what's going to happen with their body, with their body weight, how are you going to feel, what shedding the body fat will reveal underneath that you make enough progression because ultimately, as you guys all know, this offseason was about making progress from this year's Arnold and Detroit. Especially at the Arnold's, I didn't look as I wanted to look and that's several factors. Obviously getting sick doesn't help, but still I needed to make improvements, especially the legs. The offseason is the only place in the whole year where you can work on a big bodyboard like this. And I truly believe I have worked on the legs and the whole body, the proportions are a lot better. But one other thing I didn't mention is, I just got to be honest about this, is the mental pressure you kind of feel with social media being around, that being in shape is simply not just better for general engagement with people following you, but also you'll keep your sponsors more happy. Ultimately, the sponsors are responsible, you know, for my career, my living situation, I have a family. I want to provide for them and the best way to provide for my family is to not only be in shape, but also do well in the competition. So this offseason, I think I've done enough to grow. I was at the Olympia, everybody was questioning, are you going to do the open? J. Cutler was questioning it, big names were questioning it. A lot of people in line were like, whoa, you're the biggest I've ever seen, you're way bigger than on social media. All of these things tell me, okay, yes, even though when I look in the mirror, I'm always like, you can be better, you can improve, you know, that's still too small, this is still too small. But when other people tell you that you've made more progress than what you looked like ever before, and me knowing the body was super high, was still a good momentum, I was like, this is the start of the prep for the Arnold Classic. Guys, I'm going to do the competition. I'm not going to say, oh, I'm going to steal back or not steal, but I'm going to win back my title. I'm going to go for first place. We've done all that, and that did not work out. Let's just say that. So all I can do is I'm going to be at my best. I don't want to disappoint you guys. I don't want to disappoint myself. So trust me that I'm doing everything in my power that I learned from all the other competitions. Don't get into flat. Don't go there with a compromised immune system. Don't get sick. Be prepared and show the hard work you did on prep on the stage. And that is what I'm going to do, guys. So yeah, this is a short little video for you guys to tell you why I'm doing the Arnold Classic, why I'm not continuing this offseason. So this is the beginning of the road to the Arnold Classic Ohio in 2026. And there's much more to come. But I want to thank you guys so much for the always incredible goal and support. I'm really going to need this prep. We're coming from the highest point ever to get down to my body weight I need to be at at the competition. So that's what I'm going to do, guys, once again. Thank you a whole lot from the bottom of my heart without you. I wouldn't be doing this. I would not have all of this what I've achieved. So truly much appreciated. And of course, as always, don't forget to stay golden.