 subjected to subjected to Okay, so people have asked me this a lot. What is your workout split, especially leading up to the R Classic? So today I'm going to tell you exactly what I like to do, what I have changed compared to the other competitions and what's going to really bring a new physique to the stage. So this all kind of refers back also a little bit to Steve Weinberger. We were there last year in May in New York getting his feedback on my physique and he's the head judge of both the Arnold's and the Olympia. So when he says something you take it seriously along with what Jay Cutler says, Phil Heath, Mike Kostef and Keensal, so all that I think into account in creating this workout split. So as you can see today is a back day. One of the things I wanted to improve also is my back. Apparently both the back width and the thickness as Steve has said so. So the total back. Total back. And the thickness. Thickness and width. Yeah, the legs. Yeah, everything else is great. Great. We're taking the back workout seriously. So my split is kind of as follows. The back workout I'm doing today is the last workout in a three day split that I do twice a week. So the back workout is the end. Tomorrow is a rest day but it begins of course. It begins with the legs. So throw the whole offseason and this Contas prep phase. The legs have been always a priority. More volume, more sets, more intensity and always at the beginning of this split to make sure I can put all my effort and energy into the legs. And obviously that is very important for me because the balance between the upper and the lower body needs to be perfect. No one is ever going to be perfect but you want to chase down that part of physique more and more which is what bodybuilding is all about. And this competition is very special to me. The Arnold Classic. I want to bring that classic look with the feedback from the judges and all the people around me that the legs, they have been a priority for a long time now. But this time especially during prep I'm putting, let's just say, 45% of my total weekly effort goes into legs and then 25% in the chest and then we have 30, around 30% for the back. So legs for sure the priority, the back, the second and the chest is lowest on the chain as it has always been one of my strong points. Okay. To make sure that I hit my legs in every single possible angle to make them grow to the best of their ability is I have what you so call an A and a B workout. So for example at the beginning of the week I do legs A, chest A and back A then a rest day and then I do legs B, chest B and back B. So you at least have two different workouts per muscle group. This ensures you can hit all the exercises that feel great for your legs. Like one day I do a belt squat, the other day I do a hack squat as like a squat variation then a normal leg press and then the other day a unilateral leg press for example and that way I really focus on the quads, the quads in general, being more on the glutes, more on the overall mass, hamstrings so you can kind of split up the muscle groups across multiple days rather than trying to hit everything in one day which has been always kind of an issue for me in the past. I try to do too much in one workout. Truly all my favorite exercises guys, this one is 55 degree row by Jimmy. So my split right now to make it easier for you guys to understand so it's not a split where I do legs on Monday, chest and Tuesday, it's a kind of a rolling split. Three days on, one day off so people also always ask me well I can't really work this into my schedule because I have set times I need to work for example on certain days so I need to know beforehand what I'm going to do. In that case to alleviate the stress I would do a fixed workout split that you know exactly every single week, Mondays, leg day, back days Tuesday for example to make sure that you are at peace of mind with your split so don't copy an IVV pro just because he is doing it. Make sure it fits your own schedule as well because I used to do that back in the day when I was still a student at university I wanted to know exactly that day I'm going to train this and I can then in advance already know next week and next month I'll be training this when the exams are happening for example to be prepared for the day ahead. Honestly guys I'm so excited for the Arnold, it took a while for me to really get into it but because I used to come from a deep offseason to a campus prep and now everything has been changed my workout split, my diet obviously but most of all the shape and finally getting rid of that fluff and that water and the fat and seeing what has been revealed underneath and I'm very happy with what I'm seeing. My coach is as well, the dates have been planned for the Camp Kinzel in Vienna so all is going smoothly and it's going to be an exciting one guys, I can't wait. And talking about the Arnold's, one guy is going to do the Arnold of course, Mike Sommerfeldt, his workout split I believe has been for a long time the upper lower split which means the entire upper body one day so chest, shoulders, back, arms and then the lower body which is pretty much just a leg day but it's a very interesting way to get more frequency within the same week so actually that's I'm not saying that he is but usually that's a plan for beginners because they still need to train everything and they can handle, well they require less intensity per muscle group and they can handle therefore more frequency to really build up the whole physique and then later on you specialize towards workouts that I have like more legs, less chest for example. So that's very interesting that Mike is doing this but he's like it very much and also Rough Diesel has done this as well, I think he still does, I'm not sure but at least in the off seasons they've been doing, they've been growing quite tremendously so that just goes to show you that there's a lot of possibilities you can apply to yourself in terms of the type of split you do to grow but as a main rule when you're a beginner you can train multiple muscle groups within the same day and then rest as long as needed to recover from that and then go at it again but the more intermediate and advanced you become the more bro split your workout split can become like chest in one day, back in one day, legs in one day, shoulders in one day but make sure that the most volume goes to the muscle group that is the weakest or that needs the most improvement which for example in my case has always been the lower body so that's why I'm putting more emphasis in the lower body so that's usually how it goes but you can see there are some exceptions such as Mike the badass. As you notice I'm going to not entire failure but kind of mechanical slash form failure, the moment I notice the next rep is going to be sloppy, it's going to require accessory muscles that I'm not training I stop the set, the condors prep is all about stimulating the muscle and don't do anything else because you can't grow in the condors prep you can only maintain and the more you do the less you maintain, it's a paradox within the condors prep less food more cardio more steps usually less sleep so what does this give you less recovery so the recovery bank is smaller so the workout needs to be smaller as well. Intensity needs to be high and intensity doesn't mean you have to die and kill yourself on the contrary intensity needs to be local in the muscle when I did the set I felt it very very hard squeezing in the back muscles but your whole entire body the rest of your body shouldn't really show much sign of taking over just the back needs to fail that's all oh so during my condors prep the split also looks like two sets per exercise max at least when it's a combat movement no more than two sets no more than four movements per muscle group but yeah legs has four or five back has three in one isolation and the chest only has three well basically two in one isolation so it truly is the least of the three muscle groups I train but yeah go to failure on each a single set reps eight to 12 max and that's it guys that's it to maintain that muscle make sure to show that hard-earned muscle that you built in the offseason at the Arnold Classic oh so then there are two important questions to ask yourself how serious should you take the science backed workout splits that are being shared online right now and for a while actually and this goes hand in hand with the following question as well fun versus effective training what is more important it's going to be a boring answer but it's a balance so what do you take from science it's obviously we know you have to go to failure to get the maximum result because a lot of people who think they leave one or two reps in reserve leave five or six reps in reserve so just go to failure that's it no more thinking failure then the amount of sets they say oh you can do up to 42 sets per muscle group a week and you keep making linear progress that is also not true it's way too extreme so don't believe those flashy headlines it's all about very easily you have to target yourself in terms of how fast you recover from a certain worker like i'm doing eight working sets for the back right now how quick am i recovered from this workout if it's going to be in two days i couldn't theory train the back in two days again but then you have to wonder should i be doing more sets because ideally you want to train every muscle group two times a week if you can train them more than two times a week you're not doing enough every single workout so make sure to do enough for workouts so you need at least three around three days to recover from that one workout and that depends on every muscle group can be different the legs can take maybe a lot more beating than the chest for example so to me there lies the balance between fun and effective fun would be doing the pump workout style but effective is staying within that set range and rep range that actually has been proven in science so balance it out so you have still passion for training but also grow that muscle oh man it's like 10 degrees celsius or 50 degrees fahrenheit in here it's uh let me know what your gym record is in the comments below for the coldest temperature you've worked out at i personally kind of like it uh but you know the pump is kind of difficult to first of all get or maintain but yeah time for the next movement and you know shape is going in the right direction And if you want to see which direction you're going, you do need to proper uptire, the proper clothing, of course. I like to wear this by Abel, especially when it's cold, targeting your pants. They still look good. Abel has everything you could want. And in my opinion, we're on track for the Arnold. And I'm very excited for the show. We have a little under eight weeks out right now. And progress is going quick. So I'm also very wary of not going to my stage way too quickly, as I normally do. So now we're kind of easing into the show, cruising into the show, be ready early, but still not too early, as has been my mistake, to in order to keep the incredible fullness that is required for the Arnold Classic stage. Whoo! Biceps are simple, guys. It's a curl. Whichever curl feels the best for you. You get a good stretch, a good contraction. That's what creates bigger biceps. Oh! Oh! Whoo! That was the workout, guys. Nice and easy, nice and effective. But the only way to make this workout truly mean anything is with a post-workout meal to recover. Let's go. So the post-workout meal, aka the victory meal, my favorite meal of the day, what should it contain? Carbohydrates, honestly, is the most important. I put all my carbs around the pre- and the post-workout windows, so this contains most of the carbs for the entire day. We just used up glycogen, so this replenishes that. But what I personally think is also incredibly important is, of course, the old school, the classic way-drip. Just look at that, guys. I've been using this for many years by now, and this is just a protein source I always use before and after the workout to make sure you get all the amino acids, especially leucine, which is needed for muscle building effects. So the carbohydrates allow you to recover, and the protein allows you to maintain the muscles and even grow muscles, especially in the off-season. Now, what I like to do, I like to use the iso-way at the moment, it creates a delicious weight-drip as well. It contains more protein, less fat, less carbs, it's an islet. But in the off-season, I always like to use the designer weights, a little bit thicker, and, of course, my own limited-edition stroboflav. You can use code Wesley always for the best discounts, and right now, actually, you have dark salted chocolate, so salted dark chocolate flavor and apple strudel flavor, limited-edition restock, I think, only now once more. So get those flavors, they're restocked right now, 20% off everything, and also the protein with code Wesley. And I want to thank you guys enormously, a lot, for watching this video. Once again, I'm super excited for the Arnold. It's going to be a great, great show. In one and a half months, we're going to leave to America, to the USA, so super excited for that stuff, and thanks to you guys, I'm able to do all of this. So let me know down in the comments what else you want to see, a lot more is coming, and don't forget to stay golden.