 ledgerdex, ledger Taxi, ledger Taxi, ledger Taxi, ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi ledger Taxi led And of course we also had the victory breakfast with the way drip. And it's actually, yeah, if you use code Wesley you can get a discount on all of this of course. The biggest discount but let's enjoy this and have a great leg workout. Okay guys, Dino's was closed for now because of the Arnold madness. So they were not open the whole day which I understand because it's super super busy. So we're going to a different gym right now but we just need to get a simple leg workout in because that's the tradition after competition. And right what that says is exactly what's going to happen today. That's why Mike has a good ass. Mike the bad ass. With the good ass. But now you have to get it as well. I'll be Wesley the good ass. Wesley the good ass and Mike the bad ass. It's so funny. We're starting out immediately. We got time workouts we're going through from now on. Hip thrust first. To work on the glutes. Very important. There's no time to waste. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. And this is a good ass. Go to the mic! So is Marley going to train you now on leg days? Yeah, on some leg days we'll be training together, schedule allows of course. It's always nice to have someone who loves to train glutes to push me in that regard. So yeah, probably gonna happen. Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Love this! Man, the glute is always a learning curve. By the way, first workout after training you never go to failure. Because I have experience with that. A lot of inflammation, too much damage, not enough recovery. Just stimulate and don't annihilate. Lee Haney. Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love Love And hamstring is a secondary important, so it's also very important, but glutes number one, that's why we do it first, then the hamstrings, and quads will always be the last. That'll keep growing anyway, but it has made the most progress so far, so we need to work on the things that have made, that need to make the most progress, glutes, hamstrings, then quads. And this led to a particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular particular So as I mentioned, I will be with the Gym Reapers booth. You guys probably know already I'm with Gym Reapers because during the offseason that I grew my legs and I can't have spread, I've been using knee sleeves because that really helps me go very deep without messing up the joints, keeping it stable. And if you're stable and not messed up in the bottom, you can grow more muscle as you're stronger, you dare to do more weight, you feel more stable, you feel less pain and no pain after a while. So these knee sleeves are truly a miracle for me. When you are too strong, when you are getting stronger or when you just want to protect your joints. Knee sleeves and elbow sleeves, they also have straps, wrist wraps, all the possible gym equipment and more. At Gym Reapers with the code WESLEY you can get the best possible discount. And if you want to support me, you use that code, let me know exactly what you got because Gym Reapers means a lot to me as well. They are a very nice team and I only join people, join companies with nice people behind them. And trust me, I don't work with random companies, only with people who are genuine and feel like a family. Anyway, let's put this on and do the last movement. All right guys, uploading the show day video right now. I hope you keep working. The man by the camera worked very hard to put all this content out for you. For now, I am ready to go to the expo to meet you guys at the ESN booth, then the Gym Reapers booth and then do an ESN stage talk about the Q&A supplements, all that good stuff. So that is very exciting. And this is for you guys, for the fans, for the people who love bodybuilding. So I hope I see you there. Thank you. Thursday Expo, first dance. It's quite busy. A good expo, I think, for everybody. We're at the ESM booth and it's really crowded and the line is like, it's not just long but crazy long. So I hope that the people who doesn't make it go directly to the Jim Reapers booth because we are in one hour also with the Jim Reapers booth. So I don't think we can help everybody to grab their photos but we do our best. But it's like crowded. One good point is that the music isn't loud so people can talk at their normal voice. That's what I prefer. So let's do this. There you go. Thanks. Oh, we just had two meet and greets, one at ESN and one at Gym Reapers. Luckily, the booze are literally next to each other, so that's quite convenient. But an infinite row of people, guys. So thank you so much for being so supportive and so passionate for bodybuilding. And, you know, I, of course, take the effort here to be there for you guys. But we also, we got to eat. So we have the heat box. It's a rechargeable Tupperware, reheatable. So you can just, with the app, you can just activate it and it'll heat up. So the blue light was the Bluetooth. Now you have some nice, hot food. You can see the smoke coming off a little bit. Just perfect, guys. So code Wesley for this heat box code down below. And they are actually having an action right now for a lot more discount with my code Wesley for a big percentage off. You will not regret using this anytime. How are you feeling? Yeah. Looked awesome. Thank you very much. Thank you. Nice to play now, too. Yeah, rest up. Just take some time off. So the reason why I decided to go with ESN is, of course, pretty much everybody here who sits here uses supplements. But sometimes you're either disappointed with the quality or the flavor. Let me tell you guys, the flavor is very important. And if it doesn't taste good, you're not going to use it. Just as an example. I like the designer whey. So I make the whey drip, of course. Which makes eating very healthy foods so much easier. Think about when you're cutting. I just did the R classic. So I needed to have something to take my mind off the cravings of wanting cheesecake or something very delicious. But if you use a delicious designer whey, you can actually look forward to that rather than cheating on your diet, for example. This is just something that makes you a much better athlete to be able to perform here on a professional bodybuilding stage. Same goes for an intra-workout. If you need extra carbohydrates or EAAssupplements, you want it to taste good as well. But the thing about ESN is, it's not just about the flavor. It's the quality of the product itself. So they have found a way to make the highest possible quality ingredients, which usually don't taste that good. Tastes incredible. So that combination makes it so easy to make sure you actually ingest the product when it's designed to ingest. But also deliver those nutrients to your body. So for me, it is very important that I, every single day, integrate all those different supplements. And I want to integrate them because I'm looking forward to actually having them. For example, the pre-workout. The funny thing is, I normally don't eat a lot of sweets during the day. So when I have a pre-workout, it's something I look forward to, which automatically makes me look forward to the whole workout itself. And what is the most important thing for retaining muscle during a cutting phase for a competition? High-quality workouts. So that all blends together. And the one foundation behind this is the high quality of ESN products. So, you know, I've been with ESN for a couple of years now. We work together on a few products. And I've seen them evolve from more simple products to more advanced products while keeping that flavor and the profile of the products on a very, very high level. So they truly are evolving and literally, as I said, working one-on-one with us athletes, sending us samples. We can get feedback on how does it taste, how does it perform. And they will actually do something with the feedback. Give us version one, version two, version three. Until it is perfect before you guys get to try it. So trust me, that's why I go with ESN and nothing else. Only get more motivated. That's what it did for me. Exactly. Because bodybuilding is always going to be a passion whether you win or lose. It doesn't mean you've got to stop. You've got to keep going. Exactly. There were a lot of things where I didn't make a dime. Yeah, exactly. But bodybuilding still is something you did every single day. Still, still, it's going along my mind. Yep, yep. Forever you're going. Oh, yes. Okay, guys. Those were an incredible few days. Well, a full week basically here in the UK. We did the competition. We met so many incredible fans of bodybuilding, of classic bodybuilding. We've done so many interviews. Shook so many hands. We've done so many inspirational stories. This literally changed my whole outlook on bodybuilding. Once again, even more motivation. More passion. It's not like he has another annoying voice or anything. But anyway, I learned a lot from this experience. I went up against a number two in the whole world who is super high class. So we know what to do. We know what to do for the Olympia and also for the next Honor Classic because we will be back. Thank you.