Oh. All righty, guys. We are in the car on our way to the hospital as it will be a surgery and uh it's going to be uh you know full anesthesia is going to be necessary for this surgery which is something I've never done. I've never actually really done an truly invasive surgery in my life before. So can say I'm not a little bit nervous of what's going to happen because I've never been uh let's say asleep beyond regular sleep before. So stay tuned if you want to see exactly what it's all about. This is it. As you can see, however, the hospital gown doesn't really fit. So like if I relax, it's it's not going to go all right. Anyway, let's just hope there's going to be a sign of the surgery as well. All righty. I literally just woke up from surgery, so I couldn't really film anything in between because you got to put all your stuff in like a blue box. So, you're standing over there with all your stuff like your phone, your camera, etc. So, I couldn't really do much with that. But now I'm out of the surgery. Yeah, that was that was pretty weird. It's like a strange surreal experience. But let me just show you guys what actually happened. So right here you can see I had an umbilical hernia, a very small one, but uh it everything went all right. So they fixed it up. I'm going to show you guys really the aftermath of it and my strategy going forward. And one more very important reason why I actually decided to do it now and not later. Why I'm actually happy that I cannot train for a while. Anyway, let's just enjoy this uh little breakfast here. All righty, guys. It is now the day after the surgery and uh as I told you guys this is very necessary surgery for me especially at this time during my phase my push phase basically. So the competition phase will be next year. I've just had competitions at the beginning of this year. So I had a full year basically to prepare for to be the best possible version I can be. And this surgery is part of that because it's an umbilical hernia surgery. If you can see that still, I showed you guys yesterday. It's uh basically what happens is when you train very hard and you eat a lot of food throughout the years, the weakest part in your abdominal wall is your belly button basically. So if there's a lot of pressure there in year out, it can start to weaken and protrude. If you leave it untreated, it can get worse and worse. When it's fat, it doesn't really matter, but it can actually be a part of the intestines as well. I'm not going to be the one waiting for it to get worse. I want to fix it now. And one important reason for this also, I visited, of course, Steve Weinberger himself, the head judge of the Olympia back in April in New York. And uh I was posing for him. And one of the first things he said was, "Do you have an hernia?" I was like, "I have no idea." I was like, "Does it distract from my physique?" He was like, "Well, maybe a little bit." So, of course, when you already know there's something there and he confirms it without even saying anything beforehand, you kind of know, okay, I got to do something about this. Even though I I'm not bothered by it at all, visually, aesthetically, it's important to get this fixed because I'm at the highest level of bodybuilding and anything that distracts from my physique should be fixed. So, that's why I chose to let it get fixed. Now, while it's still small, recovery will be nice and quick. should be about 2 weeks of true recovery and after that we can start uh training slowly again but I'm going to take as much time as possible to recover because there's a lot more going on than just the umbilical hernia. So uh yeah let's tell you guys about that right now. So the second reason which may sound kind of strange but I really was looking forward to kind of a forced rest period something I could not escape something I could not ignore cuz mentally I'm always like I can train no matter what I feel no matter which aches and pains I feel I'm just always going to train and I'm think I'm thinking like it's going to go away anyway even though in my head I know you should take rest but then I'm every single day I'm like oh I don't feel it as much or I'm going to train again and the next day you feel it way worse. So, this will be 2 weeks at least of forced rest. I can't escape it, which will fuel my body and repair my body perfectly for the second push phase I'm going to have. Cuz, you know, at this moment, I'm exactly around 130, 131 kilos. Of course, I'm going to lose a little bit of fullness through these rest days as my carbs will be lower, no training, but all of that is way worth it to be truly recovered and improved without the hernia there anymore. I'm standing at a different kind of location, a different kind of environment. What is that? Let me show you guys exactly what's going on. So, very big news, literally and figuratively. We're moving houses, which is incredible. And I truly from the bottom of my heart mean this when I say that last year I you know at the beginning of the year after the Olympia even 2023 I was like okay let's go for the R Classic never expecting to win that show but when I won that show and won also the R classic UK it literally changed my life but it also enabled us to actually get a much bigger loan for a house which is going to be this house. So, in about two weeks, we'll be officially moving here to really be honest and transparent. When you're using my code, it tells the sponsors that I'm worthy of being an athlete of theirs, which directly translates into a better financial picture for myself, which enables us to kind of make a big move like this in our lives. And the reason why we got this space is obviously we have two children, maybe we want another one. And I really want to thank you guys again from the bottom of my heart to you know for the golden support you always give us and give me because it truly means a lot and enables me to do things like this and truly change our lives not just for me myself but also my family. So it truly means a lot and that just shows you that I when I was 20 I did my first bodybuilding competition and I never would have dreamed in my life I would have even gone to the USA to do these competitions win one of the biggest shows in the world and then change your whole life because of your own discipline, determination and also because of you guys' support. So thank you guys as I always say for the golden support. So we are in the kitchen uh but this is way better. So, we are going to remove this whole thing. I can easily make my meals here. Show you guys exactly how I'm doing it. Like the golden rice, the victory meals, the victory muffins. You guys ask for it quite a lot. So, I can make all of that here. We're going to really redesign the kitchen as well to make it bigger, more practical, but also more suitable for filming. So, all of that will be thought about. And um this is pretty much the meals I eat right now. This is one of the six meals I eat. So, what we see here is about half of the carbs I normally would eat. Of course, go and rice still in there. But the reason for less carbs is, of course, I'm not training. I don't need those carbs. I'm doing a lot less. Uh, but also, you don't want to hold any water near the uh incision basically to make the stomach feel less tight because right now, if I try to stand upright, I can't because it feels really tight. And also in the morning, the first thing I do is I drink a collagen shake, which I showed you earlier as well. it every single day. 30 gram of collagen peptide which tastes amazing of course it also allows you to drink a lot of water and I combine this with daily which also has collagen peptide structures in there with some glutamine also very good for recovery and of course creatine to uphold some muscle fullness. So, those things I uh I will keep using and of course the omega-3, the curcumin to lower inflammation of the body as I talked about before. Now is the time to truly heal my body fully. All righty. So, that's kind of what's going on right now. An update about me. So, I'm going to update you guys, of course, right in between these two weeks to show you guys exactly how much I weigh, you know, what my food is at that moment, how my phys my physique looks like. So yes, once again guys, thank you so much for your incredible support. It truly means a lot to me and I just really be transparent with you guys what I'm doing, why I'm doing it, and uh how the progress is going to go because ultimately I'm doing all of this to be my very best and to next year, no matter which competition I do, I want to win. That is the goal. And this is one of those one step back, two steps forward moments. Anyway, thank you for watching and don't forget to stay. I cannot do the pose.