 zomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsomsoms All right guys we are behind backstage right now so we're gonna go in we're gonna relax and then wait until we go on stage I feel good we woke up exactly as we needed to the coach is happy I'm happy that's all we can do and now we're going to see what is going to happen in just two hours let's go he's already backstage what are you feeling? kind of nervous a little bit but excited at the same time I know he's working so hard for years for this moment so looking forward to see him let's go After an hour from stage guys 30 minutes to go first the fitness then the wellness then as a physique so there's nothing more we can do except for have fun present well and be very grateful that we're able to do this sometimes you're very nervous as a bodybuilder to go on stage but then you remember this is not just for you people are just watch to judge you in a negative way but you just want to see a passionate battle they're here to see bodybuilding all you have to do is your best that's all you can do all you have to do everybody will then see it through your energy stage and that's exactly what we're very excited very happy to be able to do this once again thank you so much for the amazing support before you head on to stage so Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, the dream came true. That was really cool. Going on stage one against one. That was it. Nice. That was it, guys. Me and Mike both told each other, we don't care if we get first or second. This was exactly what I wanted to do on stage. This was exactly what I wanted to do on stage. The battle, the showdown, the entertainment between me and Mike, going on stage together. This was like what I told you guys when I wanted to happen. I think I brought my best shape so far. I couldn't do more than this. I did my best regarding showing classic bodybuilding. So the finals is going to be, I think, the deciding factor. Very exciting. Thank you for cheering us on. UK crowd, you did not disappoint. Thank you. Time to eat some golden rice. So out of these exercises, which would you eliminate and why? I'd do two, right? Just one. One. Just one. Yeah. Okay. Can I crash it out? Scratch it out. Well, that's going to be a controversial choice. Deadlift, why? Yes. I'm a bodybuilder. Classic bodybuilder, in fact. And the last thing I want is to build the whole body up equally. I want to isolate several muscles. So if I want to move the back, I do an isolation for the back, for the legs, an isolation for the legs. Deadlift works the legs, the back, and the core. So for me, it creates a healthy, strong physique, but not a classic. Classic bodybuilder. To me, that's the real. Deadlift. Do you want a supplement? Sure. That's an amazing answer. Thank you. Which supplement would you eliminate and why? I'm sorry. Turcestrone out. Why? It's unphoto. I've never used it. But all the other ones have a place in my personal supplement regime. And, for example, in Condus Prep, EAs play a bigger role. Pre-workout plays a bigger role. Protein is always, for me, not just a supplement, even a tier above it. So that's just a no-brainer. What else do we have here? Electrolytes. I literally use them every single morning, every single workout. Sysclean, if you want a great pump without any side effects. Nutra carbs, especially when you have a bulky diet, you can't eat enough carbs around the workout because your full intracarbs give you liquid carbs, you know, to make your stomach digest. And so for me, all of those have been like a great, you know, opposition to growth. All right, guys, we are here at the finals. So we've been relaxing, eating a few golden rice meals, some whey drip meals. Of course, there's two small ones because we want to keep the shape and be a little drier for the finals, as we can always do that. And most of the nerves from the morning are gone anyway, which helps the shape. So tonight is all about you guys, the people, and one very important man, Arnold Schwarzenegger. He is in the audience, the first row watching us, so it's always an honor to do that. So right now, that's all I'm thinking about, just to give you guys a good show, a good battle, entertainment, and to make sure that you guys, when you watch the live stream, when you're here, that you will not leave disappointed. That's my goal, so let's make it a good classic bodybuilding show. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Six, Mike. And eight, Wesley. Front double bicep. Side chest. Back double bicep. Front double bicep. Domino's and thighs. Your favorite classic pose. Thank you, gentlemen. Back in line. This concludes our confirmation round. Back to you, David. What's the coach thinking? A brilliant show. No matter how it will end, racing-wise. No stone left unturned. Every task was fulfilled. Every mission was accomplished. And it can be, or it should be a happy day for Wesley because he reached a level. Most people would have said one year ago he will never accomplish. But he showed the world what he is capable of. And he showed the world that most of them are wrong. When you have the love for the sport, when you have that work ethic, when you have the true belief in yourself, you will go out, you will progress, and you will succeed. Yes, guys, now we're going to do a pose down, because they forgot to do it after our comparisons before. So now we're going to do a pose down, and then the awards. So very exciting stuff. DJ, can I get some pose down music? Jamming for the title. Pose down! Come on, whoa, whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa We'll be right back. And we will take our second place award and present it to tonight's runner-up, Wesley Vissers! Yes! Let's go! Yes! Woo! Good job. Oh, yes. Take it, baby. Congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. We did. I'm proud. You can be. You should. I'm proud. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. kind of had to bring to get that to that weight limit but i'm very very pleasantly positively surprised that he was able to do it to be honest from the prejudging you know i kept my hopes up but i could already see you know i'm objective always i see the pictures i'm like yeah i don't think i'm gonna win this but you keep the positivity up because you want to go to the finals give the people you know a fight a battle which is what everybody wanted to see but congratulations mike you did incredible you deserve it you proved everybody wrong and that is what bodybuilding is about making improvements you look even better than the olympia where i did think ramon beat you but now it's going to be a very very close one but the dutch oak isn't done we know exactly what to work on that's exactly those points mike has over me we now have the time to work on it for the olympia as i'm qualified by winning the r of ohio and also winning detroit so i'm very very motivated and the crowd in the uk was absolutely incredible so thank you so much and thank you for the team around me it means so much to me this show was very important to me not just for the victory i already said before we went to the finals whether i'm first or second it literally doesn't change anything about what i'm going to do in the future of course you want to win but now this motivates me for a bigger challenge mike is still an obstacle i cannot beat and now we saw very clearly what the reason was so guys it's time to eat some quality steak thank you thank you thank you where you from sir we've been in birmingham many times but never really to the center and i was like well let's go for the best steak house this is grass-fed meat it's really good yes i believe it well guys we are here at the best steak restaurant of birmingham i'm uh you know this is this dinner will be on me because uh these guys you know the team the core team really supports me so much i thought let's go to a nice restaurant the highest possible quality so we're gonna really enjoy ourselves we even ordered cocktails marktails yes but it's still celebratory because we are celebrating the end of this season and we're only going to get better in the future so let's truly enjoy ourselves here and uh yeah this is just a wonderful experience guys i'm very happy to do this to be able to do this with of course beautiful marley and uh yeah i really feel relieved also that we can now do the bodybuilding thing again to work on the body to build the body up instead of breaking it down so let's work on it guys and it begins right here so what i'm going to do is i'm going to order steak and put it right on the glutes that's going to be the thing we're going to do then we're done that's it so let's enjoy the first bread again the first bread in a long time we're going to enjoy this guys my opinion after competition don't think about trying to stay clean of course if you like steak you go for steak but go for the failure cuts enjoy yourself get out of your system before you go back to the diet and uh we're going to enjoy ourselves we put all the snacks on the table let's enjoy it okay guys the steak has arrived i'm going to enjoy this we're all going to enjoy this marley is already putting the steak there because she has a lot of muscle ache in the leg from dean of gym workouts but for now let's enjoy this and once again i truly want to thank you for the incredible golden support i'm very excited as we're now heading into the bodybuilding season again making improvements tomorrow we'll be at the expo doing a lot of fun things that video will be coming in sunday but next week sunday will be the planning of what i will be doing over the next couple of weeks and months the planning will be for the competitions and bodybuilding related stuff but anyway let's enjoy this and don't forget to stay good