What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding. Yes. And I just wanted to make a quick announcement or a question because Nick's strength and power channel on YouTube, which you undoubtedly know, he's been very popular lately, getting a lot of subscribers, and he is hosting the Mr. golden era contest, which I think is an amazing idea that really shines a new light through the bodybuilding community because everybody just wants to first of all be able to be responsible to decide who is the better man. Secondly, we all want to see a golden era physique rather than a bubble trouble gut, right? Yes, we do. and I'm very excited to see who will win this competition. But to my question, Nick has personally invited me to compete in this Mr. Golden Era contest on YouTube. And uh check out his video. I put it in a link down below to see the rules, but basically you have to do a posing routine where all the mandatory poses are in and at least three classic poses. for example, like the crucifix pose and uh a vacuum. That's to me is an awesome idea because if you have to do all of those poses, you can truly see who has the most balanced and most flowing physique of them all because that is what a classic physique is all about. classic bodybuilding, not just being big and round and full, but actually being proportionate, being a good poser, and simply your display of your art, which is your own physique, your own body. So, I have already told him that I will most likely compete. However, as you guys know, I am in a preparation for a contest in late October. So there is no way that I will be ready in time to get lean enough as I normally get for contests. But on the same note, back in the golden era where Arnold, Franco, Tom Platz competed, they weren't really as conditioned as they are today. So maybe I will be able to obtain a condition that will be close to that conditioning which will actually be classic and golden era. So it might work out after all. But I'm telling you right now, I'm very interested in it and I just want to know your opinion on should I compete or not. I just think this is a very good initiative because nothing like this has ever been done on YouTube as far as I can remember. maybe some smaller contests, but not as big as this one. And I really do think it will be big. Reading the comments under Nick's videos. I mean, he's very popular right now. He's getting a lot of subscribers, which is awesome because his videos are awesome. I really like his channel. I watch his videos all the time and he does a really good job at it. So, he is really someone I would want to be associated with when doing a contest like this. I would not have done it if it was a random channel. I know that Nick wants the best bodybuilder to win. No politics. And he even gives out a cash prize. Every contestant has to give out $20 in advance, of course, to be able to have a large check of money at the end. He said maybe we can go above $500 if there's enough demand for it. But yeah, that would be awesome. Anyway, guys, let me know what you think. And uh again, the link of his video is down in my description. So if you want to check it out, certainly do because it definitely is an interesting idea. So let me know. Thank you for watching and don't forget to stay golden.