Look at that you guys. It is quite snowy out here. My car actually didn't start. So, I had to charge it with another car because it's - 10° at least last night. So, uh yeah, but I'm still going to go to the gym. What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics where it is all about classic bodybuilding. And it is classic bodybuilding indeed today, especially today because I'm showing you modified abdominal exercises to work the transverse abdominis muscle. Now, check this video out if you want an explanation on the TVA muscle, the transferabdominus, but it's basically the deepest abdominal layer when strengthened will flatten your stomach. So, you might think this looks like a regular abdominal crunch using a rope, but the difference is that you will always have to activate the TVA before doing the exercise. And that is the difficult part about it. And in this particular exercise, you can see it more clearly. So what I do first before starting the exercise, you pull in your belly button towards your spine and then slow and controlled do the reps. Now the trick is to keep your stomach in a vacuum position and that is the hard part. It requires some practice. As you can see, regular leg raises, which should be pretty easy to do, become very hard because you're also contracting the TVA. And that usually isn't a very strong muscles compared to the rectus abdominis, your regular six-pack abs. Here you can see from another angle you can see that my abs, my stomach is being pulled in with every rep. Uh, constantly I'm focusing on pulling in my belly button towards my spine activating contracting the TVA throughout the entire exercise. And it is most difficult when the legs are stretched because then the most tension the stretch is on the abs. But even then, you have to have that vacuum feeling in your abs. And this one, the ab wheel, a modified version, because you cannot go all the way out with the wheel and still contract the TVA, still have the vacuum. Uh, you can kind of see that I'm pulling in my stomach right here. Uh, the trick is that you want to go as far as you can without losing the vacuum. Now, this is impossible in a fully stretched position. um you will not be able to master the strength in your abs to get back up then. But this way is a great way to stretch and contract the TVA at the same time. It's a very difficult exercise, more difficult than the regular ab wheel rule outs in my opinion. So this is definitely a recommendation to do. So, this was a short and sweet video just showing you some ab exercises that you can still do to fix if you have it, a bloated stomach, an ab split, or you simply want that golden era stomach, then doing the ab exercises like this is the best way to go. And don't forget to stay golden.