 Are you ready to go? From Columbus to Detroit, stop number two. As we are underway to Detroit, I of course need to eat underway, and by prepped some food, but this is a heat box, which means it's a USB rechargeable, heated Tupperware, which means that I just let it heat up to 85 degrees celsius, and as you can see, the smoke coming off of it, delicious, so it is just gonna be some fish and vegetables, but regardless what you put in, it's gonna be nice and hot. I can now enjoy a nice hot meal, just warming it up in the car instead of cold fish. You don't like that? I want something enjoyable, sir. Let's enjoy this. We arrived, Dearborn, Michigan, Detroit. About three plus hours been driven by Marley the chauffeur, the expert, and now we're going to enter the Airbnb. Let's see what I cooked up this time. The amount of suitcases Wesley is going to have over. Three people and we have like 10 plus. How many kilos worth this beef? That one works. It's a little strength training. Jesus Christ. We have arrived. Meals in a microwave, always prepare your food, but this is a nice cozy house. It looks smaller on the outside than it is on the inside. We have a very nice living space. Look at this kitchen, guys. Everything we need is right here. This is pretty much the most important place for me in the house. My bedroom is nice and big where I do the check-ins for the coach Stefan Kienzel, and the man behind the camera always takes for me like a nice LED light. I have a tripod, so you can take the exact check-in pictures with the same lighting as I have at home, as I had in Columbus, and I will have it here as well because Stefan won't be here in Detroit, so it's very important for him to see the same lighting. But anyway, we're still pretty lean and very excited for the show. We woke up today at about 1.4 kilos, or about three pounds under the weight limit already. Today's going to be a normal day, and after this we're going to train at RTB Gym, in my opinion, the best Detroit Gym in Dearborn, and they also offer to have every single IFMB Pro competing to train for free at the gym, which is a shout-out, so make sure if you're in the area to check out that old-school gym with heavy metal on the background. We're also going to take some pictures there in the posing room for the coach. Very excited to see how that looks. Yeah, we're installed here, and let's rock and roll. So we have just some groceries, just the basics, some codfish, some zucchini, cucumber, chicken, and that's it, basically. But there's going to be time for the workout, it's a little later in the day, so no caffeine anymore. We're taking Crank Pump Pro 2.0 combined with Bella Elanine. So this will cause a great pump, great blood flow to the muscle, and this will actually help getting more reps in, aka less lactic acid, and this helps you pose for longer without feeling that burn. So it's not only for the workout, it's also for posing later on stage, in just four days already, which is incredible. So with this one, I'm going to go for two good scoops, 40 grams, because that way you get all the ingredients that you need. Just like that. And then we add the Bella Elanine. I like 10 grams, start up with three, build up to 10, 10 a day, you will get that incredible effect. Oops, it even is 11 grams. And you got to mix this with plenty of water, to make sure that it all goes to the muscle, and I'm drinking nine liters a day anyway, so when I add water here, it's gonna go right into the system, the protocol, so I lose the excess water the day of the show. Anyway, let's enjoy and let's train at RTB Detroit gym. It's still very unique to even find people all the way in Detroit to watch your videos. Very inspirational, very motivational. Anyway, let's keep training the bag. I believe that guy over there is one of the open competitors of Detroit as well. One crazy Brazilian, crazy aesthetic, big. It's going to be exciting to see him on stage at the open Detroit. So if you both happen to win Detroit, for those of you who don't know, there's a king of Detroit little thing after the competition, which means the open goes against classic, pretty much like back in the days where Arnold went against Franco. This is a little different, but the winner of that will be king of Detroit. So regardless who wins, it's going to be an amazing battle because classic first open is always something that the audience wants to see. Last time it was incredible as well with Matt and William, but this time I think will be even more amazing. Let's see and wait what will happen. Bye chef time. Bye chef time. I Okay just did some posing in this posing room and the funny thing is I did that last year as well and if I look at myself objectively we definitely made improvements compared to last year Detroit so I'm very happy with how things are going and looking. Today I weigh quite little I also still have a little bit of inflamed legs from the leg workout like three days ago so we're not in the optimal shape yet but we are in my opinion in a better shape than what we were at Arnold and that was my goal now for the Detroit to be a little bit sharper but still with the fullness so today was a normal carb day and tomorrow we'll probably weigh lighter again and from then we might start a little carving up process who knows I don't care about the taste the food I just want the best functional effect for my physique anyway talking about food makes me realize we need to post work out the victory meal let's get out of here time for the post-workout meal which is the highest carbon of the day got some banana for the potassium some rice flour from easy absorbable carbs and of course the whey drip the protein I am I opinion you should look forward to the post-workout meal it's the biggest meal it should be the easiest to eat and this makes it very very easy anyway I'm gonna be finishing this and have one more meal of the day we're gonna go straight to bed check in with the coach and then it's going to be exciting because today it's Tuesday tomorrow is Wednesday the show is Saturday so tomorrow I think we'll have the last normal day and after that the carbs will be increased kind of depending on how heavy or light I wake up anyway we're going to be posting daily videos now as opposed to the Arnold so let me know down below what you want to see and how you like this format because we want to show you the behind the scenes of course a little bit different stuff every single day but I do really want to thank you for watching and we're soon coming out with a new able collection this is if you can see the Dutch oak collection 2.0 and right now we're in you know in the process of designing it so this is really the vintage style I'm going for but for right now you can use code Wesley at the able website for other awesome stuff like these joggers for example a lot more stuff you see me wear of them with once again code Wesley because that allows us to be able to go to these events and I have to worry about the career of this it's a win-win situation once again thank you for the absolute golden support and don't forget to stay golden I love it