What's up, guys? Today is going to be an interesting video because everybody loves this, building the chest. So, today is going to be an extensive push day. What I like to do to build a big chest, big shoulders, and good triceps in one workout. Let's go. So, whenever you train the chest, it is important to get properly warmed up. So with this machine, it's a chest press. First exercise, but always start very light. That is very important. Warm up the chest because whenever you press, it's not just chest involved. It's also the front delts, the triceps, the elbows. A lot of people have um shoulder problems and elbow problems. You can avoid those if you don't go too heavy too quickly. So warming up, you know, this machine is quite light. So I just use one plate, maybe two as an increase for every set until I reach my working weight, which is going to be quite high. So stay tuned for that. So a lot of people always want to know exactly how many warm-ups they should do. I would say for chest, at least three warm-ups before doing your working set, but it can easily be more, but at least three because you really want to warm up this whole area. It's better to do a little bit more than not enough, which will cause a potential for injury, which is the opposite of what you want. So, especially when you've been training for a couple of years, warming up is quite essential. And the way to truly find out if you're warmed up enough is if the chest feels nice and fresh, the elbows aren't hurting, the front dels aren't hurting. So throughout these warm-up sets, you can kind of find out if you're ready to truly attack the weight, and then you will know you will have an incredible workout rather than kind of messing it up maybe in a force working set if you're not warmed up properly. Final warm up. One last tip about warm-ups. Don't do 10 reps every single time. The heavier the weight, the less reps you'll do to uh, you know, make sure to conserve all your power for the set that's about to come. Oh yeah. Oh, war at one done. If you also want to create a pump like this, make sure to use Crank Pump Pro. Of course, I'm using Crank Golden Pump. Right now, 50% off all samples. So, you can try it exactly what you want. Not just the pre-workout, also all the other supplements because next week will be ESN week. One of the biggest promos of the year. So, now you can choose what you want to take advantage of in that incredible week. Right. As you saw, that was working set number one. I did not go to absolute failure cuz for me, the chest is an incredibly important body part, but not more important than the legs. So, if your chest is lagging, definitely go to failure and push yourself all the way. But for me, the legs are the priority. So, I'm not going to take away recovery that the legs are going to need because I trained those yesterday. The chest needs to be maintained. Very important for plastic physique. But at the same time, I don't go to failure all the time because I need to be able to recover for the lag. So keep in mind the body part you want to improve, work that one the hardest with the most volume and the rest kind of maintain cuz otherwise you won't you won't be ever able to get your body balanced out. We all love working hard but you got to work smart as well. Oh man. Working set number two. For those of you who do not know what a working set truly is supposed to be, those are the sets that stimulate muscle growth the most. So when you get to failure or close to failure, there's a working set and you got to count those as your set volume and not all the warm-ups. So all the warm-ups I did, they don't count. They're simply a tool to get to the working sets to grow the chest. Done with the first movement. This was a flat chest press, meaning it kind of targets the whole chest. The next one will be for the upper chest. Something that can never be big enough. So, the number one thing people always wonder is how many sets, how many reps, and what are the rest times? Real quick and easy. Let's start with the rest times first. So, for me personally, it depends on how ready you feel for the next set. So, if you're not out of breath anymore, if your heart rate is going down, let's say beneath 100 beats per minute, and your muscle is ready to go. So, no more feeling of lactic acid, then you're ready. This can take 1 minute, 2 minutes, 3 minutes, everything in between. However, if you're just starting out, I would at least go for one and a half to two minutes on a comb movement like we just did the chest press, make sure to rest in between 90 and two 90 seconds to 2 minutes to make sure you're ready for the next set. But as you advance and your muscle mass becomes larger, you need more rest because you need more recovery for a bigger muscle. So, usually beginners can go quicker to the next set than advanced people. And the same thing goes also for the amount of sets. Beginners only need like two warming sets max to get the maximum stimulus for like a chest press. The chest is already filled up to the max. The muscle ache will be legendary the next day anyway. So any more than two working sets is not necessary. For advanced people, you know, three to maybe even four working sets on most movements is sufficient and recoverable because they have so much on muscle mass. Usually nutrition is more dialed in. So, usually beginner less rest time and less sets, advanced more sets, more rest time. And the amount of reps, in my opinion, always in between the eight to 15 rep range. But to make it easy, stick to the 10 to 12 for most chest movements, especially when it's a press, and you will be golden. All right. Next one is an incline press as I mentioned. So, this is for the upper chest. Now, most people would do an incline bench press, sine press, or a dumbbell press. I however am doing a cable press. Why? Cuz it's much easier on the joints for me and it's different from the chest we just did as this is kind of two free handles moving, but at the same time, you're training alone. So, a free weight would make it difficult to spot yourself. So, here I can very safely go to failure without risking injury. If you're with two people, you can easily do like a dumbbell press, for example. But I like this one quite a lot. As you can see, the handle is about mid to upper chest going all the way here. An incredible squeeze. And here, an incredible stretch. That is what you want to feel when doing an incline press. And one mistake you shouldn't make is round your shoulders. If you do this, it's going to be the front delts. Keep your shoulders like pinned into the pad behind you. and only let the chest do the work. So, proud chest, work the biceps towards each other so you really get the good squeeze. And that's pretty much it. Okay. Oh, if anybody is struggling with a mind muscle connection, this movement will solve that immediately. Now, if you don't have this setup available, as this is like a gym 80 free motion machine, you might as well just try an incline chest press with converging handles. You can kind of get the create the same effect. But if you can do with the cables, give those a shot. Ah, okay. Sure. Three wrong sets has done again and now it's time for the final true chest movement which should not be underestimated. I really am quite happy with uh the progress so far. Obviously the upper body will always look pretty good for me but it's still ever since I've done the Detroit Pro where I got second. You know, I was very happy with the package there. But the goal was to truly improve for the next contest, which is what I'm doing right now, but I'm not even in the push phase yet. So, I'm in the recovery phase, which means I've done a blood test. I still got to get the results from there. Once I get those, which I think will be good, we can truly start with the push phase. And we all know what that means, gains. And right now, what I look like is kind of the minimal progress possible. So, it's only going to get better from here. So exciting stuff coming up. Okay, man. That was quite difficult already. And you saw how difficult that was for me. Honestly, the weight, the stack weight here is very light relatively. Normally, I could do literally double this because look at what I'm doing right now. I can do this exercise again, but then very easily. And it almost looks like I'm still doing it correctly. But now, where you see, I'm bringing my fists together rather than the biceps. When I bring the biceps together, which I did in the actual set, it becomes literally twice as difficult. Why? Because then you target the chest rather than actually using the shoulders and the triceps to do the work. So, one of the most common beginner mistakes is they go way too heavy on the peg deck. Even though it's an isolation movement, which is supposed to isolate the chest, they use all the muscles to do the weight, which is kind of the opposite of what you want to do here. Only a light weight with good mind muscle connection, a good squeeze and stretch is what will build that high quality chest that we all want. Not going too heavy, but do it very light, controlled, and with a deafening lactic acid buildup in the chest. Oh man. then you know you've had a great workout for the chest. If even with a light weight the squeeze becomes very difficult then you know the chest is finished. However, we're still going to do one more set is in my opinion all isolation movements you can do one more set than usual because it doesn't really fatigue the rest of the body and you then you know for sure you finished off that muscle. Okay, empty. Another thing to make your push day successful is going to be the next movement, which will be surprising to some, but if you know me, you kind of see it coming. However, let's do this. You know, you've reached the I don't care anymore status when you're using a pink ankle cuff. I have black options there, but I don't care. As I mentioned, kind of a freedom feeling to have. This is going to be for the side delts. Yes, it is part of a push workout. the shoulders, the front delts, in my opinion, you already trained them with these three push movements we just did. The side delts are always neglected too much. So, this is an awesome movement to do the cable side lateral raise to keep tension on the side delts. And I'm also keeping this pulley at around well just about um upper stomach height. At least hip height is the minimum height you should have. Why? As you can see right now, this is the bottom of the rep. The bottom of the rep is the stretch portion. And you can see still luckily there's enough definition there to see the tension on the side delt. So when I go up, there's tension here. There's tension all the way down and it doesn't stop. If I would put this pulley all the way down, the tension will be lost, which is not what you want. want attention throughout the entire rep range, especially at the bottom where most of the muscle growth will occur. So, you might be wondering as a beginner maybe or even an intermediate, you've been training for a couple of years, but you've never done it this way. Am I doing it wrong? I'm training my side delts effectively because usually you would do a side dumbbell lateral raise, which is actually just fine. I used to do this for many many years and it grew my side belts quite a lot for like seven eight years. However, up until a point and that point where the dumb becomes too heavy where for example the dumb is so heavy that when you hold it like this and you go up your wrist start to go down this start to be impeded even the elbow a little bit. This is where you have to switch from the super heavy dumbbells to a nice comfortable cable movement like this that shifts the tension from your joints to your side delts. Would a beginner benefit from this exercise as well? Yes. But I do think that working with dumbbells and free weights as a beginner is crucially important to actually learn what the muscle does in like the freedom of a dumbbell. So when you have a free weight, you can go all directions. For example, with a machine like a side level machine, you can only go one direction. You're not really teaching yourself how to use a muscle however you want to. So, when you're doing a dumbbell, you have to force yourself to use the muscle in a correct fashion to train the side delt. If you do a cable exercise or a machine, especially, you're kind of forced into a movement pattern which doesn't teach you how to kind of learn how to use the muscle itself. So, as a beginner, the effectiveness of dumbbells and free weights is incredible either way. You're going to make gains no matter what. But as you become more intermediate, more advanced, you're going to move to more machine-based movements. When you notice other joints or muscles need to, you know, are starting to hurt or need to assist you into moving the primary muscle, which in this case is side delt, you don't want the trap involved. You don't want the elbow or the wrist to be messed up. So, that's why I'm doing it like this. However, if you're starting out, doing a dumbbell version is just fine. In fact, it's better even in my opinion than a cable. Nice. All I'm feeling now is like blood. The side delts are filled with blood. So it's only there and not in the trap. So another reason why you would do a machine or a cable rather than dumbbells if you can control to get the blood into where you want it to be. So the side delts. If you can't control that with a super heavy dumbbell, a cable allow you to shift the focus to that side delt. And if you then still can't lower the weight up the volume to ensure this will be filled with blood and nothing else. If you also want to be able to show off your muscles in a comfortable gym attire, check out Able. As you can see, I've done my own stuff, but they also have great training. Code Wesley to check them out and support me at the same time. Anyway, time for the next one. Be efficient. You can use the exact same ankle cuff, but I like to call it the wrist cuff as we're using it mainly for the wrist. I'm not going to be doing those side things with the legs. We're going to work the arms. Right now, it's time for the triceps. And this is one of my favorite ones, the side, well, how do you say this? The tricep extension on the side. doesn't really have an official name, but I just like to call them side tricep extension cuz on the side of your body, you're only using one arm at a time to extend your arm, contract the triceps, and go all the way up. Cuz after chest and side delves, it's time to work the triceps. And this one is incredible as a lot of people have exactly this pain right here, elbow pain. And this prevents that alto together as you're moving the arm in a natural way that it wants to move with this cable. So when I'm going all the way down, you can see this cable is perpendicular to the upper arm. When I'm going up, it's the exact same way. And that means the elbow is doing exactly what it's designed to do. Hinge like an hinge joint that it is. But it doesn't mean this is an easy movement. I got a challenge for you guys. Name me one free weight dumbbell movement that mimics the contraction of a tricep like this one does. It's going to be very difficult. So, in this case, I would always say a machine or cable would be superior to any free weight you can imagine to contract the tricep in the same way as this. Anyway, if you do know an exercise, let me know down in the comment. And no, it's not dumb kickbacks. Those don't count as they are quite horrible to be honest. Rep range here should always be at least above 10. Isolation movement, small muscle group, so going too heavy, that will mess up your elbow. So nice and light. Focus on a mind muscle connection. Focus on getting the stretch and a contraction here. That's all you need for great developed triceps. Okay, this was for the smaller lateral head of the triceps. However, the biggest part of the triceps, this one that really hangs down, that's going to be stretch oriented, which is going to be the next movement, an overhead movement. So, let's go. Overhead movement, which means the arm is going to be behind your head basically and your lower arm pointing upwards. Here, you don't want to focus on a contraction here. I can stand here all day. That doesn't matter. But this part down here, this stretch matters because that actually hurts in a good way. So focus on the stretch. Feel the stretch. Just go up about 90°. I mean 90%. Go back down. That is what's going to build big triceps. Heat. chest, triceps, delts, all done. That was the workout. Hope you enjoyed it. Lots more of this coming. Let me know down in the comments what you think. And of course, do not forget to stay golden.