A leg movement is always push and pull combined. But you can't have one without the other. Let me turn around and focus on making sure the first day of the week I'm gonna train legs. Train angry. Get the get the back in there. They'll remember. Yeah. So you got to remind them. Guys, you asked for it. Here it is. The leg day. How am I training my legs to be up to par with the rest to make sure the next competition will be golden? So, a lot of techniques will be in this workout such as from Hani Rambot. Obviously, my own coach Stephan Kinsel, Phil Heath, Jay Gutler, are going to do it all in this workout. So, stay tuned to see exactly what I'm doing to make the leg as big as possible, especially the quad triput. Let's go. I'm just going to do some warm-up sets here before doing the FSD7 uh set, the enormously long set. But this is a very nice tip for you guys. If you don't get a good stretch in the hamstrings on a machine, add this. It'll make the contraction easier and the stretch even better. Okay, warm-ups are done. Now it is time for the FD7 intensity technique. I won't be able to talk much during this entire set, but it's going to be pretty much six to seven minutes in total as I'll be doing seven sets, which is the FSD7, what it stands for. Seven sets of 10 to 12 reps is what I'm aiming for. 30 to 35 seconds rest in between. So, all in all, a super enormous pump, stretch, everything you can imagine in the hamstrings. Let's do this. Timer is running. Every time 30 seconds has hit, I have to do next set. Now I'm showing good spirits as it is I won't be. Hey girl. Oh man. Oh. Okay, 8 and a half minutes of doom. Even though I'm heavier, my cardio and strength have improved since time of the FIBO, cuz that was like 2 weeks after Detroit. So, I'm stronger now, more fit, but still very challenging start of a leg day. So, that's the FSD7 technique. Hamstrings I do today. The other day I do the leg extensions. So, at least twice a week. They're going into the schedule. Not for the upper body, only for the lower. Anyway, time for the next movement. All right, the next one will be a compound movement and I'm going to wear some very high heeled weightlifting shoes for that. This helps me to get the knees way deeper and get a better stretch, which uh is a tool you can use to get better leg gain. So, let's warm up a little bit and then go straight to the working sets. Let's go. Oh. Okay guys, huge announcement in between working sets. I do want to say at the moment right now een week is going on with the biggest discounts of the year. So trust me, if you need supplements, right now is your best bet to take them at the Een website with code Wesley for the maximum possible discount, the way Omegas, preworkouts, crank golden pump, of course, much more. And thank you incredibly for the golden support. Enough talk. Let's get to work. Oh yeah. Precision, guys. I know it's important to do heavy weights and this still is relatively heavy. It's still uh pretty much five plates aside, so it's pretty heavy in general, but I can do a lot heavier here. But then I'll have the same result as always, bigger inner leg, but not the sweep. And that's what we want. So be intelligent and you can enjoy your workout for a lot longer with more aesthetic results. Anyway, let's move on to the next. Ah. Hey. O. Oh, something else that my coach told me, Stefan, when I was in training camp with him is stop effing walking in between sets during leg day. As I'm always a fan of uh output, burning calories, staying lean. However, he said, "No, during leg day, you focus on the exercises, not walking around." So, I'm resting, literally resting instead of walking in between sets on leg day. Everything I can do to put all the energy into the legs and nowhere else. So, now comes a little Jake Cutler wisdom. We all know he's above 50 right now, but his physique still looks great. Looks very healthy, very vital, and he is four time Mr. Olympia. All that together combined with how he trained, high volume, not going to extreme failure, but more sets, more reps, that's what I'm going for as well. So instead of doing this one again with the same weight, lowering the weight a little bit, matching a higher rep range to make sure I still stimulate the legs without unnecessarily killing myself in the process. Whereas finally guys, it is going to happen very soon in July. This collection, the Dutch oak collection is coming out. Abel and the Dutch oak working together. It's been an honor to be able to create my own line with a big company like Ael. Truly an honor. And thank you guys for the gold support for making this a possibility. So write it down. July will be the date. And follow me on Instagram to make sure to know exactly which date is going to be, but you can already see it right here. So thank you for the goal and support, guys. It truly means a lot. Or what means even more to you guys would be winning a major show with bigger legs. Let's go. Oh man. Gym 80 is really humbling you with our machines. Nordic curl time. We did the laying leg at the beginning, giving a great pump and blood flow in the hamstrings. Now it's time to stretch it out in the most gruesome way possible. Let's go. Oh, lactic acid. Next, here we are on the abductor machine for the inner thighs. I got an extra heavy one from Jim 80. Me and my coach has have done this at training camp as well. They're very important to create the thickness on the inner legs and also just to get more total mass in the leg to showcase on stage. Okay man. now we're going to do something extra that I normally wouldn't do, but Phil Heath told me to do it. So, what are we going to do? We're going to do what Phil Heath says. Let's go. And we all know what he said. It was dumbbell lunges. One of the worst movements, one of the best ones. Let's go. Okay, Yeah, okay. Oh man, that was the V workout, guys. every single time I do this and it's only going to get worse in the offseason when it's really going to begin. But yeah, I'm doing everything it takes to get those legs to be bigger. And uh stay tuned cuz you will see all the progress coming very very soon. And don't forget guys, ESN week is on right now with code Wesley maximum discounts. And thanks again for the incredible go support. Let me know what you want to see next down in the comments.