 I've bulked as hard as possible to gain as much muscle as possible since Detroit earlier this year. I wanted to make a statement, put on as much muscle as I can, where people even thought I was going to do the open, throughout my journey of doing this bulk and putting on this muscle, I've gained a lot of knowledge, a lot of tips, I'm gonna share with you guys in your own progressive bulk. Let's see what we can do. Oof, okay. So, what is bulking? Well, you have several types of bulking, but whichever type it is, one thing that's common, you have to be in a caloric surplus, aka eat more calories than you burn, so that week by week, you gain some body weight. Now of course, gaining body weight is one thing, you know, we want to get heavier, but you want the weight you gain to be of high quality. You have three weights, basically you can gain water, fat, but most importantly, we have muscle. This is going to already answer one of the most pressing questions I often get, should you do a dirty bulk or a regular bulk, aka a lean bulk. As I just mentioned, you have fat, water, and muscle. When you do a dirty bulk, inevitably, the proportion of weight you gain will be higher fat and less muscle, a lot of water weight, so you look impressive, you're heavy, but the quality is pretty low. And then comes the lean bulk, the name already says it, you only gain less body weight, a little bit of weight, but most of that weight will be of high quality, mostly muscle, a little bit fat, and some water, but this is what we want. We are training in the gym not to gain weight, but to gain muscle, and this is why I'm personally a fan of doing a lean bulk. So a lean bulk, however, doesn't mean you can't gain a lot of weight in a whole lean bulk, because in my opinion, when you're bulking, you shouldn't do it in a short period of time. For example, from Detroit until now, let's see, I gained like, well, exactly 22 kilos of body weight, and that's over 50 pounds. So it's not a little amount of weight I'm gaining, and most of this weight will be of high quality. So not as much fat as muscle, and not as much water as you would gain in a dirty bulk, or sodium, inflammation, higher carbs, lots of fats play a big role in making you look puffy, and not lean and muscular as you should. I personally like to go for the lean bulk. Now, what does a lean bulk look like? It looks like this. So I like to say that I didn't gain, of course, again, a little bit of fat, but a lot of fat during these lean bulks. So that's why it's called a lean bulk, because you build up in body weight. And let's be honest, mentally, we also want to look great in the mirror when you're at the gym. If you do a dirty bulk, yes, you look strong in a t-shirt and in a vest, but the moment you take it off, you're kind of disappointed. We don't want that. So how do you accomplish a lean bulk? Well, in my opinion, the moment you're done with your cut, your photo shoots, your contest prep, depending on how deep you went, you have to be in stage lean condition from that moment, gaining around 1% body weight to half a percent body weight a week is always a good thing as long as you gain strength at the same time in the gym, because then you know that the weight you're gaining is also quality weight. If your strength is the same, plateau, even declines, you gain weight, the rest of the shorts, that's going to be fat. So that's why with training, I like to keep a logbook to make sure my weights are going up every single week. It doesn't have to be by much. It can be one rep, it can be 2.5 kilos every time, but it has to go up performance. And body weight both have to go up at the same time, because if they don't, you're not really bulking in traditional center, just either gaining body weight or you're just not progressing as a bodybuilder at all. Oh you. So how did my own lean bulk go? Well, I've had my ups and downs. Whenever you're done with a contest or whatever, a photo shoot or a cutting phase, you're really excited for the lean bulk. You're hungry, you're excited to make progress, you can visualize, okay, these weak points are on the fix, I want to make them strong, but then life happens. So for me, you know, I started eating more, training harder, thinking I was doing great, but here and there, I started to feel inflammation pop up my knees, elbows, shoulders, it all started hurting, which I never had before, which is why I'm wearing these sleeves right now, by the way, to really help me stabilize those joints again. I couldn't really identify what was going on, but probably despite me going for the lean bulk, I still, I think, was eating and trying a little too hard, as I really wanted to make the maximum amount of progress since I lost the last couple of shows. And when you're losing shows, and when you won shows before, you're double motivated to get back to your old level to show people, oh, I can't do this. So subconsciously, even though I knew what I needed to do, I probably trained a little too hard, you know, over-training is very difficult, but I think I did it and I had to take a break. So I kind of utilized me having the umbilical hernia surgery as a rest phase, even though that's kind of stupid, because you literally had surgery. You want to take those weeks as a rest period? Well, trust me, you're recovering already from the surgery, so there's no really room to recover from the workout. So I took two weeks off. It wasn't enough, because when I went back to training, the same things happened, inflammation came back. So my own lean bulk didn't go perfectly, but still I was able to make in between those phases quite some good gains, because it didn't gain that much fat. And not gaining too much fat, which is what I urge you guys to do when you're doing a bulk, no dory bulk, go for the lean bulk, but keep your insulin sensitivity high, which means every calorie you eat, the higher your insulin sensitivity is, the more of that calorie will go to your muscle rather than the fat. If your insulin sensitivity in your muscles are low, in your fat cells, they will be high. So whenever you eat a big meal, most of that will go to the fat cells, which is why keeping the blood sugar stable, not eating inflammatory foods, getting good rest, good sleep, good recovery, good supplements really helps in doing a lean bulk. And having said that, my appetite was also struggling after a while, but there are some things you can do to keep appetite nice and high. So one of those things I'm having right here. Yes, normally liquid calories are not ideal, but only if you place them right in the day, they can be perfect. So right now I'm training, so I'm taking intra-workout carbohydrates. I replaced some of the volume from the other meals for the carbs, intra-workout, which are absorbed immediately. Of course, I'm not stuffed by them. I could take carbs away from the other meals, which make them smaller. And this, with the ESN intra, for example, it contains carbohydrates, EAAs, and micronutrients, such as the electrolytes you need to get all those glycogen storage filled up in the muscle. You can utilize this energy for your workout. You get stronger, you get stronger, more mechanical tension, more tension is more growth. So intra-workout supplements do help directly and indirectly by not having you to eat so much food outside of the workout and get in the calories where you need them within the workout. If you want to give this intra a shot yourself, I want to make your bulk as successful as possible, used called Wesley for the ESN intra yourself. Failure is also something you can do when you're in a lean bulk. I don't recommend doing a whole lot of volume during a prep, for example, then you want to keep the volume nice and low. You want to go close to failure, but not all out failure. During a bulk, you can go pretty close to failure instead of a cover, because a bulk means you have the caloric surplus, the extra calories to extra recover from heavier workouts. So you might think you're ready for a bulk, but shouldn't you maybe do a cut first? As I mentioned before, the insensitive, meaning how many calories of what I'm eating is going to the muscle versus to the fat. If it's not low enough, you can start a bulk, but all you're doing is 90% gaining fat, 10% if you're a lucky gaining muscle, but the moment you have to lose the fat again, you're going to lose all the muscle you gained. So it's kind of a lose, lose situation. How do you know if you're ready for a bulk? In my opinion, you should be 10% body fat or less. You should still have an appetite for every single meal that you're eating. When you wake up, you should be hungry. If you test your blood sugar, it should be nice and low, not too high from the sleeping, should always be low. You should have energy, the workers should be fun. Everything should be there, because if it's not, you won't be in a proper positioning to do a lean bulk or a bulk in general, as it will only either add stress to your body, not allowing you to gain muscle, but only gain pain, like what happened with me. Maybe the inflammation goes up, or you will just gain fat. So make sure body fat is low enough. Your appetite is nice and high. In a mirror, you're lean, you're happy with what you're looking at, and you have a clear goal of what you want to do, what you want to improve on your body. So a concrete example, of course, I myself wanted to improve my legs, upper body, not so much so. So whenever I did a leg day, I made sure that day was especially above my caloric needs, a little higher than the upper body days, and the total calories and the total rest I took in the night, in the sleep, in the recovery phase was a lot higher when I trained the legs, because that utilized so much more energy out of me compared to the upper body to be able to make them grow. So whenever you have a weak point you want to fix in the offseason, make sure you put the training volume, the most of the food and the carbohydrates on those and around those days to make sure they're going to fix what is needed for your next show, photoshoot, or just to be happy with your own physique. So especially for guys who are just starting out, want to put on muscle, what do you do? First of all, find out your maintenance calories, meaning if you weigh about the same weight for an entire week and you eat the same every single day, that's your maintenance, put 20 to 30 percent extra calories on top of those calories in a form of mostly carbohydrates and a bit of fat. Now when it should remain of course a lean bulk, and when you're doing a lean bulk you're not gaining as much fat, you can still wear tank tops, a few more tank tops like this to still show off your physique and not be ashamed of it. Of course, use code Wesley for the best possible discounts, and thank you enormously for the golden support. But the final question Wesley, how long is your bulk still going to take? Well, I'm gonna tell you guys in a future video which might actually come a little sooner than you think. As always guys, thank you very much for watching the video, lots more and I mean a lot more content is coming to you guys, so don't forget to subscribe and leave down in the comments what you want to see next and of course do not forget to stay golden.