We all know that you have to build muscle by training in the gym, working out hard, getting muscle ache. But the one thing people seem to forget sometimes is nutrition is even more important. So I am doing today a grocery haul to show you guys exactly which products, which macros are very important to build some quality muscle. Let's go. Every meal I eat every single day is comprised of several different things. Of course, we have the vegetables, the carbohydrates, the protein, and of course, the fats. So, I'm going to show you first what the most important thing for me is, the vegetables. Oh, it's getting cold, guys. So, I'm very happy that Abel came out with the new hoodies with a zipper. It's still Black Friday. You can use code Wesley for the maximum discount. Anyway, let's go. All right. So for a bodybuilder obviously carbohydrates are very important and part of the carbohydrate should always be the fruits guys the fruits. So what I like to get always is the blueberries. Now blueberries are very very healthy for the antioxidants but also they have fiber, minerals, vitamins on top of the carbohydrates they they have. So I always make sure to have two meals a day with these blueberries. But these are fresh blueberries. The best blueberries actually are the frozen variant which I'm showing you right now. So, real quick, as last time I told you guys already this as well, but you've got the frozen version of the blueberries right here, for example. I always get this one because it's just more fresh than the fresh version. As this one is when it's picked, it's frozen immediately. The [music] fresh version is here for a while. So, it's less fresh despite the name. is cheaper and it contains more vitamins. So, [music] win-win situation right here. Now, most supermarkets also have obviously a lot of vegetables, but you don't have to always be boring. For example, we all know the regular bell pepper like this, but I personally like these pointy bell peppers more. I don't know what they're calling it in English, but they're called point bell peppers here. Sweet bell peppers. But instead of the red ones, I like to choose this variant. Why? It's red, orange, and yellow. And all the colors stand for the antioxidants and the different phytonutrients in there to actually build eventually more muscle as these will fuel your metabolism as well. So definitely getting this one. Apart from bell peppers, which are very easily to digest, they're part of the low FODMAP group, which means vegetables you can add to your meals that don't mess up your digestion. The kett aka zucchini is also part of this group. I like to use zucchini in a lot of my meals. 75 g or 150 g per meal to make sure you get the fiber in, the vitamins and minerals in, but also very easy to digest. We are here at the herbs and spices and you can choose between the fresh ginger or of course the dried ginger. First of all, ginger very important for digestion. Tastes amazing. They use it in the Asian kitchen for example. Goes very well with your rice meals. I personally like to grate this off, put it on top of my rice or cook it with the rice. But compared to the dried ginger, this still contains all the vitamins and minerals. Why do I keep hammering on this? Because your metabolism requires this to build the enzymes to build more muscle, to burn more fat. You need those vitamins and minerals. And in here, there simply are more. Tastes better and just feels and looks amazing, isn't it? So, we're going to get this one as well. So, I'm actually out of this. This is called yoo, which simply means well in Dutch translated iodine salt. But it's not just salt. is low sodium salt which means most of it is replaced by potassium. We all need a 1:1 ratio of sodium to potassium and we eat way too much salt in general upping blood sugar uh I mean blood pressure and it's simply not good for health if you have too much salt compared to potassium. So potassium the easiest way to get in your diet is just simply half of the salt you put in your meals replace it with this version and you'll be gone. All right. So, here we are at the comfort zone for vegetables. As you can see, for example, right here, we have a bag of precut vegetables, so you don't have to cut it yourself. The only downfall is it is more expensive, but it saves you time. So, it kind of depends on what you want to go for. But, I have actually the best of both worlds, which I can show you that saves you time and money [music] as well. So that secret is the one and only mushrooms. Now you also have the cutup version of this. Mushrooms are also very healthy. Very good to put in your meals. Very easy to put in a pan. But you don't have to cut this. You just break it off as you go in the pan. Very easy, very quick, very healthy. Now carbohydrates, guys, that's the biggest portion of every single meal of my day. Especially in the offseason when you want to grow, the carbohydrates will be very high. So, I like to do that with these kind of carbohydrates and within the carbohydrates, fruits are also part of this. So, let's check that out. Kiwis, guys, green kiwis. Why do I like this so much? I mentioned before, pretty much every meal of the day can contain a piece of fruit. Only going to be better for your health, for your digestion, for everything. But a kiwi actually has properties, especially in the skin of the kiwi, you can absorb and digest protein even better. So pairing this with a protein richch meals will help you digest the meal better, better for everything basically. And as I mentioned, you just have to cut this hard piece off and you can eat the whole thing. Bananas, guys, they are always a very wise choice in your diet. Why? Because bananas get you a lot of carbs in a very healthy way, especially pre and post-workout extra potassium as well, which I mentioned before is very healthy. But you can take the biological, the organic bananas or the regular version, which is a big, this is literally double the price. You might as well get the normal version because there's no difference in my opinion at all. Oats, guys. We as bodybuilders pretty much always have oats, whether in the offseason or the cutting season. Now, you have two options here. You have the store brand or you have the Quaker brand. Trust me, the flavor difference is negligible. What isn't negligible is the price. This is twice as expensive for less. Get the store brand version as that version will save you a whole lot of money as this you pretty much have to fill up every 3 maybe 4 days. So trust me, this one you want to take instead of the Quaker version, guys. Now, this is one of my secrets. Raisins. It has two things in one. maybe even three things. First of all, you can see this. It is a vegetable. Actually, dried fruit counts towards your vegetable uh I mean your fruit intake. So, because it's a fruit, you still have some of the micronutrients in there and the fiber in there, giving you the benefit of the fruit, but also it is a uh smaller volume in your meal, and it goes very, very well together in your oats, rice flour, rice pudding, but also your normal rice meals. Adding this in there will reduce the volume of the meals in the offseason, but still add a lot of health and calories and carbohydrates to fuel your workouts and build some muscle. So definitely going to get this one. Rice, guys, rice is one of the most consumed source of food you have as a bodybuilder. So I won't be standing here and say go for the budget option because honestly the quality and flavor and texture is very different between the cheapest version and the most expensive version. However, what some people like to do is go for the microwave rice. Yes, it tastes amazing, but trust me, this is so much more expensive compared to the regular rice. So you also have for example this brand but this is a quite an expensive brand. It also tastes quite amazing. But what you don't want to do is for example go for Ooh, that's a terrible version to be honest. For example, go for this one. Yes, got a lot of rice. It's cheap but it tastes pretty bad especially when you have to eat like 500 g of this a day. So I like to go for something in between. And that would be any version of parbo boiled rice. So this is the same price, a little bit more expensive for example than this one, but you get twice as much at least. But par boiled means this has been precooked before, removed all the starches around the rice grains, which makes it all loose rice grains, which gives it an amazing texture. Easy to cook. You cannot mess it up. Even if you cook it like 3 4 minutes too long, it's still going to taste amazing. So, this one, in my opinion, will be the biggest bang for your buck. It's still cheap enough, but it tastes amazing at the same time. The supermarkets we were at just now did not have the amount of rice I want in one package. Buying in bulk is always going to be cheaper than buying in small packages. So, I of course have gotten this times three 15 kilos of parboiled rice simply in a different grocery store. So, don't give up by just checking out one grocery store. You have multiple. You can check out the best deals in every single one. Now, arguably the most important macronutrient of a body's diet, of course, is going to be the protein. So, we got some protein at the grocery store. Let's check out what that was. >> Quark, guys. Quark is pretty much a high protein form of yogurt. Pretty much like Greek yogurt, but in the in the Netherlands, you have this version, but it's pretty much Greek yogurt, which you can add as a meal before bed. Has literally quinine protein in there for slow digesting protein. So, it's a very nice one to also pair with designer uh flavor powder, for example, because this tastes amazing in combination with that. Always make sure when you're in the hunts for protein sources that you get one of these with this sticker on it. In the Netherlands or quite a lot of grocery stores that add a discount when it's close to going um over the date of being edible. So, um check your grocery store if it has the same system because we're going to eat it the same day anyway. So, we won't have the trouble compared to normal people that would take a week for someone like that to eat all of this protein. For us, it's just one day. So, make sure to get this yourself and it saves you a lot of money. So, I already have eggs at home, but one of my most important protein sources are not just the eggs, but also the egg whites. Now, you could get these eggs, break them apart, separate the egg yolk from the egg white, but to me, that's just a shame because you're literally throwing away the egg yolk. So, you might as well just buy the egg whites. One thing you have to take uh take into account is when you look at the back at the ingredients, this just says just egg egg whites. However, sometimes these are also made for bakeries which actually add a stabilizer to it for recipes and you don't want that to be added to your egg whites, guys. So, make sure it's pure 100% egg whites. And also if you calculate how much money it costs to buy these eggs and then separate the egg yolk, you're pretty much can double this price for this amount of egg. So yes, egg whites are not cheap, but compared to having to separate them from the egg itself, it is much cheaper. So as you saw, we got the liquid egg whites. Why? Because I already have quite a lot of eggs back at home. So we didn't need to get extra. So the eggs are at the same time the protein also a little bit of the fat source of course combined with the liquid egg whites. But you did not see me getting any chicken or beef. I did get some fish but I already had some at home. So fresh salmon fillet also protein and a fat source. But the pure protein source, the source I eat most in a day is going to be chicken. plain old good chicken but the best possible quality from of course the butcher meatup. I like to get chicken from Meetup because first of all it is cheaper. Let's face it, if you have to get a lot of chicken a week, you want to go for the cheaper option but you don't want to go for the cheap bad option. You want to go for the cheap good option. And that is what Meetup Butcher like Meetup can provide. Very high quality butchered by hand. So, it's not processed by machines. So, it's high quality. Good quality chicken. They have a lot of different kinds. Chicken breast, but also chicken thighs, for example, if you need a bit more fat. But the flavor is incredible. The price is very good, and the quality is topnotch. So, when you're going to a butcher, make sure that the way they get their protein is of high quality. So, I go to a Turkish butcher myself as they go with a halal rule. So they have strict guidelines on how to get their protein in, which means the quality is much higher. Not every butcher does this, but make sure the butcher you go to has guidelines like this to make sure the protein in their stalls are of high quality. Now, of course, in terms of protein, I only eat animal sources in terms of what you have to bake in a pan. But I also use, of course, whey drip designer whey. Hey, what do I see here? Stoke waffle flavor. If you haven't tried this one yet, make sure to try it out because this is all hearty food. Like you can't really make this in a sweet dish. This, however, you can. It absorbs very quickly. You can make cream of rice with it. The victory breakfast, the victory muffins, post rocket shake, you name it. This never goes bad either. So, this is also really great way to have protein in your house. It doesn't go bad and you can go with it anywhere without worry about your protein. So fats also an important macronutrient, especially in the offseason. Fats can really help drive up your calories, make your food taste more delicious without making it more difficult to eat your meals. So I like to have most of the fats within the protein source itself, like the salmon or the eggs. But sometimes you want to add some more quality fats in there. We saw the dark chocolate in the store. This from a different grocery store, but still the cheaper option, the exact same quality, just less money. But go for 80% or higher in my opinion if you want to add a high quality fat source to your meals. Usually the oatmeal or the cream of rising for example. And you also have peanut butter. My coach always adds some peanut butter at the end of the day. Can be almond butter as well or nuts. But in my opinion, if you have struggle eating a meal, adding some peanut butter to it makes it that much more easy. So that's the kind of fats I like to eat on my diet. Now guys, a tip I have for you is we all know when you get oil from the store, well, first of all, this Bertholei brand can be quite expensive. You might want to go for the cheaper version. So, you also have baking spray of the olive oil of Berli. It is cheaper but still quite expensive, close to €6. And guess what? is also ESN spray is a larger bottle, less than half the price, higher quality, very high smoking point. So, you might as well use this in your pants not to waste any calories, but to only make sure the meat you're cooking doesn't stick at all. The ESN oil spray. Bottom line is, I realize bodybuilding diets aren't always so exciting. These are mostly healthy, wholesome foods. Not everybody thinks it's exciting, but at the end of the day, you have to make a diet that you can adhere to, that you like, that you find delicious. So, I, for example, like to use like flavor of seasoning powders like this, or to make my golden rice with turmeric, for example, to make it look good for your eyes, because then you already are like, "Ooh, this looks delicious." And to actually make it taste good. And also add enough salt to your meals to combine the potassium and the sodium to make sure the flavor profile is boosted up. Every vegetable, everything you add will have a much better flavor if you add these herbs, spices, and enough salt, of course. So, when you make sure you do this, you'll be able to be healthy, work on your goals, build muscle, burn fat, all that good stuff. So, these are kind of the foods I like to eat, make them delicious. Thank you a lot for watching. Much more is coming, guys.