 studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied studied very important to keep the carbs low but also to keep the hunger feeling and the stress revolving around that low as well. So we're just going to have a nice filling breakfast. A little more vegetables than usual but yeah we're going to enjoy this. Asparagus never hurts. An omelet, two eggs, ten egg whites and that's just it guys. So we are going to enjoy this breakfast then go straight outside walk the train and that's on our travels. Alright guys we are sitting here at the train station. This is step number one to getting to the airport. So we've walked from home to the train station. We have a train station we are going to the airport and then the airport we're going to hope it's going to go smoothly and then we're going to fly to the UK, Birmingham, Birmingham, Birmingham. which I've been already been to four times with this number five. It's going to be amazing. Very excited. By the way my weight this morning was the lowest it has been. 110.2 before bowel movement so probably below 110. So yeah, let's go. All righty guys we are through all security and here in Amsterdam Schiphol the last couple of weeks it's been very very busy because of undermanned security personnel but luckily we didn't really notice this. So right now we are going to eat one of the meals of the day. So the first meal was an omelette with some asparagus as I always have. And the second meal will be one of the four salads I made. So we have here is just some chicken, asparagus, cucumber and a little bit of pumpkin. All low FODMAP, very low caloric vegetables. 200 grams of chicken and yeah this is what we are going to eat because we have our zero carbs right now. Very low fat just to drive that little bit of extra conditioning for today. And tomorrow we are going to load. So let's enjoy this one. Let's enjoy this one. Thank you. Thank you. So we're going to wait for that and then go to the rental car and drive to our incredible apartment. See you there soon. Oh. This is enough. I used to work in a cucumber greenhouse, so can't go without these. Turkey mince. Wow. I wish I had this in the Netherlands. Extra lean turkey mince. But it's only 1.1 grams of fat instead of 15 in the Netherlands, so this would be great. Guys, this rice is the best rice in the universe, in my opinion. The first time I tried Uncle Ben's rice. I like rice grains that are all separated, not big balls or chunky balls like sushi rice, not pasty rice. This is what I love. So another good brand is Tilda. We have that at home. And we used to have Uncle Ben's a lot, but it's been phasing out. So here they have the perfect Uncle Ben's. So I'm going to take two of these. If I don't finish them with the loading, I'm going to take one of them with me to the Netherlands. And this, guys, look here. This is what I was talking about. All these different kinds of steamed rice. All the flavors. It's just unbelievably incredible. And you've got the exact same thing of Uncle Ben's here. The only difference, well, actually, this is perfect also. Zero grams of salt. So if you want it even easier, you can just get bags like this, steam it, and it's the exact same as just cooking it yourself. But we've got to measure it to perfection, of course. But yes, this is all just epicness. Even the golden rice is right there. So guys, we are done with the groceries. And I can guarantee you, we either forgot something or we got too much. One of the two. But regardless, we did our best. And we're going to have one more meal now. Then go straight to the gym. Dino's Gym is the plan. The old school gym we always go to here in Birmingham. Then the last meal, go to sleep, and then the loading fun begins. All right, I just got home from the groceries. Had a small meal that you saw. Those salad meals are very small. And right now, I'm going to take the pre-workout. And of course, it is Viu Nitro and Viu Notropic. It's around 8 p.m. right now. And you can't really take all pre-workouts except for the ones without stimulants like caffeine. Notropic only has mental focus enhancing capability. So we can add that. So we can put a few scoops of this mixture inside of my shaker cup. And then go ahead and drink it. Doesn't have to be a whole lot. Just something to get a boost going. And once we have dragged this, we're going to have a nice light back workout at Dino's Gym. And enjoy the workout. Enjoy the atmosphere. It's going to be great. There's always lots of options of machines in a gym like this. A true old school gym. Dino's gym. But we're gonna stick to what we have been doing because it's all about stimming the muscle now. We're not gonna break it down, we're just gonna prime it for the carb load tomorrow. So let's just stick to a chest supported high row. Just like I do back at home. These places feel heavier than regularly. Okay, next one is a simple chest supported row. So what we're going to do, chest supported pulldown, two chest supported rows. What I used to do at the gym, so this is a very nice one, keep a row. There we go. Too wide. And... One more movement for the back and we'll see what we're gonna do. But we don't have to do a lot today. As I said, it's priming the muscle, getting blood growing, especially after having done traveling. It's always nice to be a little active. I'm just deciding to do a peg deck instead of another row. Just don't want to put too much rest on the body. This is just to fill up the rear delt and the chest a bit with blood. Maybe one more bicep. And that's it. Just gonna do one more old school alternating bicep curl. We're gonna just work it off with a tail of school gym though. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Okay guys, that was the workout for sure. I want to keep working out, but it's not smart to do so. So this was like an 80% effort workout, which is like 60, 70, 65% volume. So yeah, we're now going to go back home. It's just a nice quick workout. I had to get it at the Dino's gym. Yeah, it's time for the post-workout meal. Okay, we're back at home and I just created the last meal of the day. Since it's a post-workout meal and to already prime the body to take in some carbs before the actual loading day tomorrow, we already have 50 grams of delicious cream of rice. Just like that. And in the pan over there, we have some salmon because we have to add the fats for the last meal of the day as well. The protein and a little bit of asparagus because who doesn't like to add some vegetables to their meals, especially when there are water, how do you call that? The opposite of water retention. They actually have a slight diuretic effect on the water of your body. Asparagus has low FODMAP, low fiber. It's perfect for me and I love the flavor. So I'm just going to be eating this. I already had all of my supplements to help me go to sleep. And I'm going to show you that for one second. This is a melatonin spray. I've told you guys about this before. If you don't want to take a lot of capsules with you, a spray like this is perfect. All you do is this. Ah, a couple of times. Orange flavor. Tastes actually incredible. So if you don't have any sweet things in your diet, this is something you actually look forward to. So this contains melatonin and is partially absorbed in the mouth itself. So it gets into your blood quicker. So this helps you sleep. I also take my omega-3s, my magnesium to help me sleep and also Ashwa Ganda KSN 66 or Ashwa Pro by ESN. I take all of that. And now it's time to enjoy this post-organ meal. And then go straight to bed because tomorrow my coach will arrive in the evening. So I want to be showing him the best possible loaded physique I can. And from then we'll see. But we'll take you along for the ride. This was day one in Birmingham. And there's going to be more exciting days coming. Thank you very much for the incredible support. And don't forget to stay golden. Amen.