Look at how much better that looks. Just like that. Yeah, true. Okay. Which I think you look great in. Yeah. But it's it's my favorite pose if I had picked one in my head. What you look f good in. Arnold Senagger said it himself as well. So we are here at the incredible Bev's powerhouse gym in New York. Steve the man Weinberger is here himself. Of course, head just of the Olympia. What an incredible atmosphere here. We are of course here not only to get a good workout in, but also to get judged by Steve himself to kind of fuel myself with the critique needed and the feedback needed for the offseason. But before that, we're going to do a very nice workout. It's like a candy shop or a bodybuilder around here because there's so much equipment. I expected it to be a good gym, but this is even above my expectations. So incredible. If you're a bodybuilder who loves all school atmosphere with infinite number of options of machines, this is the place to be. Anyway, let's begin. Very nice. Starting with the side delts to kind of warm up with this uh push workout. You know, if you want to get judged by the head judge, you got to look your very best. So, we're going to get a nice upper body pump. Once again, awesome. Getting your shoulders warmed up before chest is a good way to prevent shoulder injuries and to also just get a nice smooth movement in all chest movements which kind of you know when you're getting older your shoulders start to kind of get messed up if you do a lot of chest workouts throughout the years but starting with the side delts I always include the side in a chest workout but instead of doing it after the chest movements you might as well start with it because it won't take away from the chest pressing at all. Whoa. Next movement. Now you just have an infinite choice of machines here. And because I'm in the gym now, I just want to try out some different stuff what I've never done before. And especially stuff that doesn't involve the shoulders at all. So this one feels very great on the chest. No shoulder involvement at all. Still easy. It's awesome to see because right now it's Monday and this Saturday will be the New York Pro of course and uh that's one of the best shows in the world of bodybuilding. So you will see body butter trickling in this gym. Of course everybody who does a New York pro will go to this gym or should go to this gym and it's awesome to see a lot of competitors and to kind of be motivated myself to do my very best for the offse competition. So you're thinking about also doing new proce. Well, yeah. Of course, in my bodybuilding career, I want to have done all the big shows and New York Pro is going to be one of them. We just got from Pittsburgh to here. Pittsburgh is also amazing. So, but New York Pro will be one of the ones I want to do, but also Pittsburgh, of course, but timelinewise, I don't know when, but it will happen for sure. Now, we got to go a little heavier, guys. Let's go for the full stack. Time for the real set to begin. Okay. That's a good set. The pump is there. And if you're wondering how to get a good pump, what did I do beforehand? You think take a pre-workout non-stim because you want to have the maximum pump and the focus is already there. The cars are there. But of course, with Craig, cool and pumped, you will get the best muscle pump of your life. interesting movement. You get more feeling and more tension at the stretch and it's easier at the contraction, which is kind of what you want to mimic in an exercise because the stretch will cause more muscle growth. But you got to be careful here not to kind of do it in the wrong direction because otherwise the uh upper pec shoulder combination might not feel that great. But if you're tall like me, you can kind of shift into a different position to really target the chest more. By the way, the entire offseason I probably won't push the upper body as much as the lower body. So you will never see me go too fur beyond fur on my upper body anymore because this is about maintaining as you can see the massive there already for classic physique. We need it more on the legs which is why with legs I'm I'm doing a lot of techniques which you see in the leg videos to make them grow. But for the upper body I don't really go to failure that much. But for you guys who want a bigger upper body, do go to beyond recovery ability. Woo! interesting piece. Kind of like a bench press machine. Nice way to finish off the chest. Did a heavy uh set first and now we're going to do a lighter set with more reps to finish off the chest. Oh, nice finisher. 15 reps. For everybody who wants to grow their chest, always combine heavy weights with a stretch and a pump. So, heavy weights, good uh control of the motion all the way, range of motion to the stretch part. And also at the end, the last movement, either a fly or a press, doesn't really matter. A lot of reps to make sure the chest is going to be pumped up to the back. As always, triceps after chest. Already did the side delt. So just two easy tricer movements before the Steve Wineberger judgment begins. Thank you. Nice. Your muscle gains. I won't because like you even Jay Cutler told me don't think about the weight cap this offseason. Go purely what where your body wants to take you better than Jay Cutler. Good advice. As he says it, I'll do it. So absolutely. But you have obviously the frame. Yeah. To carry a lot much a lot. That's what this growing season is all about. just putting on as much muscle as possible and then we'll see where the best physique will end up at. What's the cap? 242. No. U officially it's it's 256. 256 275 I think Samson doubt. Yeah. I guest post next to him because I wanted to stand next to the biggest guy on the planet and yeah, it was an incredible experience and uh when I see those pictures I'm like, "Oh, I thought I thought I would have looked a lot smaller next to him." The hardest thing for all bodybuilders is the sweep on the thigh to match the shoulder. And once you get that and that takes muscle maturity and time and obviously you're already you're there. Yeah. And the bigger you get, the more impressive it looks. Especially as a tall body, you have that X frame. Yeah. And you have a good you have a small waist that once you're there, once you do have the muscle, it's undeniable because then no one is going to surpass it because they're simply not that tall. You know, no small good bodybuilder is a good tall bodybuilder. Arnold Schwzenegger said it himself as well. So that's right. And and are you tired of the comparisons with Arnold Schwarzenegger? No, I'm never tired because he's the icon of bodybuilding. So every time I I'm I'm compared, I'm like that's an honor. You know, I told you at the Olympia that someone said, "Is that Wesley versus father?" I said to me, I started laughing. So I'm 52, but you're 32. So I'm 19. I guess that's what could be possible. You You're a great bodybuilder, but I think you obviously put on a ton of muscle and do the open. Yeah. Putting on muscle is what I will do for sure. Yeah. And then Yeah. I just want to Yeah. My physique, it sucks to be kept at a certain weight. Yeah. So, I'll see what my phys where my physique wants to take me, you know. So, but before That's for sure. Before I stop bodybuilding, I will do an open show. That's going to be for sure. But, uh, definitely. Yeah. I think you will after the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. Could be a nice one. Could be a nice one. We're done. Let's go to Steve. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's see. Okay. Open up your arms right now. Chest up. Chest up higher. Now just make your arms. Stay. Don't do like that. Yes. Look at the difference. Yeah. Look at how much more natural that looks. Your pose has to improve. Yeah. Yeah. Lats out. But stand straight. Straight. Now chest up like that. Yes. Lats out. Yes. Then you kind of Look at how much better that looks. Yeah. Yeah. Just like that. So much better. Nice. Quarter turn. Mhm. Relax. Chest up. Twist a little bit that way. Not just looking please at how your shape changed. Yeah. You see the difference? I don't want to say nothing. Not on camera, but your closing was not good. Yeah, it could be a lot better. How much better that looks between four and eight? That's what I want to hear. Well, look at the difference. Yeah. You see the difference? Yeah. All right. Quarter turn. Look at the back right there. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You see the difference? Yeah, for sure. Okay. For sure. Quarter turn. Now, the same thing I just showed you on the other side. No, no, no. Too much. There you go. See the difference when you go straight up. Yeah. Okay. Front double bicep. It's good. You learn quick. It's very good. Some people sometimes they don't pick up posing. Okay. You see how you're doing this? Mhm. Thumbs back. Excellent rotation. All the way. All the way. All the way like that. Drop your arms a little bit and your pop your lats will pop up with your elbows to me. Elbows to me. Straight up. Straight. Straight. Straight. Straight. Straight. Don't lean back. Try it now. Don't lean back. Everything's straight up. Don't lean forward. Just stay straight. You're leaning a little too forward. You want to be like this. Look at how much better that looks. Just like that. Yeah. True. Okay. Got it. Y side chest. Flex that bicep so you can see it. Turn it. Flex it. There you go. See the difference? Yeah. If there's something you don't like or something that doesn't feel good or something hurts, tell me. Yeah. It's not that it hurts, it's like I know my mobility needs to improve as well. Well, if if it's if it hurts, you can't do it. I don't want to hurt your mobility. It doesn't hurt, but it's like you need to practice stretching it out. Exactly. That's That's my thing. I understand. That's why I don't want to like I want you Yeah. Back double bicep. Take your elbows and do like your front. There you go. Look at that. Yeah. Beautiful. Yeah. Look at how much better that looks when you do that. Just like with a front double bicep. Definitely. Yeah. Favorite classic PS. Yeah. Now I have a few and I wonder. Okay. You do the ones you like, but hit them straight up like I show you. Yeah. Bend that leg. There you go. Take that all. Put it back. Give me the lat. There you go. See the difference when you do that? I feel it immediately. like this difference between this is already so Yes. You'll see. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Show me your next pose. That's the Arnold pose. Okay. Which I think you look great in. Yeah. But it's it's different. That's my favorite pose. If I had pick one in my head, what you look bit good in? I think the Arnold pose. But let's see that other first pose look great. I like that pose on you a lot. Okay. Turn that leg more to to you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This way you get the whole leg in it. If you're going to hit it, let's hit it. Okay. And then turn your upper body in a minute. Get that black into the shot. Exactly. And throw your arms the same way. Tummy in. Beautiful. Look at it. Chest up. Yeah. Not I mean the whole body. When I say chest up, I mean the whole body. Y. I think that's your pose, honestly. I You know, I've seen you compete before and I always thought that looked really good on you. Let's see the other one. Yeah, the other First one's not bad, don't get me wrong, but not many people can hit that pose, right? True. That's why I thought it would be a useful pose for I think it's a good pose for you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The first one was was this. It's nice, but that old pose looks great on you. More people do this. It's kind of No, not a lot of people can hit that pose. Your shape really comes alive. Yeah. Yeah. True. Any other questions? Tomorrow we'll go over it again. Practice it. We'll go over it again. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Good job. Thank you very much. You look really good. Thank you. So, we are done with that workout. And of course, we also got some very nice feedback from Steve on my posing, which is never perfect. Can always be better. So, uh we want to thank Steve for his feedback because he's the head judge. He knows what he's looking at for many, many years. So, uh taking that to heart. But after training, it's very important to take your protein. Of course, normally I would be combining it with some flavor powder and also some rice pudding to create like the postro victory meal, but the carb portion of a post meal will be had in New York itself. We're here now. So, let's enjoy that. And you will see that in another video in the next video on this channel. But, uh, for now, it's time for the whey protein designer whey. I still have some stroke waffle left over. If you guys like a stroke waffle, if you guys have tried it out, let me know down in the comments. Going for a little bit more than 60 g here. Getting all the protein in. And Mino is to repair the muscle mass. And um tomorrow we're heading back to Steve's gym for a leg workout and another critique by him to see if I uh you know improve my posing a little bit. So, I'll be on the lookout for that as well. But for now, time for the shake and see you at Steve's gym again. Day number two of going to Steve's gym. And it's going to be a leg day and another posing check. So, let's see if I uh practice what he preached to me. And it's always important for me to get multiple checks to see if I'm doing things right. So, let's check it out. Straight up. There you go. Nice. Abdominals and thighs. Okay. You see how you just turned around? I don't like that. It makes your waist look thick. So, the transition, see this? Yeah. Don't like it. Okay. Makes you look like you have a thick waist. Just turn around and go right into it. Yeah. So, no fancy things. Look how look at your waist. Yeah. Okay. You're like pushing it. It's not good. No, no, no. Okay. Turn around and go right into your pose. Yep. Remember your elbows. I'm going to lay back on an incline. Lay back 30% incline. More. Blow those abs out. Nice. Look at how small your waist looks. Yeah. Perfect. That's That's where you go in between the abs and just bring it up. Either full vacuum or Yeah. One or the other. I think you look better with a full vacuum. Yeah. Me, too. I need that for my Grab that whiff for the whiff. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Pretty much like Arnold. Absolutely. You can only be a quarter as successful as Arnold and you'll be fine. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So, your advice would be legs. Legs and back. So, the total back total back and thickness. Thickness and width. Yes. And legs. Yeah. That everything else is great. Great. Kill your back. And I mean like deadlifts off the power rack. Yeah. Bent over rows, like you know, real muscle building. Yes. Nice. You know, you don't got to do squats, but you got to do heavy leg press, heavy squats, heavy hack squats. Yeah. Heavy. You know, like when I say heavy, I don't mean powerlifting. I mean 6 to 12. You know what I mean? I don't mean singles or triples. You're a bodybuilder. You're not a powerlifter. Exactly. Right. Exactly. So, don't kill yourself. No. You want to t no muscles or anything. You got a good body. You want to keep it fresh. Yeah, perfect. Yeah, fresh. We'll do that for sure. Have a good leg workout. If you need to go over anything else, you can do it after your leg workout is up to us. Thank you very much. Good job. Thank you. All righty. Just had some very nice feedback from Steve. Posing was already improved, but there's always more improvements to be made. And it's nice to have had round number two and some also some uh feedback on what I need to improve on my physique. Obviously, it's going to be the legs. They need to be nice and big. And of course, if you want to show off your legs, you can get yourself some Able Shorts with code Wesley to support me as well. But there will be a full leg workout on the YouTube video, my YouTube channel very soon in my own gym where I'm going to explain exactly how we are going to grow the legs. But for now, cue the montage. Yeah. Heat. Oh [\h__\h] Heat. Heat. Okay guys, that was quite the adventure adventure adventure going from Pittsburgh to New York. Of course, doing the guest posing, being invited there, meeting so many great bodybuilders and the staff and the officials. It was incredible. Now, of course, being judged by Steve himself in person, one-on-one, it was a privilege training here twice. So, you know, this motivates me so much for the offseason, for the growing season. Very motivating, guys. And thank you always for the golden support because I'm from the Netherlands. I went all the way to the USA, Pittsburgh, New York. I've never been here. It was an amazing experience. All thanks to you guys. So, thank you very much for the golden support. Lots more is coming. And don't forget to stay golden.