 merin, what happened over the last, pretty much the last month of March, what happened at the shows that I learned, and which questions did you guys ask me about these competitions. So that's what we're going to treat today. So going into Ohio, what were your guys' expectations and also your aligning, like how are we going to do it different than last year's Arnold? Yeah, so the expectations for Ohio were for sure that we were going to be a lot better. I wanted to win my title back, of course. 2025, we were sick, as I mentioned before. So the off-season was necessary to take the whole year off to make sure I make the gains necessary to make a true difference because I said we're not going to go back on stage until we know for sure we can win the next show. And that's exactly what happened. We came back on stage with the improvements everybody always told me to make, which is in the legs. And we showed it at the Arnold, Ohio, coming in full and conditioned enough to beat number seven in the world, Mene Gatte. Of course, we felt Mike was going to compete as well, but I also thought I would be a very competitive bodybuilder against Mike, too, in Ohio. But he, of course, didn't make weight then, so it was a different competition than expected. But still, we came in exactly in the shape we wanted, but we could be a little bit more conditioned in that show, I know, because in 2024, the conditioning was bang on. But then the discrepancy between the lower and upper body was still there, but good enough to still beat Ramon. But I knew for sure if we were improving upon the proportions of the body, the lower and upper body, that we would for sure be better than 2024, which I do think this is the best shape I've ever had. As Steve Weinberger also mentioned, that this was simply my best ever Wesley show on stage. And what was the really big difference in comparison, like for food, travel that you made this year in comparison to 2024? 25. 25? 25? Yeah. So the biggest difference with the travel is for sure we went earlier, so we went at least three or four days sooner than normal, which means that when you get into America, you can get used to the jet lag, you can do your groceries, unpack all the sick suitcases, and then still have a few days of nothing. Because some people, like for example, us normally were done with everything, we just got rid of the jet lag, and then all of a sudden the official stuff already begins, like the athletes meeting, the check-in, the weigh-in, and you can't really catch a rest. So if you are a little sick or your immune system is a little down, you already notice immediately that you cannot recover from it. So that's why we went earlier. And my digestion was a top priority as I literally, let's say, evacuated eight kilos of mass from my body through all the holes of my body last year. So I wanted the digestion to be perfect. So I only ate rice cakes, whey protein, of course, on the plane, and nothing else to make sure that nothing could spoil. So only fresh foods or dried foods to make sure nothing can happen in the intestines. So when you arrive in Ohio, you're in a perfect state to kind of get started here. And for you, Molly, did you really notice a difference this year on focus in comparison to the previous years for you, Arnold? I think Wesley is always focused. So I don't say there's a focus problem before. So I think the big difference was the time zone. And the difference is six hours between our home and Ohio. And for every hour, you have to at least have one day to recover. So we did get earlier, like six days, to even get in the real good time zone and really get your body and your mind to get rested. Because normally it's family life. We have a very busy life with, of course, two children and a dog and a gym to maintain everything. So when we do travel, we are already tired. So I think it's good that you have the first days to be more rested and that will help you, of course, in your physique as well. Yeah. Also regarding that, are the coaches' orders this year also for you way different than last year? Yeah. So the biggest difference also in my mindset is the phrase less is more. Because from Detroit last year, I got second, of course. and, you know, regardless whether you agree with that or not, we could still be better. The legs needed to be bigger and I am always somebody who wants to stay in shape mentally, who wants to do those steps as a routine, always says, okay, at least 10,000 steps for health, for burning fat, for digestion, all that stuff. But you are too hard for yourself. That's why we have Stefan as well. And I communicate with Stefan sometimes, like, he's doing too many. He has to be more rested. His body needs that. Yeah. And the whole prep, we made sure that every leg day, I didn't do any steps during the leg day. And also, when the leg day arrives, the total steps of the day is lower. No cardio in the morning and more carbohydrates just to ensure that even though at the beginning it was difficult because you were like, oh, I'm in prep, I need... The focus is to burn fat. But the focus is not just to burn fat, that is to preserve the best quality physique at the end of the day. And that is what I... That's the biggest learning curve of this whole prep is Stefan at the beginning telling me, you need to relax, you don't need to be so hard on yourself and you need to sit on your ass when you're doing a leg day rather than staying active because leg day is about preserving and growing those legs and not about burning the fat and being as conditioned as possible. And a good thing was also with this prep that you are... Before we get to Ohio, I think three weeks before you get to Stefan, Stefan sees you visually live and can tell you really like, okay, Wesley, you are pushing a little bit too hard, get rested because otherwise you will be losing your legs again or... That was a big thing because when I went to Stefan, he was like positively surprised of how I looked and I pretty much very close to stage ready already back then, which tells me, oh, I don't have to keep pushing so long, which those last few weeks are the weeks you can lose the most muscle mass because you're so low body fat, low recovery, sleep tends to get worse and if you then also do a lot of activity, then it goes really quickly. So from that moment on, Stefan instilled the rules, okay, two meals before training, always instead of one, no steps on the leg day and during the training, just less steps overall, just the natural steps, like if you happen to have 6,000 steps, that's it. If it's 7,000, that's it, but no more 10,000 as a minimum. Don't do that much cardio, eat two meals before you go for the workout. All that kind of, those rules, day in, day out, make a huge difference at the end of the day, which I think did really show on Ohio State. You could see my physique wasn't tired, it was blasting full and there's always like a give and take because yes, the conditioning could be better, but it would have sacrificed precisely what we wanted to improve, which is a bigger leg. The difference was between the energy you give at the stadium, it was like, really, you saw that you field prep in 2025 and now you're, what for me is important that I see you enjoying to be on stage because that's a really big thing, like I can see it in his eyes if he really are, is owning the stage and really enjoys what he's doing or like, I know my physique is not that good as what I would like and then I see, you definitely see it back in his posing. And also like, back in 2025, when I try to do a front relaxed, you try to tense your legs, your quads and you just feel the control slipping away, you can feel the contraction disappearing like I can't even present my physique the way I want to and now it was like super easy to keep everything contracted, it was, the posing was how it was supposed to be so I can be more confident and I know I can stand like that, I keep standing like that no matter how long I need to stay in the pose and last year it was so difficult it was like, it takes away your spirit of the stage as well. And you know, in 2025, the day before we leave, he gets like really, really sick. He was throwing up everything and had diarrhea the whole entire time. Even though I said to Wesley like, maybe it's a good idea to not travel, like skip these Arnold's, but he was so detonated to let everybody see his physique and he said, everybody will travel to the Arnold's to see me. I'm not going to disappoint anybody. I just give everything I have and we will see the end result. So we already know that we're not going to win the show but still come to meet and greet and really be there for the sport and that's not the only thing that why I love him so much but I think everybody will appreciate it. Yeah, I think let's just say there are a lot of different bodybuilders. Some don't want to make the sacrifice even if they know they're not at their best to do a show because the people and the promotion and all the organization they promote you to be there and they keep the sport alive and if you then decide oh I'm not going to do it because I know I'm not at my best then it's very egoistical and you have to I'm you have to also be mentally strong because I knew if I do the show I won't win and people will give comments online that are not the most positive but I'm personally very lucky that I have people who follow me who will support me no matter what they believe in me and there has always been a foundation of people who even in 2025 said if he comes back stronger if he improves this then he will be unstoppable and that's exactly what we did for the whole year until we still keep on going doing yes until we win it's still it's still just the beginning in my eyes for sure because also like for you guys we choose really to not show Westy's legs beforehand it was like a deliberate decision to keep them out of the frame and then really the first time that we were like that people going to see your legs was on stage and I think if I look through the comment section of the videos and everything online I think that was the best feedback or input from everyone it's like whoa it was also because I had such a long offseason I didn't really show much of my physique and you want to create a little bit of a hype towards the Arnold to make it more interesting to kind of show a little bit blurriness of the legs that they can see oh they look bigger but we don't know for sure because it's an edited picture and I think that plays into the hype and the promotion for the organization as well so you try to as a bodybuilder help the whole industry just make it more fun and then on the day of the show you then do have to deliver something but luckily we did because even I don't know what is it going to look like on stage is it really going to be a difference but luckily it was I myself when I saw the pictures I was like oh it's actually and also we were kind of worried like are you going to be sick again because you know the last time you were in 2025 it's not that it was looking bad but if you're losing like 8 plus kilos in a few days that will not be good on stage so I was like okay we will be happy when you're on stage everything went right and you don't get sick and then we will see what the end results are and this time it was of course good but with bodybuilding you never know it's like even though the day before the competition you cannot feel well true yeah it's kind of that's the thing about the calmness prep in the peak week you are at your weakest even though you look your best because your body fat is the lowest it has been you have been depleting you're in a different country different time zone different bed different sleep so recovery is simply lower you get easily a flu or so yeah so many people around you the meet and greet so there's a lot of risk you take so that you just don't know what's going to happen so that's why you know I use a lot of those supplements like immunity support omega 3 vitamin D magnesium you name it I take it just to make a foundation as strong as possible to ensure that nothing can happen but you never know but at least you can do something to prevent it as good as you can so then the moment came like this is more for you like the moment came he walked on stage like you know how his legs improved but then he came on stage what was your first thought like in Ohio in Ohio yeah the first thought it was oh shit the tanning it was oh shit what the fuck did just happen with the tanning I thought it was good but then I know like oh he needs a few more extra layers in the evening because the the stage light and the expo is not that not that good not that not that so good as in the evening so the first thing I was like I know Wesley looks good but I was more disappointed in myself that the tanning was not 100% but the rest of it I was it was kind of lights out I didn't saw anybody who come near Wesley so and also Stefan told me like he's number one the positive thing is if the only thing they can say is get a darker tan for the finals usually it's a good sign because then it's like okay if you're going to win at least at the finals you have to look good for the pictures you know so fix the tanning but that's the only feedback that I got the rest was just and one thing like the women of the women of the athletes they don't get a good spot to sit like we bring bring them so for me I almost every time I drive Wesley to the to the expo hall as close as I can and then park the car came back but there is like no reservation for the seat so I have to sit somewhere where it's an empty spot but sometimes it's like not in the middle like all in the corner so you cannot see visually if somebody is next to him or next to them I don't see if he's that good or not even though I don't have like really good eyes but still the jury panel has the best seat so they can really be objective but for me it's difficult if I'm if I'm not that close I cannot really give my a good opinion like how he looked but Stefano had another better seat and also at the footage we saw after he got out of stage that Gilko shot we were for sure that he needs a darker tan but also that it was that he makes really good improvements also for you guys Stefan wanted to be here but Stefan was like a little bit he was not feeling well so but for you guys I don't know if Stefan already mentioned it but he's following on diet he lost 16 kilos so he's very low calorie which what we just talked about immunity can go down if you're in a caloric deficit and especially when you're travelling so much knowing Stefan he's meeting so many people travelling so much so he probably is a little bit under the weather and it's a cold so you don't want to get force him to go to the expo for a video like this I mean Stefan is also very important to us so we want him healthy as well and his sleep is also like nothing because he has athletes all over the world so we respect him a lot and even if I would text him right now with an update he will respond so I know what kind of a person he is what we're letting him be to make sure he gets well as soon as possible but then what was the did you get any feedback from the head judges after the Arnold Ohio well the funny thing is Stefan always talks to the head judge and they said well the conditioning could be a little sharper because when you compare my last victory 24 to now the biggest difference is in the conditioning was that I was at the perfect peak in 24 because I was under the weight limit and then you will have to drop down in body weight but also body fat and then if you load properly you can be full and very dry at the same time but still not as full compared and not as proportion compared to what I am now so I still have my best possible package but the conditioning could be a little better because you always have something to improve of course so we knew that for Detroit the next show we could actually work on that but that was pretty much the only the only feedback and you can also watch the videos online of Steve and Tyler three competitions the Detroit look was the best of your your look I think so as well Detroit it's some people say it wasn't the lighting or was it actually a better shape well I think it's a combination and also the black the black back black backdrop you're there also stress free because I kind of knew I was going to win no matter what it was one week after the Arnold Ohio so one week you always get better two weeks going back home and going back here that's a different story but I still think we brought a comparable package to at least the Arnold Ohio because we of course well this may be for another video but I very closely monitor my body weight every single time I do a competition so I was the lightest at Detroit the heaviest at Ohio and I was in between here so I wanted to land like the perfect package between fullness and conditioning and I think that happened but still maybe because of the travel maybe because of the very long meet and greet we decided to do like all the extra stuff because we love the support so much somehow maybe the body held a little bit more water especially from the back even though the body weight was not as high so you just never know and it was the third show in a row so it's a lot of factors coming together that determine your stage look but I think Detroit was the best combination of everything because that was the peak after the peak because when you're the heaviest in Ohio you kind of can die down a little bit more for Detroit and then when you have zero nervousness for Detroit you can just cruise in easily then you can achieve your best shape but it's always a factor of everything coming together at the right time that determines what you look like on stage that's for sure so now also the UK happened you play second after Mike and what's now your thoughts about your package on the UK yeah I thought we brought like especially in the morning of the show and the day before I thought oh this package is really exactly what I wanted the combination of fullness and the conditioning all the pictures I sent to Stefan were like yes this is really can be a winning package but I didn't know what Mike was going to look like and he really surprised me with his look he was I think his best ever I honestly even compared to when he was allowed to weigh heavier I think he looks more classic now so he fits the criteria better and he still has enough fullness and conditioning to not really have any flaws so when somebody next to you is complete and conditioned it exposes what you can fix yourself so my package from the front and the side was very very comparable but the moment you go to the back because Mike also has a great back I can't automatically defeat him with my upper body and his lower body was more conditioned so then you get exposed in the conditioning the most and that's what we got to work on more mass and more density in the glutes and the hamstrings which is relatively easy to fix for the Olympia because it's a question of adding a little bit more mass and going a little bit more deeper in the contest prep and usually when I know exactly what we need to fix that's going to happen because now I know which check-in pictures we had like one week out from the Arnold I know okay that is going to be something we need to go beyond a little bit for the Olympia to bring it next level conditioning because that's really the reason the conditioning and the balance in the back shot is the biggest reason why Mike defeated me but I still think you know I hear from so many people that you know classic bodybuilding classic physique is a kind of a subjective term as well that people they do prefer like a more classical golden era physique but you do nowadays need the modern standards of conditioning as a professional bodybuilder to win an Arnold classic you know so if somebody does present this with the conditioning and the and the completeness the judges don't have a choice but to give it to Mike so I totally understand and I know for sure what we need to work on for the Olympia so you also said to him like I'm going to train a little bit more with you so what's going to be like a little sneak peek for everyone's watching what is your training plan with Wesley now we will do more mobility work and we are training the glutes first that's it yeah it's very that's why I say it's pretty easy because it's simply you don't have to throw out your current split and do something entirely different the physique is nearly complete it's all about shifting exercise around and volume around to ensure the glutes get the most attention on a leg day then the hamstrings the quads are pretty much already there they're going to keep growing anyway but that's the lowest priority on a leg day now which is kind of strange to say but it's the glutes glutes number one hamstrings number two and if you put most of the effort into those movements it's going to be a very nice olympia hip thrust and a little bit more hip thrust yeah and Bulgarian split squats walking lunges RDLs all my favorite exercises that's for sure so what's now the plan until the olympia for you yeah so first of course we got to go into the recovery phase to make sure the blood work is fine everything is healthy before i know how quickly we can go back to a real growing phase honestly if i have to go subjectively by how i feel i feel the best ever after a show it's like i did a show but i don't even really realize any damage or tiredness from the show at all but i do know i'm obsessed with low body fat so that's the first thing we got to improve we got to improve increase the body fat because you then sleep better it's better for hormones it's better for satiety for hunger hormones as well to have a normal consistency every single day and to be heavier to be healthier to be stronger in the gym and then build muscle once you're truly recovered and healthy but it's not going to take so long we're also going to take a holiday in between but it's it's in a place where i can also follow my routine pretty closely so everything will be done to be at our very best for the Olympia and i'm also going to be at Pittsburgh at new york the battle for the Olympia in las take us all around to the May month so we'll be going to enjoy Easter home with the kids with the brunch a lot of food Easter eggs filled eggs Cadbury eggs Biscop a lot of mental clarity and enjoyment before we go back into a structured diet even though i'm just a person who likes that structure i also know if i go too deep into the structure it's going to work against me so i need to really balance that out more and that's exactly what's going to happen so i'm very looking forward to the next phase are there some last things you want to say to the fans to people watching this video well literally behind the camera right now there are a lot of people watching us sitting here and we just literally finished a meet and greet with an infinite queue of people i'm about to go to gym reapers and do one for two hours again the uk fans they are so incredible the the crowds the people who are interested in meeting me talking to me the positive comments you guys leave me under the videos on my dms under the pictures it's just so motivating and i'm so thankful and you guys really motivate me to be at my very best it's like a no-brainer for me to keep doing this for as long as i can because you guys inspire me so much to keep doing this and it just means the world to me guys so i really thank you so much and it allows us to keep doing what we do to travel to all these countries as i mentioned i will be going to new york to pittsburgh again but without your support in supporting us bodybuilders it would not be possible so really thank you very much for making stuff like this possible for us no i'm missing something don't forget to stay golden you