Yes, guys. We are on our way to Detroit. Wait a second. We're not. We're still here in the Netherlands. The weather's pretty nice, but our flight has been cancelled, so I can't do the show. I actually can. It's going to be tomorrow. So in situations like this, you wake up, you know, the flight was perfect, the timing was perfect, but you wake up, you get a text, your flight has been cancelled, you check it out, you arrange a new flight. So I'm going to be flying tomorrow, 2 hours later, the same direct flight. So it's a little bit stressful at the beginning, but after that, you just follow your own routine back here in the Netherlands. So I always take a look at the advantage rather than the downfall of situation like this. You have your food here, my own gym here, your protocols here. So just spending one more day in the Netherlands won't hurt at all. So tomorrow we'll be going to Detroit. See you there. We are in Detroit as you can see. First things first, grocery time. So, it's about 900 p.m. and uh we're going to sleep very soon. One more meal to go. But now it's time for the groceries for most of the days of the week. Let's do this. Organic. Organic. Organic. And just like at the R Classic, we're getting the spinach that's not washed once, not twice, but three times. But this time when I'm saying it, I'm not sick. I feel great. Once again, guys, a difference. Here we have regular jasmine rice, but here we have enriched. As you can see, it says it right here, enriched. And then you get a lot more iron, potassium, and other calcium. If you eat this multiple times a day for loading, it's going to be too much. So, we're going to go for the jasmine. Always look out with frozen fish, you're like, "Oh, it's white fish." So you look at the back, you see the sodium 330 mg and one fillet is 113 g. The protein only 14 g. So I would need like three fillets. It already mean over 1,000 mg of sodium. If you eat this four times a day, it's going to mess up your diet because that's already more than half of the sodium I get in my diet. and that will be doubling it. So, not a good idea. So, tomorrow we're coming back for the fresh fish here. It's sail. It's sail. Of course, you got to do it. One. It's all right. Two. Three. Wow. I know I just mentioned you shouldn't get get any enriched stuff and this is also enriched, but it's mostly for home to combine with the rice pudding and it's only once a day, so it's not that bad. But um I'm just a fan of the American cream of rice. Maybe it's nostalgia. I don't know what it is. Just something special about that orange box. Another hefty bill. $250 plus dollars on the first night. Hey, but that's us. That's what we do. But anyway, we got most of the stuff here. There's a couple more items to get tomorrow. Mainly protein, coconut water, stuff like that. But most of everything plus some extras, of course, we have. And uh yeah, mess up the last of the day and call it a day today. And then tomorrow is going to be the first crew day here in Dearbornne, Michigan, Detroit. Very excited. All right, guys. Taking my nightly supplements. Curcumin, joint support, magnesium, ashroandha, you name it, to make sure I get into the routine of Detroit. and uh I'll see you tomorrow in the gym. Let's do this. So, here we are at RTB gym. Very nice gym. They're letting us train us uh train us here for free, which is amazing. Of course, always just 15 minutes from the apartment. Training chest today. Chest, side delts, triceps. Kind of alternating that in between back and biceps and rear delts. No legs anymore, of course. So, let's just get a good golden pump. Man, it's just so awesome to feel strong. Last time when I trained at the All Classic when I was so sick, I felt weak. I felt small. I felt like an amateur to be honest with the muscle mass I had back then, the fullness. But now, I feel back. I mean, we've got Ronnie Coleman on the TV. You've got metal music playing. You've got a nice environment. Hardcore people. What else can you want? Raise the bar gym. RTB gym here in Dearbornne is the place to be. At least so far if you're a serious bodybuilder. So, uh, check it out. By the way, for people wondering what is my intra-workout, just 15 g of ESN aminos. So, a little of electrolytes, some protein to keep the anabolism going, anti catabolism, a little bit of pink salt, and that's it. By the way guys, the Ael birthday sale is going on. 60% discount plus 10% extra with my code Wesley. If you want to support me, check out ael.com for your own tank top stringers, oversized t-shirts, also joggers. I got everything. Trust me, guys. You want to go for the able stuff and give it a shot. Man, it just feels so awesome to be able to train regularly, get a good pump, feel strong in the gym, feel the blood flowing. Man, the first rocket I did at the Arnold, it was just empty. I know I keep saying this, but it's just such a different feeling. So, let's do our best to help translate this to the Detroit Pro stage and showcase the shape. I wanted to show at the R Classic what I I'm pretty happy with what we're achieving right now. So, we done the chest. Now, it's time for the side delts. There's some tricep just like I would do at home. Uh but it's always fun to try out new machines, but don't try out very different stuff. Just something you're used to. But, uh, still feels great to the muscle as you're used to at home. Oh, yeah. all the way from vintage gym. My favorite pink handle to do the tricep movement exactly as I'm used to. So, not nothing like this. Take out that wrist and truly use a tricep. Let's do this. Just imagine if you go overseas and you win a trophy and it's going to be that one. I mean, no matter what kind of suitcase you have, good luck with that one. That's the workout done, guys. I'm going to hit some poses in the posing room here to see uh you know what we look like for the show. A couple of days out now. The weigh in is actually Friday before the show at 2 p.m. So, it's going to be an interesting know to see what my body weight is going to be on that day and what we're going to need to do. But stay tuned for the other videos to see exactly how I'm going to go about doing that. But anyway, now it's time to do some posing and then the postworkout and victory meal. Postworkout victory meal time. As you can see, we have some rice pudding and flour combination. A bit of dark chocolate and some cinnamon in there. And we're just going to be adding some strawberries, some blueberries, and of course, the whey drip. And now the magic moment whey drip in the form of this one iso whey. So we're moving from designer way to isolate to make sure there's just a bit more protein and a bit less fat in the protein I consume only in peak week for the rest of the year is designer way stro powerful flavor of course. So putting this in the fridge makes it nice and thick. So you can see that ESM knows what they're doing. But even with the isolate, which normally is very thin, has less consistency, they still allow you to make a delicious whey drip just like this. If you haven't tried it yet, just make a little bowl, 50 g of powder, 45 mls of water, mix it together, and then put it in the fridge. you know, especially if you go work out, you put it in the fridge beforehand, you come back and you get something nice and thick like this. So, give it a shot and you will never eat your breakfast in a different way. All right, guys. Just making my last meal of the day. It is Tuesday night right now, so I want to kind of eat my meals a little bit early so I don't wait too much in the morning because I want to be below the weight limit at least, you know, two days out so I can load up more for the weigh-ins, which will be on Friday. So, uh, it's going to be a small meal, kind of like a mini victory meal. Instead of like the 80 grams of cream of rice in the morning or the rice flour, it's going to be 30 grams. Adding a bit of pumpkin here and there to volumize it, but it's going to be minimal fiber, a lot of protein, of course in the form of the whey drip. It's always going to be included, but that's it. Going to take my nightly sub. So, the omega-3, ashwagandha, vitamin C. I already took the average stack powder in the morning. All great ESM essentials. So, you're seeing me eat these meals, but with every single meal I have omega-3, magnesium, you name it, because those are essential, which why I call them essentials. Anyway, it's been a great day. Tomorrow's going to be another workout. We'll see how much I weigh tomorrow. Every single day, I'm doing check-ins with the coach as well to see what he thinks. The boss of Outlast, Steinsel. All righty. He did another check-in with Stefan this morning. It is now uh Wednesday, I believe. Yes, Wednesday morning. So, as you can see here, like my weight before leaving was 115 kilos. Then, you know, the flight a lot of people hold water weight, but I actually lose weight. And I also instead of eating solid meals on the plane the whole time, which would be a risk with me having been sick. So you don't want to eat chicken that's like 8 hours old, not cooled. So I actually went with Isocar shakes and some dark chocolate, which helped. And you know, you drink automatically all of water in there. I did put electrolytes in there to make sure I didn't go too flat. But let's just say at the end of the day, the next morning I lost 1.7 kilos, which almost got me under the weight limit. And now today, I lost another 900 g. I just followed my regular lowday diet yesterday. So now I'm 500 g below the weight limit. So I sent the pictures to my coach and uh we're very happy. You can see them right here. Couple of them. Not going to show it too clearly, of course. That's just a surprise for the show. But um he is happy with the shape, with the conditioning, with the balance between the upper and lower body. And when I look at these pictures, it's like seeing what I looked like at the Arnold last year. So, uh, but a bit heavier. So, a bit more full because the arc last year I weighed like one and a half kilos less even than this or at least one kilo. And I think I have better balance now. So, tomorrow my coach says we're going to start carving up as usual, which means around 900 g to 1,000 g of carbing up as a usual plan that I used to do for also the previous Arnold competition, but then I kind of shed everything out again in the toilet. Not too much information here, but hey, I pretty much lost the weight that I tried to gain. But now it's all about reducing fatigue to the max, just not doing too much and carbing up nicely so that the day of the weigh-ins, which would be at 2:00 p.m. I'm going to have to weigh in. But then we have still have some time to adjust the diet if I do wake up too heavy or not. But it's always better to carb up before the weighin if possible. So, you don't have to cram in as many carbs after the weighin because remember the weighin being the day before 2 p.m. The show is the next day at 11:00 a.m., which gives you less than 24 hours to carb up if necessary, which is just impossible for someone like me. You would have to eat like 2,000 plus gram of carbs, which in a day theoretically it's possible, but your body is not going to utilize those carbs because you need at least 4 g of water with every gram of carbohydrate to load it as glycogen, which means 8 lers of water, a lot of salt, a lot of potassium. And if you do that in such a short time frame, you're not only going to store water inside the muscle but also subcutaneously below the skin, which is uh you know an unpredictable look and we want to go for predict predictable looks. So carbing up tomorrow is just going to be the regular carb up plan which you will of course see if you keep watching these videos. But yes, after this I already had my breakfast and now it's time to uh you know train the back, the biceps, the rear delts. I'm just going to alternate between chest and back the whole time and a little bit of arms and delves of course to make sure we uh stay insulin sensitive, stay a bit active, making sure the routine is the same. And I'm most of all very excited for the Detroit Pro because I think we can truly now finally showcase the shape I've wanted to show at the Arnold, which of course didn't go as according to plan. Anyway, let's enjoy the rest of the day and keep on crushing it. Hey, what's up? How are we? Good, man. Good. I didn't know you were going to trade here as I saw on your Instagram yesterday, so I thought, "Oh, cuz it's an awesome gym, man." Yeah. I literally saw your Instagram and thought just got in there. Nice. You won't be disappointed. Yeah, buddy. It was a nice orchid again. Had a nice chat with Jack Eagles. I think it's really going to be uh someone with a very bright future. a memory is super super young and he's really looking incredible. Super tight waist, good proportions, and most importantly, a nice guy that will bring you the furthest in this industry. But now it is once again time for the postworkout, the victory meal, and pretty much follow the same diet as yesterday. Boring but effective. Just had the victory meal. went to the grocery store, got some more caught fish because uh you the loading protocol probably starts tomorrow. So now it's time for meal number three. As you can see, simple chicken tenders with some spinach. Keeping it very simple. We also have some cucumber here. And we have some steamed asparagus in here. 75 gram asparagus, 75 gram of cucumber, and like 25 grams of uh spinach. 300 gram of chicken tenders and because you never want to forget this, the essentials guys, omega3 and we have some magnesium. 20% off everything right now at ESN and all the protein bars as well. Unfortunately, probably the pistachio bar, which is incredible, is sold out, but just check out the website. Who knows? It's restocked. But everything including the designer way, my crank golden pump, but also all the essentials. 20% off with code Wesley. All righty, time for the final meal of the day, which is kind of like a mini victory meal. Take it out the oven. However, one thing I did forget is add baking powder. So, didn't really rise as much, but oh well. Tomorrow we're going to enjoy the true car foods anyway. But this is what I make at home pretty much always. So, we have it right here. As you can see, you don't want to put it in the oven for too long, otherwise it will dry out and be unedible. So, hopefully I didn't put it in for too long. But, we have some pumpkin, some rice flour, just a very small amount just to give it some volume. And some dark chocolate for the fats. And also, of course, we get it the whey drip because there's just one egg in here. So, we're going to need some more protein in the form of the whey drip. And I also took all of my essentials like the omega-3 bad challenger. Omega-3, um, ashroandha before bed, lowering cortisol levels, lowering stress levels, making sure it's easier to go to sleep, magnesium, vitamin D, you name it. And also, ESM also has liver and kidney supplements, and they're coming out with a heart supplement as well, which I've been taking for a while. But anyway, those are all the supplements I take before bed. It's exciting because tomorrow most likely the carb up will begin which you will of course see on this very channel. What am I going to do uh to carbo for this show but I feel very confident. The shape is great. It's honestly I think the best combination I could pull off from the Arnold till now. So everything is going awesomely. Once again, followed the same diet as yesterday to hopefully drop a little bit more weight overnight, but we'll see. Allowing us to car up nicely and tomorrow's going to be an amazing day. Anyway, thank you once again and don't forget to stay golden.