 and of course guys, the moment you've all been waiting for. So as you guys know, the Arnold Classic Prep has begun, which means the golden cut has begun as well. This will be a nice series to show you guys exactly what I'm doing to get in shape for the Arnold Classic. However, it is only 81 days away, less than 100 already sounds quite early to me, so I've been cutting for a couple of weeks already, it's like middle of December now, I think I started the end of November somewhere there, where I decided the bulk was enough, I feel a whole lot better right now, pretty much have no aches and pains at the moment, I'm a lot lighter as well. So I pretty much already lost half the weight, I need to lose to get to my weight for the competition itself, so things have been going quite well so far. So to be honest, as I mentioned, I feel a lot better and mostly that's because I weigh about, I think like almost 25 pounds lighter than at the end of my bulk, and now I truly realize that my body simply doesn't want to be so heavy, as I always say, my sound boring, but it's true, as a family man with two children, you need your stamina, your energy to be able to live with them, to do stuff with them. So it's very important for me that I just feel normal, I feel athletic, I feel like a classic physique person should feel. So from day to day I can just, okay, start my breakfast, before even my breakfast I do the cardio, my children are running off throughout the house, they're making me realize how easy it actually is to implement the cardio, do the steps, do the activity, burn the calories, put the calories out of your diet to make sure you lose that body weight. But anyway, let's keep training right now. Okay. And I realized even as a pro, and I think all of you guys feel this as well, when you're bulking, you kind of let things slip a little bit here and there, your diet isn't as perfect, your steps aren't as neatly organized every day, your training isn't as clean as during a cut, as when you're cutting the worst nightmare we all have is losing muscle mass. So what we're doing is everything in our power to prevent this by being more strict, making sure every gram is measured in terms of your nutrition, you'll make sure that you're lifting as heavy as you can with correct form, very important so you don't get injured and lose muscle for sure. So one of the biggest things I've noticed is I've dropped the volume as the calories are down, less carbohydrates, less recovery capabilities. So you cannot train as much, but the volume I do still do is of higher quality. And this is honestly how it should be the whole year because how I'm training right now, I should have also trained like this during the offseason. And I did, I now realize too much volume, which beats up my tendons, my ligaments, my connective tissue thinking I needed to do more work to grow more. But now I realize I'm doing like half of the sets with more intent, I feel it better, I still get a good pump and I'm lifting heavier guys. The set I just did on this let pull down unilaterally is heavier than my top sets during my bulk. And again, this is why the discipline and the structure during your cut has to be perfect in order to maintain muscle and even theoretically and also in practice grow during the cutting phase, which is what I'm doing right now when I'm looking in the mirror, I think I'm getting better as I'm losing body fat. So that's just a very long-winded story to tell you guys when you're cutting right now, when you're cutting for a photo shoot or a competition, make sure that your training matches your recovery, which means do less, but the things you do do in the training make them count as heavy as you can, correct form as you can, log your lifts, but make sure that muscle is stimulated to the max. I also of course, one of the bigger differences between a bulk and a cut is usually there used to be carbohydrates in here like the E as in intra, like cyclic dextrin, but those carbohydrates that weren't here are now in my food around the workout. So it's actually not liquid calories, but actually solid calories, which keep you full. What's in here now is just some EAAs and some collagen. I like to put in the collagen peptides year round now, because during the workout you put those collagen peptides inside those tendons and ligaments where normally blood flow is low. Now it is high, so the building blocks will now prevent and protect all of that that I used to have a lot of pain in during the offseason. So collagen makes your water taste great and it helps protect my joints as well, which is the most important thing for me during this cutting phase as an injury I know all too well is just a horrible thing for a bodybuilder. Oh man. This thing just feels good when you know muscle is being retained. And since I now have a clear goal in mind, the Arnold Classic, which is when I think about it, it's just so much more fun and passion I have around bodybuilding at the moment. In the offseason I sat before I would not end the offseason until we are ready, but it's kind of like there's no deadline, there's no end to it, which I now realize even at my level, we're all still human, our minds, they need a certain end set point or a deadline to be able to put more effort into the day to day things, like especially to make sure your meals are on point, your timing, your sleep, it becomes so much easier if you have a goal planned in your calendar. On my phone, I open my phone, I see how many days are left until the goal needs to be reached. So make sure to set a calendar point, a goal, set it in your agenda, look at your phone, you have only a set amount of days left, a limited amount of time to make sure you achieve your goals, which in turn will make every single day you put more effort into it, more passion and more success. Be honest, how many of you guys would use this one if it's the only option you have in your gym? I actually have the option to use another one and I still use it. What does that say about me? Can I put it in? It's in. But actually, I can't use this one. It's too big, it's too long, the girth, it's the width, it's too much. I'm a lot more comfortable with this, so I feel more secure, more confident, more, yeah, yeah, let's do this one. The tricky part. Kaboom, perfect. Okay. Oh, man. So as you can see, I'm training alone, but I'm of course planning and it's not just a plan, it's a must to do a training camp with my coach Stefan Kinzel. He's, of course, an Austria, so it's going to be a travel to him. It's probably going to happen in January, probably near the end of January when I'm in pretty good shape for the Arnold, so we can assess my physique, what we need to do to be at our all-time best at the Arnold Classic itself, and he's always there to torture me anyway to humble me again when I think I'm training hard. When you train with him, you're like, oh, I've been doing nothing. But it's always a nice reset, mental and physically, to be with your own coach, to get feedback from him face to face. And of course, I've also gotten feedback from not only my coach, also Steve Weinberger, even Rod Hany-Rambat, for example. We have Jay Cutler, so they all taught me how to do the off-season better, what to focus on, how to pose better. I'm taking all of that knowledge, which I practiced in the off-season towards this contest prep to make sure the Arnold Classic will showcase all of what I've learned from these great legends in the sport. OK, guys, so since this is episode number one of the Golden Cut series, I have to show you guys a physique update compared to what it looked like in the off-season, what I'm looking like right now at about 80 plus days out from the Arnold Classic. So as you can see, during this posing, I'm looking quite a lot different from my peak off-season, as I do weigh quite a lot less. I'm happy with the progress so far. I'm practicing posing, of course, but also I don't want to make the mistake by getting lean too quickly. There's still a lot of pounds, a lot of kilos to go off of this physique, but I don't want to do it too quickly, as my physique requires fullness. For my doing, this is pretty flat, but that's what you need right now to be lower in carbs, to burn your energy, to burn your fat. And only during the competition days leading up to it, you will get the fullness back to get your best physique possible on that stage. Man, that was the workout. First of all, thank you so much and I mean this for real, for your incredible support. I'm able to enjoy Christmas so much because of this community, the bodybuilding community, so I really want to do a lot of things back for you guys. So that's why I'm dropping all these videos and there's a lot, a lot more coming towards the Arnold, so be ready for that. And of course, Merry Christmas and don't forget to stay golden.