All righty, guys. We are here in Germany at Evo Land after a busy FIA weekend. And thank you for everybody coming up to me. It was an amazing experience. But we are here with none other than Larry Reels himself, the strongest bodybuilder I've ever seen. I've ever met. We've been trying to work out together for quite a long time, but finally it happened cuz we're from the other side of the world together. But now we came together at the Fibo in Germany, so why not train together? and it's going to be an awesome chest workout. So, yeah, thank you for wanting to work out with me and it's going to be a great one, I think. Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me and recommending this amazing gym. There's a lot of cool toys here for us to play with. For sure. And I'm really looking forward to learning from you during this session. Awesome. I'll do my best. Let's do this. All right, I'm ready. Let's go. So, the first movement we were looking around for chess presses, but then we saw that chest press over there and we actually when I got here yesterday, I saw Phil Heath and Jay Cutler working out on that chest press. So, obviously we have to do that one first. And by the way, before we get into this workout, I know people have kind of seen my neck a little bit. I think it's like a local infection caused by my compromised immune system from all the shows, which is just confirmation. I need a recovery phase from all the shows, of course. So, uh, yeah, just Neils is going to try to not record that as much. Sorry about that. But hey, I'm fine otherwise. It's just looking a little strange, but it'll be fine in a couple of days. Hopefully, tomorrow I'll be back in the Netherlands to get it fixed. But for now, let's enjoy this workout. Let's go. Oh, yeah. When Phil Heath and Jay were doing this, they were actually doing it like this, like very short, but it's like their genetics are so great. They would grow their chest anyway. But I'm a fan of like feeling the stretch, but also the contraction right here, but without actually pulling your your shoulders back. So, keeping your shoulder blades back a little bit. Kind of to get a contraction in the chest, but without the front bells being involved. Okay, you can see the stretch in the chest and also the contraction when your chest comes up all the way. That's what you want to feel also at the heavier sets. And when you stop feeling it, I think that's when you have to lower the weight, right? Exactly. Exactly. So, like you were saying, I used to bench like this. Yeah. And then I would wonder why is my upper chest not growing? Yeah. Yeah. only like what I mentioned about Phil and and uh Jay, their upper chest would grow from that. So, they would why would they do something else? But when your chest is only growing up to a certain point and then you still have some weak points in there, you got to do the full range to fill that in. It's no other choice. Right. That's what I found. Yeah, absolutely. How tall are you actually? Uh 6'2, 186 or something. Okay, so we're pretty much almost the same height. Are you 6'2 as well? Yeah, honest. I'm 6'3. Oh, wow. But when they measure my height for classic physique, it's like 62 34s, which is like almost like h I'm If I was 6'3, I would have been a higher weight cap. Yeah. Which is another 8 lb, right? Yeah. It's unbelievable. So half of the time I measured at 6'3, but my height is now locked in, which is kind of, you know, cuz I guess your the swelling when you die down in your feet cuts you down a quarter inch, right? Could be could be but uh the benefit is now you are forced to be super striated to make weight every time. So it's like I view anything as as I can as a benefit. So but I wanted to say about your height the handles they come up perfectly to the middle of your chest which is exactly the seat height you want to go for. So we can kind of always choose the same setting which is quite nice you know. It is quite nice. Yeah. Right. Now it should get a little heavier. Nice question. Do you go all out now that you're 5 weeks out or are you already starting to volume a little bit? Uh, I still go to failure. Yeah. Um, I still have carbs in my dayto-day so nice. I'm not depleted just yet. Yeah. Not yet. I got another I think two or three more weeks before coach decides to dial it back. That's very good. And start getting dehydrated and stuff, you know. Yeah. My personal situation is two weeks post show. Like my coach tells me just go into recovery mode, please. Because I always go too far. Like that's why I know, okay, I'm going to failure. So, let's just stop to kind of stop myself and take a break a little bit. So, yeah, I feel a very good pump right now already from this set. Oh, perfect. Kind of like two reps in reserve. So, that's kind of the intensity I'll be going today. So, for how long does he want you in recovery mode? Cuz 2 weeks post show, you should be pretty well fed. You're already up to 266, you said, right? True. True. But I've been kind of through like since the Arnold through a kind of uncompromised immune uh phase. So, I got to really feel out my body to see when I'm fully recovered. But, it's getting there for sure. Sleep is getting better. So, how's your conditioning? Good. Still good, huh? I saw those photos of you from this weekend. Yeah. Still be pretty shredded. That's the name of the game. Do you ever get fluffy? That's going to be the idea of this offseason. Okay. We got to put on some serious mass. Sure. And my Yeah. my I'm always kind of stuck into that conditioning mode where you're kind of afraid to go past it, but now it's necessary to really put on mostly legs uh mass on the legs. That's where it's needed, right? So, we got to put on some weight strength for a longer time, hold it, and then hopefully on the other end comes out a different physique. Yes. I love that. I was just with Urs uh yesterday. Yeah. Yeah. And I think this guy has like the biggest legs in classic, right? By far. I mean, I he's 278 right now. And I'm like, how the hell is he making weight? Yeah. So, that's brings my to my next question is how fluffy do you intend on getting? Well, I mentioned yesterday Jay Cutler was here and he told me, "I want you to be at least 280." Yeah. I want to see you I want to see you at 280. Well, I'll That's my goal now is to see Wesley at 280. You got your No, you got your cut off. You heard it. You better make sure he's eating. Oh, man. So, that's a big cut. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. But I think I my highest ever was around 280, but that was pretty fluffy like years ago. Sure. But now I think I can look pretty decent with that weight. But, you know, health comes first. Everything needs to be in order. Sure. And when that's good, I can slowly pick up the weight for uh yeah, for the highest possible strength and retention of muscle. And when you start prep early enough, it's going to go away anyway. And we know, we both know how to prep. So, it doesn't really matter how fluffy we get. We always get in shape at the end as long as you start early enough. Sure. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You can feel it all the way to the upper chest. Perfect. Look at that. I love that. Come on. Perfect. Let's go. Yep. Yeah. That's it. Come on. Nice. Easy. Very nice. Very nice. Yes. Those are the reps. Yep. Excellent. Nice. Okay. For stretch also. Ah, yes. The intensity technique. I love it. I love it. Uh those are all the things I wasn't doing as a powerlifter. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Right. Then it was just about point A to point B and now it's about the same but making as difficult as possible in the meantime. Right. Exactly. How hard can I make it? Yeah. That that's what I wanted to say when when you saw Larry do a set just now. You could see he was focusing purely on the chest, not about the weight, not about momentum, really on the chest. And that makes the weight so much heavier locally on the muscle. And that's what we need as bodybuilders. Absolutely. To make the weight as heavy as we can possibly make it feel. And that's what creates the mass we need. Yes. Couldn't have said it better myself. All right. Perfect. Ah, yeah. Hell yeah. Woo. Feels good. Perfect. Nice. Nice. How many working sets do you normally do? Uh to failure, usually two working sets to failure. Yeah. Me, too. Right. Me, too. About four exercises, four machines in total. Yeah. Per body part. Right. Sounds familiar. Yep. Yeah. Feels pretty good as well. Perfect. Yep. Yeah. Oh yeah. Perfect. Feels good. The version that I zoom right now with the the narrow grip is way more difficult than with the normal grip. There's a squeeze here makes it a lot more difficult to do. But that is what bodybuilding is. Pretty challenging weight, right? Sure is. More than heavy enough. Yeah. Barely getting like six to eight here. How many reps did you do? I want to say eight. Yeah. So, how uh what is your rep range normally at for this close to the show? Uh don't want to let it get lower than eight. So, between 8 to 12 reps. Yeah. And then as I get closer, I'll start increasing my reps. Getting a little more volume in. Uhhuh. Like 15 sets of 15 or so and more drop sets. Nice. Yeah. Like if I could if you if I could give you any advice, I would at least leave out leave in one movement where you have most of your strength to keep that around 8 to 12 to keep that mechanical tension on the muscle the same the whole prep even towards the last workout basically. And then the other movements, yes, you can go higher reps as long as you stay to failure as close with those rep ranges as you did with the other rep ranges. So to tell your muscle, wait a second, I still need you. I still need you to be around. Okay? Cuz what most people do like they do a lot of more volume, more drop sets, but they never touch the weight or the failure point from before. So you do you feel like you're doing a lot more work, but what's actually happening locally is less tension. So less stimulus for muscle retention. So that's why if you at least leave one movement that is very heavy like for the muscle, it's going to be enough to maintain it. That's smart. That's yeah, that's how I kind of whenever I look back at a show where I look smaller or not as full is where I actually did more pump sets as opposed to just stay with heavy weights. So, uh, as long as you won't get injured from them, of course. Sure. Yeah. So, up until a week out from a show, you you'd recommend that? Yeah. Up until a week out. Okay. Basically, if for example, the only reason, well, pretty much the only thing you could then change is the volume, but never drop that heavy exercise out. So, then even do one set if it's still fatiguing your body too much, but you want to keep that stimulus in all the way until the end. Of course, peak week itself is going to be is going to be pump workouts, but more getting the blood flowing and getting that insulin sensitivity up for the carbs coming up during the carb load, right? But uh for as long as possible, I keep the weight pretty high around the 8 to 12 rep range for at least one or two movements. And the other ones you can play around with the squeeze and the mindless connection and getting the blood there. But uh yeah, that's just my personal experience during doing these shows. I'm going to sprinkle that in. Awesome. I'm going to keep that in then. I want to see that in your workouts the coming weeks. Oh, definitely. I'll keep it in. Nice tank top. Definitely still conditioned. We can see it already. God damn. You sure? It was two weeks ago, not yesterday. Oh. Well, according to my weight, it's up like 7 kilos or something. So, if you only look at that. Wow. All right. Unreal. How is this guy classic? So thick. Oh, well, honestly, I think I do want to do one open show before I quit or retire. Okay. At least one to see what it's like, you know? At least one. I mean, from what I'm seeing, you definitely got the frame for it. Thank you. God damn. [\h__\h] Nuts. Well, this is what an Arnold Classic winner looks like. Unreal. Okay. Woo. Super good. Yep. Feel the squeeze there. Nice. Perfect. Yeah. Let's go. Yep. Come on. Nice. Very nice. All right. Great set. Beautiful. Guys, if you want to get some high quality Able stuff, of course, use code Wesley at AEL. And thank you for the golden support. Would you normally do another press or a fly motion? No, I would definitely do a fly. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. No, never more than two presses in one workout. No. No. Me the same for me. Like flat incline. What's left? you know, some say decline, but it's it doesn't really feel like something different. It kind of feels sometimes even awkward for the shoulders in my opinion. So, just two presses and now we're we can really finish off the chest with a good fly. Let's check it out. So, with uh classic physique, you now that Chris is not doing the Olympia, it's kind of wide open. So, I I also I'm sitting it out, but there are a lot of good guys doing the Olympia now. Yes. But who do you think is going to win? Ah man, that's a tough one. My predictions are always wrong. You know, if you weren't sitting it out, I'd say you. Oh, thank you very much, man. You know, so with the current lineup, it's hard to say. And you've got like Mike, you've got Rough Diesel, even if you got you got Earth, of course, Josea, and some new guys coming up. So, it's a very interesting lineup for sure. And like who would you like prefer like what kind of look do you prefer to see on that Olympia stage win the title? H I like Mike's shape a lot. Yeah. I think he has a great balance top to bottom for sure. Really aesthetic. Another guy Kaiiki is coming up. I think Oh yes. Make some noise in the next be interesting at Pittsburgh, you know. Oh yeah. Yeah. I think well he he did really well in his last division and he just gained so much size so quickly. Definitely. And uh I think he's going to be in that top three lineup very soon as well. That's great. But with the current ones, current lineup, I'd say Mike. Yeah. Would be the favorite. I think I think the same thing. Yeah. I think he won the Arnold. He was second at the Olympia before. I mean, he's pretty much set up to be the next champion unless something happens with him or someone has to shock us like a Rough Diesel for example. Really depends on uh you know who's going to show up at our best. But I think Mike has the formula down. only managed two times in a row. So, we'll see, you know. Yeah, it's going to be very interesting. Yeah. And then you taking the year off, coming back bigger than ever is going to be 2026 will be an interesting year, that's for sure. Yes. That's Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, good. So, I I think with the the flies like this, you can make it as difficult or as easy as you want. Okay. So, I can I could do this with a full stack, but I would be training also the delts and other muscles. So, what I like to do is think about bringing the biceps together and getting an ultimate squeeze. And the squeeze will zap your strength immediately. So that's the great way to make this movement a lot more difficult and less fatiguing because it's locally in the muscle and not all the other muscles. So it's uh feels great. So then the queue I should be thinking of is really like elbows in. Yeah, it's also a good one. Okay. You've got the striations in the biceps as well. Very nice. Slowly it's coming in. Yeah. I started prep two weeks ago. Really? Yeah. Wow. Insane. Maybe I'm overconfident, but I think I get in that could be the I get in shape pretty fast. Okay. Yeah. And now something happened. Nice. Okay. Very good. All is gone, right? Oh, 100%. Yeah. Because what we want to do instinctually is flare the elbows, round the back. Exactly. Right. Precisely. Especially like it's so easy if you think about putting your fists together. It's so much easier than straight arms and doing it like this makes it so much more difficult. And that's what people usually fail to realize is that it's really not about the weight. No, it's really about the muscle itself. You know, when we were young, I was also the same guy who did one arm, bench presses, squats, deadlifts, just to see what can I do. Sure. But after a while, you start to realize that's not going to build the most muscle. You really want to be a body builder. You want to build the muscle up. It's going to be techniques like this that put the most stress on the muscle instead of just the whole body and all how you do it. Many asked me like, for example, this past weekend, what exercises should I do to build a bigger chest? I'm like, you're probably doing them already. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. But it's how you're doing them. Yeah. True. Right. Exactly. The execution is everything. Yeah. Yes. Good. Yeah. Feels good. Hell yeah. It looks good. It looks good. Oh, damn. Those lines, man. Two weeks post show. He has not been slacking on his diet. I mean, hey, a little bit here and there. Maybe a little bit. Very little. Very little. I can't say because I can't see the rest of you, but at least like your shoulders, traps, your So from here up, how much more condition do you get than this up here? Like it's it's kind of the lines are all there, but then the strange thing is you see these thicker lines. Within these thicker lines, you will see even thinner lines if you look close. That's that's how that's the conditioning you want to see. At least what I want to see. I like with these I like to stick like 20 plus reps. 20 plus. Getting a lot of blood in there. Very nice. You can feel the side depth working. Oh, big time. Perfect. Trying not to get too much traps in there. Yeah, that's perfect. Okay. And you've got really good form here. You can see you're imagining only the sideells doing this and nothing else. Cuz some people, like you say, they kind of shrug it up or use momentum or some strange arc they use to make it easier. So you can see I can feel it the activation the side delt you can feel every rep. So that's very good. I tried to get as close to textbook as possible. Yeah because you can see like if you look at the shoulders are very round and the roundness from this side is caused mostly by the side delts. So and in a classic physique you want that to be as wide as possible to kind of get that V taper when you're standing like this. Get the Vtaper when you're doing a even like favorite classic pose. Which what's your favorite classic pose? Actually favorite Uh be one behind one hand behind the head. Oh, that's nice. Yeah, cuz some people like some people do even a lat spread or something or like a hybrid like this for example, but then this side delt if you didn't have this width then it would Yeah. Looks great because you can see this makes it much wider, right? And back in the day actual classic bodybuilding in the time of Arnold, they didn't have side delves at all. So when they will do a front leash spread like what Arnold did, it flattens out at the top which I think that's the only part we are doing better is creating that 3D look at top as well. So the side dels to me are crucial to uh good physique and that's with your physique from what I see right now is what stands out to me the most. This area right here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Makes it look very 3D as you were saying. I I really try to work that as much as possible. really get the the quality and the volume at the same time. So that's very difficult to do, but after a while it happens. Then you got to if you see it happening, you got to take it cuz then no one else will have that on stage with you. But you got amazing shoulders for sure. At least for your height. I mean, it's impressive to see, you know. I just wonder what it'll look like. But how much I can retain cutting down. Yeah. Yeah. I have 20 lbs to go. Yeah. 20 lb. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz my cut up is 242. Yeah. But honestly, I think half of that can come from like food waste, extra water weight, and not even from the muscle itself. Like, and the other half is then Yeah. I don't know if it's even fat on your on your physique. Maybe we'll see later. But yeah, you'll see it. Yeah. Nice. Very good. All right. So, how many carbs are you still eating? I'm still on 200 a day. Okay. So, no cravings. I'm not suffering yet. Oh, that's nice. That's nice. I'm hungry throughout the day. But yeah, I did my last show uh down to 232 and it was like zero carbs for 6 weeks. Wow. That was the hardest Yeah. prep I've ever done for anything. Yeah. Just constant cravings, constantly starving. I mean, no energy. That's what made me want to take a year off. Yeah. Cuz like, wait, I got to rethink this whole thing cuz you got to do this over and over and over again. It's not sustainable. True. True. That's when I decided to do open. Yeah. To turn pro, save myself the 10 lbs. Yeah. You know, and then I can have the classic pro 242 cut off. That's smart, man. Not 232. Yeah. And uh do you have a coach right now? Oh, my business partner in the gym. Yeah. We opened a gym as well last year in gym. He's my coach. So, he sees me every day. He's hands-on. And he's perfect. I initially partnered with him just for coaching. when we later on decide to open a gym together, but I chose him because all of his athletes, male and female, come in with the best conditioning. That's Yeah. And that's a trademark. You know, I can't control my genetics or, you know, some things out of my control, but I can control my conditioning. Yeah. Exactly. And conditioning is what he tells me is what wind shows, right? So, yeah, usually it does. It does nothing going wrong, right? But uh yeah, but conditioning that's indeed what you say like the mass you've already built over the years. But what you can control during the prep only thing is the conditioning and that's what you really that's when you can show how serious of a bodybuilder you are combined with the presentation. If you get those two things on stage and you got enough mass, it's going to be an unbeatable package for sure. Definitely. Okay. See you. Hell yeah. Yep. Beautiful. I like that alternating technique because it allows one arm to rest for one more second and you can go past failure without actually going to failure. So once you reach like almost failure here, you go one arm at a time kind of like an alternating curl where one arm can rest for a little bit. They can actually go like five more reps than you can actually do with both arms and you get an even better pump. So is that like a set of then like 30 plus reps in total? Well, I actually I don't think even think I met 20 now, but I just feel okay. When do I go to failure and then I go to the alternating version? All right, I'll try it now. Epic. Very nice. And you can see when you're doing the movement, you can see the shoulders just growing and growing and growing. Yes. That's when you know, okay, the blood is going to the right direction. Oh, big time. For sure. See, it's swelling up halfway through the set. Yeah. How many sets do you usually do when you do side delts? Like three sets to failure like we just did. Yeah, I think that's a good amount. Yeah, I'm super pumped. So, yeah, I don't know about you. You want to do some triceps? Triceps? Yeah. Yeah, we get some triceps. Let's do it. Are you thinking of any cues while you do this to maximize the contraction? Well, actually I focus more on the stretch. Okay. Cuz here, if you want to force a contraction, it takes away from the strength you've left on the stretch. And here you want to focus mostly on the stretches there that keep the peak stimulus is happening for the long head of the tricep. So, first we're going to focus on that and move after this will be for the squeeze. So, you still get both, but you're going to split them up into two movements. Mhm. And are you locking the elbow or just shy of lock? Just shy of locking out just you're going to a position to where you can stretch it out again. So it's not about the full extension, but it's more about going high enough so you can go back down. Basically, you're standing perfectly because the cable is perfectly aligned with your upper arm. Okay? Which means the elbow is doing exactly what it's made for, a joint movement, a hinge movement. So there's no torque on the elbow, just the exact motion it's supposed to do. So that's great. Okay. Very nice. Perfect. Nice. Very good. Nice. Great. You actually have great flexibility in your shoulders. Do I? Cuz it's more flexible than I am cuz I I notice when you go like I automatically I stay a bit here. You can go like much further which is better because then you stretch out the tricep here as well. is I thought I would be the one that's more locked up because of all my years of bench press. Yeah, I know. It's It's actually surprising how flexible you still are in movies like this. So, means I'm not thick enough. I'm not thick enough. Want to do a front desk as well? Yeah, cuz I I think it should be in classic in my opinion. Agreed. Right. Yes. That's so nice. You can see your own back. I love that. Then favorite classic pose. Okay. So, that one I want to try and do your classic pose. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's actually my favorite in the division, but I have no idea how to do it. Okay. It's also the one that Chris used to do and uh because I saw Chris do it did it and some others. I'm like, "Oh, let's strike myself." So, it's kind of a hybrid between um the front leg spread and the bicep pose. So, or did you mean the aral pose or both? Okay, let's do the one I just explained first. So, what you always want to do when it's a classic pose, you don't want to hit it straight on because that's how we used to do it. So, that's easy. You want to kind of make it real classic. So, the side where your arm is flexing is the hip. You go into that side of the hip. So, it's kind of like females can do it very easily to play with the hips. For males is a bit more difficult. So you always got to just your knee goes that way and you automatically you can kind of more extremely do this. But now the difficult part. How do you then contract this leg? So then you got to push the hip a little bit back. So you can get into the contraction like this. And then you put this leg as far out as possible. Yeah. Uh up until you can still see the gap is closed. So if you put it too far, it's going to look awkward. So you want to put it like this. Then be in this position. And then to make it more classic, instead of going all straight up, first go in like this. Okay? And then blow out all the air. And then you've got the classic pose in. Nice. You want to try Yeah. It's going to be difficult for right now, but you want to try to see my waist goes into this direction cuz your legs go that way. Your waist goes this way to create an S form which is the classic pose form which draws like the statuesque uh feeling in t-hole that see okay that's that's a classic pose because I can again I can do this but it's like a bodybuilding pose but this that's like a classic pose very it's pretty much the same but just different so it's all about those creating those lines basically. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. like you said is very difficult to create that curve. Yeah. So it's like you kind of push his hip far enough out so you kind of also make your waist smaller. You turn a little bit like this so you can actually make if it's straight on it's almost wider than a little bit from an angle. So from here you can really create that illusion of a smaller waist as well. Yeah. It's getting there for sure. You can already see that it's getting there. You want to only you want to push his knee to the other side outwards. So like this. Yeah. Oh squat. Ah, you should know that. Yeah, that's a lot better already. The hips are perfect because you can see the lines all the way here. And that means you're putting the hip far enough back to get those lines of the quads all the way up. Very nice. Nice. All right. Nice. Yeah. But uh the school is definitely there. Yeah, I'm sure. I think we kind of have similar physiques whereas we're both upper body dominant. Big time. And because we're both tall, of course, that's not an excuse, but it is a reality. It just takes long to fill out. No doubt. Whereas I can see in this workout, your upper body have a great connection there. So, it's going to grow. And I know you're super strong with basically everybody probably especially with the squats for example, right? So it's always like I I'm sure that if you apply the mindless connection you have with the upper body to the legs, they're going to grow as quickly as possible as well. That's what I'm doing myself right now. And you're seeing changes. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. You know, and that's what keeps me going. Only as I can see progress, when I look back, I'm motivated. Yeah. It only becomes depressing when you can't see progress. Like, whoa, what am I doing? Exactly. Right? So long as no matter how small it is, it's enough to keep you going. That's the way of bodybuilding. That's what makes bodybuilding fun because we all know at the beginning progress go so quick. The fact that you see yourself changing almost every day is the fun part, but now it's about those small changes we can see from the effort we put in. That must make it fun. And I think if we Yeah. I'm sure you're already really working on making the perfect balance physique. But I think when you even get I mean you're five weeks out, right? Yeah. Yeah. The more conditions you get, the bigger, at least for me, the legs are going to look. That's right. And they have to be they have to be shocked by the separation in your quads that even if someone next to you has bigger legs, it doesn't matter as much anymore because you are the one with the quality legs. And to me, that is what classic is. And then if we combine it with like a proper sweep band, game over. Ah, big time. For sure. For sure. All righty. That was an amazing chest, side delt, and tricep workout with of course again Larry Wheels, a very uh humble man who is going to do a show in 5 weeks. He looks honestly even better than I expected. So very bubbly, very full, much more improved from when I remember seeing you, of course, on the internet, but in real life, it's way more extraordinary. So, you know, I really want to see you on stage and crush it. Do the perfect presentation, be perfect classic poses. And hopefully, you know, he allowed himself or he allowed me to be a little teacher today, which is the role I like to have to share my experiences with somebody who's actually willing to, you know, take lessons from it or take anything from it he wants and apply to his own journey. So, let's support Larry on his uh journey to the stage. Check it down his channel link down below. And of course, guys, don't forget to stay golden.