What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding. And I gathered some questions from you guys over the course of the last few days, and I wrote them down from Facebook, uh, YouTube, Instagram, put them in a document, and I'm going to answer them right now. Question number one by Cesar Pinto. Of course, another great video from Wesley Viserus. Thank you. I have a question. At what point of your bodybuilding career did you train shoulders separately? Have you ever? Well, when I was starting out, I actually only did chest, back, and legs. And I trained three times a week for a couple of years. Um, then gradually I started adding more workouts. And yes, I did train shoulders separately for a while, but I noticed that my front delts were simply getting too big in comparison to the rear delts. And it also caused my uh posture in my upper body to be like this instead of this. So I re realized that the front delts were pulling too hard on the joint, wasn't balanced uh quite well. And when I'm doing chest, I always almost always feel muscle ache in the front delts as well. And they're growing quite nicely now that I've not trained a shoulder separately consistently for a few years. So that's the reasoning. Next question by Daryl Foster. Hey Wesley, just wondering how long do you regularly rest between exercises and how long would be best? Um, I like to rest as long as it needs for me to be ready for the next set or the next exercise. Doesn't really matter, but generally around 45 seconds. And usually on the leg days, for example, when uh squatting heavy, leg pressing heavy, then it's about a minute to even 1 minute 30 depending on how heavy the weight is. Next question by psychopantic. for the Q&A. How do you target the lower lats? Any exercise you like doing to target your lower lats? Well, I like to do rowing movements for the lower lats. When you want to work on the back width, it's a lot of pull downs. And this is uh an ice pack, by the way. But yeah, if you want to uh go for the back width, you do pull downs. So if you want to go for the back thickness which include the lower lats, you know the Christmas tree, you go for rowing and that's what you got to do. But you can do it in different ways. The seated row, you can keep your back and put this off upright like this or you can stretch it all the way out. And when you stretch the lads all the way attaching to your waist will be activated more as well. So, the seated row, the T- bar row, and even the bend over row are all great exercises to build the lower lats. Dark key monk asks, "What games you used to play?" Well, uh, I mentioned in the previous video that I used to be a gamer. I'm silly gamer, but I don't have time to do any games at all anymore. But I really like to do Tekken, fighting game on the console. really love that. Played every single Tekken. Tekken 1, two, three, four, five, six. Tekken Tag Tournament. Tekken Tag Tournament 2 and more. Uh, can't wait for Tekken 7. By the way, I like the Fallout series. Uh, I also like Oblivion, Skyrim. Um, yeah, those kind of games are really fun to me. Granato, of course, racing games like Gran Turismo, Midnight Club, uh, Need for Speed. I I also had a lot of Dragon Ball games, but they after a while kind of became repetitive, so I didn't really buy them anymore. But I really like Ten Kaiichi Budakai 3. And yeah, those are kind of the games that I like probably a lot more. But yeah, that's my genre. by Serbian Supernatural. Regarding biochemistry, do you need to cook or soak oats before you eat them? I usually blend them into flour and just add milk and eat it right away. Maybe I should just soak them first. How many hours is enough for fermentation to do its job? Well, you should soak your oats or cook your oats for your body to be able to absorb it a little more efficiently. Also, there's a lot of fitic acid in a lot of grains like oats and that renders your body unable to absorb the nutrients uh that effectively or efficiently. So, when you soak it, it really breaks down and gets rid of most of the fitic acid as well and it's just better for your body overall. So, that's what I recommend and it actually tastes better as well. Sex Muscle asks, I've got a question for Q&A. have asked this question before. Wesley, what do you suggest for sore, tender kneecaps preceding days after a leg workout. If you have done leg extensions, which is basically the number one exercise that puts stress on the knees, then you may get sensitive kneecaps uh over a longer period of time if you do a lot if you do it heavy, if you do with a lot of momentum. So, what I recommend you do is skip the leg extensions for a while. Stick to starting with leg curls, seated legs, laying legs, standing leg curls, for example, stiff leg deadlifts, all exercises that do not use the knee but do warm the knee up by still stretching and contracting muscles around it. And then after doing those exercises, you can do your squats, your leg presses, your hack squats. As long as you don't feel your knees the day or the time of doing the exercise, then your knee problems should go away quite fast. Next question by Thomas Francis. Hey Wes, this might be a bit of a long one. I noticed that you made sure to mention and actually emphasize the control of the bar while benching and I was wondering if this is mostly to prevent injury or rather for the contraction of the muscle. I bring this up because I recently saw a video of Devon physique where he tore a pec muscle after lowering a dumbbell too quickly. Do you have any thoughts on this forum or what happened? While we're on the topic of benching, both you and your brother keep your elbows out pretty far when you bench. Has this ever caused any shoulder issues? Well, to answer your first part of your question, the reason why I control the bar on the way down even with heavier weights is indeed to prevent injury. First of all, also to increase the time under tension and the load on the muscle because the longer it takes for the bar to go down, the longer the tension is put on the muscle and the more it will respond to growth. And also the eccentric movement, which is a negative movement, damages your muscles more than the concentric movement. So the longer time spent in the eccentric movement with a heavy weight will actually also cause more growth. Also more muscle ache, but it's worth it. And while we keep our elbows out pretty far, you mean the grip is very far. Well, always try to tuck your elbows a little bit. Don't flare them out like this because then you're using the shoulders. You want to emphasize the triceps a little bit. But the reason why is because you stretch out the pecs the most when you have a wide grip at the bottom. And because a bench press is difficult for the chest to contract at the top anyway, I'm just going to emphasize and maximize the stretch effect on this exercise. And that's why I like a wide grip. But I do sometimes alternate with regular grips as well. Next question by Maddie Mikug. My weak point is my chest. My back, traps, and arms oversize it. I've tried every style of training, but it just won't grow as fast as my other body parts. And I've been training for almost 3 and 1/2 years. Do you have any recommendations? Well, Frank Zayn used to say that he had a weak back. So, what did he do? He always did prioritize his weaker muscle groups such as the back. He knew that he had certain strong points such as the chest, the abs, stuff like that, but he did not train those as often as the weak point. So when you would normally train your chest twice a week, bring it down to once a week or even once every two weeks until your weak point is alleviated, until it is at the level of your other muscle groups. So in your case, your chest is your weak point. So train it at least twice a week and also try a different training method like starting out with flies or uh for the upper chest for example. For me it really helped bring in the fullness in my chest like you can have a very big lower chest but if the upper chest is lacking it still might seem a little behind even though your strength and stuff is on par. But yeah, those are Yeah, but yeah, those are my recommendations to do. Next question by ZZ ZX Z. Do you think taking the amino acid L arginine after a workout would help bring nutrients into the muscle and speed the removal of lactic acid? Well, it's a postworkout or an intraworkout supplement, an amino acid, and not really a post-workout one. The L arginine will indeed cause more nutrients to flow to your muscles because the arteries are widened, open up more. The blood flow is more efficient to the muscles. And with the blood flow come all the nutrients and the oxygen and the lactic acid will be prevented a little bit because more oxygen goes to the muscle, thus more energy, thus more endurance in your muscles. And the second part of your question, studies have shown that soy increases estrogen levels. Do you think it would be better to avoid soy or would it not matter? I've answered this question before, but I think it is important for everyone to know that soy does not increase estrogen side effects. It does nothing estrogen related. There are phytoestrogens in soy, but they are not comparable to the estrogen that's in your own body. In fact, it even may replace some of the estrogen receptors in your body. And the phytoestrogen in the soy is weaker than your own body's estrogen. So, the estrogen effect in your body might even go down instead of go up. I'm always drinking soy milk. I'm I like meat replacements. I like tofu. I eat it almost every single day and nothing happens. That's strange. Next question. Next question by Quickie Lbeck. What is your opinion on low carb diets with one high carb refeed day per week like back in the old days? I'm a fan of carb cycling, which is increasing your carbs on the day where your workload is the highest, for example, leg day, and decreasing your carbs on days where your workload is the lowest, for example, rest day. And the days in between, chest, back, arms, shoulders, you are in between these two values. So, for example, on a high day, you have 500 g of carbs. On a medium day, 300. and on a low day 150 to 100 grams of carbs. This way you cycle your carbs and your metabolism will keep guessing and will keep uh at a steady stable rate instead of dropping down gradually when you keep the same diet for a long period of time. So yes, I do like the principle of low and high carb days. Next question by dick up. when you just started training, in what period of time did you bench press 100 kilos for the first time? And I thought it was a funny question because it didn't really take that long. When I was 17, I already did 130 kilos, but the form sucked. I'm just going to be honest, it wasn't good. I was only going down 90° with my arms and not any lower, not touching my chest at all and going back up. And I thought, "Wo, I'm able to do this weight." But no. Throughout the years, my form gradually improved because I noticed the deeper I go, the better of a pump I get, the more of a stimulation I get, the better the muscle ache is, and the more growth I experience. So full range of motion was twice as hard. So the weight didn't go up, but the workload for the muscles did. So years and years I benched the same weight, but it improved my form. And I think it is important for people to realize that you don't have to strive for a certain number on the bench press. For example, 100 kilos, but strive for the perfect form and strive for progressing your weight slowly but steadily, not just racing to 100 kilos by using any means necessary because that's what I did in the past and I could have grown a lot more if I did it right from the very beginning. by port gas dapp dla. Which one is the best for muscle gain? Cy nutrition whey protein or isolate? Well, I think you mean whey protein concentrate or isolate. Um isolate I would recommend for people first of all who have a lactose intolerance because the isolate filters out all the lactose. But isolate also has a higher leucine content which means you need to take less of it in order to achieve the same muscle building properties. You need about 3 g of leucine at any given time for maximum muscle protein synthesis and uh whey concentrate is less lucine compared to isolate. So isolate would theoretically build more muscle, but I use isolate in the offseason. Um, not as much as during competition because in the offseason I kind of uh put concentrate on my oatmeal in uh protein pancakes and usually isolate after working out because I wanted to absorb as fast as possible. But the concentrate has a little more fats, a little more carbs in it, so it's not as pure. But both are great. But the isolate will more efficiently build muscle. But remember, your diet must be number one. Real foods or the supplements won't work. Almost the last question guys by Alex Claudio Wesley. What do you think about vegan protein? Congratulations for the channel. Greetings from Rio de Janeiro. Vegan protein kind of uh is comparable to the last question about leucine. Vegan protein is good. It also has all the amino acids if you have soy protein for example. But the problem or the downside of it is that the leucine content is on the lower side. So you would need to take more grams of this protein powder to get the same effect as whey protein concentrate or isolate for example. But it doesn't mean it doesn't work. It does work and it can work just as well as a regular protein animal sourced. So vegans can build a lot of muscle as well. You just need to know how to do it. I like to do when I have a vegan protein source. I actually got soy protein from sighted nutrition for example. I wanted to try it out. I add leucine to it like two to three capsules of this to make sure that the lucine is at least on the level it needs to be and that way you get the full benefit of the muscle protein synthesis. Well, that was wrong. Wa synthesis. Next question. Last question. Will you be at the FIBO K in K this year in Germany? I would really like to meet you. Great videos. Keep it up. Well, I will be at the FIBO this year no matter what. Maybe I'll be standing at some kind of booth or maybe I'll be there as a visitor. I don't know yet for sure. Maybe both. But I want to be there for sure because I've pretty much gone for the last 5 years and I am always enjoying myself especially now that people start to recognize me. It's a lot of fun uh conversing with you guys, talking to you guys, taking pictures, stuff like that. So I will be there along with my brother Kane. So yes, Vintage Genetics will be representing at the Fibo. This was a Q&A guys. Thank you for watching. If you have any other questions, please ask them down below to be included in the next Q&A video. At least have a chance to if your question is good enough. Thank you for watching again and don't forget to stay golden. window.