 dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike dike di Reminds me of the Netherlands. Rain, grey, time for Walmart. As you can see we're not here for the food guys, we're here for very different reasons. The kids will always remain a priority. See you guys! Oh my god, this is also fun. Look at this! Guys, Dextra is starting Pokemon. Cards. Can't say anything, I used to do this as well. And Yu-Gi-Oh! But it's very different now. But I know there's one foil guaranteed, it's a nice fancy car. So I guess we gotta take it. Now we also need a map to put them in, but I don't know if they have it here. Yeah. So we're gonna start with the rotator cuff movement. Today's just gonna be a push day. Nothing too extreme, you know, a few reps from failure. Very important to keep those rotator cuffs intact and strong. So when I'm doing the back double bicep, it will be very easy to do with no impingements. So a lot of people ask me, what do you do to make sure you're getting rid of the shoulder pain? Well, this is one of those movements. But this is the most important one for me. I normally do two more. But this one, trust me guys, you've put this at the beginning of your push and pull days. You'll find me later. So today is about three days out, I won't be talking so much during this workout. It's about being focused and locked in. So, this is about being focused and locked in. So, this is about being very easy to do, but this is about being very easy to do with no impingements. So, a lot of people ask me, what do you do to make sure you're getting rid of the shoulder pain? Well, this is one of those movements, but this is the most important one for me. I normally do two more, but this one, trust me guys, if you put this at the beginning of your push and pull days, you'll find me later. So, today is about three days out, I won't be talking so much during this workout, it's about being focused and locked in. in so afterwards I'll maybe explain a little bit what I did but for now it's just gonna be a push day just at the Reuter Cup movements we've warmed up let's go come on I've never had this rain here before on the side belt so we're making small little vein gains like 10 years ago when I was super happy I got an extra little vein on the bicep when doing a back workout it's still happening guys almost yeah 18 years in the making we're still making gains like vein gains you know what I'm talking about we're starting out vein gains three days out from the Detroit Pro today we actually decided to do a normal day not a loading day because the fullness I don't think is a problem as you can see so nice and full side chest as we get the chest training of course so the like when the workout feels great you get a good pump quick I'm literally stronger now than I was back at home a few weeks before the prep so there are no signs to load the body even though the body weight is lower than before the Arnold we wanted two things first get a little bit more conditioned for Detroit so we can test it out for the Arnold UK second don't lose the fullness especially on the legs we achieved both so tomorrow we'll two days out I think tomorrow we'll be carving up a little bit and maybe one day out we'll lower the carbs as opposed to tomorrow so you get a little bit of an insight of how we did it for the Arnold we just loaded three full days we're very full we needed that to dominate the entire field so even though the conditioning could be a little better but I'm the Dutch Oak I'm Wesley Vissers I'm the tallest guy I wanted to be dominant like Arnold we managed that with a victory but now at Detroit with that incredible lighting I want to be a bit more conditioned and still present that fullness so this is kind of like the experiment we're going to do still on the safe side but you can only get better when you do the exactly at the shows themselves you can't do a mock peak back at home you can't do a refeed and see what happens you have to replicate the exact circumstances with the timing the stress the excitement the nervousness all that stuff plays together with this is the decision how to do this so we can do the same thing for the Arnold UK if we happen to look better at this Detroit Pro show so that's why I'm doing it with the again the perfect lighting shout out to Fuad Abiyat and don't forget to also check the live stream if it's free it will be I think on the YouTube channel of Fuad or Detroit Pro I don't know but it's going to be free so make sure to check it out and once again for now it's time for the post-workout victory meal we are back at the apartment and it's straight away time for the post-workout victory meal and this is the famous way drip this is just 50 grams of designer way 45 mils of water mix together in a separate bowl like this put on top of your rice flour cream of rice oatmeal you name it it works code Wesley right now 20% off all protein and food and flavors at ESN and thank you for the call and support because in my experience whenever you go to the USA traveling is so much more difficult the suitcases have a light workout and that's it and then you're in Detroit getting ready for the next I don't want to cut into it but I have to because I don't need so much protein let's see if I'm accurate I've been doing the entire time I've been in Columbus and also Detroit only vegetables are zucchini and cucumber but I'm even peeling them to minimize the amount of fiber normally in my prep I eat like 80 grams of fiber now it's between 15 and 18 grams so just to keep the stomach as flat as possible so nothing is going to be in the way for the carb up tomorrow tomorrow yes I just had the podcast with Stefan what did he say we're going to be carving up tomorrow which is two days out perfect so what do you want the day before to have the intestines to be as empty as possible the stomach as flat as possible because tomorrow no vegetables at all there's also a nice amount of potassium in the cucumber and the zucchini especially the zucchini which is why I choose it it's low FODMAP it doesn't match with your digestion no bloating it provides volume obviously but also a nice amount of potassium which is also this I like to combine it with this and obviously pink salt with every single meal to make sure electrolytes are constant and bad and balanced out unique potassium to load carbs and also to keep blood pressure at the same level and to make it as delicious as possible I like to cut it like this put in the pan and grill them just like that there's also by the way a lot of potassium in fish so tuna steak don't worry about the mercury guys this is only the second tuna steak I've eaten my whole prep but they look incredible the wild caught they're from the fresh category and then the only other fish sources I eat is is codfish and ocean perch fillet what do they all have in common very low fat high potassium easy to digest even less fat than chicken for example I've been eating chicken you know maybe I have one chicken meal a day but all the other vegetable meals that don't contain carbs are fish meals because they digest really quickly no problems high in protein and my last name is Vissers what does that mean? what does that mean? Fisherman what does that mean? I need fish it's just symbolic what I am also 50% Nordic what does that mean? my DNA my genes are used to eating fish it just fits however I do miss my salmon keeping the fats low salmon is healthy in the offseason adds calories in the contest prep so what I like to do during the contest prep however is this right here omega 3 that's what I add 2 in the morning 2 before bed so I still get in the essential fatty acids and that's all you need during a few weeks before contest don't over complicate it but make sure you track everything so you get everything in your system you need for metabolism to stay high and to be successful on stage what did you just say? what did you just say? that's what did you do to say? that's what did you do to me never do to eat? but not so often as to eat it I don't think I've heard it either myself I don't think I've heard it either myself I'm a little bit of you I kill myself I think that there's no single video when you don't know me I give her enough compliments guys don't worry about that the water another vegetable cucumber organic from Whole Foods they look very different from the one in the Netherlands but but these are pretty delicious as well again we're gonna peel it the extra benefit of peeling is any pesticides that would be on it are now absolutely eliminated and now we wait until the meal is done so here it is the I have this kind of meal three times a day the tuna only once then one chicken then one cod or ocean perch so fish mostly we're also taking one magnesium bisglycinate capsule with every single meal for blood pressure muscle relaxation muscle contraction enzymatic processes etc 8 to 9 liters of water a day as well and while they are enjoying you gotta show that some broccoli some chicken some alfredo or what is it kind of pasta? just pasta just pasta just pasta smells pretty good but hey tomorrow mac and cheese turn to carve up let's enjoy as I'm preparing my oven cake in the oven of course which is pretty much the same as my morning oven cake check out my last full day of eating video for the recipe a lot of people are asking for it but I might post it again as a real pretty soon but today was a very successful day a normal carbohydrate day pretty much depleting right now so we can load up tomorrow which I'm looking forward to slightly less carbohydrates pretty much the same scenario coming in slightly lower body weight so we can truly show a better physique in Detroit guys tomorrow we're one day out yeah tomorrow is gonna be the final day before the show well two days out really but you know it's very exciting the wane is gonna happen you guys will be there to see all of it as we're posting on a daily basis so exciting stuff coming up and I really want to thank you guys for all the incredible because I can now kind of tell you in real time the comments below the last video so much positivity so much positive feedback on the videos on what you think about me as I handle having won the Auro Classic it means the world to me to be able to in your eyes represent classic bodybuilding and an ambassador for the sport so thank you very much that golden support and if you want to continue to support me with a win-win situation you can check out of course Able this is one of my own t-shirts of my collection we're coming out with a new collection in a few months like two to three months it's gonna be out working hard on it but for now you can check out Able with code Wesley for the best possible discount I wear it every single day because I love it and I hope you guys love it as well available in Europe and America which is a big difference compared to what I used to do with my own brand it was very difficult to get all abroad the world so that's why the reason why I partnered with Able is to get it to all of you guys my favorite clothing footage anyway thanks once again guys it really means the world to me that you watch these videos and there's a lot more coming and if you want to see anything else of the process do let me know down in the comments because right now with the daily videos I can actually make it happen for you guys anyway thank you a whole lot for watching guys we're very excited for tomorrow and don't forget to stay golden golden as di as di as di