What's up, guys? Welcome to Vintage Genetics, where it is all about classic bodybuilding. And in this video, I want to talk about building your physique by working on your weak points. This is mostly applicable for intermediates and advanced lifters. If you're a beginner, um, you know, this is not really applicable to you because you can still grow regardless of what you do at the start. You can do the basics, train three to four times a week. I will make a video about that. Beginner splits, intermediate splits, and advanced workout splits. Those are coming very soon after this video. But I want to talk to you about designing your own workout split as a starting video of this series based off of fixing your weak points because that is something that you have to do once you have been lifting a couple of years. A lot of people stop seeing the progress they want to see. They do grow overall but the weak points when you got a weak point like for example I have the upper chest weak point. It's not as full as I want to. It may be growing, but if the rest grows as fast as the upper chest relative to the rest of my body, my upper chest will remain a weak point despite it growing. You know, it's not lacking behind in terms of growth, but it's lacking behind in terms of how it looks compared to the rest of physique. That is something I want to talk to you about, and I'm going to start with that right now. So, I'm going to give you an example of my own workout split and telling you what I'm doing so you can be inspired to do it yourself with your own workout splits. But, of course, I'm always available. Uh, this is my email right here. You can always send me an email and I will make you customized workout plans in which I take into account what I'm about to say and a lot more because I'm asking you questions through the email. But you'll find out if you are interested in that. Anyway, let's get started. So my we points are the upper chest uh in com in in combination with my triceps a little bit my legs and overall but mostly my hamstrings and my traps can be a little bigger especially the thickness on the back. Now those are my main weak points that I want to fix. I get a lot of people uh who contact me through email for the custom workout plans and they have this list of weak points and it's basically a full body routine that they basically should be doing and usually those are beginners and when you're a beginner as I mentioned at the start doing the basics will bring you a lot further than the all those specific isolation exercises but I'll make a video about that as I mentioned. Right. So let's get started on Monday. What I like to do, what I like to start the week with is not chest, but legs. And I train legs twice a week because legs are my weak point as I told you, quads and the hamstrings. But I have already made workout splits in the past, which you can see right here. You can click on those and see the difference between them. But what I can tell you right now is that the volume will go down quite a lot. The amount of times I train and the amount of exercises I do, those two things will go down in order for my body to prioritize growing the weak points up more. So Monday I do quads, calves, and traps. Now, I'm going to tell you why I add traps in a second, but quads and calves, let's start with those. I used to do five to six exercises to work on my legs on a Monday. Now, I only do three exercises. For example, I start out with the leg extension, but instead of doing just three to four sets, as most people do, I do five to six sets and almost going to failure every set except the first two, warming the knees up, then going heavier and heavier, not really counting the reps specifically. I don't want to have in my head, oh, I'm going to do 10 reps and when I hit 10, I stop. When I'm able to do five more reps, for example, on set number three and four, I will hit those five reps until I hit failure or very near failure. The last set, and this is for every single exercise that you do, because the volume goes down, the intensity goes up. That is something you have to keep in mind. Every single exercise, every single set has its own meaning, has its own purpose. So when you do the leg extension, you fully stretch the quads and contract the quads as if it's the only exercise you're doing today, but it's not. You're doing three. Then there's also something mental that you um will go through. When you know that you still have five to six exercises to go after doing the first exercise, you're like, if I go all out right now, how am I going to go through the last exercises? But if you only have to do three, you can go all out on all of them and it will feel a lot better. You will feel more satisfied and be able to do more weight, which is all beneficial for muscle growth. So, when you're done with the leg extension, you should feel a pump in your legs and your quads. This is important. What you want to do then is hit a compound movement. And I have a choice of two on this day. One of the first exercises you should do after leg extension is either the back squat or the front squat, one of those two, or the hack squat. Both of those exercises are absolutely amazing for the quads, also the glutes, also the hamstrings, but mostly the quads because you already pre-exhausted them during the first exercise. And now you don't want to do three three sets. You don't want to do five sets. You don't want to do seven sets. You want to do at least eight solid sets. And you go all out, especially during the last few sets. Now, you don't want to go to failure on every set here, but go to failure at least during the last two sets. That is how you put the intensity in the workout. And your rest pauses should not be an infinite amount of time. They should be pretty short as well. So that you don't get cold legs in between sets. They have to remain pumped, remain warm, and you don't want to spend too much time in between sets. Now the third exercise is basically want to finish off your legs. I sometimes do hack squat last or if you started with hack squat, you can do squat last or you can do dumbbell lunges last or as a narrow leg press because that targets the quads. So then you have two calf exercises and this is simple. You do four sets for or four to five sets full range of motion either the standing or the seated calf raise. For example, if you start with the seated, do five sets all the way down, all the way up, making sure that the last two sets are very heavy. Uh, six to eight reps and the last set are a few forced reps if you have a spotter. Now then you can either change to onelegged seated calf raises or you change to standing calf raises as long as a different angle on the calves using different muscle fibers. And you repeat the same process four to five sets. The last two sets very heavy and going beyond failure on the last few reps of those sets. And that was leg day. But I add some trap work. Why? Because the traps aren't really attached to any specific workout day. Some might say, well, when you train back, you hit the traps. Sure, but when you train shoulders, you hit the traps. Well, even when you train legs, when you do the squat, you have the bar right here. You contract the traps. So, you basically either you use them a little bit in each workout or you use them a lot depending on how you train. But I like to do them on days where I don't use them a lot so that I can focus on them fully and completely on leg day. Usually, unless you do stiff leg deadlifts, you still have a lot of grip strength left. So, you can do very heavy shrugs. I already showed you this in the last leg video, the hamstrings and shrug video where I do very heavy barbell shrugs. Again, I only do one exercise for this. Seven to eight sets. Very heavy. You were able to see that the last set I went very heavy to failure. You cannot really go beyond failure on this one unless you do it in a Smith machine or you have two spotters on each side of the barbell. But it's a little bit, you know, difficult to do. So, you basically go beyond failure if you just do half reps during the few last reps of the last few sets. But that's for traps. That's what I implemented because it's one of my weak points. So, after legs, I do traps. And I do this the traps I do that three times a week. Uh, one time on a Monday, one time on a Thursday, and one time either during, uh, Wednesday or on Saturday, one of the chest workouts. Then I like to add some traps as well. So, Tuesday is a rest day. Then we go to Wednesday, and that is the first chest day. And as I mentioned at the start, the upper chest is a weak point. So what I like to do is start off with the upper chest. Why start off with the upper chest? Because you want to have the most energy put in to your weak points. And when do you have the most energy during the workout? At the start. So you have a couple of exercises you can do. I like to do an isolation exercise first. Purely focusing on the upper chest and not doing shoulder movements, not doing tricep movements, only the upper chest. So just contract it purely. What I like to do is either low to high cable flies as you can see right here. Those work the upper chest really well. It's an isolation one. Or you can do the regular flies with cables targeting the upper chest. Or you can do onearmed flies as you can see right here that I did recently for the upper chest. You want to have constant tension, constant rush of blood and a constant pump in the upper chest because that'll be beneficial for the next exercise because that will be a compound exercise which means you use multiple muscles. Now, that can either be the bench press, uh the double press, the incline bench press, whatever you prefer, as long as you get the work in. And what I mean with that is correct form, full range of motion, four to five sets, you know, increasing the sets a little bit because I'm only doing four exercises for chest. Then I do another compound as the third exercise and that can be an regular chest press or um an incline chest press, a dip which is also very good body weight dips or machine dips. Just a basic combat movement for the chest. And then we hit the last exercise which is another upper chest isolation exercise. So it's basically a sandwich format in which you start with an isolation upper chest exercise and end with an isolation upper chest exercise. So you can end actually with the dumbbell pullover which I love very much. This is an isolation exercise is a little difficult because it requires mind muscle connection. You can do this with the dumbbell or the cables. Or you can do again some kind of flies on the peg deck using your elbows going up targeting the upper chest like this or something like that with the cables. And then you're done with chest. And then you hit the triceps because it's also a weak point of mine. I hit try triceps twice a week just like chest, the upper chest. And that is just going to be the basic work that I've always done. Um, which is working right now. My triceps are improving. That is the lying French press. For example, with a superset with a closed grip bench press with an easy curl bar, uh, the rope push down, the tricep bar push down, straight bar, the underhand grip push down for the triceps. Just play around with different exercises every time, making sure you hit different angles. Uh, if you do two exercises, hit four sets on each exercise. If you do three exercises, hit three sets on each exercise. It depends on the workout. We hit Thursday, that is a lot like Monday, another leg day, but this time we do hamstrings. And again, start out with an isolation exercise. For example, the laying, the lying, leg curl, which is the best scientifically proven exercise that puts most of the load on the hamstrings. And you don't want to go heavy with this because it's an isolation exercise. You don't want to include the glutes. You don't want to include the lower back. As you can see right here, I'm not moving the upper body. This is a standing uh leg curl. I showed this in the previous video as well. I'm not going heavy with this at all. I could go two to three times as heavy, but then I'll be using the glutes and the lower back. So, start out with one isolation exercise like this. Four to five sets going to failure the last two sets and then do another compound. What you can do is wide grip squats or you can do wide grip leg presses, stuff like that. and then end off with stifflegged deadlifts either with the dumbbell or the barbell. And that's my favorite for glute hamstring tie-in development. Also go pretty heavy on this one. Making sure you feel the stretch and when you go up the contraction of the glutes and then you do two calf exercises as I mentioned before. So now we hit Friday and that is back day. Now, this is a kind of a special day because I used to train back twice a week, but a lot of people, including me, think that my back is one of my stronger points, at least the width. I can improve on the thickness, but that will be the three times traps a weak work. That will help with the thickness a lot of the entire traps. The traps are a very big muscle that go from here all the way to the middle back, which I can't even reach. As you can see a little bit the shape of it right there in the middle. That'll be all improved by doing heavy barbell shrugs as long as you concentrate on the contraction and the stretch if you do it right. And then on back day I like to do four exercises just like a chest but this time it's more basic. Um I'm doing for example one time one week I start with two width exercises and the other week I start with two thickness exercises. So, for example, this week I would do the lat pull down first for the width and the Vbar pull down or the small grip pull down for the width again because it's a pull down exercise. You do you know that it's for the width of the back for the lats. And then you hit two thickness exercises for example the T- bar row and the bent over row, the barbell row. Then you've hit your exercises for back. All you got to do is like all the other days, hit four to five sets. Usually four sets. The first exercise, five sets because you're still fresh. But the last two sets, go heavy, go hard, go intense. And the last few reps, do pause reps, slow negatives. Just go beyond failure. Push yourself. And that way, you don't need to do another exercise. You don't need to. You don't want to. You even can't. Your back is full and it's pumped. My strong point is my rear delt. As you can see, it's popping out. So, what I would do, I don't train rear delts anymore. Why would I train it if it's a strong point and I want to improve on a weak point? If you keep working as hard on your strong points as the rest, it will remain uh disproportionate. in my side chest. When I do this, the rear delt pops out more, but the upper chest doesn't pop out as much as I want to. And if I keep training both of them as hard uh at the same rate, at the same intensity, neither one is going to change uh with respective to each other. The upper chest needs to grow compared to the rear delts. So, I stop training rear delts. They're not going to disappear. They're still actually going to grow from the back work that I do. Even the shrugs will activate the rear delts. If you have a strong point, don't be afraid. You're not going to lose it. It will remain there. You just need to train it one time a week or even a secondary work. For example, when you do rowing, when you do a barbell row, you still hit the rear delts automatically. You cannot disengage them from the movement because those are compound movements. and compound movements use multiple muscles. And then I do three bicep exercises. Always three at least because I only train biceps once a week and I want to maintain the this peak, don't we? Look at that. There you go, Jay Cutler. Boom. Boom. So, what I like to do is always start with a basic one, a barber curl, then hit a preacher curl, for example, and a concentration curl or a hammer curl. All three the first exercise is four sets and then two exercise of three sets but making sure that the last set is always beyond failure. And that was Friday. Then Saturday is another chest workout which I already explained. It's the exact same as the previous one. Start with an isolation, end with an isolation with two combats in between and two to three tricep exercises. And then I like to hit the side delts after each chest exercise with just one machine. Four sets or dumbbells, four sets, but that's it cuz my shoulders are pretty much developed in comparison to the rest of my body. And I will keep developing because they are involved in different movements throughout the week. And then Sunday is rest day. So that is my workout split. I reduced the volume. I upped the intensity, upped it by a lot. So, I hope you enjoy this video and I will release three more videos about this subject. Those will be shorter ones. This is just a more elaborate one explaining my own workout split and the reasoning behind it. I've given people workout splits of six days a week, 5 days a week. That's all possible. and used to do it myself for years, training six times a week, five exercise per body part, I grew on it quite well. But after a while implementing com uh competitions, months and months on end of a caloric deficit, work, school, stress, all that combined, your body is not able to accumulate the muscle mass that you were able to accumulate if you didn't work out as much. That is the mental attitude you have to have. Less sometimes in bodybuilding is more. So, three more videos, one for the beginners, one for the intermediates, and one for the advanced/competitive bodybuilder. I'm making these videos so that you can learn something from them. Take one, two, three things and implement it in your workout and see what it does for you. That is all these videos are for. If you have any suggestions for other videos, please comment down below. I am absolutely excited about how you guys are interacting with the channel. I'm very happy with the fan base that Vintage Genetics has got. So, any ideas that you guys may have about videos, I'm very happy to do them. This week has been a pretty busy week for me. And if you're interested in letting you into my personal life a little more, please comment down below as well. I want to hear feedback because ultimately you guys will decide what I am going to post on this channel. I want this channel to be about helping you, entertaining you, and be all about classic bodybuilding. Because what I don't want you guys to do is to forget to stay golden. Don't Let's die. This is how it's supposed to be done.