All righty, guys. It is the day of the weighin. It is right now almost 900 a.m. Woke up below the weight limit, even lighter than yesterday despite eating about 1,000 g of carbs. So, that's a good news. That means my body is uh absorbing everything well, but we can still carve up a bit more before the weigh in because I have 600 g to go uh to make my weight. And the weigh in is at two. So that means we have enough time to uh you know still eat and drink a little bit so we don't end up too flat on stage which is the number one nightmare of course. So yesterday was the first loading day as I mentioned. I had eight meals of loading, you know, four meals of pretty much the rice pudding meals as you can see right here. Really happy I took this with me. That reduces the volume with some dark chocolate and some whey isolate. And the other meals were just golden rice, codfish or sckeye salmon. And in total that accounted to 1,000 g of carbs and yeah, felt very good. So much better. Benny Arnold just also we shaved to the body. Marley did. She's an expert at that. Took a good shower, scrub myself a little bit. So, the tadding of today will be applied very nicely. And also, uh, you know, just made it a relaxing day. Not too many steps. Just had a workout in the morning as well. I have to prime the body for the carb up. I always do that for the first carb up day just to start the morning fasted, working out, getting a you know bit of activity in before driving so many carbs into the body as you're simply not used to that uh you know on a daily basis. So you really want to prime the body for that. And of course taking all the supplements every single meal the omega-3 magnesium and I also take this athlete stack right here. That is the big thing cuz I can't drink a lot of water. So with athletes tech, you can dissolve with it in the water you do drink and instead of having to swallow seven caps with a little bit of water which gets stuck in your throat, use this inside the water and get all your vitamins and minerals in without having to worry about it anymore. So yeah, today is going to be awesome. And the planning of the day will be um I think two meals with a bit of water. Keep weighing myself just to see that I don't go be uh up above the weight limit basically and making sure that um you know we make weight and after that we carve up a bit more heavily and we keep the shape intact so we are on stage conditioned full and full of energy. Let's get this day started. Mandatory grocery time. So, all I needed was eggs and bananas. And we still can't get below $100 where we go to the supermarket. How is that possible, guys? Just take a guess. Time for the weigh in. Just wait myself. should be 500 grams below the limit. So, uh yeah, we have a little bit of room. Always feels good. And after that, the loading commences. Let's go. made weight. Had to take off my joggers though. But we made weight and now it's time to carve a load more. Let's go. Well, coach just orders half a muffin with the last two meals of the day. And if you want to know exactly what I've been eating, so basically is the alteration of rice flour meals and rice meals. So sweet and savory with the whey being the protein form in the sweet meals and codfish like this right here in the savory meals. But if you want to know exactly, you can check out my previous videos I've done at the Olympia for example or the Arnold uh where you can see exactly what I'm eating as loading. It's pretty much the same always as kind of bor to show you everything as we want to have a large portion of this video be of course the day of the show itself. So yeah, this is uh going to have one more meal after this. Oh, again about 1,000 g loaded today and I feel great. The shape is truly exceptional right now. Very, you know, conditioned. The veins are there. The fullness is there. Uh, you know, everything is there basically. And the weight is also staying nice, exactly where it needs to be. So, I'm very happy. And we're going to see uh what it looks like tomorrow. Tomorrow morning, I'll wake up, do my check-in with the coach, and from then, we decide what kind of meals I'll have before going on stage. But I'll be making sure I go to bed nice and early enough, get 8 hours of sleep, then wake up, and then you usually look at your look your best. If I look a bit flat, eat a bit more carbs, but I won't be spilling over at all because I'm already quite conditioned as it is, so I won't be spilling over. Mostly we'll just be hydrating in the morning, eating some carbs, and then coast to the competition. Detroit Pro is going to be awesome. All right, putting on the final layer of tanning. So, uh, of course, we just woke up, had my only meal of the day before the show. You don't want to have a bloated stomach, of course. Just get some carbs in there, a little bit of hydration. Now we're getting the final layer of 10 and in about an hour we're going to leave to the show which is very close by the Airbnb and that pre-our will begin at 11:00 a.m. Luckily there's a live stream that's free on two channels for Abia's channel and also I think another website hosts it for free all being uh done by Gil Co Production. So shout out to them. They'll doing the lighting, the photos, the videos, stuff like that. So very excited to see those end results. But yes, I'm feeling ready. The shape is there, the fullness is there, conditioning is there, the mindset is there, and the excitement is there. So is also even better. Let's see. Yeah, the tanning is also very dark and very 3D, but it's all a combination. If your body looks good, and then the tanning looks good, it's like a how do you call that? An exponential increase in effect. So yes, we're all there, guys. Let's get the show on the road. The final carb up. A touch more. Perfect for vein. Heat. Heat. N. Great crowd. Good atmosphere. Pressure in the muscle is good. This is the best we could have done since the Arnold. Now it's time to have some fun in the comparisons. Let's go. Heat. Heat. Woo! Precisely as I wanted it to go. Now, let's rewatch, review, see what the coach says. Rest, eat, drink a little. Let's go. Absolutely on point. I'm just super super proud. Thank you very much. What the outcome is, but it was execution to perfection. Yeah, I I have the same opinion. I mean, I was already happy when I saw the comparison, when I saw the shape and everything. I was like, "Okay, this is the best case scenario we could have had since the Arnold, so we can't do better than this." So, yeah, I I agree. Yeah, it's good. I have a meal with me this time, so that's also no mistake. I eat it right now. I have the water with me. And then at home, I weigh myself, see, okay, what's the weight, and then check the shape and uh see what we do. Yeah, perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The coach has given the orders to eat two more meals. We have four more hours. So, basically a meal now and then in two hours and then you have two hours before stage to let it all digest. This is the Rice Krispies from ESN and a little bit of frosted flakes because we are now out of Rice Krispies, but it's perfectly enough to last me today to have lasted me. So, what we have here is some Rice Krispies as I mentioned, a little bit of water with some elite whey or some whey isolate for the protein and some banana for the potassium. I'm also putting a little bit of extra oops extra salt in there for the pump. Not too much water because then you can actually increase the amount of salt you use and um make it go inside the muscle and no risk of extra cellular fluid because if you don't overdo the water, you you keep measuring yourself on the scale. And now I'm 112.8 8 kilos. When I was on stage, it was around 113. So, you want to keep that level there if you're happy with what your shape was. So, right here we have the meal and the way and that's going to be it. So, I'm going to enjoy that. Also going to be putting on some maple syrup. So, I figured out that maple syrup comes from a tree. So, you have the choice of honey, maple syrup, date syrup, rice syrup, but I was going to go for the one that comes from a tree. It's not an oak, but at least it's a maple. I literally did not know it came literally from the bark of a maple tree. So, this is going to bring me some uh some good luck. So, I'm going to pour that over there as well, then enjoy this meal. So, let's carve up some more. Most of all, relax and just enjoy the rest of the day. Time for the finals. I'll feel ready, focused. Let's finish the job. I need seven Matthew 12 Leslie. How's the heart rate, Marty? I don't know yet. Probably above 70. Thank you. Yeah. So, second place, you know, of course, I wanted to win this show. I still think I could have won the show, but you know, it's bodybuilding. You know how it can go with the judging. It's still a subjective sport, but uh you know, we did our best. What I wanted to do because initially I didn't even want to do Detroit, so this show wasn't even going to happen. I wanted to show the Wesley that I wanted to show the Arnold, which I simply did. We couldn't have done and brought a better package than this. So, you know, this is going to be it, the last show. Now, I'm going to take the long awaited break. So, let's just put all of this in the past. We did everything we could. We maximized my current physique. We can't do anything more. The judges did what they thought was fair. you know, I've already heard feedback from the judges, very positive feedback and uh you know, maybe I'll talk about it later as well, but let's just say some people had me first as well. Um, but yeah, let's just move on to the future, do our best, and thank you so much for the incredible golden support. As always, keep following along for what I'm going to do to improve my physique for this next season because that's going to be incredible. But yeah, this show has been amazing. They put up a great show, great audience, just an amazing feeling to be here. And now we are going to stay. So now we're sitting at the post show restaurant. Just some good old sushi. Thought a little bit about what happened. And I really did think I could have won this show. You know, talking to some judges, they a lot of a lot of them had me on number one. It was a onepoint split decision. They also said uh that I was better at night even and even in the morning we thought we could have had it already and a lot of let's just say highly placed athletes within the sport also said I could have been number one. So you know it kind of one break and um but ultimately we want to improve ourselves. So I wanted to end the season with a bang but the real bang is you guys. I wanted to prove to you guys that I could be better than the Arnold. That that was not my best shape. I showcased the best Wesley I possibly could. You know, the strong points and the weak points, all of them together. This is who I am. And now we're going to take this year to grow. And guess what? The growing starts with eating enough food. And that's going to start today because finally we have the freedom to eat. No more super strict dieting for every single shows. two to three to four shows a year since 2019. We're going to grow, guys. So, be part of this journey with me. How do you grow? How do you improve weak body parts like the glutes, the hamstrings, the legs in general? How do you balance out your body? How do you stay under the weight cap at the same time? Let's do this. Let's uh have an adventure together and let's enjoy this delicious food. Anyway, thank you. Maybe you will see some B- rolls of the food. Who knows? But thank you very very much for the incredible support as always from the bottom of my heart. Thank you incredibly much. And you're going to be seeing a lot more of me. But for now, let's grow and be the Dutch oak and become bigger, better, stronger for next time. And of course, we never forget to stay golden.