Hey guys, welcome to Vintage Genetics. I'm Wesley and this is a video about the road to the Dutch Nationals episode number three. Someone borrowed me this book, an amazing Arnold Schwarzenegger bodybuilding book, a Dutch edition of course, but it basically entails his life story, but also it just shows you what bodybuilding is all about. Just look at this. Just a second. Just wow. Well, you know these poses that is bodybuilding and that's what I'm trying to do. And you'll see it later in this video. Just check. This are the battles we need to see today. Poses like this. Not just a regular bicep, whatever. We call this classic bodybuilding, but not because it's in the past, but because it is a classic. That era is a classic. Like some games are a classic. Not because they're old, but because we want to replay them because we want to have it today. We want to play games like that. We want bodybuilding to be like that now. Okay. So, when I I I you know, when I talk about classic bodybuilding, everybody knows what I'm talking about. But it should just be called bodybuilding because that's what we are doing. The guys who are so massive on stage with the big gods, they're not bodybuilding. They're just mass building, not building their body, just adding muscle upon their body, but we actually want to create a sculpture, you know. And even though right there is a collage of Jay Gutler and Ronnie Coleman, but the only reason I have them hanging there is because I won them at uh two separate competitions. And you know, they still, you know, Ronnie Coleman still motivates people on a day-to-day basis. I mean, he was a great great bodybuilder. His videos were amazing. Just you, you got to admit that they motivate you when you watch them. But yes, I should have one of Arnold Schwarzenegger. Just look at this peak, man. Impossible, right? No. when it's impossible, then it becomes possible because then you want it so bad that you will make it happen through hard work and dedication. Anyway, today we did some arms super setting. Of course, this is the last, you know, it's Sunday and every week we change our workouts. So this week we did the back uh and chest supersets two days and the arm and the bicep and tricep supersets. We keep legs the same. Now the next week we will just do the back and bicep split and chest and tricep split and keeping legs the same. And every week we alter this. But the closer I get to the competition, I'll for example do two weeks of super sets and one week normal. And in the end, I'll only do the super sets because I don't know if you have tried them and really did your best, but they burn a lot of energy. They're much harder. You guys have been trying it out because I'm sure there are a lot of people who it will benefit too. But anyway, you're about to see the arm workout. I'm going to show you probably the last meal of the day. And uh and after the arm workout, there's some posing as well. Well, just some random poses. Just check out my progression. But anyway, guys, enjoy the video. Yes, guys, we are going to be blasting arms today. Get them as big as Arnold's as you saw earlier. Starting off with an easy curl bar combined with a laying French press. Normally I also choose a barbell for the French press, but as you can see here, I use the dumbbells. And the dumbbells actually work quicker. It's faster to grab them, and it's a nice variation. You basically put the dumbbells behind your head. Keep your elbows in a fixed position and think of it as moving the dumbbells up and backwards just like you would with a normal French press. Don't just move them upwards, but also backwards at the same time to get the most benefit out of this exercise. Up next, the alternating dumbbell curl. Now, there are a lot of variations on this exercise, but keep in mind if you want to maximize the effect of an exercise like this, do not mind the weight. You should be able to do a lot of reps. I do about 15 reps each arm for the first set at least. And I make very sure that I am able to squeeze the bicep at the top, turn my wrist outwards, increasing the tension on my bicep. And this is the way to do it. Don't swing. Just let the biceps do all the work. We combine this exercise with the underhand tricep push down. Now, this is an interesting exercise that I only recently started doing. Again, I grab it a little wider than shoulder width, but I'm still able to contract the entire triceps with this exercise. Even get a good contraction in the small head of the tricep. So, make sure you feel a nice stretch when you go up and go down in a controlled fashion and contract the tricep hard. Force yourself to have a pump after these exercises. Next up is a classic exercise that not many people do. Normally, I do this sitting down, but I wanted to try the standing variation. It is an incline dumbbell curl. Make sure you can you retract your shoulder blades and arch your back, allowing for more tension on your biceps during this exercise, but it also stretches them out very well, which is what you need to get the blood flowing. You also cannot do heavy on this one. Just focus on the stretch and the squeeze to emphasize that peak contraction. Combined with this is the rope push down focusing on the small head of the tricep. I need to bring it up. I basically need to bring up my whole tricep area. But when you watch your arm from the front, what gives it that extra width on the side is the small head of the tricep. If you do a front double bicep, the part hanging on your arm that gives it that sweep would be the long head of the tricep. So there is a definite difference in how these different parts of your tricep make your arm look. So it's really up to you how you want to sculpt your arm. That's the beauty of bodybuilding. This was my last set on this one using a drop set as you can see. Making sure I fatigue the tricep and get a nice arm. Yes, this is an exercise that I never exclude from my workouts, my arm workouts. To see results from this, it requires consistency. You need to keep doing this over and over, perfecting your form, perfecting your mind muscle connection to exactly the area you want to improve. Now, I want to improve my bicep peak. Of course, genes play a large role in this, but don't be like those people who give up before even trying. Bodybuilding takes a lot of time, and putting in the time will reward you by showing you the potential you never thought you had. I usually like combining single arm exercises, so here is another one. This emphasizes the long head more. But instead of keeping the tension at my long head of the triceps, I also try and include the rest by squeezing the tricep at the top. To me, this makes the exercise harder and that's important. You know, some exercises become easier by doing by using this technique. And when it does, you know, you're doing more resting than anything. So, don't do it with those exercises. An example would be squeezing at the top during squats while constant up and down motions would be a lot more beneficial. Okay, this would normally be the end of my arm workout, but when I have some left in me and especially keeping in mind the contest I'll be having in 13 weeks, I like putting in another super set. It works the arms just a little more and burns more energy while I'm at it. This is the philosophy Arnold had when he was getting ready for a show. Increase your time and intensity in the gym, allowing you to eat more food, keep the muscles fueled while burning more energy at the same time. Anyway, we started off this exercise with the incline preacher curl. I'm really focused on a contraction here, turning my wrist as far as I can to maximize the tension. To finish off the triceps, I chose to do some dips. There wasn't much left in them, so body weightight dips like this were enough to fatigue them all the way. I like going down as far until I feel a stretch in my tricep, keeping my elbows as tucked in as I can and going up and contract the triceps, making sure I hit every muscle fiber I can. Oh yeah, it is time to check my progression with some posing. My aim is to start off dieting early, which I did, so I get dialed in pretty soon before my contest, which is 13 weeks away. I'm on schedule and my goal is basically to dial in early and then slow down as I approach the contest. And I'll slow down by eating more food. And my aim with this is that I'll slowly be able to grow into this show. So, I'll still be doing all my cardio, my intense workouts, but increasing the food little by little. I don't want to arrive at the show fatigued and flat. I want to arrive in top condition and energized. And as you can see, I'm hitting some classic poses combined with some regular ones. My posing routine will consist of mostly classic poses. But what I'm going to practice most of all is the transitions between the poses. They are, in my opinion, kind of like poses in and of itself. It'll make your routine look that much better. And I'll be doing a specific video of that soon and might follow up on it depending on the feedback I get. Look at this meal. My last meal before bed. This, you know, I'll tell the the macros right now before I forget. It's about 50 gram to 60 gram of protein, about 30 to 35 gram of carbs, and about, you know, 15 to 20 g of fat. But what I added, it looks like a lot more carbs because what I added is half a packet of zerocalorie rice. Now, on its own, it doesn't taste good. can, you know, you can't even really see it where it is, but on its own, it doesn't really taste good, right? The the fake rice, but when you mix it with real rice and an entire dish of vegetables, tuna, and chickpeas, and some herbs and spices, it's just going to make the meal bigger without adding calories. So, that's exactly what we want, especially before bed. Stay nice and full. Throw it in. Here is one can of tuna, 100 g of cooked brown rice, about 150 g of um the zerocalorie rice. Um 400 g of these vegetables. These are a vegetable mix. Pasta vegetables they're called. Usually in pasta dishes, you know, it's mushrooms, paprika, tomatoes, and such. uh chickpeas and I used um black pepper, cayenne pepper, ginger and kajjun spices to make it very tasty. Anyway, I'm going to enjoy this right now. Anyway guys, I hope you enjoyed this episode. Thank you for watching and if you have any suggestions on what you want me to show you, what you want me to do videos about, please do tell in the comments. and I'll see you at the next vintage genetics video. And don't forget, we are all about bringing back classic bodybuilding, bringing back the golden era. So guys, don't forget to stay golden.