 DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ Summerfell right here in the UK. It's always a great time to work out with him before the competition. It feels great, great camaraderie. I mean it's going to be a great just having fun on stage, just enjoying bodybuilding and this gym is the ultimate place to really you know follow our passion because look at the walls, look at what's hanging up here in the walls, look at the iron, the atmosphere, this is the place to be to make it all happen. So very looking forward to our training together. You couldn't wish for something better this weekend so Wesley, Mike the Badass, they're going to go head to head and I'm going to be shouting fantastic, have a great workout. Such a cool gym. Yeah it is. Did you see the movie? Yeah, yeah. This is an amazing gym. The owner just mixed. So I've happened to be here as well when the Body Power was here also at the NEC and then we had to find a good gym. He came to Body Power and he said if you want a good gym, hardcore gym, you gotta go to Dino's gym. So we were like oh let's try it out back in 2017. Then we came here and we knew okay. Best idea. This is it, this is it. I've never gone to any other gym in Birmingham since then. I believe this is one of the most old school gyms ever. Definitely. I mean we got the original Dorian machines in here which is crazy. There's also like a bench on the wall there from literally the 80s. He never threw it away. It's like all kinds of memorabilia here. It's amazing. Kids good? Yeah, yeah, very good. Did you bring them with you? No, they still have a routine at home. The oldest one goes to school and they sell swimming classes, judo, all that stuff. So yeah, yeah. But it's just a week that we're gone from them and then we'll be with them for a longer time. Oh and it's Eastern soon. You do like the egg stuff? Yes. Oh, I love that. Well, if you can get good eggs anywhere, it's here. The Cadbury eggs, the chocolate. That's we got like at Tesco, at Morrison's. No, no, no. I mean on Easter, like the egg search thing. Yeah, yeah. But we buy those chocolate eggs here. Ah, okay. You bring them. Yeah, that's so smart. Yes. We should do that too. You can't find better eggs in the world than here. Really? Yeah. You just go to like M&S or Morrison's, like those supermarkets. They have like custom Easter eggs, like a million different kinds. That's insane. If you see them, you're like, oh, I gotta get those. Yes. Now you convinced me. Yeah. Do you agree that we just do an exercise for back, one for chest, one for shoulders? Sure. Yeah. The back ones are over there. I will follow you. This is kind of like a cool down variation. Everything here is very old school. This looks super cool. You know what? We have exactly the same machine in my gym where I grew up in Waldorf. This one is awesome as well. It's one of the best machines ever built. Yeah, it is. I have the modern version of this at my gym, but it still is the exact same feeling. It's amazing. So we can do this one if you want. I think this is a really old Gym 80 one. Yeah, it is. I think it is from the 80s, like originally the original stuff. Now I can't decide what you're going to do. I think this one, I love it as well. So let's just go with this one. Yeah. But I want to try this one too. It looks super cool. Yeah, it's really unique as well. Yep. This is what happens when two meatheads come together. Old screw bodybuilding. Because guys, Mike also recognizes a great bat machine like this one. You can beat it. We did it as well on the first day. Now we're going to do it again because it's great. Especially when we do it underhand. You can see the forearm and the hand are just tools to be able to get the squeeze and the lat. That's the magic of old school equipment. Honestly, this is the best lat pulldown machine ever. Yeah, I know right. And we used to train at NewTek which is like... Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm impressed. It's so simple yet, as they mentioned, advanced because they... you have to do some research to be able to get this angle right, you know. Especially how it's built because it's like built in like a V. So you're pulling in the... Yeah, yeah. It's crazy. Really cool. DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ DJ I look forward to the actual. And either way, it's going to be a great champion. Definitely. Of course, Ciri. It's going to be great for us to watch. And it's going to be heartbreaking for one of your partners. But who knows? There's always tomorrow. Come on, boys. And when you're doing those reps, you should be visualizing that trophy, just like Mr. Vizzer's. He wants to keep it. You want to take it off him. So come on. Let's see how it feels. I love it. You know this one as well? This equipment? This is how my chest grew up. So it should unlock a lot of memories. Yes. We're very smooth. He says even though the equipment is very old, they still take great care of it. That's what you feel. And then you feel like, oh, this feels pretty much more smooth than all the modern stuff today. These commercial gyms, they have brand new equipment. And after like two, three months, they're gone. True. They don't take care. No. Not at all. This feels like it's literally just put it here yesterday. If you just feel it and don't even look at the machine, it's like it feels brand new. It's incredible. You like it? Yeah. It's awesome. In a moment, the old school music will come on. The first second we sent it to this gym, that's the music we heard. And it's going to come on very soon to bring back those memories. Because today's the final workout. We have to make it all complete. Now we're getting there. Now it feels like home. Now we're getting there. Let's go, boys. Let's pop some iron. Let's go. That's it, buddy. No fucking amount. Now let's go. Come on in, boys. Let's go. Tell me what are you doing right now? Tell me what are you doing right now? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Tell me what are you doing? Gotta change our posing song now. Nice. I'm going to break it up man, I'm going to break it up man. I want a good clean final day. A good clean final day, okay, for all time. Respect the rules. Beautiful man. Two of the greats in the room today. What's up, brother? I can't beat this atmosphere guys. It's impossible. It's incredible. It's amazing. It's delusional. Mike, how was the flight over here? Everything went smooth? Yeah, a direct flight. Oh nice. Wasn't able to sleep. Obviously. From Vegas you can go direct here? Wow! 9 hours. Oh, that's not. Super nice. Yeah. But we arrived in London, so we needed to drive to Birmingham for like 3 hours. Ah, okay. That's fine. Easy ride. Yeah, nice. How close is your Airbnb? From here, 30 minutes to 35. Yours? The closer, right? Yeah, 16 minutes or something. Something like that. So you stay between the show center and the gym? Yeah, I always pick the Airbnb as close as possible to the NEC. And then the supermarket is also 5 minutes and this is then the furthest away. Pretty much. Yeah. Always looking for the gym, grocery shops, and then direct. Exactly. Most important things. Feels good, man. Today, by the way, the loading begins. I already had one smaller meal to be able to do this workout. The biggest thing is what happened right after this workout. So, looking forward to that. Conditioning is insane. The hardness, the striations, the skin. Thinner than paper thin. Thinner than paper thin. Insane. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Tell me what happens right now. Thank you. This is a D-machine. Oh yeah. Dorian's chrome. Exactly. I have to touch it at least. One set. Just one set. It's just awesome to see those chains moving. That's old school. Tell me what are used to what are used to what are used to what are used to what are used to Ready? Yep. Anything else? We got some chest, shoulders, tricep, triceps. Yeah. We today should be low intensity anyway, so it's just to get a little bit of pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We have to enjoy ourselves here as well now that we're here with the best Cadbury Easter egg as well, which we really got, by the way. But yeah, it was a great workout once again. Give me a recommendation. Yes. What is your favorite egg? Yeah, man. I mean, Cadbury is from here. So if you can get at least the small Cadbury caramel-filled eggs. I don't know. And you also have Biscoff eggs, by the way. Biscoff-filled. It's, I think, a limited edition. But if you go to like a Morrison's or M&S, they have like the custom eggs, like thick shell. Within the shell, there's like pistache filling or caramel filling, sea salt, just whatever you can imagine. You're on diet. I know the details now are very important to me. But anyway, guys, it was a great workout. It's always very nice. And just, you know, it always feels good to be working out with you and to hang out with you. Because, you know, we both are near the top of the industry. But once we work out together, we just feel like two friends doing a workout. Just gym partners, you know. So thank you once again for this workout. And, yeah, we're just going to have some fun on stage. We'll see each other at the weigh-in and the meet and greets. And then we're going to have some fun on stage, guys. So thank you very much for the incredible golden support. And thank you, Dino. So let's get over here because you are the one who is supporting all of these hardcore serious bodybuilders. Anybody who is now here for the Art of Classic UK, this gym is opening up especially for you. Just hear the music, hear the atmosphere. You can feel it hopefully throughout this video, throughout the lens that you're watching right now. So the passion this gym and Dino has for bodybuilding is unmatched. So if you haven't been here yet, make sure to come here, guys. We're only hours away now from showtime. There can only be one winner. But I've been a very lucky man today because I've got two winners right by my side. Two enormous, great potential guys with great physique, great personalities. But there's only one trophy. Oh my God, who's it going to be? Left or right? We'll soon find out. Thanks. All right. Stay Gordon, guys.