 l-de-de- hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, hindsight, We woke up nice and low body weight, lower than yesterday. So I lost about 2.5 kilos overnight. The shape has been the best so far. When I woke up for the Arnold, I woke up 800 grams heavier, almost 2 pounds heavier. But we had to kind of reduce the meals before prejudging to kind of suck down a little bit. But now I'm actually already at the weight we need to be on stage, which is great. So now we can cruise in to stage time. This is probably my only full meal after this on rice cakes to kind of keep glycogen storage topped off. And that's it. Let's rock and roll today. The golden tan is almost done. Not literally golden, but nice and dark. For the incredible lights in Detroit. Black backdrop. Great contrast. And Marley is doing all the work to make sure... Well, it's a teamwork. To make sure we are at our very best. Upstage. We'll be right back. Another photograph taken of cars that look interesting in the USA. We make a car of the day picture. We've got a collection now. We've got a collection. Oh, I can get used to this, you know. It's a nice, nice, relaxing, comfortable spot to sit. You know, the more I do these competitions, the less I'm like, oh, I've got to lay down with my legs up in the perfect position. All in all, the most important thing is no stress. Because the more detailed you try to be right before the show, the more things you think could go wrong and the more stressed you can be. So if you're just relaxed, you'll look great regardless. Because most of the work, well, all of the work is already done. Now, it's just all about waiting and being excited. You can be nervous, but make it a nervous, an excitement nervous, you know, anxiety in a good way. That you want to get on stage. Because you've worked hard for this. Many weeks, months, pretty much years because you've built all the muscle for these shows. So now the moment comes and just enjoy it. Something you have to learn to enjoy the process and take it all in. Before you know it, it's all over. Because right now you're in the moment, but you know, you wake up tomorrow and you're like, oh, that's it. It's done. So now just enjoy it. In about an hour and 15 minutes we're on stage. So we're just going to relax. Maybe have a one rice crispy treat, a little bit of salt, a little bit of water, and that's it. So let's do this. Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse so i say that's a nice color a really good one it blends perfectly with the rest i see here's the light too light that's just what it is but this color is nice is it the golden chocolate it's the 90% chocolate is what we want to see what yeah i like it looks good that's good so so so right All right, we are lining up. I'm number 83, which means the last guy. They're going to do three groups of five. There are 15 classical guys, more than Arnold. And yeah, I will be the last guy on stage with the last group. Then the individuals, which you can take our time for, which I will. And then the call-outs. So it's going to be short, sweet and exciting. I thought this was going to be an interesting. He is one week removed from winning his second Arnold Classic title in three years. Having reclaimed Arnold Glory that he first captured in 2024. He is a six-time Classic Bizzic Olympian, placing top seven in 2023. His illustrious resume features nine professional victories. He is the man they call the Dutch Oak. Please welcome, from Best Netherlands, competitor 83, Westley Besserts! Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse We are in Spitzel! That's what you want to see your coach say in the very first comparisons. I always check the livestream here. The livestream here is so incredible. I told you before, going on stage you can just watch the livestream just to see if everything goes correctly. That's the thing about modern technology. Back in the day you didn't know what you looked like until months later. Now you can see it immediately so you can do some little tweaks here and there if you want to. Very good amenity that the Ford Arbya and the Detroit Pro have here. 8-3, 8-2 switch, and then get off the line and hit the bottom. Hit the box. Hit all the lines. Hit in the box. Go, man! Woo! Great job, gentlemen. This keeps learning to breathe, Justin. Three on three. I need a little bit of water before I can talk. They're always trying to make it a show, which they did. A lot of fun, a lot of excitement. The crowd is incredible. It feels like it's a theater. It feels much more, you know, familial, close. So you are really into the... You know, it's not an expo, so it's like everybody sitting there is there for the bodybuilding aspect. It's incredible. It feels very good. Now we're going to re-watch everything, talk to the coach, and see you at the finals. Show me, oh my. My dude. What's up, man? You look awesome, man. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I'm with you. The Dutch Oak, the Golden. Guys. Guys. The one and only Arnold Classic winner. This is the Golden Era bar or the Dutch Oak bar. Look at these golden flakes. It's actually golden. I asked you, Lee, from Heavyweight Bars to create like a... Actually, you offered to create a special bar. Honored. Yeah, man. So this is like dark chocolate, gold flakes. Gold flakes. It's going to have a lot of gooey, thick caramel in there. It has a salted caramel frosting. It has praline pecans. Yeah. And then it has a Rice Krispie layer in there as well. Guys, we just... You're going to enjoy it. I literally just had a Rice Krispie just to pump up the stage. We tested that thing out and it is good. Nice, nice. Coach Orr. Eat immediately after the prejudging. So I had this already. 160 grams of golden rice, of course. Some codfish. 200 mils of water. We're going to have one more of these meals. In about two hours. And that's it. Easy peasy. Lemon squeezy. But the meal. After that meal. There's going to be a special one. Let me tell you that much. You can have some as well. No, thank you. Ready for round two. There we are again. Just waiting until the finals begin. The exact same protocol. Yeah. Oh. That's less than an hour until finals literally start. So we're on time. We'll have to be on time. So no stress. Because everything is going to happen. We know it immediately. Backstage time. Let's go. Backstage time. Let's go. Guest port has just went on. And the next thing is going to happen is the confirmation round. They're trying to get Ian on stage, but I'm not sure if that's going to happen. Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse Jesse This is definitely the best version of Westy. Yeah. Please take the first place to go, the check for $50,000, and present it to our winner, Wesley Castle! The championship, the championship, and the title to East Bay Troy Pro! And here you are again, backing it up, winning your second consecutive contest. Yes, it's of course an incredible experience here. First of all, I want to tell you guys, the energy you brought in the crowd was absolutely amazing, guys. So, a round of applause for yourself. It's unbelievable, it feels very intimate here with you guys as pure bodybuilding fans. Trust me, the more you guys cheer us on, the more energy it gives us to give you guys a great show. So, you guys are also part of the show for sure, so thank you very much for that. Now, you competed here last year as well, finishing in the runner-up spot. Did you feel as if there was some unfinished business for you coming back here to Detroit? Yes, definitely. So, it even started at the hour and of last year, where I of course did not get the placement I wanted to. So, this year I wanted to get my title back, which luckily I was able to do. And then there was still one stone left unturned, right here in Motor City, Detroit. But I have to say, this is not just a competition for me because this is tailored to actual bodybuilding. To make everyone of us look at their very best with this black background, with this lighting, with Gilgo doing their best. Making sure that the physiques on stage look how they're supposed to look. So, I think this is an example for many other shows over the world. Not just the stage except, but also how the crowd behaves. This is what we as bodybuilders want to see and want to feel. This is one of the best in the world. And he's giving props to you, the Detroit fans and the Detroit Pro. Wesley, you are going to be one dangerous out come September at the Olympia. Congratulations on the class of the title. And then you back it up here. You are champion of the 2026 Detroit Pro. Hold that thing up nice and high. This is really the revenge of revenge tour. Redemption number two. Yeah. Congratulations. Thank you. How are they supposed to be? To be. How are we lost? Alright guys. We got it. The classic physique. First place. Detroit Pro. Part two of the redemption arc is done. Well, the redemption arc is done. That's what we need to do. So, I'm very happy. The crowd once again was just incredible. Very amazing. Very enthusiastic. Everything went perfectly. They even got some feedback from Bale the head judge. That this was my best package so far. Better than the Arnold Classic. This is exactly what we wanted to happen. Peaking better from the Arnold. This is just eight days later. And, yeah, I couldn't be happier guys. So, we're going to let it sink in. But we have one more thing to do. Two more things to do. Two more things to do. First. You go to the open guy. Yes. So, we are trying to battle for the King of Detroit. That's number one. And what is number two? Find a good restaurant to eat. I can't say which one is more important. I think they're both pretty much up there. Like today, it's only been like rice pudding. And rice, rice, rice, rice, rice. And guess what? I'll probably eat rice tonight as well at drostanolone. But it's got to be different. But anyway, I'm very happy. Very thirsty. So, I'm going to drink something. And Neil's a cameraman. Always has a backup. Oh. And the next challenge. Is trying to get this back in the Netherlands. But it was amazing guys. It's been a blessing to compete here. We're almost done for tonight. Very happy. Very happy. More extra chocolate? Yes. No bar? Or is it another flavor you want to try that? No, this is the perfect one. This is the perfect one. Because we have to battle now the oaken guy. We need a little bit more fullness. So, I'm going to try the Dutch oak bar. The golden arrow bar. Because we don't have a choice guys. We must do everything we can. So, how do you advise? You advise to break it open? Right in half is the best way. Right. Oh wow. Oh, look at that. So, one piece for me. Yes. You got the bigger one. Just enjoy it. The golden standard. You did a good job. Thank you very much. The golden standard. Wow. Smells good. You can actually taste all the ingredients. Made with love. I taste the rice krispies, the caramel. Of course. The texture turned out really good. The texture, the praline, the pecans. Wow. Very good job. Thank you very much. Yeah man. As I said before, check out heavy weight chocolate. These are amazing. These are amazing. Okay. Never. Nice and full now. Yeah. I feel growing already. Four to turn to the right. Safe front. Front coming bicep. Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Side chest. Takes the rear. Back on the bicep. Back leg spread. Back leg spread. Back leg spread. Back leg spread. Back leg spread. Side tricep. Face front. Domino's a 1-5. One last time. Down down to the 5. Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Woo! Your favorite post muscular. Your favorite classic physique pose. And I will find my bones in the sea. And I will find my bones in the sea. Woo! Woo! Woo! Your 2026 king of Detroit. Is Wesley Besser! We are the king of Detroit. You got it guys. The king of Detroit. The king of Detroit. The king of Detroit. Look at that. Nice and furry. But nice and metal. Is the real deal. But it's thanks to you guys. You voted for me. Not the judges. The audience did. So that's. Always has been my ultimate prize. If you guys like what you see. Then I'm happy. So thank you. Thank you very much. And this belt. We're gonna enjoy some delicious food. Let's go. Okay guys. We are dressed nicely for the next day. The king of Detroit. The king of Detroit. Look at that. Nice and furry. But nice and metal. Is the real deal. But it's thanks to you guys. You voted for me. Not the judges. The audience did. So that's. Always has been my ultimate prize. Good. Let's go. Okay guys. We are dressed nicely. For the next step of this day. Gonna be the food. It's pretty early. We just want to get once again. The benefit of this show. Just classic physique. Open. King of Detroit. And we are the king of Detroit. I can't believe it. Anyway. There's one mindset you need to have. And that's this one. I told you guys. The next thing we were going to do. Is go to a middle eastern restaurant. And we are right here. Look at the spread of food. It looks incredible. There's a lot more coming. There's a lot more coming. But as the king of Detroit. We have to. Be treated like a king. Here in this restaurant. With a lot of food. We're not going to look at anything. Except for. Tasty deliciousness. We are here in the capital of the. Middle East. Right here in Dearborn Detroit. So. Let's enjoy guys. And once again. Thank you for the incredible. Incredible cheering crowd. I truly appreciate it. But for now. We're gonna. Let our taste buds. Let the ones to. Thank me. For what they're going to experience. Anyway. Let's enjoy. We didn't expect this. But we actually got a pistachio. Unbelievable cheesecake. Wow. Wow. Wow. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mmm. Mmm. That's good. That's good. King of Detroit guys. We did. We also got a nice bell. Enjoy this one. That's good. That's good. King of Detroit guys. We did it. We also got a nice belt, but it's really packed. In the bag it belongs, because we're going to carefully bring it to the gym. Hanging up there next to the other prizes. But man, this is such an incredible feeling. Such an incredible victory. I'm really happy, guys. I'm really happy. And I honestly couldn't have done it with the people around me and without you guys. I really feel like this is a team effort. Like, you know, it's one thing to win a bodybuilding show by judges. But it's another to win because you guys want me to win. Because you guys think I really should win and deserve to win. And that makes it so much more special. As I mentioned on my Instagram post, the fire, the bodybuilding passion is lit inside of me to the max. It's really amazing. It's, you know, really motivating for the future. As last year, there's such a contrast. And now I won my title back. And I also won Detroit, which I didn't last year. And I got king of Detroit, which I still can't believe it. It's always been my dream to stand next to an open competitor. And Mo Fuda isn't a small open competitor. He's a big name, big time name. So to be able to beat him, obviously you guys voted for it. So, you know, it's more who do people think should win that. It's not official. But still, to be able to win that and to see myself next to an open guy that is a veteran and knows what he's doing, who is a great coach, is an amazing thing to have happen to me. And it opens up future possibilities as well. But for now, classic bodybuilding is still my game to play. Yeah, guys, once again, thank you so much for the unbelievable support. It really means the world to me. And we did it, guys. We went to Columbus in February. And we live in Detroit in March as the winner of everything we could have possibly won. So I can't even, I have to let it sink in. So tomorrow we're also going to enjoy ourselves a little bit. But be on the lookout for that video coming as well. And from then it's going to be straight back to the prep for the Arnold UK. But trust me, guys, I am soaking it in right now. It's incredible and really enjoyable. Once again, thank you for the golden support. And don't forget to stay golden.