 all righty, we just sent the morning check-in to the coach, today is weigh-in day in about one and a half hours, he said you can have breakfast because my weight right now is about, you know, three to four pounds below the weight limit, we loaded it, we loaded pretty nicely, yesterday, we loaded pretty nicely, yesterday, didn't lose a lot of weight overnight, which means the carbs are sticking, so today I'm just gonna have breakfast, and already had 500 mils of water, as every morning with creatine, glutamine, some EAAs, like these to make sure, you know, it tastes good first of all, and to be anti-catabolic right when waking up, and the creatine as well, and the glutamine for digestion for the rest of the meals, but other than that, the shape is is really on point, and the product is really on point, and the product is really on point, I dare say better than the Arnold classic and now we kind of know okay around 114.5-115 I still actually look my best which is a very interesting because around when I went above 114.5 at the Arnold I started to lose a little bit of sharpness but now I'm just starting to fill out more and more fullness so kinda the you know the the relaxation after winning the Arnold allowed my body to hold less water, kinda less, less, less stress, less excitement, stress, less cortisol, just little bits here and there, which is why no peak is the same even if it's just, you know, eight days apart. So this is gonna be my first meal, we have the rice pudding, like this, which you digest really quickly, really easily, you can make it with a little bit of water, I'm gonna put a little bit of banana on there, and some whey drip, and then move on to the whey in. But before we do, I always like to be a little bit active before the first meal, so I'm just gonna, you know, clean out the dishwasher, and then have the first meal. How wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet Now it's almost time to weigh in so let's drive to the Doubletree Hotel, the Host Hotel of Detroit. Do the weigh-ins. Fuad has done a very nice job of keeping the weigh-ins for Classic Physique separate from everything else as the show is only Classic Physique and open. The open guys don't have to do anything, they just have to go to the athletes registration at 6. Let me turn off the rice cooker, very important. We can weigh in from 10am to 12pm but we will be there before 10am to make sure we're out of there, we're in there and we're out of there as quickly as we can. Good morning. Good morning, good morning. Champion, congratulations. Thank you very much. How are you? Good, you? Yeah, very good. Thank you for coming back. Yes, of course. How would you miss it? It's a great show, you know? Unique, unique. I just remember you last year with the energy. Yeah, got to bring it again. Yeah, yeah. This time we have even more confidence knowing that I can be really myself, you know? You know, yeah. I just thought you were playing. You know, yeah. Yeah. For sure. And that comes out. Yeah. Show him the physique. For sure. Even when you walk out the honor, you just tell the confidence that. Yeah, yeah. Let's, we gotta get over there. Wesley, how are you? Good. How are you? Good to see you. Congratulations on the Arnold. Thank you very much. Awesome, man. I'm super happy with you. I like standing. You have to step right on it. 255 for us. 255.4. Which is below 256, which is my limit. So we're ready for the show, guys. Time to keep carving up. 210 for anything. And, yeah. I mean, I have to say this is really nicely organized. Just get in here. 10 a.m. And like, okay. Whoever wants to start, whoever wants to weigh in, just go on the scale. And it's done. That's how I like it to go. 10 a.m. in the morning. Taking care of the athletes. And making sure that they are as comfortable as possible. You allow them to be faster than they need to be. Weigh in and then eat. Sorry, guys. I'm not thinking yet. Straight to the next meal. When we get home. From the weigh in. Already put the rice in the rice cooker, of course. This is the protein. And that's when it is done for meal number two. Just like yesterday, alternating between rice pudding and golden rice meals. Just finished the last of the ocean perch fillet. And a little bit of the tuna. And then we're going to go, probably, to the codfish. A little bit of tuna here and there. As long as it's white, lean fish. No fat added. Let's enjoy. We're going to add a secret spice. Literally. Some beautiful saffron. I've been using this in my rice. Also turmeric to give it a golden color. But someone commented, you can use it in your rice flour. Rice pudding meals as well. So, let's give it a shot. We're out of cinnamon cereal. One more gram in. That's the way, correct? Try this out guys. Code Wesley. Always 20% off. The best discounts. Yes, eh. How wet is that? The second aspect is heavily controlled by stress and the core of the friction. The next step is to go with a fact that it's a bit of a problem. You can drip. Chocolate drip. Empty. Now we have a lot of water. We can be as dark as we can possibly. This is what happens when we feel good and confident about what's going to happen. I think. Bring me the sexy magic. Alright, so it's time for tanning once again. We still have a little bit of a layer from the Arnold. But obviously it's not perfectly on there yet. How I like to do this is after the, when I was done with the Arnold, just take a shower without any soap or anything. Just rinse everything off. And every time I take a shower, I just rinse it off and only shampoo my hair but not the body. Because otherwise you might create spots, white spots. That are difficult to cover up even with a new tanning layer. So the second layer we're doing now, which is the Detroit layer on top of the Arnold layer, is you know, you don't have to apply as much. We're still going to apply more than enough. Trust me. We're going to be dark. Dark. 90%. 90% dark chocolate I think. Not 70% anymore. 90%. But you more easily get dark. But you also have to be careful covering up all the little, you know, little specks that will cost by just, you know, walking around wearing t-shirts and all that stuff. So yeah, you need an expert and that is Marley. We've always had the perfect tan and we'll do it again. How wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet wet I think we are ready with a layer one. Sure, just waiting. That's the day before the show, it's always waiting, waiting, a little bit of tanning. What I want is Mediterranean food. We are here in the capital of the Arab community in America. So, tomorrow we are going to go after. What kind of food do you want? For me it's not so specific. I like almost everything, so I just follow the leader. Guys, make sure to watch that post show video. It's gonna be epic, more epic than last year. Let me tell you that one. Why are you so hungry? Not hungry, but just hungry for different kind of food. I've been eating rice, jasmine rice and rice flour for a long time now. And the only vegetables are peeled cucumber and peeled zucchini, you know, before the loading days. And that's literally everything. He made already a list of restaurants he wants to go to. We have a little bit of leeway before the Arnold UK because I'll be doing that show. But it's gonna be two weeks instead of one, which gives you one extra day you can enjoy the food. So, we're just, we're gonna do that. But yes, I did make a list as Dearborn is, you know, underestimated by a lot of people what they have to offer. And they have to offer a lot, but you have to go to the right spots. And we'll be going there. I like that the Detroit Pro actually gives you this. It's like your, you know, your personal page with your official height, official way in, and on the limit. So, that makes it pretty clear. Almost 6'7". Yes. Of course. Of course. Very nice atmosphere here. Once again, they are putting up a great show. Because when you are able to get the athletes in a stress-free position, you will have the best show. That's why the weigh-in was so early. We have a lot of time, like the pre-judging is at 11.30. So just like the Arnold, they know if you do the pre-judging too early, you just have to wake up. You're nervous sleeping. Now you can just wake up without setting an alarm. Just eat your breakfast and, you know, enjoy the show. And also a lot of break in between the pre-judging and the finals, which allows you to watch also the livestream. Watch yourself back in real time to see what you look like to improve for the final, for example. So, all in all, a great experience so far. And if you aren't here this year, I really recommend you going next year. But you'll see that in the video of tomorrow with the footage being incredible. I said 8 plus 3 would be 11. And that would tie me with Ruff Diesel's Pro Winds. So that's, I have to find a meeting somewhere. That would be it. All righty. That was the day before the Detroit Pro. Tomorrow's all going down. Don't miss that video as I think it will be an amazing one. It's going to be a rare opportunity for me to show myself slightly better than the Arnold, but under dramatically better lighting and the background. So, this is what bodybuilding is all about guys. Showing your true improved self on a bodybuilding-esque stage. A pure bodybuilding stage. So I'm very excited. And yeah, everything is going very well. I feel great. I'm very excited for tomorrow. And don't forget to watch the livestream on Ford Abiat's YouTube channel once again. It is free. And of course, thank you a whole lot for watching. And don't forget to stay golden. See ya straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight