查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 our goals and make sure to start and generate first. However, I have my own opinion on this. However, I'm a professional bodybuilder, so during Christmas and New Year's, I like to follow my own program, but even I adjust my program to be sure that during Christmas, I can still enjoy my time with family, which for me is very important. In this video, I'm going to talk about 11 New Year Bodybuilding Pacific Fixes resolutions you can follow to make sure your plan will succeed and you will want to watch for number 10 as it will make the most impact. One more won't hurt, right? Number one, the holiday delay tactic. Most people say they will restart after the holidays, but that's exactly why nothing will change. So the main message here is that it's normal to enjoy the holidays in order to be super, super strict. Even myself, professional bodybuilder in prep for the R Classic will enjoy Christmas with the family. Prep food won't be the same on that day compared to the holidays. And exactly that. Staying consistent now is what will beat staying consistent after January 1st. It's about the big picture, not about losing structure just because you keep going all throughout December with your bad habits, just because of Christmas or other holidays. Am I going to put this one or this one? I think it's going to be this one. Wait, I think this one is better. Or I'm going to go for this one. Number two, overthinking. Most lifters don't need better equipment. They don't need to start to reinvent physics. It's all about picking the right grip, the right equipment for your structure and getting better at that movement that builds on quality muscle and prevents injuries or having to think is going to cause more muscle gain just because it's different. Bodybuilders will do anything to prevent training their weak points, including pretending they don't exist. The first thing, of course, you should do is recognize they exist, but more importantly, do something about it. Choose one weak point to work on and commit the year to improving it. Avoiding weak points is why they stay weak. Should I do 12 reps or 13 reps on a leg extension? Hmm. I think for my back thickness, the 55 degree row is better than 45 degree row, but 35 degrees could be good as well. Hmm. Yes, now I have this complete program thought about for three hours and 42 minutes. I think I'm going to change it entirely. Yeah, it's not good. It's not good. No. If people change their programs more often than they make progress, the programs aren't a problem. Stick to one program, execute the exercises properly, make sure to make progress, log your lifts and get better at what you do. This is how to make true bodybuilding progress, not changing it every single week. Yeah. Number five, ego lifting. We all should know that weight alone doesn't build muscle. It is all about the tension that you provide on the muscle, but not about the weight, the stacks, the plates, the bars. That's not the key. It's all about the stimulus you give your muscles to cause growth. Day after day, week after week, don't get injured, lift safe and effective. That was, that was insane. Number six, guys, confusing fatigue with being advanced. Being advanced doesn't mean destroying our muscle over and over. Being advanced means you can stimulate the muscle over and over and actually make the progress. If you are constantly destroyed, but not progressing, you're not advanced. You are just tired. All of this is to say, stimulate. Do the knowledge. One scoop. That's not enough. Scoop number two. How many? Another one. We need another one. This might be enough to keep grinding it out. Okay, let's go. Training hard won't fix when recovery is sabotaging. You can train as hard as you want, be as wild as you want, but taking certain supplements, wearing yourself up, won't be what causes the growth. Growth is a cost by training plus recovery. Rather than always focusing on the best, most stimulant active pre-workout training as hard as you can, recovering from the workout is way more important. Learning the stress hormones, making sure you stay healthy. All of this stuff matters way more than training just a bit harder than last time. Make sure to sleep properly, keep stress nice and low, and make sure the training is stimulative, but don't overdo it. Next week again. Most people are inconsistent because they're waiting to be motivated. Motivation follows action, not the other way around. Train when it feels average, and eat when it is boring. That is what builds physique over years, not weeks. Just start, do the action, and motivation will come on its own to maintain that incredible progress. All the hard work might mean nothing if you can't show it off. And very soon guys, you will perhaps see a whole new collection. And once again, pretty soon. Number 10, not weighing your food. I just eyeball it. Eyeballing is only consistent when you are consistent, and the only way to be consistent is with a food scale. Weighing food. If portions change every day, then progress becomes a guessing game. The difference between these two rice bowls is quite insane. It's about 140 grams. Now obviously, there are people who are pretty good at eyeballing, but even if it is 10 grams difference for every meal in the day, for example, if four rice meals, 40 grams a day, 240 grams a week, which is close to a thousand calories extra a week you will be consuming in rice just by eyeballing and not measuring your food. And number 11, guys, subscribing to this channel. I don't say it often enough, but in my opinion, the 20-20 stick a year is going to be an amazing year for this specific channel. Lots of amazing footage coming for you guys, which you can use in a new year for your own bodybuilding, new year's resolutions. I want to wish you guys an incredible, happy new year. 2026 is going to be absolutely incredible. Let's not make a cliche. Let's make it golden. And of course, as always, thank you for watching. Lots more is coming and do not forget to stay golden.