 And guess what we're gonna do, the day after the show? We're gonna train legs! Old school donkey calf raises, never fails. Dis his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal his goal We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. So it's a very interesting post-work-and-meal. The first part will be a protein shake. The second part will be, you'll see it a minute. We arrived at none other than Krispy Kreme. It's been a tradition, well it's a second year only, but the tradition is we do Detroit the day after Krispy Kreme. Let's go. You can smell this, but the smell is pretty incredible. It's really incredible to look at that. Oh, we're getting a souvenir here, I see. We're ready. We're ready. Wow, thank you so much. Oh, it's fresh. It's fresh. Oh. Oh! It's warm. It's warm. We can go. Oh, it's really normal here. Yeah. If they're so warm, they're really good. So we got cakey and sort of done it. We had to wait a year for it. Yeah, they have. Okay. Nothing in the Netherlands tops this. Not even Odiebolle. For the ones from the Netherlands, not even Odiebolle. Look at that half dozen Krispy Kreme selection. I'm going to eat a few. Maybe not all of my selection. Marley is also going to wait because she wants to be able to enjoy the upcoming brunch. But I'm going to sample some of them. Starting with the Shamrock as is St. Patrick's. Oh, it's pretty heavy. St. Patrick's edition. Lara would have loved this one with the rainbow. So I eat it in her honor. She would have loved this one. Look at that cream. Which one is up next? The cheesecake or the chocolate truffle. Cheesecake. I'm curious about that. For the cheesecake, yeah. Oh, that's also pretty heavy. The filling is, of course, cheesecake flavored. It's a good thing we don't have this at home. I should say that. It's a nice appetizer for the incredible brunch we're about to see. So we are here at Avenue Brunch House. Luckily the host recognized us from last time. So we got a nice spot. But this time I wasn't second. I was first when he followed the show. So that's very nice. And they have some specials here. And I think I'm going to go for a cinnamon roll chicken sandwich. When you're in America, you're going to go a little crazy. And today's the only day to do so. So let's enjoy. Well guys, the starter has arrived. I was advised to take the pancake tacos. It's a pretty hefty meal. But we have a pretty hefty stomach today. So let's enjoy. Marley has a nice light meal, as you can see. I can share with Niels. She's going to share. So I'm going to do my best to finish this. And then of course the main as well. Plenty of water. My EASN supplements are also on deck. Magnesium, Mega 3, all that stuff. So we can stay relatively healthy today. But anyway, let's enjoy. Well, we did not get a break. I literally just finished that first course. Now it's time for the second. This is a special. The cinnamon BUN fried chicken sandwich. Yeah, let's enjoy that one. And the potatoes of course. Gotta get the carbs in guys. That was good food. Not pretty full. But not super full. So we can do some shopping now. Because Marley loves to do that. Get some steps in. At least five. But sometimes you're more shopping than me. Yeah, sometimes she wants to shop and I buy more than her. That's cool. But for now a lot of steps are coming in. And then tonight another restaurant run. So how was the shopping tour? Good. We have new shoes. Both of us. And the rest of it we did a massage. Had some fun. So. But we are happy to have our last evening meal. And then fly back to the kids. I smell that meat already. I smell barbecue roast. We are at Al Amir. So we did some shopping. As Marley said we got a nice massage. To kind of. I really needed that. My heart rate was like pretty high. After like being depleted from the show. Leg workout. Then the Christmas cream donuts. I mean. I needed a little bit of a rest. With a massage. Did some walking. Already hit the 10,000 steps. So. We nailed that. We are at Al Amir. Which means. A Middle Eastern restaurant. Apparently. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. man so it must be a good one for bodybuilders. We're gonna need more bread. This is the exact same bread we had at the Turkish village last year kind of. It was like puff balloon bread it was. And these are all the hummus dips. I love this about the Mediterranean kitchen. They like me like you spices, herbs, combinations that are unusual and that's what I like. So let's enjoy another feast. Can't not do the vegetables. Nice fresh salad. Of course I got a platter for two. Lots of meat. What can I say? I like protein. There's some yellow rice, death rice right there. Golden rice is coming. Let's enjoy this. Also of course grilled veggies. So it's rice, vegetables and meat. What a surprise. Now we're complete. We've got the golden rice. Can't skip a day without something golden. So now we're complete guys. Let's enjoy the feast. We now made it to the Shatila bakery. Another hallmark of Dearborn where you can try the traditional Middle Eastern desserts. Gonna be a combination of that and some traditional ones. Let's go. A few moments later. Well we got our plates full. I chose a few of the desserts. Marley and the cameraman as well. But I think they just have these cups and the rest is for me to try. Let's see if I can finish all of this as a finishing touch for today. First I want to try the traditional. I don't know what this is. It's like a sweet... I don't know. I did not get an explanation. First one bite without that. This is one of those patients we got in Riyadh as well in Saudi Arabia. I'll whip it to see if it makes sense. Oh. It's like a syrup or something. Hmm. Okay. Okay. Now the pistachio one. Hmm. I like the Middle Eastern flavors. The pancake thingy. With whipped cream, chocolate and strawberries. And this was still on the side of the Middle Eastern pastry. So, pretty good. Hard chocolate. I'm gonna do that. Like that. Whoa. All these layers. The cookie, mousse, cardiffi, cake and chocolate. Mmm. That's good. She's going for the strawberries. One day later. They even have this French mustard here. They have chicken. They have cucumber. They also had yellow golden rice. You know. But I already had my meal prepped. But I did come short with cucumber and chicken. So we might as well add it. To this, you know, not appetizing looking meal. But when you combine it. All of a sudden. It starts to look a little bit more interesting. You know. Like that. Like that. And then on top. Oops. A drizzle of mustard. That's my dessert for tonight. Yes guys. We're back on prep for the R2K. And I'm also in the St. Patrick's moon as you can see. I was lucky to find a 3XL at Walmart. Fits pretty nicely. But yes guys. This was an amazing adventure. We enjoyed ourselves. Both the shows. Detroit. And now we're going back home to our beautiful children. Who we miss a whole lot. So only a short flight of like 7 or 8 hours before back home. Driving home. And then we can finally see them again. For a couple of days before leaving back to Birmingham. Which also feels like a home. You know. Kind of like a home. But not really. We love to be at home with our children and family. So that's going to recharge us. For the rest of the days we'll be at the R2K. Once again thank you enormously for the golden support. And of course do not forget to stay golden. and his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his his