So, this is the question you've all been waiting for. Who is going to win the Mis Olympia? I think the winner of the 2025 Classic Physique Mr. Olympia is leg day, guys. A very important day for me. If you follow me, you know I've come from Australia and Shanghai, mostly Australia because the meet and greet was amazing. Thank you guys very much for being there and uh showing me that bodybuilding is very much alive on the other side of the world. But today I'm also going to answer a lot of your most frequently asked questions. So let's get started. One question I've gotten quite a lot is, will you be at the Mr. Olympia this year? I of course won't be competing myself, but that doesn't mean I won't be going to Las Vegas. I'll still be going there regardless of competing or not. So, I want to see exactly who's going to win the title so I can see who I'm up against next year. So, you can see me at the Raw and ESN stage Friday in between 12 and 200 p.m. and the Saturday between 3 and 5:00 p.m. And the big benefit here, of course, I'm not competing. So, I'll be there for you guys with full energy to ask your questions, take a picture, whatever you guys want. I'll be there to support bodybuilding. waiting for. Who is going to win the Mr. Olympia? Now in the open category, I think uh there's going to be now a more interesting battle than last time as pretty much every champion of the open and everyone who is very close together is now competing. Last year it excluded Nick and let just that be the guy who can make things very interesting. as I predicted he was going to beat Derek at Pittsburgh before which he didn't but I still think he kind of did and a lot of people do as well. I think he is going to be a very interesting player in this Olympia and he might even win the whole thing. I do still think Samson is going to win, but only if he is a little little bit fuller than what he displayed at the last guest performance because yes, the conditioning was there, but he still needs that mass to overpower that monster like mass monster physique of Nick Walker because if he achieves the fullness and the conditioning and a little bit better improvement on top of the New York I think he could and he might as well win the whole thing. And then we also have Hardi, of course. Hardi Chupin, I believe, is still being coached by Hani, which would be a unique thing because Hani was like, I'm not going to coach anymore, but I think Hardi doesn't really care about that. So, they're still together. So, that could be a very dangerous dark horse as well. He might be all the way up to up until second place. I think second or third, and I think Derek will be fourth. regardless of anything. I think the top three will be Nick or Samson, then Hottie, and then uh Derek. So, that will be the top four, and then it's going to be a very interesting matchup. But I think uh something nice to talk about as well is Urus, of course, going for his open debut in the Olympia. uh he was three times third place in classic so he wants to do very well on the open and I think he could do well up until number eight spot. I think that's a possibility for him which a top 10 in the open class is an incredible achievement and I'll be there to witness it live for myself and I really want to see how big this guy is in real life. Oh, after the surgery, I really need to take the isolation exercises more serious as it's the only way to truly overload the legs right now, apart from like a bell squat, for example. But feels good. So, people also wonder what are my calories right now and my body weight. So, calories have actually been quite steady for a long time around 5,000 calories at the moment. I used to eat 6,000 calories last year and didn't even reach this body weight with this conditioning, which is a good sign that I'm not just eating and burning at the same time too much. Kind of wasting the calories, but actually using them for growth. And uh body weight is also, of course, had the surgery. I've had some travel, so it hasn't changed for about a month, which is good to kind of solidify your body weight, but it's around 131 kilos at the moment, which down point was 126 after the surgery. So, I did kind of regain that weight again, but nothing that goes up too quickly is a good sign. So, always nice and steady as I go upwards. So, yeah, that's uh the body weight right now. And then of course you might also wonder how high do you want it to go? Well, as high as it should go, as it has to go to be better for next time. And then Wesley, aren't you too lean for an offseason? You want to build some muscle, right? Well, right now I'm more than 15 kilos pure kilos, like 35 lbs over my weight limit, which means that no, I'm not trying to stay lean at all. I'm just trying to stay healthy, which means not putting on unnecessary body fat, which you need to diet off anyway. So, the conditioning I have is just a byproduct of the dieting process, which is gaining a little bit of weight every single week. And if you stay healthy, if you stay active, like if you have two children, it's going to be very difficult to gain that body fat, which is unnecessary anyway. But, uh, who doesn't want to stay at least look lean in the offseason? That's the best way in my opinion to do so. As long as you have the luxury of gaining the weight and staying lean at the same time. So people also want to know is what are my three favorite supplements during a bulk? Because normally I never had a true long offseason. Never needed really supplements for the bulk per se cuz my appetite was still good enough. But after a while I actually start to notice I'm not really that hungry for my meals anymore. It's just I know I need to eat every few hours and I just do it. So getting the calories in a supplement form sometimes does help getting the calories in. But you want to do it in a logical way. So I take intra for example which means carbohydrates and EAAs together inside the workout window because now you don't eat normally and you don't consume any calories but you might as well get the calories in right now in the form of carbohydrates as that promotes uh muscle performance aka muscle growth as well at the same time and the EAh will simply provide the antiatabolic effect so it tastes amazing you get a lot of hydration so that's supplement number one of course creatine as we all know But I don't take five grams. I don't take 10 grams. I don't take 20 grams. I take 25 grams. Wait a second, Wesley. Are you insane? Yes, maybe I am. But to keep that insanity down a little bit, I take the 25 g because not only is it good for the muscle, which caps out the effect at about 10 to 15 g. All the rest you take is good for the brain. So if you, for example, know that you are sleepd deprived, for example, I flew to Australia. I'm back. So jet lag, creatine can help actually recover your brain in terms of feeling clarity during the day and actually literally recover those neurons from being sleepd deprived and uh feeling a lot better. And there's a lot of other benefits like preventing Alzheimer uh sooner in life, for example, stuff like that. So creatine is a must. And number three, well, how can I well, it's it's kind of debate, but let's keep it in food terms would be, of course, the whey drip. Whey drip, because I use it with at least two of my meals in a day. It's an easy uh protein source, very low stomach volume, so your appetite doesn't decrease with it. It's delicious, and I use it with every single breakfast and post-workout meal. Oh, by the way guys, right now everything 25% off which is incredible. Code Wesley. Let's go. Oh man. Isolation's done. Now it's time for the first compound to work on those horse legs. Let's go. So another interesting question is when will I start my prep for the next show? So prep will start depending on what me and my coach Stefan Kinsel think of my progress so far. So it might be in November, December, or maybe later. But as I've said from the beginning, it depends on if I'm truly ready to win the next show, no matter which show it's going to be. And uh that simply requires time, guys. Bodybuilding is a sport that takes time. I personally don't want to do anything that rushes anything either as you will either sacrifice quality of the physique, health or anything like that which I don't want to do. I've done this sport for a long time now and I've been better every single year and it's my true goal to make the largest leap so far on the next competition compared to the previous one. That's my goal and it's a possibility and it'll happen. My my personal preference would be to start prep before the end of the year, but as again as I mentioned, me and my coach will make that decision together because then I know for sure that shape will be one for the record books. You may have noticed already, but I'm wearing a very special t-shirt. The last one of the last two t-shirts remaining in the Dutch O collection of Able as you can see wearing right now the golden mentality will be out September 30 limited star guys. So this is the first of the full graphic edition t-shirts code Wesley you can get the best price and at the same moment you support me. But as always, enough talk. Let's work. Now, of course, the most important question of the day. Who do I think is going to win the classic physique? Mr. Olympia. I'll be at the wizard myself. It's going to be an awesome show and there are pretty much four to five very close contenders, but I think with one obvious winner. But we have Rough Diesel, we have Logan Franklin, we have Mike Somerfeld, of course, we have Jose. Am I missing anyone? Rammon, of course. We can't forget about the dinosaur Rammon Dino. I think that's going to be the top five. But in what order? So ultimately, I think the winner of the 2025 classic physique Mr. Olympia is Mike Somerfeld. Yes, he was of course the Arnold Classic Champion of the of this year. Second him was Logan Franklin. But I think he delivered an undeniable package of conditioning, fullness, presentation, which I always think is very important and I think it's very difficult to beat. The only one who comes close in presentation are two guys, Logan Franklin and Rough Diesel. But they both kind of miss, I think, the mass that Mike does have. And his uh updates are kind of undeniable. Anything can happen obviously, but if I had to bet, I think Mike will win it. But then we have a very interesting uh top five, four other guys. I do I I you know, it's going to be very very interesting between Rammon and Rough Diesel who is going to be the champion out of the two. Both of them were second to uh Chris multiple times. So, uh, yeah, if Rammon nails it with the conditioning and with the improvements he made, I think he might get second. If Ruff Diesel has improved from New York Pro with fullness and a bit more conditioning and Ramon isn't 100%. Then Ruff might be second. So, that's going to be a very close battle. I really hope it's going to be like a top three final call out between those three guys. Number four, I do believe will be Logan Franklin. He really surprised with the AR Classic. Looked great. push routine, top-notch conditioning, really, really good, and also more fullness than usual. If he improves upon that, it's going to be hard to beat as well. And then number five will be, I think, Josema, of course, my fellow ESN colleague. Very, very nice guy, but the driest guy I've ever seen on stage. I even thought he could have won against Rough Diesel at Pittsburgh just because of his conditioning, and he is pretty big as well. Uh, so we'll see. We We'll see what's going to happen. But guys, now saying all those names, there's one more name that should be added to that list. And that's why I'm going to be working a bit harder right now. See you later. Thank you for watching. And don't forget to stay golden.