 If I don't train like this, every single leg workout for the rest of my career basically, I don't think I can ever be the Mr. Olympia of Classic Physique. I'm never going to be the true Dutch Oak I can be on stage. Alrighty guys, this leg workout, as you guys know, it is very important for me, to change it around. So the first movement, as normally it would be, a Ling Leg Goal, Seed Leg Goal, I've been doing that for many years, we still need to make progress on the legs in general, on the points that Tyler, Steve, and pretty much your whole bodybuilding industry can see, what do I need to fix to become number one? And that is, we're going to start with the hip thrust, the glutes, that is my number one priority right now. So, hamstrings and glutes are kind of intertwined together, but the glutes are very important for me. So at least one leg workout in a week always starts with the hip thrust, and the other one would be hamstrings, but we will see that on another day of course. But for now, let's start with the hip thrust. Of course, the gym 80 hip thrust, a new one. I used to do another brand, but that one kind of messed up my hips. This one is way more natural for me. So we're going to start out nice and light, and make sure we have pre-exhaust the glutes before doing a calm movement. So do you change anything regarding the training wise, like exercises for the hamstrings, now that you want to focus more on hamstrings? Yeah, because hamstrings are also focal points, so the other leg workout, which we still start with the seated leg curl, but we attach Romanian deadlift to it, which I normally hate to do, but it's very needed. The Romanian deadlift really targets the upper part of the hamstring that is attached to the hip. The seated hamstring curl focuses more on what is attached to the knee joint, so we need to have both to create that hamstring sweep on the side, and also the thickness from the back. But there's only one part, which is a lot more that goes into it, but at least I am doing different exercises, and doing them earlier in the workout to ensure that my hamstrings are really going to get a different stimulus compared to before, that is for sure. So actually I was supposed to do this workout a couple of days ago, but I've been a little bit under the weather since the competitions, and I already told Marley, I'm very happy it's happening now, than not right before the R2K, because let's just say I've been to the bathroom quite a lot of times, and in about a minute I'm going to go back to the bathroom, just before I'm going to go heavier on this one, because I want to get back to the routine again, but yesterday we had the Easter brunch, so I tried to kind of compensate for the calories lost by going to the bathroom so many times, because I feel great otherwise, but here I feel great, but from the moment it goes down here, that is a different story, so I'm expelling a lot, so I need to ingest a lot as well, and I'm ingesting a lot of easy to digest carbs, but it's also going out very easy, so let's go to the bathroom now, be right back, because we're going to go heavier on this, and it's not good to leave it all here, we're going to leave it down there. Well, ready? There's an intra-workout right here, normally I don't really drink carbs intra-workout, but because now I'm pretty depleted from everything, we're having an even intra, at least 60 grams of psychic dextrin, so, add some extra pink salt, and extra carbs, they're the number one things you lose when you go to the bathroom a lot, so, we're playing at the root house. Really what I'm focusing on here is squeezing of the glutes, when I squeeze the glutes, sometimes people think you need to go up as high as possible, then the lower back is involved, so I try to squeeze the glutes only, but I'm also not going all out right now, this is the first time I'm doing this workout, plus I'm not in the ideal energy mode at the moment, so I'm not going to go all the way to failure, the volume is going to be a little lower, but I just want to get back into the groove of things and feel good again, and the gym is one of those things that truly get me going and get me better actually, as long as you don't overdo it, voice over back over to you guys. Okay. Okay. Okay. Now, that's a nice pre-exhaustion, before we go to the pendulum squat, normally a squat used for the quads, but we're going to modify it for the glutes. Let's go. Time for the knee sleeves, as I said, we're going to do the pendulum squat that requires knee flexion, so a lot of pressure on the knees. I'm a tall guy, I want to prevent any wear and tear on the knees, and you know, the quads can be held a little bit in the bottom anyway, but the knee sleeves, because all the pressure needs to be on the glutes now, and honestly, the entire prep in sleeves, that truly helped me save a lot of trouble. When you're down at the bottom, stability and some push back by the knee sleeves is so important to be able to feel confident going up and down with heavy weights. It allowed me to progress in the off-season to build up these legs, which is why they've been able to improve at the all-classic stage, but also to keep the strength high during the countess prep to maintain that muscle in the quad specifically. So these gym reapers, knee sleeves, I like the 7mm ones right here, because the moment you go all the way down right in the back of the knee, you've got a lot of pressure building up, and that pressure takes away the pressure from the knee, which is why it saves a lot of wear and tear on the joints, so if you have any knee pain at all, all you want to prevent it, get yourself some knee sleeves from gym reapers, of course. I have, first of all, have this little thing in the middle to make sure my feet stay in the same position. I kind of inclinationly go like this, because you need too much outwards. So I want to stay in a stable position right here, but also put the feet nice and high and wide to be able to stretch the glutes before the quads stretch to the max. So you basically just go down here, very nice squeeze and stretch the glutes. Then you go up, and you go up by thinking, and that's what my coach told me, push the knees back rather than trying to push the weight up. So I'm going down, and I'm thinking, okay, the knees have to go this direction. So kind of the hamstring has to pull on the knee to pull it straight. And that way you kind of use a mind-muscle connection, like Arnold used to say, to engage the muscle you want. You are always in control of which muscles you truly want to target with the movement. And on this one, it's this way that allows me to target the hamstrings on the glutes more, even though it's 1% more than the quads. Any percentage at this level, it counts. I'm going to do feeder sets first, because the hip thrust only really targets the glutes, doesn't really worry about the knees or the legs that much. So if I would have done a leg extension and a leg curl before, I could have gone to a working set sooner. But especially the pain in squat, it gets heavy really quickly. So you kind of want to work up the dead weight before you put too much unnecessary risky stress on the joints. Because even though when you're protected by knee sleeves, you don't want to take any risk. Oh yeah, how is this? But now how I see it is. M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M Nice starting point. As you guys know I always log all the lifts so the goal of course is to do more next time that I just did. So this is a nice easy starting point to be able to get stronger every time I do this lift. So obviously I didn't go all out but once again that would work the other way around for me right now. It's really about getting into the movement, getting back to the groove of things and feeling it out. It's a new routine and I'm probably gonna have a lot of sores tomorrow anyway from such an easy workout but it's not about destroying the muscle as you guys know. Lee Haney, stimulate, don't annihilate. Yeah just doing two sets in this one so we're moving on to the next one. I feel so good to be able to train again to get blood flowing, get the routine going again. It feels like you're becoming alive again you know. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, the bathroom visit started and I ate let's just say 650 grams of carbs which is quite a lot higher than the maintenance and very low fat, very low fiber but you know you're sitting at home you're not doing much. The day, yesterday then we had a Easter brunch, had a lot of food but still no workout so you just sit at home and when you are able to train you feel like you're utilizing the food at least. You know you're doing something with it and all the carbs I'm gonna eat today is gonna be quite high to compensate for you know what has to go out you has to go in a bit more because the surplus needs to be there so a lot of carbs go in again but this time at least the legs are being targeted as the target for the carbs to go along with the high quality protein so it just feels mentally and physically a lot better than just sitting at home resting but mentally you kind of still want to do something that's fruitful rather than nothing at all. So we're not gonna go super heavy on this one because the moment you feel lower back then you kind of lost your anchor into the seat and the lower back is kind of my enemy in a leg workout. The moment that fires up it shuts down the activation of the other muscles so if you have the same problem I have a tip for you a little later so don't miss out on that one. Nice. At least nine reps goals are always eight to twelve of course we're gonna log it but what I was telling you guys before when you feel your lower back here I'm doing with two legs and you're like oh I can do a couple more reps but my lower back involved one thing you should do is move from bilateral to the unilateral your lower back still the same strong one group muscle but now your legs the strength is cut in half which means the lower back is no longer the limiting factor and it doesn't have to help the hamstring will go to failure waiting before the lower back will have to be involved so you use one leg it'll anchor you more easily to the pad because less weight is pulling you up and that way you can still target the hamstring very well without you know cheating on yourself without having to go lighter because that one leg will feel a lot more tension with half the weight that's for sure oh yeah well time for the next one all right so originally I'm supposed to do Bulgarian split squat this is a very close yeah mimic of that movement basically so Bulgarian split squat you can really target the glutes or the or the the quad so I'm going to target the glutes obviously but I'll be soon receiving the safety bar handle for gymkin which allows you to do a very comfortable Bulgarian split squat under the machine right now it's just not going to be possible to do that with my mobility and you know how wide I am and the machine not being as wide it's not going to be feasible to focus on the glutes and not focus on the upper body so this is a very close second and this is pretty much the gym 80 perfect squat as I like to call it or free squat so basically you just use one leg I always start with the left one the left usually is the weakest you basically go all the way back until you feel the glutes stretch and then use the glutes to go back up then these handles right here are simply to be able to grab out the something to hold you in place because it's not really any other way to do it in a comfortable way so this feels very ice so at the beginning we did a hip thrust which uses a squeeze part and this uses a stretch part of the movement for the glutes so that's why you combine both in one workout sit down that's a lot more humbling than it looks guys it's really uh stretch the glutes incredible you can't put a lot of force into it which is good because then you know we're actually isolating one muscle as opposed to having a compound going very heavy you want to as a bodybuilder you want all attention to be in a muscle that you're training and right now that is the glutes also no lower back at all only feel the glutes i've been doing this a lot with marley as well really helps but now instead of uh doing it at the end of the workout we're doing it in the middle and they haven't even done any real quad movements yet so this truly is going to work the glutes yeah i'm surprised i'm still as strong now when i know what can happen as the last couple of days yeah don't feel good so let's keep going A doctor machine obviously for the inside of the legs for both the front and the back pose and it fills in the inner leg gap. The thicker that is the bigger your lower body will look. And to be honest guys if I don't train like this every single leg workout for the rest of the year for the rest of my career basically. I don't think I can ever be the Mr. Olympia of classic physique. This type of workout where I truly focus on the gaps in my lower body, that's what's going to get me further in the sport. I've never gone higher than the top 7 at the Mr. Olympia. Top 5 gets to do the posing routine. Anything outside of the top 5 for me to be honest would be a loss. It's been too long guys. I've done the Olympia 6 times at least. This will be my 7th time. I need to be in the top 5 guys. This is the only way. I'm very determined. This is going to be the only way for me to achieve that. This is the most different thing I've done in my whole career. I haven't even done a single quad movement yet. Wow that is always my biggest critique in my life. Get bigger legs. We always think oh heavy squats, heavy leg press, heavy head squats. No, no, no. We're going to stick to isolating the movements. That is bodybuilding. Isolate the muscles that complete your physique. The 3 transforms the way you look next to the other guys. Especially from the rear. We're going to do it guys. I'm super super motivated. So with these relatively easy isolation movements. I like to do 3 sets. Because they're systemically, which means the whole body isn't really getting tired from it. It's just locally. So when you can locally get tired from a movement. You can do a little bit more sets because you can recover overall way quicker. But with a pendulum squat or a hack squat you might want to think twice about doing too many sets. It takes over the whole body. And then it takes a lot longer to recover. So you kind of sacrifice a lot of recovery points using those movements. So make sure that if you go to failure on multiple sets. That exercise feels really really nice on the muscle that you're trying to target. And then it takes a lot of recovery points using those movements. By the way guys, we want to thank you a whole lot for the incredible support during the ABLE birthday sale. A lot of my collection is sold out, but the one I am at right now, Champion Miles set is still available in some sizes. So if you use code Wesley, you'll always get the maximum possible discount And I personally truly appreciate you guys show love for the collection because the collection 2.0 is coming out Very soon and the better these ones go the more of those will be available for you in the future So thank you very much for the golden support So normally I wear a waiting suit with this But if you can adjust the platform the flatter you can put it the less need for a weightlifting shoe you have Because weightlifting shoe puts your heel up which makes the platform Artificially less steep. Let's put it less steep. You don't have to have so much ankle flexibility But what we will do of course is put back on the knee sleeves Those are always necessary for more stability in the bottom and a more safe feeling So right now I'm of course wearing these red knee sleeves You know, I've been thinking about a different color, but they don't have it in the lineup yet Which color do you guys think I would like to sing? Let me know down in the comments and who knows it might come sooner than you think Let's do some X-quads M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M It's amazing to train without any joint pain or discomfort except for the burn in the muscle where you want it That's why I love machines you can adjust tools you can use Just if you know how to train within your anatomy Training becomes so much more fun No pain Only fun Only stimulus And I'm also doing the number one important thing my coach told me Set your ass down in between sets A leg base no more walking around normally I'll be walking around the whole gym As a routine to burn calories for health But no I want to grow that ass I don't want to use that up too much only during the movements We stimulate growth not in between we stimulate burning I want to be as big as possible Because I know it worked for the R-Classic We shocked a lot of people including myself to be honest I saw whoa we actually make them grow for once So now we're going to do the exact same thing but one step above before Knowing even more and even better How to maintain the leg size during prep And how to grow them during the offseason So I'm very very excited guys Mh M M M oh Okay That's it guys That was the workouts Well, this is only the beginning as I mentioned before I think if I don't keep training like this I'm never going to be the true Dutch oak I can be on stage I think the potential is there to be so much better. I'm so happy that you guys saw it at the R-Classic and Detroit Pro the difference it can make when you throw around a little bit of training the way that you approach things in prep in the offseason and I'm going to take you along with the ride how to create and build up your weak points to actually become a strong point thank you very much for watching thank you for the incredible support and of course don't forget to stay golden