Hey. Hey. Hey. Yes. Arnold Classic. Here we go. >> All right. Have fun watching the show. Yeah, we will. Bye-bye. >> Now the laying down begins. I think right now it's 12. At around 1 and 1:30 p.m. I think classic will be on. First the ladies here back safe will go on. The fitness was an incredible class and the wellness is also an incredible class. So first the women get their time on stage and then at the end of this prejudging classic will be on stage. So it's going to be an exciting show guys and now it's all about relaxing. Work has been done. We're going to wait until we go on stage and the stage will be incredible. I'm so very excited guys. I can't tell you how much I enjoy this process right now. Just feeling excited, like excited nerves, which is what I had 2 years ago as well. Let's do this. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat up here. We are ready. Sorry. Right. All right, we got off stage and uh it's either me and this is funny or managate just like in 2024 me or Ramon Brazil you're not getting around on stage but as always I think I improved and I rather improve improved package, at least a more Wesley package, you know, more like who I am, the Dutch oak. So, uh, I brought my best self on stage. Now, we're just going to enjoy. We're going to relax. We're going to eat some golden rice and, uh, we're going to do our best for the finals because that's the posing routine and that's where Arnold, my idol, will be sitting on on besides the stage. So, let's do this and prepare for the finals. But, thank you guys. Thank you for being here. Support the crowd. It really helps bring up everything I have. Let's do this. >> That's awesome, man. I'm sure your routine tonight will also be great. >> Yeah, >> you and me are going to battle for the best posing award. I think >> I hope >> might be you. >> I hope. >> Anyway, enjoy today and see you tonight, man. >> What do you think, Neils? >> I think we have a We need a larger suitcase back home. >> We will. We will. What do you think? >> Was good. Heat. Heat. Heat. That's award trophy right there. All right, guys. It's time to go do my posing routine. I bet you enjoy it. Making his welcome to the stage your 2024 classic physique champion here in Ohio. He is from the Netherlands. Please welcome to the stage, Wesley Misters. I Are you ready? All righty, that was the posing routine. One of my favorite parts about bodybuilding, being creative. You can do whatever pose you want. Two minutes of fun in front of Arnold in the front row. It's a blessing, guys. It is the man, the myth, the legend, Arnold Schwarzenegger. It's right there on stage, only a couple of meters away from us, and it's going to be very, very close very soon. At least that's the dream, the hope. That's going to do it all for guys. So, uh, we'll be on stage again for the last time at the R Classic Ohio, at least in bodybuilding posing trunks at the moment, and we're going to see the result, guys. Let's hope for the best. Andrea Moly, I expect him to get the best posing cuz he really made an artwork of it. And at the AR classic, a complete artwork of posing, regardless if you want to play with the audience or not, is irrelevant for the posing reward I see now. It's all about really representing an aesthetic uh physique in the best possible pose and he did that. So, I'm proud of my teammate for sure. I have to just uh ask you a quick question. Where did he get those laughs from? >> I got this laughs from watching you do the ste rose on a pan of a rose with full range of motion back in pump. Thank you. But I mean I I don't think I ever have laughs like that. I tell you your laughs are extraordinary. You're standing there relaxed like this and it's just it's going straight out. This is not normal. How many sets do you do of lats? >> All of the sets. How many reps? All of them as well. You must be working for the CIA. He doesn't give us any answers. Anyway, congratulations. You're fantastic. You deserve the trophy and say, "I'll come. I'll be back. I'll be back. Absolutely great. everyone. >> Okay. >> Well, it was for me it's always nerve-wracking until the end, but >> this what I usually do. >> I had confidence. >> No, it was flawless performance. >> Yeah, but you just you just I'm used to not getting a victory when you think you can get it, but this time we did. So, >> Oh man. >> Time to celebrate a little and then go back in action. >> Yeah, back in action. >> Three times. >> Oh, yes. >> Yeah, you did it as well. And how are you feeling right now? >> Good. But I had have a headache because of the pressure you always feel. Even though I was for sure know that he was winning, you still feel that I don't know your heart rate in your throat and uh and also cry of course. So yeah, how I'm feel I'm really happy that he can that he talked to Arnold and he always do those kind of um interviews so professionally and also super proud. So, a mix of emotions. I think that's the good thing. And every winner or everyone who won wants a a good prize, you have always like this. It's the same with training and progression. I think so. Happy. And you >> can I uh grab your camera and just do the same to you? So, tell me, what do you feel, cameraman? like incredibly proud again. >> So, >> but that's not enough. You always ask me for more words. So, >> incredibly uh proud and also really happy that he won again. >> And yeah, like incredibly proud to be in this team. >> Also with you. >> Okay. And now we're out back to food. Almost time to eat. >> Yep. >> What do you prefer? >> I don't know what Wesley wants. I think sushi. So >> sushi. Yeah, I think sushi as well. or a good steak. >> We will see in a few seconds. >> Tastes good. >> Take some digestive enzymes. >> I just got done with the diet. And I'm still eating asparagus. That's Wesley. >> It is now the day after the show. Had a nice sleep. A short sleep, but it was asleep. And when I woke up, this beautiful trophy is what I saw. It's such a bliss. Waking up knowing that I'm the twotime AR Ohio Classic Physique Champ. And this is just an incredible trophy. Look at this golden Arnold edition as opposed to the 2024 prize. They made it different, but they keeping it nice and classy. Golden, that's what I'm standing for. Man, the experience yesterday was unbelievable, guys. It was incredible. It's always in a good way nerve-wracking until the very last second when you're there on stage. They're calling out the top five and you hear five, four, three, and then it's between me and the incredible Manatee who brought this amazing package, the best package so far. So, it was not an easy show for me. It was still a battle, but we delivered and we brought the Arnold Classic trophy back home to the Netherlands. The Dutch O did it. And not only that, I was able to again receive some amazing compliments by none other than Arnold Arnold Schwarzenegger himself. Just to see him walk out on stage, shake his hand again, and having him saying some funny things again. you know, when he says something outside of the norm, you know, he enjoyed the show about, of course, about the lads, which can never be big enough. But, uh, yeah, it's such a surreal experience. It's still an unbelievable feeling I have right now, and it gives me so much momentum for the future. Whereas last time I felt like the Aro Classic 24 was like the end of a long phase of you know not winning competitions ending outside the top five in some competitions then winning the show. I feel this is now a new beginning. Wesley Vissors 2.0 is coming to a lot more shows guys. I uh as I say in the Netherlands you get the smack the pucker. I got hold of the momentum of doing the shows and it is time to show you guys exactly who I am on stage to represent classic bodybuilding throughout the entire world. So, be prepared for that for sure. We still have the RO classic UK to go. We still have Detroit to go. So, I'm straight back to the diet today. But, uh, nothing tastes sweeter anyway than the taste of this incredible victory. And I can't stop or end this video without asking you guys or telling you guys that you are simply amazing. When I went on stage and I hear the crowds during my posing routine, during the pose down, and when I got the reward, the incredible enthusiasm everybody had in this on the stage, which is something that Arl is very good at, getting every enthusiast of the bodybuilding industry together and really cheering on the bodybuilders, which trust me guys, if you're in in the audience and you think the bodybuilders on stage are just doing their thing, your voice, your noise, your enthusiasm really helps them bring out all the energy, which is exactly what you did for me. So, with that said, the posing was very easy because you guys made it easy. It felt incredible. And once again, thank you so much, guys, for the unbelievable support. I wouldn't have been here without you guys. And that's thanks to you guys even outside of the competition throughout the offseason making sure that you support me by watching the videos and we of course using my code with AEL with ESN all that stuff. It's all small things but it really helps getting us to these shows and telling everybody in the industry yes Wesley Visitors need to stay. And u that's exactly what we're going to do. Anyway, once again, thank you for your support and of course, and I got to get stand up for this. Don't forget to stay golden.