getting it done. Get rid of these break down. Whatever it takes. Whatever it takes. >> Wrong. I shouldn't be doing this. So, free weights are not always the option for the biggest possible back. Sometimes regular movements with cables, machines that are safer for the back can yield bigger back gains than doing the traditional bent of a row, for example. Now, are these bad exercises? Not necessarily. So, we all know that Arnold, Ronnie Coleman, a lot of the great the bodybuilders usually do these free weight movements very heavy, but at the same time, a lot of them also have lower back issues. because they're not as safe as machine-based movements and especially when the back is a weak point. It is important to choose several options besides the free weights to grow the back. So remember the famous bend over row we actually did at the beginning. Well, the problem is it is very heavy before you get into effective reps for the back. All that weight will go to the lower back as well and the weakest link in the body will fall victim to possible injury and the lower back falls victim of this quite often with a lot of bodybuilders. So a very good replacement for a bend of a row or a barber row is for example the seated row. This allows you to keep your back upright and put the tension exactly where you want it in a controlled fashion rather than using a lot of momentum to get the weight up. The barbell only allows for one hand position, whereas the seated row allows for different grips, which you can use for, for example, a neutral grip, allowing for the elbow to be closer to the body for a better lat contraction as opposed to the forced grip you have on a barbell. Ah, who doesn't love a good T-Bo row? I used to do this movement so much in the past. I used to love the feeling. However, there's two major flaws with this movement you can improve to make your back a lot bigger. So, this is the ultimate mass and thickness builder for the back. However, as you can see, I cannot even go all the way up as this play is literally in the way of a full squeeze range of motion, which kind of prevents me from retracting shoulder blades completely. Another reason why this movement isn't optimal, at least for me and for most people, is the grip. The width of this grip is very narrow which means you also blocked in the range of motion further preventing full contraction of the upper back of the middle back. So you cannot really create the ultimate back thickness you're looking for. Of course guys you guessed it already. Of course the replacement is going to be the TRO machine. But for very important reasons I'm going to tell you right now. Remember the problem with the plate hitting your chest? Well, because of this grip and the design of this machine, you get rid of that completely. The plate is a lot lower. The machine is up higher. You won't hit the floor. You won't hit your chest. So, if you do the movement, you can go all the way down and all the way up, and I can't go up anymore, and there's a lot of room for the plate to move. So, full range of motion here is very possible. So, the second most important thing is the grip width. A machine allows you to be creative with your grips. And this way you can contract the back a lot better and more natural without getting the biceps in the way without preventing a full retraction of the shoulder blades. Here you can grip it exactly the way your back contracts the best possible way. However, the heavier you go because of this chest pad, the more it can hurt your chest. But we have a solution for that. Remember this chest pad? You put it on here. I explained in the previous video, you did watch it, right? Two, protect the chest, the rib cage, and the lungs from being collapsed. This will actually put the pressure all over instead of at one point. You can go nice and heavy and do this nice and comfortably. Dumbbell row. Who doesn't love this movement? Well, you don't love it if you only want to isolate the back and the lats. Let me show you exactly what I mean. So, especially when you go very heavy, you have to balance your body. You have to kind of compensate with other muscles to keep your body straight. But especially if you go from here all the way here, you don't only contract the last but also the obliques aka is going to make your waist wider. So this is exactly the reason why a free weight builds muscle in general, but as a bodybuilder, you want to isolate the muscle with a machine or a cable to isolate the lats from the obliques. We don't want to train the obliques, just the lats. Secondly, there's no chest support. You have to hold up your own weight. When you're going for a very heavy dumbbell, which a lot of people can do on a dumbbell row, you're kind of distracted by having to hold yourself up, balancing yourself. And again, this will target other muscles compared to purely isolating the muscle. You want to work the back. So, a great way to eliminate all of these factors is the seated cable row with a chest support. As you can see, I can first of all shift my shoulder down, elbow close to the body to target only the lats. And this chest support will ensure my lower back is out of the movement and my obliques are doing next to nothing. Aka a pure isolation movement for the lats and nothing else. Let me get one thing clear. Free weights aren't bad at all. I've done them for many years. Build up some great progression all over my body. However, now, especially after the beginner phase, Steve Weinberger, the head judge of the Mr. Olympia himself, said my back could need some extra work. So, even though I've been doing all of those free movements for the back, the T- bar row, the borrow row, even rack pools, it still wasn't enough to build a quality detailed back. So, if you're still struggling with the same issues, your back is still a weak point and you've been doing free weights, sticking to machines will fill in those gaps you have right now. For example, the back thickness and the on the top, the traps, the lower lats, all those things you can fix with machines rather than the free weights. Perhaps the most important tip for back development or muscle development in general is recovery needs to be on par. A back workout is heavy. It hits hard. So, you need a lot of recovery. And guess what? The number one tool is for recovery? Sleep. And guess what? Most people have trouble with sleeping. So, ESN came out with the Sleep Stack supplement. Right now, it is performance week. To be able to perform at your best, you need to be able to sleep at your best. And this Sleep Stack is packed with ingredients to make your sleep a lot better. I tried it out myself. Use code Resley because right now it is at the most possible discount. And thank you for the golden support and let me know what you think. Now this one is a golden one, the dumbbell pullover. It's a free weight motion, but ironically it's one of the ones that I still use to this day. Yes, I do the cable pullover, which is a great alternative to this. But I still believe the dumb pullover is a true ultra movement that is still very safe and effective because you stretch the lats where it's most growth is going to happen. It's a very safe motion. The lower back is supported and it just looks awesome. So, let's give it a shot. So guys, these are just some of my tips why machines could be a better fit for you rather than only those free weights. If you want to great the valid back and come out unscathed using machines in combination with some free weights will work the best way in my opinion. So a great back without a lower back or any other injury profile. Anyway, thank you very much for watching this video and of course guys check out Able as this guy as part of the Able Lifting Club are you as well with code Wesley you can be for a very cheap price. I want to say thanks again for the incredible golden support. If you want to see more of these kinds of videos, comment down below. And of course, don't forget to stay golden.