CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01709123
Title: Effects of Micronutrient (Chromium) Supplementation on Diabetes
Official Title: Ketosis, Vascular Inflammation, and Its Therapy (Chromium Supplementation) in Diabetic Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
6-8% of USA population has diabetes. Intensive blood glucose control dramatically reduces the devastating complications that result from poorly controlled diabetes. However, for many patients, achievement of tight glucose control is difficult with current regimens. Trivalent chromium, the form found in foods and dietary supplements, is believed to be safe. Our preliminary studies have reported that chromium supplementation inhibits the increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6; TNF-alpha and IL-6) secretion levels caused by high glucose levels in cultured monocytic cells. Similarly, animal studies have shown that chromium niacinate supplementation lowered blood levels of glycemia and pro-inflammatory cytokines in streptozotocin-treated diabetic rats. Cytokines are proteins that are secreted by monocytes and other cells in response to various stimuli, such as infection. Some of the cytokines are known to regulate insulin sensitivity and elevated level of these cytokines in blood may accelerate clogging of arteries. Thus, chromium supplementation may increase insulin sensitivity and glycemic control in diabetic patients, and may prevent the development of cardiovascular disease in diabetic patients. Given the enormous public health cost of diabetes, the prospect of being able to use a relatively low-cost dietary supplement, such as chromium, as an adjuvant therapy to help in achieving normal blood glucose level merits further study.

We will examine the effects of placebo and chromium niacinate supplementation on the fasting glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, and markers of vascular disease in blood of diabetic patients. We will determine these above parameters at baseline and after the 1, 2 and 3 months of supplementation in diabetic patients. The long-term objective is to explore the efficacy of chromium as an adjuvant treatment for better glycemic control, prevent the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and improve the life expectancy in diabetic population.

Chromium supplements are widely used by the public and are available in many stores, such as Wal-mart, Walgreens, and many other food and drug stores. Chromium is an essential trace metal and micronutrient present in wide variety of vegetables. Niacin is a vitamin B6, an essential vitamin for our body. This study plans to use chromium niacinate, a complex of chromium and niacin. Chromium niacinate is considered a nutrient.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Glucose Level
  - Blood Glucose Levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: chromium niacinate
  - DRUG: placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 21 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01709123
