CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03550274
Title: App-based Exercise Intervention for Persons With Acute Ankle Sprain
Official Title: A Pilot Study Investigating the Use and Preliminary Effect of the App "Injury-map" in Providing Exercise Rehabilitation for Persons With Acute Lateral Ankle Sprains Seen at the Emergency Department - a Mixed-method Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Acute lateral ankle sprains (ALAS) account for 4-5% of all Emergency Department visits in Denmark. Up to 2/3 of individuals with a history of lateral ankle sprain have prolonged symptoms for several years after their initial injury. Exercise therapy has proven to be a cost-effective rehabilitation in treating ALAS and in preventing re-injury. Injury-map© is an exercise app designed for treating different musculoskeletal problems including ALAS. The app has currently not been tested in a clinical trial with patients suffering from ALAS. This mixed method pilot cohort study aims to investigate the use and preliminary effect of an exercise program on a mobile device in patients with ALAS. The exercise program is designed to be completed within approximately 3 months. However, participants will be followed as long as they complete minimum 1 exercise session per week. If a participant is inactive for two weeks they will be considered completed and contacted for follow-up assessment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Acute lateral ankle sprains (ALAS) account for 4-5% of all Emergency Department visits in Denmark and is the most common injury in sporting activities. It is often regarded as an innocuous injury but in truth up to 2/3 of individuals with a history of lateral ankle sprain have prolonged symptoms such as pain, decreased function and subjective instability for several years after their initial injury. Exercise therapy has proven to be a cost-effective rehabilitation in treating ALAS and in preventing re-injury. The financial modality of ALAS is high but exercise therapy has proven to be a cost-effective rehabilitation in treating ALAS and in preventing re-injury.

Modern technology has the potential to be a powerful tool in providing easily accessible exercise programs. Injury-map© is an exercise app designed for treating different musculoskeletal problems including ALAS. The exercise program has been developed by health professionals and has the potential to provide an easy-accessible management of ALAS rehabilitation. However, the app has currently not been tested in a clinical trial with patients suffering from ALAS. Before undertaking a large scale trial, the investigators wish to pilot test the app to assess the use and preliminary effect of the app-based exercise program.

This study aims to investigate the use and preliminary effect of an exercise program on a mobile device in patients with ALAS when seen in the Emergency Room at a public hospital. It is designed as a mixed method pilot cohort study. The SPIRIT checklist for trial protocols and the PREPARE trial guide have been used for the overall framework of this protocol.

Approximately 60 participants will be recruited from the Emergency Department (ED) at Hvidovre Hospital (HvH). Health specialists associated with the ED and responsible for ankle examinations will recruit participants . If a health specialist deems a person eligible, they will deliver a bag containing a rubber band and project description. If a participant is willing to participate in the project, they can contact the study administrator by the contact information in the written material. When contact is established participants will receive a voucher for the app, informed consent and a baseline questionnaire.

The exercise program will be available on any mobile device and/or tablet using Android or iOS. It is expected that patients primarily will exercise mainly at home. Participants will be followed as long as they actively use the exercise app or for a maximum of four months. When a participant has been inactive for more than two weeks, the participants are considered finalized and will be contacted for follow-up assessment.

Participants will receive a weekly SMS string where information of return to activity and subjective feeling of instability will be collected. The SMS string will send ever for four months. At follow-up assessment participants will receive a questionnaire containing questions of their experien

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Return to work
  - Return to sport
  - Re-injuries in the same ankle
  - Subjective feeling of ankle stability
  - Subjective feeling of recovery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: App-based exercise rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 120 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03550274
