CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03534765
Title: Frailty and Sarcopenia Outcomes in Emergency General Surgery
Official Title: Frailty and Sarcopenia Outcomes in Emergency General Surgery
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 294
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
1. A retrospective scoping cohort review of adult patients undergoing emergency laparotomy/laparoscopy for acute gastrointestinal (GI) pathology who have had a CT scan of the abdomen(+/- pelvis). CT measured sarcopenia would be compared with clinical outcomes, 30-day and 1-year mortality.
2. A prospective observational cohort study and bio-banking exercise of routinely collected clinical data, in a cohort of patient undergoing emergency laparotomy/laparoscopy or conservative treatment for an otherwise operable pathology. An interrogation of CT measured sarcopenia and a validated clinical frailty score would be analysed against clinical outcomes, 30-day and 1-year mortality.

The investigators aim to research the association and predictive advantage of combining subjectively measured frailty, objectively measured CT sarcopenia and other risk predicting tools used in every day surgical practice and surgical outcomes (mortality and morbidity) in a cohort of acute surgical patients undergoing surgery or conservative treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Frailty has a significant impact on surgical outcomes. It is an independent risk factor for adverse outcomes following surgery including complications, length of stay, inability to return home and mortality. Frailty is a physiological decline across multiple body systems accumulating in loss of reserves and increased vulnerability to stressors.

Sarcopenia, loss of muscle mass or progressive reduction in muscle mass, is one of the central physiological manifestations of frailty resulting in weight loss, weakness and exhaustion. Frailty has both a strong correlation with age as well as significant overlap with disability and co-morbidity. Further factors strongly influencing outcome, 30 day and mortality have been described including polypharmacy, Charlson co-morbidity index, age, not independently mobile, emergency admission and falls. It has been recognised that poor outcomes are multimodal relating to the interplay of co-morbidities, physical functioning and nutrition.

Assessing frailty can be completed using simple questionnaire tools, as well as more complex assessment of co-morbidity, functional status, and disability. There is good evidence the simple tools can be as accurate as formal geriatric assessments.

As sarcopenia relates directly to many manifestations of frailty it can be used as a surrogate marker. One of the favoured ways for diagnosing sarcopenia is using CT morphometric biological markers. This uses an axial image at the level of the 3rd lumbar vertebra (L3) to assess the total or cross-sectional volume of the psoas muscle, giving rise to indices measuring muscle mass, visceral adipose tissue and subcutaneous adipose tissue.

Major abdominal emergency surgery is a high-risk procedure with ongoing audit and outcome monitoring. Currently data collection for UK National Emergency Laparotomy Audit (NELA) is in its fourth year with annual reports into the management and outcomes of emergency laparotomies. Observation and audit of these outcomes remain central to improving service and healthcare both regionally and nationally. Furthermore, this group of patients is not well represented in research and is one of the most understudied surgical cohorts that exist. This is especially the case for patients presenting with an acute surgical diagnosis and are deemed unable to withstand the stress of surgery, and hence pursue a conservative or radiological treatment option. With our ageing, co-morbid population this is becoming increasing common. The diagnosis of frailty and sarcopenia are a significant measurable and modifiable risk factor that impacts on perioperative surgical care, healthcare provider and patient decision-making and most importantly long and short term outcomes. This urgently requires further audit and study.

Work package one (WP1): Retrospective scoping cohort study in acute general surgery

Patient identification The number of patients recruited from each participating hospital will be proportionate to the total num

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 30-day mortality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CT abdomen +/- pelvis
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Edmunton Frailty Score
  - PROCEDURE: Emergency laparotomy for general surgical pathology

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03534765
