CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06157281
Title: Positive Deviance to Improve Retention in HIV Care HIV Care in South Africa
Official Title: Combining Positive Deviance and Implementation Science to Improve Retention in HIV Care in South Africa
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The goal of this pilot trial is to test the effectiveness of a newly developed multicomponent clinic-level intervention for improving retention in HIV care among people living with HIV in South Africa. The intervention was developed based on intensive study of clinics with high retention rates. The main question this study aims to answer is: Does the intervention improve retention in HIV care for people with HIV (PWH)?

The intervention, called "Connect," consists of several strategies within three domains, as follows:

Domain 1: Engage, Encourage, Support Staff

Strategy 1a: Monthly staff huddle with staff recognition activities and compassion-focused rounds

Strategy 1b: Compassion training

Domain 2: Create a welcome physical environment

Strategy 2a: Aesthetic improvements toward a warm, welcoming environment

Domain 3: Expedite and augment workflow practices

Strategy 3a: Pre-pull patient folders; hold folders for immediate tracking; map patients to identify locations

Strategy 3b: Integrate welcome-back services for those who miss follow-up appointments

HIV staff at three clinics with below-average retention rates who consent to participate will take part in intervention activities. Results will be compared to those of all other lower-retention clinics within the same health system.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of this pilot trial is to test the effectiveness of a newly developed multicomponent clinic-level intervention for improving retention in HIV care among people living with HIV in South Africa. The intervention is based on intensive interviews, focus groups and surveys conducted with HIV staff within 3 clinics in a health system with lower-than-average retention rates. The next step is to conduct a pilot trial to test whether the intervention can improve care for people living with HIV.

The main question this study aims to answer is: Does the intervention improve retention in HIV care for people with HIV (PWH)?

The intervention, called "Connect," consists of several strategies within three domains, as follows:

Domain 1: Engage, Encourage, Support Staff

Strategy 1a: Monthly staff huddle with staff recognition activities and compassion-focused rounds. Each clinic holds a monthly huddle toward team cohesion, support and a shared vision for retention. Consists of some core activities, such as "Rounds", staff recognition; and activities to build team cohesion and staff wellbeing.

Strategy 1b: Compassion training. Based on evidenced-based compassion training, train and support staff on interacting with other providers and patients in compassionate ways.

Domain 2: Create a welcome physical environment.

Strategy 2a: Aesthetic improvements toward a warm, welcoming environment. Examples include bright paint in waiting areas, murals on outside walls, plants, posters with positive messaging on walls.

Domain 3: Expedite and augment workflow practices.

Strategy 3a: Pre-pull patient folders; hold folders for immediate tracking; map patients to identify locations. Staff pull folders for next-day appointments, communicate no-shows with trackers, use mapping to have patients indicate approximate living areas to facilitate tracking.

Strategy 3b: Welcome-back services for those who miss follow-up appointments. Integrate specialized, patient-centered services for those who miss their 1-month or 3-month visit to re-enter care easily. The key elements of this are genuine concern for the patient, avoiding scolding or blaming the patients, checks on patient health and symptoms, and exploration of barriers including how to overcome these and facilitate ongoing treatment.

HIV staff at three clinics with below-average retention rates who consent to participate will take part in intervention activities. Results will be compared to those of all other lower-retention clinics within the same health system.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) Retention
  - Viral Load Suppression (VLS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Connect

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06157281
