CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04815460
Title: Aerobic Interval and Moderate Continuous Exercise Training on Ventricular Functions
Official Title: Aerobic Interval and Moderate Continuous Exercise Training on Ventricular Functions
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Hypoxic exposure increases right ventricular (RV) afterload by triggering pulmonary hypertension, with consequent effects on the structure and function of the RV. Improved myocardial contractility is a critical circulatory adaptation to exercise training. However, the types of exercise that enhance right cardiac mechanics during hypoxic stress have not yet been identified. This study investigated how high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) influence right cardiac mechanics during hypoxic exercise (HE).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hypoxic exposure increases right ventricular (RV) afterload by triggering pulmonary hypertension, with consequent effects on the structure and function of the RV. Improved myocardial contractility is a critical circulatory adaptation to exercise training. However, the types of exercise that enhance right cardiac mechanics during hypoxic stress have not yet been identified. This study investigated how high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) influence right cardiac mechanics during hypoxic exercise (HE).

The young and healthy sedentary males were randomly selected to engage in either HIIT (3-min intervals at 40% and 80% of VO2 oxygen uptake reserve) or MICT (sustained 60% of VO2 oxygen uptake reserve) for 30 min/day and 5 days/week for 6 weeks or were included in a control group (CTL) that did not engage in any exercise. Right cardiac mechanics during semiupright bicycle exercise tests under hypoxic conditions (i.e., 50 watts under 12% FiO2 for 3 min) were measured using two-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography. The primary outcome was the change in right cardiac mechanics during semiupright bicycle exercise under hypoxic conditions (i.e., 50 watts under 12% FiO2 for 3 min) as measured by two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The changes of right cardiac mechanics during hypoxia stress echocardiography: Strain
  - The changes of right cardiac mechanics during hypoxia stress echocardiography: Strain rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High intensity-interval training (HIIT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate intensity-continuous (MICT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04815460
