CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06742697
Title: Flexibility, Resistance, Aerobic, Movement Execution Training in Adults With Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia
Official Title: Flexibility, Resistance, Aerobic, Movement Execution (FRAME) Training Program to Improve Gait Capacity in Adults With Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia: Protocol for a Single-cohort Feasibility Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia (HSP) is a diverse group of genetic neurological conditions causing progressive weakness and spasticity in the lower limbs, severely reducing balance and gait capabilities. There is currently a lack of structured neurorehabilitation programs aimed at improving gait in adults with HSP. This protocol seeks to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of a structured training approach focusing on flexibility, muscle strength, motor control, balance, and aerobic capacity.

To this end, twenty adults diagnosed with HSP will engage in 10 to 16 sessions, each lasting 60 to 120 minutes, guided by a therapist once or twice a week, depending on individual preferences. At the end of the program, participants will receive a transfer package, including written instructions (a manual) and video tutorials, to encourage ongoing exercise at home. Assessments will occur before the intervention (T0), immediately after (T1), and three months later (T2). The primary outcomes will measure the feasibility of the program, including recruitment, retention, adherence, the absence of adverse events, and patient satisfaction. Secondary outcomes will focus on improvements in gait capabilities such as gait endurance and gait speed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION:

Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia (HSP) is a heterogeneous group of inherited neurological disorders characterized by progressive weakness and spasticity in the lower limbs, which significantly impairs walking abilities (endurance and speed). Despite several specific interventions for particular deficits already having been studied, there is currently a lack of comprehensive and structured neurorehabilitation programs designed to improve walking function in these patients. Therefore, this protocol aims to explore the feasibility and effectiveness of a composite training approach focused on improving flexibility, muscle strength, motor control, balance, and aerobic capacity.

STUDY OBJECTIVES:

Primary endpoint: Feasibility of the study, assessed by the following:

Sufficient recruitment rate, with 20 patients enrolled within 24 months from the study's initiation.

Adequate adherence to the treatment plan, defined by the completion of at least 75% of the planned treatment sessions, with a minimum of 10 treatment sessions.

Sufficient patient retention, defined as at least 75% of enrolled patients completing the study with adequate treatment adherence.

Absence of serious adverse events related to patient participation in the study.

Patient satisfaction with the healthcare received during the study.

Secondary endpoint: Therapeutic efficacy of the study, assessed by:

Improvement in walking endurance (6-Minute Walk Test). Improvement in walking speed (10-Meter Walk Test).

Exploratory objectives:

Improvement in overall functional condition (Spastic Paraplegia Rating Scale and the Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia - Self Notion and Perception Questionnaire).

Improvement in passive joint range of motion in the lower limbs (goniometer). Improvement in lower limb muscle strength (5 Times Sit-to-Stand Test). Improvement in standing balance (Functional Reach Test and stabilometric platform).

STUDY DESIGN: Open-label, non-randomized, uncontrolled interventional study.

STUDY POPULATION: Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia patients

SAMPLE SIZE: 20 patients

ELIGIBILITY:

Inclusion criteria:

Adults diagnosed with Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia. Presence of any functional deficit in the lower limbs affecting walking, such as muscle weakness, hypertonia, or balance issues.

Ability to walk independently, without physical assistance from another person, defined by a Functional Ambulation Category score of 3 or higher.

Ability to understand simple instructions, comprehend the purpose of the study, willingness to participate, commitment to at least 10 treatment sessions, and suitability for signing the informed consent.

Exclusion criteria:

Use of botulinum toxin or surgery to treat lower limb hypertonia within six months prior to study enrollment.

Contraindications for moderate physical activity, including stretching exercises, muscle strengthening, and aerobic training.

Withdrawal Criteria:

Voluntary withdrawal by the patient. Occurrence of adverse 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility (recruitment rate).
  - Feasibility (adherence rate).
  - Feasibility (retention rate).
  - Feasibility (safety).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Flexibility, Resistance, Aerobic, Movement Execution training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06742697
