CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03819764
Title: Cost-effectiveness of Forced Aerobic Exercise for Stroke Rehabilitation
Official Title: Cost-effectiveness and Efficacy of a Combined Intervention to Facilitate Motor Recovery Following Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate whether aerobic exercise improves the participant's ability to recover function in the arm and leg affected by the participant's stroke. The investigators are also calculating the cost effectiveness of the rehabilitation interventions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aims of the study are to determine the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of combining aerobic exercise training with upper extremity motor task practice to improve motor recovery following stroke. It is hypothesized that the neurophysiologic impact of aerobic exercise may augment motor recovery associated with motor task practice. To test this hypothesize, 60 individuals with chronic stroke will be recruited to participate in this randomized clinical trial. Following screening and informed consent, all participants will undergo an exercise stress test to determine response to maximal exertion. Following the stress test, baseline clinical assessments will be obtained to quantify upper extremity function, gait, endurance, and self-reported quality of life. Additionally, variables to determine degree of disability will be obtained. Individuals will be randomized to one of two interventions: 45 min of forced-rate aerobic exercise paired with 45 min of upper limb repetitive task practice or two back-to-back 45-minute sessions of upper limb repetitive task practice. The interventions will occur 3 times per week for 8 weeks. Outcomes assessing motor function and disability will be repeated at mid-treatment, end of treatment, and at 4 weeks, 6-months and 12-months following end of treatment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Upper Extremity Repetitive Task Practice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03819764
