CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06328205
Title: Impact of Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block on Swallowing Difficulties Caused by Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Study to Explore the Effect of Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block on Pharyngeal Dysphagia Induced by Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to explore Clinical Effect of Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block on Pharyngeal Dysphagia Induced by Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease. The main question it aims to answer is:

• Can Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block improve dysphagia caused by gastroesophageal reflux symptoms on the basis of rehabilitation trening? Participants will be randomly allocated into the control group or the experimental group, all under rehabilitation treatment, the experimental group will be given Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block once a day additionally. The study lasts 20 days for each participant. Researchers will compare the Rosenbek penetration-aspiration scale, Gastroesophageal Reflux DiseasEQuestionnaire, Pressure pain threshold, to see if the Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block can help improve the symptom.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gastroesophageal reflux is a common digestive disorder characterized by the backflow of stomach contents and fluids into the esophagus.

The goal of this clinical trial is to explore Clinical Effect of Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block on Pharyngeal Dysphagia Induced by Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease. The main question it aims to answer is:

• Can Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block improve dysphagia caused by gastroesophageal reflux symptoms on the basis of rehabilitation trening? Participants will be randomly allocated into the control group or the experimental group, all under rehabilitation treatment, the experimental group will be given Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block once a day additionally. The study lasts 20 days for each participant. Researchers will compare the Rosenbek penetration-aspiration scale, Gastroesophageal Reflux DiseasEQuestionnaire, Pressure pain threshold, to see if the Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block can help improve the symptom.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - penetration-aspiration scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Rehabilitation therapy
  - PROCEDURE: Glossopharyngeal Nerve Block
  - DRUG: Lidocaine Hydrochloride
  - BEHAVIORAL: placebo injection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06328205
