CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04180787
Title: Effects of a Caffeine- and Protein-Containing Coffee Beverage on Metabolism and Muscular Performance
Official Title: Effects of a Caffeine- and Protein-Containing Coffee Beverage on Metabolism and Muscular Performance
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this randomized, double-blind, crossover study is to investigate the effects of Bang® Keto Coffee on resting and post-exercise metabolism and muscular performance during lower body resistance exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Resistance-trained males and females will be recruited for participation in a randomized, double-bind, crossover trial. After providing informed consent, each participant will undergo a familiarization session to become accustomed to the study procedures. Following familiarization, each participant will complete two laboratory visits consisting of metabolism and exercise performance assessments. In both visits, a baseline assessment of resting metabolic rate (RMR) and respiratory exchange ratio (RER) will be conducted using indirect calorimetry. Following the initial RMR assessment, each participant will ingest a coffee flavored beverage, either VPX Bang® Keto Coffee or a flavor-matched placebo. After beverage consumption, the participant will return to the supine position and rest prior to initiation of the second RMR assessment. Immediately following the second RMR assessment, the participant will begin a 5-minute dynamic bodyweight warm up. Participants will then begin squat testing procedures on a mechanized squat device. After completing the squat testing, participants will complete a standard 1-repetition maximum and repetitions to failure using a plate-loaded hip sled machine. Following the hip sled testing, participants will repeat the mechanized squat testing. Following completion of the exercise testing, a third and final RMR assessment will be performed. Following successful completion of the first condition, each participant will enter a wash out period, after which the visit will be repeated with ingestion of the alternative beverage.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isometric Force Production
  - Isometric Force Production
  - Isokinetic Force Production
  - Isokinetic Force Production
  - Maximal Lower Body Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beverage Consumption

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04180787
