CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02969707
Title: Use of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation to Augment Hypnotic Analgesia
Official Title: Use of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation to Augment Hypnotic Analgesia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 101
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The investigators plan to use functional neuroimaging (fMRI) to understand the brain systems affected when hypnosis and hypnotic analgesia are augmented with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), a form of non-invasive brain stimulation to 100 people with fibromyalgia, a chronic pain condition. The investigators will measure the effect of rTMS-augmentation on the brain networks underlying hypnotizability, as well as the effect of rTMS-augmentation on hypnotic analgesia networks. The investigators hope to demonstrate that a combination of these psychological and neuromodulatory treatments will be more effective than hypnosis alone, thereby enhancing the depth of hypnosis, range of hypnosis and the efficacy of hypnotic analgesia and hopefully creating a new treatment modality for individuals suffering from pain syndromes such as fibromyalgia pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overall Study Design. The investigators propose to develop a combinatory approach where an integrative technique (hypnosis) is augmented with a neurotechnology (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation). This application seeks to utilize the previously established brain-based mechanisms of both hypnosis and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as biomarkers to assess the potential synergistic mechanism of this combinatory approach. 100 low-moderately hypnotizable subjects with fibromyalgia will be identified. The subjects' response to rTMS-augmentation of hypnosis will be measured. The volunteers will be randomized to active or sham rTMS. Two scan sessions will be performed for each subject, with the first scan session investigating the effect of rTMS-augmentation on hypnosis and hypnotizability (120 min scan session) and the second scan session focused on the effect of rTMS-augmented hypnotic analgesia (120 min scan session).

* During the course of the study and upon consultation with the manufacturer, sham setting intensity was lowered to reduce the risk adverse events (e.g., scalp damage).

The study will require that participants participate in an in-person screening visit, a screening MRI scan and 2 MRI scan sessions that include the TMS and hypnosis.

Experimental design. Before each MRI scan session, participants will undergo a preparation session, where hypnotizability and either psychological testing or experimental pain training will be conducted. Volunteer subjects will then participate in 2 MRI scan sessions on two separate days, each lasting approximately 120 mins.

Hypnosis induction procedures. Hypnosis will be induced while the subject is in the scanner though the use of headphones and a pre-recorded induction script. Hypnotic instructions will be standardized, and will involve a simple induction instruction used in our prior research on the brain signature of the hypnotic state and in clinical care. The ability to enter and maintain the hypnotic state through such an induction mechanism in the fMRI environment has been previously demonstrated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Change in Functional Connectivity (FC) Between the Left Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex (L-DLPFC) and the Dorsal Anterior Cingulate Cortex (dACC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: MagPro TMS system (MagVenture, Denmark)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Hypnosis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02969707
