CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03473821
Title: Motor Imagery to Facilitate Sensorimotor Relearning After ACL Injury
Official Title: Motor Imagery to Facilitate Sensorimotor Relearning (MOTIFS) After ACL Injury: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 106
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Anterior cruciate ligament injury is a common issue in sports involving cutting and jumping. Treatment may include surgical intervention followed by physical therapy, or no surgical intervention with the main treatment being physical therapy. Despite meeting physical therapist requirements for return to sport, many athletes do not return to sport. This discrepancy in the physical requirements for returning to physical activity and actually returning to the same physical activity level leads to the question of whether current rehabilitation treatments may be improved upon.

One potential method is by integrating mental training into physical rehabilitation. By using mental training and increasing the meaning and relevance of rehabilitation, a person may be preparing more effectively for return to the pace and intensity common during physical activity.

In this study, the investigators aim to create and evaluate a model of training which incorporates physical activity-related movement and mental training in order to more effectively prepare people for return to physical activity after anterior cruciate ligament injury. This will be measured by examining functional hop measures, as well as patient-reported outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) injury is increasingly common in sports involving jumping and cutting. Treatment for such injuries most often includes physical therapist-supervised rehabilitation, with or without surgical reconstruction. Care-as-usual rehabilitation often includes neuromuscular training in order to improve function and reduce knee-related symptoms. Recent data shows that 90% of athletes undergoing rehabilitation achieved normal or nearly-normal knee function when measured in strength and knee laxity. Despite this number, 56% of these athletes did not return to sport or pre-injury activity levels. Due to this imbalance, the question is raised of whether there is a potential to supplement care-as-usual in order to improve upon current rehabilitative training programs.

One attractive alternative is the use of dynamic motor imagery (DMI), which is a form of mental training intended to increase functional equivalence. This is done by imaging an activity-specific and relevant movement while simultaneously completing a similar movement, thereby simulating a real-life physical activity movement. This approach makes it possible to create a situation in which a person is able to create meaning and find relevance in movement used in a rehabilitative training environment.

In this study, the investigators aim to create and test a new training model, referred to as MOTor Imagery to Facilitate Sensorimotor re-learning (MOTIFS), and compare the efficacy of neuromuscular training plus dynamic motor imagery vs neuromuscular training alone in terms of muscle function and patient-reported outcomes in people with an ACL injury and with a goal of returning to pre-injury level of activity.

Primary Hypothesis: 12 weeks of neuromuscular training plus dynamic motor imagery will improve muscle function, measured by relative change in hop performance in the injured leg in side hop test, and patient-reported measures of psychological readiness to return to sport to a greater extent and with a quicker onset of recovery than neuromuscular training alone.

Methods:

In this randomized controlled trial, the inclusion criteria are as follows: (i) male and female ACL-injured people, (ii) over the age of 16, (iii) ACL injury or reconstruction with or without associated injuries to other knee structures, (iii) currently undergoing rehabilitation, (iv) active in recreational or competitive physical activity prior to the injury, and (v) have a goal of reaching pre-injury activity level. Exclusion criteria for participants include: (i) a disease or disorder overriding the knee injury, (ii) have undergone return-to-activity evaluation by a physical therapist, and (iii) do not understand a Scandinavian language (Swedish, Danish, Norwegian) or English.

Those participants randomized to the care-as-usual group will receive rehabilitation according to standard practices.

The experimental group will receive standard training which has been supplemented with the dynamic 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Side Hop
  - Anterior Cruciate Ligament Return to Sport After Injury Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: MOTIFS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03473821
