CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06122441
Title: RE-inventing Strategies for Healthy Ageing; Recommendations and Tools
Official Title: RE-inventing Strategies for Healthy Ageing; Recommendations and Tools (RESTART) - a Randomized Controlled Trial Testing a Complex Lifestyle Intervention in Older Adults at Increased Risk for Cardiometabolic Disease
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 119
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of the RESTART RCT is to examine whether a complex lifestyle intervention, coordinated with municipal and non-government organizations (NGO), can establish and preserve improvements in risk factors and functional capacity among older adults at high risk of cardiometabolic disease. The main objectives to investigate are whether a complex lifestyle intervention, compared to an active control group, will at 24 months have:

1. Produced a clinically relevant increase in cardiorespiratory fitness (primary endpoint)
2. Increased muscle strength, physical activity and reduced adiposity
3. Improved body composition, health-related quality of life and cognitive function

All participants (Control and Intervention Groups) are provided with wrist-worn activity trackers at baseline and access to national recommendations on physical activity. The intervention group additionally advances through a comprehensive lifestyle program including high-intensity aerobic and strength exercise, dietary and behavioral counselling. Intervention participants are gradually transitioned into exercise activities organized by Tromsø Municipaity and local NGO:s. Testing of outcomes are performed at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 months. Primary endpoint (VO2max) is assessed at 24 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proportion of older individuals worldwide is growing, posing a significant challenge to western societies. To address the health challenges of the aging population, primary prevention efforts should focus on various lifestyle factors simultaneously. However, many interventions fail to maintain improved lifestyle habits among participants, highlighting the need for novel and complex approaches to ensure healthy aging among older adults.

The RESTART randomized controlled trial aims to investigate whether participants undergoing a complex lifestyle intervention improve their cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle strength, physical activity, adiposity and body composition, quality of life and cognitive function at 24 months, compared to active controls.

The study and data collection will occur in Tromsø, Norway (pop. 77,000). Participants will receive the intervention at a local community exercise center near the University of Tromsø campus area. Testing of physical performance will take place at the UiT Faculty of Health Sciences research laboratory for sports, physical activity, and public health. The Clinical Trial Unit (CTU) at the local university hospital will additionally oversee clinical examinations, collection of questionnaire data, and blood sampling.

At baseline, both the Control and Intervention Groups are given wrist-worn activity trackers and access to national physical activity recommendations. The Intervention Group also undergoes a comprehensive lifestyle program that includes high-intensity aerobic and strength exercises, as well as dietary and behavioral counseling. The Intervention Group is gradually introduced to exercise activities organized by Tromsø Municipality and local NGOs. Outcome testing is conducted at baseline, 6, 12, and 24 months, with the primary endpoint (VO2max) assessed at 24 months.

Intervention participants will be divided into 4 groups of 12-15 participants each and perform high-intensity training to target the cardiovascular system and skeletal muscle force-generating capacity. For 12 months, the intervention group performs supervised indoor cycling or outdoor hill interval training twice a week at a relatively high intensity (≥85% of maximal heart rate during 4x4 minutes) separated by active rest periods at approximately 70% of maximal heart rate. Immediately after the aerobic exercise, participants perform strength training (3 sets of 5 repetitions) involving leg-press, lateral pull-down, and chest press exercises, with an intensity corresponding to ≥80% of their maximal strength. From months 6-12, one of the two weekly exercise sessions will be led by the Healthy Life Center (HLC; "Frisklivssentralen"), enabling a transition to supervised exercise via the Tromsø municipality primary health care. Between month 12-18, the HLC continue to supervise the participants during one weekly exercise sessions, while they are additionally introduced to exercise activities arranged by local NGO:s.

From month 3 to 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in VO2max at month 24
  - Change from baseline in VO2max at month 12
  - Change from baseline in VO2max at month 6

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Complex lifestyle intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity monitoring and recommendations

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06122441
