CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03728439
Title: Effects of Light Emitting Diodes (LED) Therapy in Rugby Athletes
Official Title: Analysis of Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness, Functional Performance, Inflammatory and Ergogenic Response of Light Emitting Diodes (LED) Therapy in Rugby Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Therapy with light emitting diodes (LED) is a good resource to accelerate the recovery of the athlete and reduce muscle damage caused by exercise. Objective: To evaluate the effects of LED therapy applied at different times on late muscle pain (DOMS), functional performance, inflammatory and ergogenic response of rugby athletes. Methodology: Randomized crossover clinical trial, composed of three groups that will receive treatment with LED aT3 different times. Sample made up of rugby athletes of both sexes, aged between 18 and 35 years. On the first day of the study, there will be an anamnesis, where the participants will answer questions about personal data, history of injuries and trening time, right after the participants receive weight, height, heart rate and measured blood pressure, in addition to collecting a blood sample. to standardize the individual's baseline values. After the initial assessment, participants will be randomized to not receive the LED (CO) or receive LED therapy aT3 different times: before (Lpré), in the interval (Lin) and after (Lpós) the performance tests. Then, the modified Star Trek Balance Test (SEBTm), the Single Jump Test (SGHT) and the Triple Jump Test (THT) will be performed. After that, the Bangsbo Sprint (BST) test will be performed, followed by the Yo-Yo level 1 intermittent recovery test (Yo-Yo IR1). At the end of this test, the subjects will remain at rest for 10 minutes and will be subjected to the same tests (BST and Yo-Yo IR1) again. They will be measured at the end of the second battery of tests, heart rate, blood pressure, subjective perception of effort, muscle pain threshold, blood samples collected and repeated functional tests. After 48 hours of the performance tests, the blood sample will be collected again, the functional tests carried out and they answered a Stress Recovery Questionnaire for Athletes (RESTQ-Sport-76). At 7, 14 and 21 days after the initial tests, the same test and evaluation protocol will be performed, but the participants will receive LED therapy before, during or after the performance tests, according to their randomization. LED therapy will be performed on the rectus femoris, vastus lateralis and vastus medialis muscles; bilateral femoral, semitendinosus and gastrocnemius biceps.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized crossover clinical trial, composed of three groups that will receive LED treatment aT3 different times. Sample made up of rugby athletes of both sexes, aged between 18 and 35 years. On the first day of the study, there will be an anamnesis, in which the participants will answer questions about personal data, history of injuries and trening time, right after receiving weight, height, heart rate and blood pressure, in addition to collecting a blood sample. standardize the baseline values of the individual. After the initial assessment, participants will be randomized to not receive the LED (CO) or receive LED therapy aT3 different times: before (Lpré), in the interval (Lin) and after (Lpós) of the performance tests. Then, the modified Star Trek Balance Test (SEBTm), the Single Jump Test (SGHT) and the Triple Jump Test (THT) will be performed. Soon after, the familiarization protocol with the Bangsbo Sprint test (BST) will begin, with the participants positioned close to the initial marker (photocell) and the signal, they must execute a maximum of 34.2 meters, performing seven repetitions, with twenty-five seconds duration for active recovery between sprints. At the end of the sprints, the participant will rest for 10 minutes and then perform the intermittent Yo-Yo level 1 recovery test (Yo-Yo IR1). At the end of this test, participants remain at rest for 10 minutes and then perform the same tests (BST and Yo-Yo IR1) again. At the end of the second battery of tests, heart rate, blood pressure, perceived exertion, blood sample and functional tests will be measured again. After 48 hours of performance tests, blood samples will be collected and functional tests will be carried out, in addition to all participants answering the Stress Recovery Questionnaire for Athletes (RESTQ-Sport-76), to quantify the recovery and psychophysiological stress during the test and recovery days. At 7, 14 and 21 days after the initial tests, the same test and evaluation protocol will be performed, but the participants will receive LED therapy before, during or after the performance tests, according to their randomization. All participants will receive LED therapy at the three times, only the application sequence will be randomized. LED therapy will be performed at two points on thEQuadriceps, two on the hamstrings and two on the gastrocnemius bilaterally. At each point, irradiation will be applied for 60 seconds, with a wavelength of 850nm (± 20nm) and an energy density of 8 joules per square centimeter (J/cm2).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in creatine kinase
  - Bangsbo sprint test
  - Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: LED before
  - DEVICE: LED interval
  - DEVICE: LED after

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03728439
