CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05257668
Title: Intradialytic High-Intensity Interval Training in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: The Effect of Intradialytic High-Intensity Interval Training and Moderate Intensity Training on Dialysis Adequacy and Functional Capacity in Hemodialysis Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 69
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is defined as a chronic, progressive degeneration state in the regulation of the fluid-electrolyte balance of the kidney and metabolic-endocrine functions as a result of the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) falling below 60 ml/min/1.73 m², regardless of the etiology of the kidney disease. End Stage Renal Failure (ESRD) is the last stage of CRF and is a life-threatening condition. Although the majority of ESRD patients survive on dialysis, their quality of life and functional capacity decrease due to uremic cardiomyopathy, cardiovascular diseases, anemia, diabetes mellitus, bone diseases, deconditioning, fatigue, weakness, inactivity and accompanying psychological problems.

Rehabilitation program including exercise in CKD patients; The program, which is performed under observation on non-dialysis days, can be applied in three ways: the (intradialytic) rehabilitation program performed during hemodialysis in the dialysis unit, and the home exercise program. Intradialytic exercise (IDE) is defined as exercise training performed during the hemodialysis session to increase the patient's strength and endurance and thus target various physiological and psychosocial parameters. Three types of exercises are generally recommended in the exercise program for dialysis patients. These are aerobic exercise, strengthening exercise, and combined aerobic and resistance exercise program. Aerobic exercise (both on dialysis and on non-dialysis days) is the most common type of exercise used in hemodialysis patients. It is stated that physical exercise improves the exercise capacity, muscle strength, functional capacity and quality of life of patients receiving dialysis treatment, provides blood pressure control, reduces the risk of diabetes development and cardiovascular disease, alleviates depression and anxiety symptoms, increases survival and dialysis efficiency.

When the literature is examined, no study has been found that examines how the application of high-intensity intermittent exercise training, which has very important advantages, in the intradialytic process has an effect. Therefore, the aim of our study is to compare the effects of intradialytic high-intensity intermittent exercise training and moderate-intensity exercise training on dialysis effectiveness, functional capacity and quality of life in hemodialysis patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dialysis Adequacy
  - 6 Minute Walking Test
  - 5X Sit-to-Stand Test
  - Kidney Disease Quality of Life-36

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval Exercise Training
  - OTHER: Moderate Intensity Exercise Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05257668
