CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06689085
Title: 52 Week Study of Safety, PK, & Efficacy of XYOSTED® for Testosterone Replacement in Male Adolescents With Hypogonadism
Official Title: Open-Label, Multiple-Dose, 52-Week Study to Evaluate the Safety, PK, & Efficacy of XYOSTED® for Testosterone Replacement in Male Adolescents With Deficiency or Absence of Endogenous Testosterone Due to Primary or Secondary Hypogonadism
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This is a 52-week open label single arm study to investigate the effects of XYOSTED, as testosterone replacement therapy, on adolescent males with either primary or secondary hypogonadism.

The study aims to determine the effectiveness of XYOSTED measured by continuation or induction of puberty in addition to XYOSTED dosage, safety and testosterone levels.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a Phase 3/4, open-label, multicenter study in approximately 100 males 12 to \< 18 years of age with primary or secondary hypogonadism (congenital or acquired). Each participant will be screened for eligibility within 28 days before receivinGHis first dose of study drug on Day 1. During the Screening period, each participant will have a full clinical examination with pubertal staging (ie, Tanner Stage, Table 11), including 2 separate serum total Testosterone (TT) measurements obtained in the early morning, where the average (Cavg) will be considered baseline value. Each participant will be categorized as having primary or secondary hypogonadism prior to dosing on Day 1.

Participants meeting all eligibility criteria will be assigned to a starting dose of XYOSTED based on their weight and Targeted Tanner Stage on Day 1. The Targeted Tanner Stage will be determined during Screening by an experienced pediatric endocrinologist.

Participants will have dose adjustments during the study to achieve their Targeted Tanner Stage. Dose adjustments will be based on reviewing the TT concentration between doses (Cmid) by measuring serum TT 14 days after the administration of XYOSTED for participants receiving thEQ4W schedule, and 7 days after the administration of XYOSTED for participants who switch to thEQ2W schedule. Participants will be evaluated for further dose adjustments approximately every 3 months to achieve the desired targeted TT level

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Increase in testosterone, as evaluated using PK parameters

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Testosterone enanthate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06689085
