CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03364647
Title: The Effect of Various Strength trening Protocols in ACL Reconstructed Participants
Official Title: The Effect of Various Strength trening Protocols in ACL Reconstructed Participants
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine how two different blood flow restriction trening programs used in conjunction with standard rehabilitation affect leg strength. By doing this study, the investigator hopes to learn if one program improves strength and function more than the other. The investigator also hope to learn how the trening affects the properties of muscle in participants who will or have had anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. These results will help define how the trening programs are working.

There will be no charge to the participant for their physical therapy visits as long as they are part of the study

The initial visit and follow up assessment at the end of the trening will each take up to 6 hours (2 hours for MRI, 2 muscle biopsy, 2 for muscle strength, movement mechanics and questionaires).

The physical therapy visits will range from 60-120 minutes depending on the participant's stage of recovery and the activities to engage in. trening sessions will be held 3 days a week for approximately 4 weeks before surgery and up to 24 weeks after surgery. There will be a total of 4 additional study visits over a 7 month period. The first visit will be used to capture baseline conditions of their knee and thigh muscles (muscle biopsy, MRI, strength). The second visit will occur right before surgery to assess changes during prehabilitation (strength and walking mechanics). The third visit will occur 4-5 months after surgery and will be a complete reevaluation of their thigh muscle and knee function (muscle biopsy, MRI, strength, gait). The last visit will occur 6-7 months after surgery and will involve an assessment of their thigh muscle strength, walking, and jumping form.

The muscle biopsy and magnetic resonance imaging portion of the study will occur in the outpatient unit of the Center for Clinical and trenslational Science at the UK Medical Center and the MRI center located on the medical center campus. The muscle biopsy will take an additional 15 minutes and the MRI up to two hours (1 hour per leg). It can take up to 4 hours total To complete both procedures. The investigator will accommodate participant preference for scheduling.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The following procedures may be performed.

trening sessions: Participants will be randomly assigned one of two groups. Assignments to which group are determined by random assignment based upon participant's number. One group will receive standard of care and the other will receive standard of care plus blood flow restriction trening.

The air bands will then be placed on the participant's thighs and they will be doing a standardized exercise program that will vary depending on the stage of rehabilitation they are in and as determined by the study personnel. Participants will also complete a standardized course of physical therapy. Activities in physical therapy may include ice over the knee, range of motion exercises to maintain hip strength and gait trening exercises as needed and as the participant's impairments dictate. The investigator will also provide an educational program at regular intervals on the injury and recovery.

Quadriceps strength: Participants will sit in a seated position and a stabilizing strap will be placed around the thigh. A second strap will be placed around the bottom of their lower leg and attached to the isokinetic dynamometer (a muscle strength testing device) which will control movements and apply force at several different speeds and in a isometric mode.

Motion Analysis: Motion analysis will provide a means for evaluating motion of the participant's hip, knee and ankle joints during walking and jogging on the treadmill. Participants will have reflective markers placed on certain landmarks of their legs and lower back to allow the motion analysis system to record their trunk, hip, knee, and ankle movements. Markers will be applied with sticky tape to the skin and if necessary, athletic tape to limit marker movement during activities. A stationary trial will be collected to help the researcher identify anatomical landmarks. Motion data will be collected for 10 seconds every minute. Participants will perform a series of jumps on both legs and on aromasingle leg. In addition participants will be asked to go up and down step.

Treadmill Activity: Participants may walk on the treadmill as long as necessary to feel comfortable with it. Once ready, participants will walk at a self-selected warm up pace for 5 minutes. The investigator will then gradually increase the speed 1.5 m/s for 2 minutes each. The speed of the treadmill will then be increased gradually to a self-selected comfortable jogging\\running pace for 2 minutes. Participants may request to stop at any time.

Muscle Biopsy: A small piece of muscle tissue will be removed from both of thighs. The muscle tissue will be taken from the outside of your thigh and will be taken about one hand width above your knee. A 1 inch by 1 inch portion of hair will possibly need to be shaved if necessary. The area of thigh will be numbed and a small ¼ inch incision will be made in the skin. A needle will then be briefly (lasting just a couple of seconds) inserted into the muscl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measure Change in Isometric Peak TorquEQuadriceps Strength
  - Measure Change in Isokinetic Peak TorquEQuadriceps Strength
  - Measure Change in Rate of Torque Development

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Arm A - blood flow restriction trening
  - OTHER: Arm B - standard of care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03364647
