CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02681601
Title: Nutrition Support to Improve Outcomes in Patients With Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
Official Title: Nutrition Support to Improve Outcomes in Patients With Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
There are few well-designed studies evaluating the effect of nutrition support in patients with cancer cachexia. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of dietary prescription with and without nutrition supplementation in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer on body weight, body composition, total calorie intake, quality of life and blood inflammatory markers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 60 subjects will be recruited from The University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Hirshberg Pancreatic Cancer Center, print and/or radio advertisements, UCLA campus wide e-mail, and flyers posted on campus and in the community. Participants will be pre-screened over the telephone to determine eligibility. Eligible subjects will be asked to come to the Center for Human Nutrition for a Screening Visit.

At screening, informed consent and authorization will be reviewed and signed a medical history will be obtained. The subjects will be screened by medical history/physical exam, a fasting blood sample will be collected for a comprehensive metabolic panel, a complete blood count, chemistry and liver function tests.

Day 1 will be the first study day. Subjects will come to the UCLA Center for Human Nutrition in the fasting state and remain for approximately \~1 hour. The food intake record will be collected and entered into the Automated Self- Administered Food Recall (NIH ASA24). The vital signs, anthropometric assessments will be measured and quality of life questionnaire will be completed.

A fasting blood sample (20 ml) will be collected for metabolic panel and inflammatory markers. A 6-minute walk will be done at the research center.

Subjects will be evaluated by a registered dietitian and randomized to diet prescription (55% carbohydrate, 30% fat and 15% protein) vs. the same diet prescription including three servings of supplement powder and fish oil. The research dietitian will develop meal plans based on basal metabolic rate and physical activity. Subjects will be provided a pedometer to wear daily. Any subject in either group who develops symptoms of pancreatic insufficiency will be provided with pancreatic enzyme supplementation.

Day 28, 56, 84 and 112 will be follow-up visits. The same procedures will be performed as on day 1. Subjects will come to the UCLA Center for Human Nutrition in the fasting state and remain for approximately \~1 hour.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Anthropometric measurement: Weight
  - Anthropometric measurement: Body Composition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrawell Powder
  - OTHER: Diet Only
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: OmegaRich fish oil supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02681601
