CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03958318
Title: Multi-component Exercise Program and Nutritional Supplementation in Frail Older Adults
Official Title: The Effectiveness of a Multi-component Exercise Program Plus Oral Nutritional Supplementation, on the Functional Capacity in Frail Institutionalized Older Adults.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of a multi-modal group-based exercise program and nutritional supplementation on physical performance in frail institutionalized older adults.

Participants will be randomly allocated to the intervention groups; exercise (EG) or exercise plus nutritional supplementation (SG), or to the control group (CG). During 6 months, participants in the intervention groups will be performing the exercise routine based on the Otago exercise programme. Additionally, participants in the SG will receive a daily oral nutritional supplement.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives: Evaluate the effects of a multi-modal group-based exercise program and nutritional supplementation on physical performance and the capacity to perform daily tasks in frail institutionalized older adults.

Design: Randomized controlled trial, with a 6-month intervention period. Participants: 122 frail institutionalized older adults aged 65 and older with no cognitive impairment.

Intervention: After a baseline assessment, the participants will be randomly assigned to the control group or one of two intervention groups; multi-modal exercise program (EG) or exercise plus nutritional supplementation (SG). During 6 months, participants in the intervention groups will be performing the exercise routine based on the Otago exercise programme. Additionally, participants in the SG will receive a daily oral nutritional supplement.

Measurements: The primary outcome measure will be mobility measured with the timed up and go test. Secondary outcomes will be the functional balance, hand-grip strength, lower limb functional capacity, gait speed and distance covered during the 6-minute walk test.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Timed up and go test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise plus nutritional suplementation
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03958318
