CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06316141
Title: Effects of Aquatic vs Land Based Jogging in Overweight
Official Title: Effects of Aquatic vs Land Based Jogging on BMI, Cardiorespiratory Endurance and QoL in Overweight Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Obesity raises the risk of chronic illnesses in adults, especially heart disease, type II diabetes, and osteoarthritis. One way to combat obesity is by physical activity, and water-based exercise (hydrotherapy) is recognized as an enhancement of the more common on land physical activity. Obesity is associated with several negative health outcomes, including cardiovascular disease (CVD), cardiac enlargement, gallbladder disease, diabetes, several cancers, osteoarthritis, and sleeping disorders .In addition to being a significant predictor of coronary heart disease and heart failure. obesity is indirectly related to cardiovascular health through its association with several other CVD risk factors, including hypertension, high cholesterol, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, high triglycerides, and diabetes Therefore, obesity is a primary target for interventions to decrease overall cardiovascular risk. It is a randomized clinical trial conducted at the University OF Central Punjab Lahore. Convenience sampling technique will be used .Participants will be recruited through simple random sampling by sealed opaque envelope method into two Groups .Group A and Group B. Group A:Aqua jogging group: This group will perform aqua jogging for 60 minutes consisting of 10 minutes warming up, 40 minutes aqua jogging or land jogging and 10 minutes cooling down. Group B: Land based jogging group: This group will perform land jogging for 60 minutes consisting of 10 minutes warming up, 40 minutes aqua jogging or land jogging and 10 minutes cooling down. Assessment tools for this study will be cooper's 1.5 miles run test for cardiorespiratory endurance and health related quality of life questionnaire for Quality of life. The study will be completed within 10 months after synopsis approval from ethical Committee of RCRS \& AHS .Data will be entered and analysed by SPSS version 25. After assessing the normality of data, it will be decided either parametric or non-parametric test will be use within a group or between two groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cardiorespiratory Endurance(cooper; s1.5 miles run)
  - Quality of life (health related QOL SF 36 Questionnaire)
  - BMI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aqua Jogging
  - OTHER: Land based Jogging

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 59 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06316141
