CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06142240
Title: Efficacy of Two Therapeutic Exercise Modalities for Patients With Persistent COVID
Official Title: Efficacy of Two Therapeutic Exercise Modalities for Patients With Persistent COVID: Pilot Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Symptoms of long-standing sequelae and complications of COVID-19, termed Long COVID19 or persistent COVID, have been reported worldwide. However, the etiology underlying the prolonged or fluctuating symptomatology is limited and there is no uniform and widely accepted definition.Patients describe persistent COVID as a fluctuating disease with variable and persistent symptoms.Most of the effects correspond to clinical symptoms such as fatigue, headache, arthralgias, hyposmia, gustatory sensations, etc. Fatigue is the most common and prolonged symptom of persistent COVID. Knowledge of the pathophysiological mechanisms of fatigue in COVID-19 disease, as well as the therapeutic approach, remains limited due to the relatively recent onset of this pathology. In particular, muscle strength training has been shown to improve muscle function and fatigue, not only during treatment, but also at long-term follow-up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: To evaluate the effects on the perception of fatigue in patients with persistent COVID, who undergo a supervised and directed therapeutic exercise program in a health center compared to a home therapeutic exercise program.

Methods: Randomized pilot study. Subjects who are included in the study will perform a therapeutic exercise program which will last 8 weeks and 2 sessions per week of 1h duration. The participants assigned to the supervised group will carry out the program at the health center, while the participants assigned to the home group will receive telematic supervision (by videoconference). Both groups will be under the supervision of the assigned physiotherapist.

The components that will form part of the exercise program will be: muscular strength training and continuous-variable aerobic training or HIIT type with loads between 70-90% of maximum heart rate. The main variables are fatigue.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fatigue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise programe

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06142240
