CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04422665
Title: Preventing Bed-rest Induced Muscle Loss in the Elderly
Official Title: Exercise 'Prehabilitation': A Novel Intervention to Protect Against Disuse-induced Muscle Atrophy and Sarcopenia in the Old
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Episodes of inactivity due to hospitalisation, as short as 5 days, are associated with rapid muscle and strength loss in the elderly. The observed muscle loss with inactivity is likely due to muscle anabolic resistance and increased breakdown rates of muscle tissue. This is of great concern as the average hospital stay in the elderly is 5-6 days. Moreover, minor illnesses not requiring hospitalisation generally require short-term periods of inactive home-based recovery. The accumulation of repeated disuse events in older individuals manifests in a chronic muscle anabolic resistance (i.e. the inability of muscle to respond to anabolic stimuli such as exercise and nutrition) that may underpin the slow but devastating process of age-related muscle loss.

It is our belief that strategies to promote muscle health in ageing and reduce healthcare expenditure, should focus on alleviating muscle deterioration and anabolic resistance during short-term disuse.

In this regard, we propose that resistance exercise (i.e. weight lifting) performed prior to a disuse event (termed 'prehabilitation') may be sufficient to offset muscle loss in older individuals. Thus, we suggest the potent effect of resistance exercise in older muscles may prevent muscle loss during short-term disuse.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be assigned to either single-bout (SINGLE; n=10) or multiple-bouts (MULTI; n=10) of resistance exercise prehabilitation prior to 5 consecutive days of bed rest. Groups will be matched for age, anthropometric characteristics and activity levels. Only males will be studied due to potential gender differences in muscle protein turnover. A single-leg resistance exercise prehabilitation model will allow for a direct within-subject comparison against the non-exercised control leg.

Preliminary Assessments

Following an induction meeting and obtainment of informed consent, participants will report to The National Institute of Health/Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility (CRF) at University Hospital Birmingham (UHB) at 0800h having fasted from 2100h the previous night. After measuring height and weight, the following parameters will be determined in the order outlined:

1. Muscle biopsy, blood and saliva sampling: a muscle biopsy sample will be obtained from a specific thigh muscle under local anaesthetic. A blood sample will then be obtained from a forearm vein. Participants will also provide a saliva sample. This will be obtained prior to the following measurements.
2. Lower-limb function: The short physical performance battery (SPPB) test will be used.
3. Body composition: bioelectrical impedance analysis will be used to determine fat/fat-free mass on a whole-body and anatomical regional basis (CRF nurse).
4. Muscle size/architecture: The thickness of the thigh muscles will be determined via non-invasive ultrasound imaging.
5. Leg strength and muscle activation: Estimated maximal leg strength will be measured firstly on a standard knee extension exercise machine.
6. Stable isotope procedure: Immediately following muscle biopsy, blood and saliva sampling, participants will orally consume a small bolus of 'heavy water' tracer to label the body water pool with a small amount of this isotope. Participants will provide a daily saliva sample to monitor body water tracer enrichment. This technique will allow us to quantify muscle protein synthesis over the course of prehabilitation and bed-rest.
7. Participants will be fitted with an accelerometer and pedometer to asses daily activity levels.
8. Participants are given a food diary to record daily nutritional intake over a 3-day period.

Exercise Prehabilitation (Days 0-7) Participants will be randomly assigned to undergo 4 resistance exercise bouts the week before (Day 1, 2, 5 and 7), or 1 resistance exercise bout on the evening prior to bed rest (i.e. Day 7). Exercise bouts will consist of 8 sets of single-leg knee extension exercise and 8 sets of single-leg leg curls. The non-exercised control leg will remain passive throughout training. Resistance exercise will be performed at 70% of previously determined maximal strength (10-15 repetitions).

Intervention - 5-days of bed-rest (Days 8-13) Participants will report to the CRF at 0700h the morning immediately after exercise prehabilitat

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Integrated myofibrillar protein synthesis rates
  - Muscle mass via MRI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 80 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04422665
