CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06136676
Title: From the Heart: Comparing the Effects of Spiritual and Secular Meditation on Psychophysiology, Cognition, Mental Health, and Social Functioning in Healthy Adults
Official Title: From the Heart Multi-Centre Study: Comparing the Effects of Spiritual and Secular Meditation on Psychophysiology, Cognition, Mental Health, and Social Functioning in Healthy Adults
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 288
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate and compare the effects of Christian and Islamic heart-centred spiritual meditation to mindfulness meditation and waitlist control conditions, respectively, in healthy adults. The potential effects will be studied at multiple levels, with a focus on psychophysiology, cognition, mental health, and social functioning.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Secular forms of meditation have been widely accepted as an effective tool to promote well-being and as therapeutic strategies. The popularity of such practices, most notably mindfulness meditation, can be attributed to the substantial body of research on their beneficial effects in the past few decades. While these practices are loosely based on Eastern traditions, and actively reduce emotional reactivity, some Western spiritual meditations have retained their God-centred focus and aim to elicit strong emotions. The current study aims to examine the effects of heart-centred contemplation based on Christian and Islamic traditions on mental, physical, cognitive, and social well-being, compare the outcomes of these exercises to mindfulness meditation, and investigate the external correlates of the outcomes.

Aims

The present study aims to recruit healthy adults to investigate and compare the effects of Christian and Islamic heart-centred spiritual meditation to mindfulness meditation (Mindfulness-based stress reduction; MBSR) and waitlist control, respectively. The potential effects will be examined using measures from multiple domains, with a focus on psychophysiology, cognition, mental health, and social functioning. Additionally, the study aims to examine the possible external correlates of the outcomes by testing perspective-taking, affect, religiosity, spiritual experiences, closeness to God, closeness to the offender, and credibility/expectancies about the spiritual meditation program. The study seeks to understand the impact of different types of meditation practices on the well-being of individuals.

Participants

This study will apply a mixed method repeated measures design to examine a three-arm stratified randomised control trial with healthy samples of Christians and Muslims in multiple testing centres in India. Assessments will be conducted at three time points: pre-intervention (T1), after intervention (T2), and at a 3-month follow-up (T3). Eligible participants will be first stratified into Christian and Islamic samples and then randomly allocated to one of the three conditions: religious contemplation (either Christian or Islamic spiritual meditation based on their religions), mindfulness meditation, or waitlist control.

Administration of intervention

The intervention will consist of an 8-week app-based program, including approximately 20-minute daily audio-guided instructions of either one of the spiritual meditations or mindfulness meditation. Participants from the waitlist control will not receive any intervention, but they will be given access to Christian or Islamic meditation app after the experiment is completed.

Outcome measures

Outcome measures consist of domains related to interpersonal functioning, physiology, attention, mental health, spirituality.

Primary outcomes will be the interpersonal functioning domain including measures of prosociality, forgiveness, empathy, and perspective taking.

Secondary ou

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Interpersonal functioning: Change in Prosociality (1)
  - Interpersonal functioning: Change in Prosociality (2)
  - Interpersonal functioning: Change in Prosociality (3)
  - Interpersonal functioning: Changes in self-reported Forgiveness
  - Interpersonal functioning: Changes in self-reported Empathy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Arm 1 - Heart-Centred Spiritual Meditation: Christian contemplation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Arm 1 - Heart-Centred Spiritual Meditation: Islamic contemplation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Arm 2 - Action Control: Mindfulness Meditation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06136676
