CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06600815
Title: Analgesic Efficacy of Preemptive Stepwise Infiltration Anesthesia for Perioperative Analgesia After TKA
Official Title: Analgesic Efficacy of Preemptive Stepwise Infiltration Anesthesia for Perioperative Analgesia After Total Knee Arthroplasty: a Prospective Double-blind Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This is a single-center prospective cohort study in which patients were evaluated by inclusion and exclusion criteria before total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Eligible patients will be included in this study after signing the informed consent form. Before TKA, the patients will be randomly assigned to either a preemptive stepwise infiltration anaesthesia (PSIA) group or a postoperative local infiltration analgesia (PLIA) group and administered different pain management protocols during surgery. Clinical evaluation will be conducted at baseline, before surgery, and at 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours postoperatively, as well as during follow-up visits at 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 6 months postoperatively. All patients voluntarily participated in the study and signed informed consent. During the treatment period, all prospective patients underwent clinical evaluation at the end of total knee arthroplasty and 6, 12, 24, 48, 72, and 96 weeks later, aimed at comparing the postoperative pain and inflammatory response between PSIA and PLIA, to explore the optimal perioperative analgesic modality for TKA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single-center prospective cohort study in which patients were evaluated by inclusion and exclusion criteria before total knee arthroplasty (TKA). This study aims to recruit 110 patients across a single centre over 1 year. Eligible patients will be included in this study after signing the informed consent form. Before TKA, the patients will be randomly assigned to either a preemptive stepwise infiltration anaesthesia (PSIA) group or a postoperative local infiltration analgesia (PLIA) group and administered different pain management protocols during surgery. Clinical evaluation will be conducted at baseline, before surgery, and at 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours postoperatively, as well as during follow-up visits at 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 6 months postoperatively. The primary outcomes are the amount of morphine consumed within 0-24 hours postsurgery and the visual analogue scale (VAS) score postsurgery. Secondary outcomes include the time to first rescue analgesia, total morphine consumption during hospitalization, postoperative joint function (measured by the Hospital for Special Surgery \[HSS\] score and knee joint range of motion \[ROM\]), intraoperative bleeding and serological indicators. All patients voluntarily participated in the study and signed informed consent. During the treatment period, all prospective patients underwent clinical evaluation at the end of total knee arthroplasty and 6h, 12h, 24h, 48h, 72h, 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 6 months later, aimed at comparing the postoperative pain and inflammatory response between PSIA and PLIA, to explore the optimal perioperative analgesic modality for TKA. Statistical analyses utilizing regression models and survival analysis will be conducted to assess the relationships between the pain management method and postoperative pain and efficacy.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postoperative morphine consumption within the first 24 hours
  - . Postoperative visual analogue scale (VAS) scores at 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, 3 weeks, 6 weeks and 6 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: preemptive stepwise infiltration anaesthesia(PSIA)
  - PROCEDURE: postoperative local infiltration analgesia(PLIA)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06600815
