CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03856125
Title: Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation on Radial Nerve in Patients With Lateral Epicondylalgia
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Combined Treatment Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation on Radial Nerve With an Exercise Program in Patients With Lateral Epicondylalgia
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Lateral epicondylalgia is a common musculoskeletal condition that approximately affects 1-3% of the general population. Several authors have found greater mechanical pain sensitivity in the radial nerve when compared with healthy subjects. Radial tunnel syndrome exhibits a similar clinical presentation to lateral epicondylalgia. Percutaneous electrical stimulation has shown reduce pain in several conditions. Percutaneous electrical stimulation on the radial nerve could cause an important relief in lateral epicondylalgia.

Hypothesis: Percutaneous electrical stimulation on radial nerve plus exercise therapy in patients with lateral epicondylalgia is better than sham percutaneous electrical stimulation plus exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial, using Percutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (PENS). PENS is technique to provide a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation current throughout needling filaments place close to the nerve.

Study Aims:

Aim #1: The primary aim of the study is to compare the effect of the immediate, short, medium and long-term of PENS on intensity of pain as measured by visual analogue scale (VAS) in patients with lateral epicondylalgia with random assignment to two treatments: PENS plus exercise program or Sham PENS plus exercise program.

Aim #2: The secondary aim of the study is to compare the effect of the immediate, short, medium and long-term of PENS on pain free grip strength, disability as measured by Patient Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) and DASH questionnaire and pressure pain threshold (PPT) and area and distribution of pain in patients with lateral epicondylalgia with random assignment to two treatments: PENS plus exercise program or Sham PENS plus exercise program, and determine if psychological factors (fear and avoidance and catastrophism) change with any of the treatments and if is related with the primary and secondary outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Intensity: visual analogue scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PENS plus exercise
  - OTHER: Sham PENS plus exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03856125
