CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02800616
Title: The Healthy Elementary School of the Future
Official Title: The Healthy Elementary School of the Future
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2349
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Unhealthy lifestyles in early childhood are a major global health challenge. These lifestyles often persist from generation to generation and contribute to a vicious cycle of health-related and social problems. We present a study protocol that examines the effectiveness of two novel, integrated healthy school interventions. One is a full intervention called 'The Healthy Primary School of the Future', the other is a partial intervention called 'The Physical Activity School'. These intervention approaches will be compared with the regular school approach that is currently common practice in the Netherlands. The main outcome measure will be changes in children's body mass index (BMI). In addition, lifestyle behaviours, academic achievement, child well-being, socio-economic differences, and societal costs will be examined.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In close collaboration with various stakeholders, a quasi-experimental study was developed, for which children of four intervention schools (n = 1200) in the southern part of the Netherlands arecompared with children of four control schools (n = 1200) in the same region. The interventions started in November 2015. In two of the four intervention schools, a whole-school approach named 'The Healthy Primary School of the Future', is implemented with the aim of improving physical activity and dietary behaviour. For this intervention, pupils are offered an extended curriculum, including a healthy lunch, more physical exercises, and social and educational activities, next to the regular school curriculum. In the two other intervention schools, a physical-activity school approach called 'The Physical Activity School', is implemented, which is essentially similar to the other intervention, except that no lunch is provided.

We hypothesize that these healthy school interventions will result in normalized BMI distributions that are more in line with national and international standards (smaller standard deviations) among primary school children, with a more pronounced effect in the full intervention schools (due to the expected synergy between exercise and diet) than in the partial intervention schools. Also, our multi-disciplinary research group will study a wide range of outcome measures, including lifestyle behaviours, academic achievement, child well-being, socio-economic differences, and societal costs. Moreover, an evaluation will be performed of the legal consequences of a healthy school approach in the Netherlands, as well as the conflicting interests of the stakeholders. Data collection is conducted within the school system. The interventions proceed during a period of four years. The baseline measurements started in September 2015 and yearly follow-up measurements are taking place until 2019.

Our primary research question is: What is the effect of the full intervention ('The Healthy Primary School of the Future') on the BMI of primary school children compared to no intervention (control schools)? Our secondary research question is: What is the effect of the full intervention on the BMI of primary school children compared to the partial intervention ('The Physical Activity School')? Our tertiary research questions are: (1) What is the effect of the full intervention in comparison with the partial intervention and the regular school approach (control schools) on: (a) children's levels of physical activity and sedentary behaviour, nutritional knowledge, healthy food preferences and behaviour, cognitive and non-cognitive performance, Health related-QoL, socio-emotional development, and sick leave? (b) parenting and teacher practices regarding physical activity and nutrition? (c) parental HR-QoL, well-being, labour participation and sick leave? (d) benefits across different socio-economic backgrounds? (e) long and short term cost-effectiveness? (f) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Child absolute change in BMI Z-score, based on weight and height.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: The Healthy Primary School of the Future
  - BEHAVIORAL: The Physical Activity School

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02800616
