CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05273892
Title: The KING'S WHOLE Feasibility Study
Official Title: King's Intervention to Achieve Nutrition & Exercise Goals Supported by Lifestyle Advice for Desk-based/Work From Home Workers Delivered as a HOListic Employee Wellbeing Programme: The KING'S WHOLE Feasibility Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Office working life has changed dramatically over the last 50 years with digitalization; this is estimated to have decreased the amount of energy (calories) used during work. Employees who work long or irregular working hours or experience job strain are more likely to make less healthy food choices. The combination of these factors may contribute to increased body weight during a persons working life. The aim is to investigate the feasibility of an online lifestyle behaviour change intervention in office workers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Office working life has changed dramatically over the last 50 years with digitalization; this is estimated to have decreased the amount of energy (calories) used during work. Employees who work long or irregular working hours or experience job strain are more likely to make less healthy food choices. The combination of these factors may contribute to increased body weight during a persons working life. The aim is to investigate the feasibility of an online lifestyle behaviour change intervention in office workers.

This feasibility randomized control trial is a remote study and will be conducted online. Participants will be randomized to one of two health and well being interventions.

The study will last 14 weeks. Participants need to attend two on-line study appointments (at the start of week 1 and end of week 14) lasting approximately 30-45 minutes.

In weeks 2, 6 and 10 participants will be asked to participate in a personalised one-to-one behaviour change on-line advice session with a research nutritionist/dietitian. Each session will last approximately 45 minutes.

In weeks 1, 5, 9 and 14 participants will be asked to wear a wrist-worn activity monitor and report what you eat and drink for 3 days.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Engagement
  - Attrition
  - Intervention adherence
  - Intervention adherence - sleep

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diet + Activity + Sleep
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diet + Activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05273892
