CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02846909
Title: The Vaginal Progesterone and Cerclage
Official Title: The Effect of Adjunctive Use of Vaginal Progesterone After Cerclage on Prevention of 2nd Trimester Miscarriage
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 242
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Pregnancy loss in the second trimester is not uncommon. About 2-3% of pregnancies will be lost in the second trimester, which is much lower than in the first trimester. Once a pregnancy reaches 20 weeks gestation, less than 0.5% will end in a fetal demise.

Congenital fetal abnormalities and maternal anatomic factors as immunologic factors, infection, and thrombophilia should be considered; however, a reason and its result connection may be difficult to be established.

Cervical incompetence means that the cervix is weak and unable to remain closed during the pregnancy. While cerclage may provide a degree of support to a 'weak' cervix, its role in maintaining the cervical length and the endocervical mucus plug as a mechanical barrier to ascending infection may be more important.

Cervical cerclage is performed usually in women with a history of mid-trimester abortion or spontaneous preterm birth due to cervical 'incompetence', with the aim of preventing recurrent loss.

Cerclage is a commonly performed as a prophylactic intervention used by most obstetricians despite the absence of a well-defined population for whom there is clear evidence of benefit. Furthermore, there is little consensus on the optimal cerclage technique and timing and type of suture placement.

The Progesterone is known to have an inhibitory action on uterine contractility and is thought to play a main role in the maintenance of pregnancy until term. Progesterone is also able to modify the ultrastructural organisation of the myometrium by inhibiting the gap junctions, and preventing muscular contraction.

Different routes of administration of progesterone have been described in the literature. These include weekly intramuscular injections from 16 to 20 weeks through to 36 weeks and daily vaginal progesterone suppositories from 24 weeks to 34 weeks of gestation.

A recently published Cochrane review further confirmed the beneficial effects of progesterone in infant health following administration in women considered to be at increased risk of preterm birth due either to past history of preterm birth or when a short cervix was identified on ultrasound.

However; most of these published studies have been conducted to test the effect of progestational agents for the prevention of preterm labor not miscarriage.

Doppler ultrasonography is use to evaluate blood flow. In the field of perinatology, Doppler ultrasonography has been used to assess fetal well-being, especially in intra-uterine growth retardation and fetal anemia, and it plays an important role in managing of these conditions

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The frequency of spontaneous abortion before 28 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Progesterone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02846909
