CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07081152
Title: Iron Absorption and Losses in Young South African Women Living Without and With Overweight and Obesity
Official Title: Long-term Iron Absorption and Losses in Young South African Women Living Without and With Overweight and Obesity
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Young women living with obesity (OB) have a greater risk of developing iron deficiency. Plus, the risk of anemia and/or ID in young women living with overweight (OW) and obesity (OB) is further increased by inadequate dietary intake and/or poor bioavailability of iron, as well as gastrointestinal and menstrual iron losses. It is not certain whether women living with OW/OB can meet their iron requirements from their day-to-day diet.

The aim of this study is to compare iron absorption and losses over a long period between women living with and without OW and OB. Secondary outcomes include iron and inflammation status, as well as dietary iron intake.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adiposity-related inflammation stimulates an increase in secretion of hepcidin hormone thus limiting the absorption of iron and increasing the risk for iron deficiency (ID). In addition, the risk of anemia and/or ID in young women living with overweight (OW) or obesity (OB) is further increased by inadequate dietary intake and/or poor bioavailability of iron, as well as gastrointestinal and menstrual iron losses. Although one study quantified iron losses and absorption in young African women using the stable isotope dilution method the focus was on normal-weight women. Thus, whether women living with OW/OB can meet their iron requirements from their habitual diet remains uncertain.

This is a longitudinal study including an iron absorption study (Phase 1) and a follow-up period (Phase 2) in women living with and without OW and OB.

In phase 1, 70 healthy, mildly- and non-anemic young women living with and without OW or OB will receive a test drink labelled with 15 mg of labelled ferrous sulfate (57Fe) (Visit 1). Fractional iron absorption from the test drink will be determined by measuring the incorporation of the isotopic label into red blood cells 14 days after administration (Visit 2), and will be compared between the two groups. Participants will then undergo a one-year equilibration period. During this time, they will be contacted monthly for an electronically completed, telephonic or in-person health check, chronic medication and supplement use,, blood donation or transfusion, and whether they have fallen pregnant. In addition, they will be asked if they are on a weight-loss diet, a urine pregnancy test done and weight and haemoglobin measured once every 3-4 months. Halfway through the equilibration period we will ask participants not taking hormonal contraceptives (and not intending to do so in phase 2 of the study), to track their menstrual cycle by providing them with a monthly paper- or electronic calendar.

About 1 year after isotope administration, participants will be contacted again and screened (Visit 3) for phase 2 of the study. During this visit, a health and medical history check including the use of proton pump inhibitors,antacids, H2 blockers or iron supplements, contraceptive use and menstruation intensity will be conducted. Then, anthropometric measurements will be performed to determine BMI, and a urine sample collected for pregnancy test. If the participant qualifies to proceed with phase 2, they will be required to consume an antihelminthic dose. Phase 2 of the study will involve 4 visits (Visits 4 to 7), where they will be followed up for 6 months. During this time, blood samples will be drawn every 8 weeks for the determination of isotopic composition. In addition, iron and inflammation status will be assessed. Dietary intake will be assessed using three 24-hour recalls conducted within visits 4, 6 and 7.

Additionally, for willing participants not using hormonal contraceptives and having a regular cycle (26 to 30 days)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Iron absorption

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ferrous sulfate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07081152
