CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05403944
Title: Strength or Power Training for Patellofemoral Pain
Official Title: Optimizing Clinical Outcomes for Patients With Patellofemoral Pain Using Strength Training Rehabilitation Incorporating Power Exercises
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 88
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to compare a novel 6-week strength training rehabilitation incorporating power exercises (STRIPE) program to a standard of care (SOC) program on short-term and long-term pain, subjective function, patellofemoral pain recurrence rates, and secondary outcomes (hip abduction and extension rate of torque development and single-leg squat kinematics). We hypothesize that participants with patellofemoral pain who complete the STRIPE program will have 1) decreased pain, 2) improved subjective function, 3) reduced patellofemoral pain recurrence rates, 4a) improved hip abduction/extension rate of torque development, and 4b) decreased hip adduction and pelvic drop during a single leg squat compared to participants who complete a SOC rehabilitation program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study will compare strength-based exercises, which is the standard of care (SOC), that target the hip abductors, hip extensors, lumbo-pelvic, and quadriceps muscles, to a strength training program that utilized power-based exercises (Strength Training Rehabilitation Incorporating Power Exercises \[STRIPE\]). Individuals with patellofemoral pain, both within the military and general population, present with long-term pain, decreased subjective function, and high recurrence rates. Our primary outcomes are to determine intervention success with self-reported knee pain, measured by the visual analog scale, subjective function, measured by the anterior knee pain scale, and recurrence rates. Recent evidence suggests that two in every three individuals with patellofemoral pain report symptoms up to two years after seeking care, therefore we will assess patellofemoral pain recurrence rates for two years. Additionally, the proposed interventions target gluteal muscle function, supporting our selection of secondary outcome variables. We will assess rate of torque development, as power-based exercises are recommended to improve muscle capacity, of both the targeted gluteus medius and gluteus maximus. We will also assess frontal plane kinematics, as the gluteal muscles are responsible for controlling pelvic and hip motion during functional tasks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in knee pain.
  - Change in self-reported knee function.
  - Patellofemoral pain recurrence
  - Change in hip rate of torque development
  - Change in hip adduction during a single leg squat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care Rehabilitation (SOC)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Strength Training Rehabilitation Incorporating Power Exercises (STRIPE)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05403944
