CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06149962
Title: Comparison Between Functional Outcomes of Flexor Tendon Repair Under WALANT and Brachial Plexus Block
Official Title: Comparison Between Functional Outcomes of Flexor Tendon Repair Under Wide Awake Local Anesthesia no Tourniquet and Brachial Plexus Block
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Although outcomes after flexor tendon repair have reportedly improved with modern treatment, complications are common. Early passive and active motion protocols have improved outcomes of flexor tendon repairs. One potential complication of early motion occurs when the forces produced by this motion exceed the strength of the repair, which leads to gap formation and inhibits healing. Wide Awake Local Anesthesia No Tournique (WALANT) is a new anesthesia technique that has gained popularity among plastic surgeons. It was developed by Dr. Lalonde in Canada, and it involves the use of Lidocaine and adrenaline in the surgical site to control bleeding without the need for a tourniquet. Peripheral nerve blocks are overall safe when performed correctly, there are rare but serious risks associated with them. Risks include block failure, bleeding, infection, damage to surrounding structures, permanent nerve injury, and intravascular uptake of local anesthetic resulting in systemic toxicity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
WALANT can be applied in both elective and emergency surgeries and is commonly used for procedures involving the hand, wrist, and fingers, such as root tunnels syndromes, trigger finger, and fractures. However, it has some limitations and contraindications, including patients with coagulopathy or on anticoagulant therapy, those with allergies to any of the anesthesia components, or patients with a history of psychiatric disorders or aggressive behavior. Infraclavicular brachial plexus block (ICBPB) is widely used for anesthesia or analgesia during surgery on the hand and forearm. Today, it is most frequently performed using a sagittal ultrasound scan at the lateral infraclavicular fossa (LICF), where the local anesthetic is injected deep to the pectoral muscles. Peripheral nerve blocks are overall safe when performed correctly, there are rare but serious risks associated with them. Risks include block failure, bleeding, infection, damage to surrounding structures, permanent nerve injury, and intravascular uptake of local anesthetic resulting in systemic toxicity.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: FLEXOR TENDON REPAIR

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06149962
