CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07333729
Title: Effects of Spinal Anesthesia on the Fetal Autonomic Nervous System
Official Title: Evaluation of the Impact of Spinal Anesthesia on the Fetal Autonomic Nervous System During an Elective Caesarean Delivery
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Elective cesarean deliveries account for over 10% of births in France and are often scheduled around 39 weeks of gestation. When feasible, spinal anesthesia is considered the gold standard in such a clinical situation. However, a well-known complication is maternal hypotension, which may lead to placental hypoperfusion and fetal acidosis. Heart rate variability (HRV) markers reflect autonomic nervous system (ANS) activity, which plays a key role in maintaining fetal homeostasis.

The Lille University Hospital has developed a technology to assess parasympathetic activity through HRV analysis. This technology has been adapted to obtain an HRV markers specific of the fetal autonomic nervous system assessment: the Fetal Stress Index (FSI). Preclinical studies have shown that FSI correlates with parasympathetic fluctuations and fetal acidosis.

This pilot study aims to evaluate the impact of spinal anesthesia on fetal ANS activity during elective cesarean delivery using a continuous beat-to-beat fetal heart rate recording device: the TOCONAUTE device. FSI will be retrospectively computed to assess fetal autonomic response. Maternal ANS activity will also be monitored using the Analgesia Nociception Index (ANI). A secondary objective is to explore the predictive value of ANI and FSI for maternal hypotension or fetal hypoxia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To assess the impact of spinal anesthesia on fetal autonomic nervous system activity during elective cesarean delivery.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Recording of fetal and maternal heart rate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07333729
