CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00902720
Title: Ovarian Tissue Freezing For Fertility Preservation
Official Title: Ovarian Tissue Freezing For Fertility Preservation In Women Facing A Fertility Threatening Medical Diagnosis Or Treatment Regimen: A Study By The National Physicians Cooperative of the Oncofertility Consortium At Northwestern University
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to offer an alternative method to women who wish to preserve the possibility of fertility, as well as to learn more about the ability of human eggs to survive and function after long term storage in frozen ovaries (ovarian tissue cryopreservation). The study will seek to preserve ovarian tissue and reproductive potential for patients whose medical or surgical treatment may harm ovaries or remove ovarian tissue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Women who have not yet undergone this procedure, and who present to the Fertility Consultants desiring fertility preservation, will be offered participation in the study.

Subjects will undergo an initial visit which will include a blood draw, ultrasound, and any additional tests or exams that are medically indicated for the subject's diagnosis in preparation for surgery. Subjects will then undergo an oophorectomy surgery (removal of one or both ovaries). Following removal, subject's ovarian tissue will be cryopreserved (frozen) and stored for possible future use. We also plan to collect subjects medical history information to enter into a research database. Subjects will be followed until they decide to use their tissue for fertility purposes.

We will also retrospectively enroll women who have already undergone this procedure by contacting them by mail and offering participation in our ovarian tissue cryopreservation database.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - This study will provide a pool of research ovarian tissue to use to develop and test methods to expand the range of fertility preservation options available to female cancer patients.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tissue sample storage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 41 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00902720
