CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04046471
Title: Weight Loss Physical Disabilities
Official Title: Weight Management for Adults With Mobility Related Disabilities
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 129
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to compare weight loss (6 mos.) and maintenance (18 mos.) between an individual home visit intervention (IH) and an intervention delivered remotely via video conferencing to groups of overweight/obese adults with Mobility Related Disabilities (MRDs) in their homes (GR). The primary aim will be to compare weight loss (0-6 mos.) between the two interventions (IH vs. GR). Secondarily, the study team will compare the mean weight loss from 0-18 mos., the proportion of participants achieving \>=5% weight loss from baseline, changes in cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life, and conduct a cost analysis. In addition, factors that will be explored include the influence of behavioral session attendance, compliance with the recommendations for diet (energy intake, number of entrees/shakes, servings of fruits/vegetables), Physical Activity (PA, min of moderate vigorous PA, min sedentary time), and self-monitoring of diet and PA, self-efficacy for dietary change and PA, dietary self-regulation, social support for diet/PA, barriers to PA, sleep and medications on weight loss at 6 and 18 mos.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators propose a 2-arm randomized trial (group remote (GR) vs. individual home visit (IH)) using intent-to-treat principles, to compare body weight following weight loss (6 mos.) and maintenance (18 mos.) in overweight/obese adults with Mobility Related Disabilities (MRDs). Adults with MRDs (n=128) will be randomized (1:1) to one of the 2 intervention arms for an 18-mo. trial (6 mos. weight loss, 12 mos. maintenance). Cohorts of \~30-45 individuals will be recruited. Following baseline testing, participants will be stratified by their primary mode of locomotion outside the home, i.e., ambulatory or assistive device (wheelchair, scooter, etc.), and randomized with equal allocation to GR or IH arms. Both interventions will be delivered in a format that eliminates the transportation barrier, prescribed an enhanced stop light diet, and will self-monitor body weight using electronic scales. The GR arm will include group behavioral counseling and group PA delivered remotely via video conferencing (Zoom trademark software) on a tablet computer (iPad mini) to participants in their homes, and use commercially available web-based applications for self-monitoring/participant feedback for diet (Lose It! software) and PA (Fitbit activity tracker). The IH arm will include behavioral counseling delivered during individual home visits, a prescription for self-directed PA, and self-monitoring of diet and PA using conventional paper and pencil self-reports. All outcomes will be collected by trained research assistants who are blinded to the study condition. The primary aim will be to compare weight loss (0-6 mos.) between the GR and IH interventions. Secondarily, the research team will compare mean weight loss from 0-18 mos., the proportion of participants achieving \>=5% weight loss from baseline, changes in cardiovascular risk factors and quality of life, and conduct a cost analysis. In addition, the influence of behavioral session attendance, compliance with the recommendations for diet (energy intake, number of entrees/shakes, servings of fruits/vegetables), PA (min of moderate-vigorous PA, min sedentary time), and self-monitoring of diet and PA, self-efficacy for dietary change and PA, dietary self-regulation, social support for diet/PA, barriers to PA, sleep, and medications on weight loss between the IH and GR arms will be explored, with 80% power and a type 1 error rate of 0.05, assuming a common standard deviation of 6 kg, will require 64 participants/group. A 2-sample independent t-test will be used to compare 6 mo. weight loss (primary aim) between the 2 intervention arms in both an intent-to-treat and completer only analysis. For the secondary aim 1, comparison of 18 mo. weight loss, will mirror the analysis for the primary aim. A 2-sample t-test will be used to compare weight change (0-18 mos.) between the 2 intervention arms. For secondary aim 2, a between arm comparison of the proportion of participants achieving \>=5% weight loss (0-18 m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight Change in kg From Baseline to 6-months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: enhanced Stop Light Diet
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group Remote
  - BEHAVIORAL: Individual In-Person

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04046471
