CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04170972
Title: The Role of TBC1D4 in Exercise- and insulin-induced Glucose Metabolism in Human Skeletal Muscle
Official Title: The Role of TBC1D4 in Exercise- and insulin-induced Glucose Metabolism in Human Skeletal Muscle
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Recently a common Greenlandic nonsense p.Arg684erTer variant (in which arginine is replaced by a termination codon) in the gene TBC1D4 was discovered. The variant has an allele frequency of 17%. Homozygous carriers of this TBC1D4 variant have impaired glucose tolerance and a 10-fold enhanced risk of developing type 2 diabetes (T2D). The investigators propose to carry out comprehensive metabolic phenotyping of adult Inuits carrying zero or two alleles of the TBC1D4 variant. The investigators hypothesise that regulation of TBC1D4 in skeletal muscle is pivotal in regulating glucose uptake during exercise, during physiological insulin stimulation, and for the ability of an acute bout of exercise to improve insulin sensitivity to regulate glucose metabolism in humans.

The overall aims in the present project are to:

1. Determine whether the TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter variant affects the regulation of glucose uptake in skeletal muscle during exercise and during physiological insulin stimulation.
2. Determine the effect of the TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter variant for the ability of acute exercise to insulin sensitize skeletal muscle to regulate glucose metabolism.
3. Define the metabolic pathways affected by the p.Arg684Ter variant in order to identify causal factors responsible for the diabetic phenotype of Inuit carriers.

The knowledge generated will contribute to additional explanatory clues to the increased frequency of T2D in the carriers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Recently a common Greenlandic nonsense p.Arg684erTer variant (in which arginine is replaced by a termination codon) in the gene TBC1D4 was discovered. The variant has an allele frequency of 17%. Homozygous carriers of this TBC1D4 variant have impaired glucose tolerance and a 10-fold enhanced risk of T2D. The investigators propose to carry out comprehensive metabolic phenotyping of adult Inuits carrying zero or two alleles of the TBC1D4 variant. The investigators hypothesise that regulation of TBC1D4 in skeletal muscle is pivotal in regulating glucose uptake during exercise, during physiological insulin stimulation, and for the ability of an acute bout of exercise to improve insulin sensitivity to regulate glucose metabolism in humans.

Our overall aims in the present project are to:

1. Determine whether the TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter variant affects the regulation of glucose uptake in skeletal muscle during exercise and during physiological insulin stimulation.
2. Determine the effect of the TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter variant for the ability of acute exercise to insulin sensitize skeletal muscle to regulate glucose metabolism.
3. Define the metabolic pathways affected by the p.Arg684Ter variant in order to identify causal factors responsible for the diabetic phenotype of Inuit carriers.

The knowledge generated will contribute to additional explanatory clues to the increased frequency of T2D in the carriers.

Study population:

The Inuit Health in Transition (IHIT) study is a study of adults in West and East Greenland. The participants were selected through a stratified random sample and data were collected in 1999-2010 using clinical procedures, sampling of biological material, and questionnaires. To accomplish the goal, the investigators will carry out comprehensive metabolic phenotyping of Inuits carrying zero (n=10) or two (n=10) alleles of the TBC1D4 p.Arg684Ter variant recruited from this cohort. Based on an effect of 1.2 SD as found for plasma glucose levels during an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) in the previous study (6) between homozygous carriers and non-carriers of the TBCD14 variant, the investigators achieve 89% power at p=0.05 when recruiting 10 homozygous carriers and 10 non-carriers.

Methods:

Genotyping of the IHIT cohort has already been performed. Thus, the investigators can re-call study participants for the present study based on their known genotype. The investigators intend to perform highly invasive physiological studies of subjects harboring the TBC1D4 point mutation and in control subjects matched by age, gender and BMI. The participants will be nondiabetic (25-50 yrs) males recruited through the IHIT cohort register (n=4,200). The recruitment, screening and initial clinical investigations (oral glucose tolerance test and physical exercise tests, including customization to a one-legged cycling ergometer) will take place in Greenland. The most invasive part of the study, described below, will take place in Copenhagen, Denmark.

D

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in leg glucose uptake
  - Changes in whole body insulin sensitivity sensitivity.
  - Metabolome.
  - Transcriptome.
  - Changes in the TBC1D4 interactome.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Acute exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04170972
