CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04598386
Title: The Effect of AMP Human Sodium Bicarbonate Lotion on Hydration
Official Title: The Effect of AMP Human Sodium Bicarbonate Lotion on Hydration (AMPlify Human Hydration Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the effects of a topical sodium bicarbonate lotion on physiological and psychological responses associated with hydration status and fluid balance in humans during passive heat stress. Currently, the ingestion of sodium has been an effective measure for improvements in fluid regulation and hydration status in humans. However, the investigators do not know its regulatory relationship with measurements of fluid balance when supplemented through the skin.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Design This laboratory study is a randomized, counterbalanced, crossover design involving 20 participants (20 males) from the local community and university. This project will be conducted within the thermal physiology laboratory, complete with a climatic chamber (Cantrol, CES +13/+44) located within the Human Performance Laboratory (HPL) at the University of Connecticut. The investigators expect each interested individual will complete both phases included within the study design within a randomized, counterbalanced order.

Participant grouping orders will be randomly assigned by the project's lead student investigator (Jeb Struder). Each phase will be fairly similar in procedures completed; however, one phase will be completed with a trial that introduces a biomedical intervention (sodium bicarbonate topical lotion; PR group), while the other phase will be completed with a trial that introduces a placebo (PLA group) product similar to the biomedical intervention. Approximately 24 hours should pass between the completion of each session within a phase of the study. Additionally, approximately 3 days should pass between the completion of a phase and the initiation of the next phase (5th session completed).

Environmental Conditions Sessions I, II, and III of both counterbalanced groups (PR and PLA) will all be completed within thermoneutral conditions. Session IV of both counterbalanced groups (PR and PLA) will be conducted within the climatic chamber set to a climate with ambient temperature at approximately 33C (91.4F) and relative humidity at approximately 25%.

Baseline Assessments (PR/PLAI, PR/PLAII, PR/PLA III) Baseline visits should be completed over 3 consecutive days for the establishment of baseline measurements regarding the participant's body weight, dietary behaviors, and hydration status. Each assessment will be performed at the relatively same time of day (early to late morning) and will involve approximately 30 minutes spent within the laboratory space of the Human Performance Laboratory (HPL). All Baseline Assessment sessions will consist of fairly similar data collection procedures and will begin with the participant providing the completed 24-h dietary recall log, thirst perception scale, and filled urine jug to the administrating researcher. Additionally, the participant will be asked to provide a morning urine sample and nude body weight for the assessment of session-specific hydration status and Fluid Retention Index (FRI). Furthermore, once these tasks arecompleted, an HPL trened researcher will conduct a blood draw for the collection of approximately ½ teaspoon of blood. Each session will deviate slightly in additional tasks required for completion.

Day 1 (PR/PLAI): After the collection of a morning urine sample and nude body weight measurement, the participant's height (for additional anthropometrics) and resting blood pressure (for safety precautions) will be measured. Additionally, after the completion of the blood d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fluid Retention - Change in Expelled Urine Volume
  - Fluid Retention - Change in Expelled Urine Volume
  - Fluid Retention - Change in Expelled Urine Volume
  - Fluid Retention - Change in Expelled Urine Volume
  - Fluid Retention - Change in Expelled Urine Volume

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PR Lotion - AMP Human Performance
  - OTHER: Placebo Lotion

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04598386
