CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05904561
Title: Effect of Low Level Laser Therapy Versus Pulsed Ultrasound
Official Title: Effect of Low Level Laser Therapy Versus Pulsed Ultrasound on Postpartum Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTs), the most common entrapment neuropathy of the upper extremity, is caused by compression of the median nerve as it travels through the carpal tunnel.

CTs was clinically diagnosed in more than half of women (62%). Neurophysiological evaluation diagnosed that CTs in around half of women (43%) was positive in one hand at least, also, it was reported that about half of women with CTs during pregnancy still complained of CTs symptoms one year after delivery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Carpal tunnel syndrome pain and discomfort during postpartum period may interfere with the mother ability to successfully breastfeed due to increased physical load on the mother's hands and repetitive need for flexion during breastfeeding and carrying of the baby.

Observation of peripheral oedema in about 80% of pregnant women, especially in the period of third trimester is common, it is due to hormonal changes that cause reduction of venous return, fluid retention which decrease the carpal tunnel diameter and increase compression of the median nerve. Also, increase production of relaxin hormone leads to relaxation of the transverse carpal ligament and flattening of it that increase compression of the median nerve.

Symptoms of CTs differ from tingling, numbness and palmar side pain in radial 3.5 fingers. Typically, at night, patients are awakened by a numb hand. Complaints like decrease in hand strength, difficulty of holding things and dropping are common. Sensory distribution, median nerve hypoesthesia, positive provocative tests and atrophy or weakness of the thenar muscles may be shown in physical examination.

Nerve conduction study (NCS) has been showed as the gold standard in the diagnosis of CTs since it provides information about the physiological health of median nerve over the carpal tunnel. NCS measures sensory and motor nerve action potential which determines the severity of nerve entrapment.

Conservative treatment of CTs includes; local steroid injection, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, splinting, modification of activity, physical therapy modalities like ultrasound, low level laser therapy and stretching exercises.

Low level Laser therapy (LLLT) has analgesic and anti- inflammatory effect. Also, LLL improves the metabolic processes and increases protein synthesis that improves blood flow, blood vessel health and cell regeneration.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - RADIATION: low level laser therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05904561
