CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07154719
Title: GLP-1R Actions on Muscle and the Skeleton
Official Title: GLP-1R Actions on Muscle and the Skeleton
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The GRAMS study objectives are to assess the musculoskeletal changes that occur after weight loss using GLP-1 based therapy. A lifestyle intervention with diet and exercise is included to assess any mitigating effects are provided, versus a control group with regular exercise and diet.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity and type 2 diabetes remain at epidemic proportions in our country particularly in vulnerable populations such as elderly, and minority patients. Over the last 20 years, the use of incretin-based agents (Glucagon-like Peptide 1 Receptor Agonist (GLP-1 RA) and Glucose dependent insulinotrophic polypeptide (GIP) to treat these disorders has offered unprecedented advances based on significant weight loss and reduction in major cardiovascular endpoints. Whilst weight loss provides a vital aspect for addressing obesity and type 2 diabetes, there are concerns associated with the quality of weight reduction.

The impact of losing weight on the musculoskeletal system has garnered recent attention in the lay press. Reported high-impact studies have reported excessive loss of skeletal muscle using GLP-1 RAs. The data regarding combined therapies (GLP-1 RA and GIP) suggested smaller loses. This preliminary data is based on using a surrogate marker (fat-free mass) determined by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA).

Recent reviews evaluating the impact that incretin-based agents have on fat-free-mass were found to be inconclusive based on high variability and multiple confounding factors. Assessing the impact that these agents have on the musculoskeletal system is now an important endeavor. (Aim 1-2) Diet-induced weight loss is also associated with bone loss, although little attention has focused on this potentially problematic outcome. In the CALERIE study, modest caloric restriction (15%) over two years led to weight loss and a 2% reduction in hip bone mineral density (BMD) among normal weight individuals. The mechanisms of weight loss-induced bone loss are unclear, although a drop in fat-free mass (which is composed of skeletal muscle, organs, water and connective tissues) principally muscle, such as occurs with the GLP1RAs, may predispose to injury, disability and bone loss. Another possibility is a mechanical form of skeletal adaptation to lower lean mass, through myokine mediated bone remodeling. However, significant trabecular bone loss in a non-weight bearing skeletal site occurs in mice as the investigators have shown in the mandible, from a 30% CR diet (Liu, personal communication). As such gravitational unloading due to weight loss is not solely responsible for deleterious skeletal changes. Despite the dramatic weight and lean mass loss from the GLP-1 RAs, few clinical trials have focused on loss of muscle mass and fewer on any skeletal changes. In those that did, the results suggest equipoise for skeletal changes. There are no data on the skeletal effects from tirzepatide which can drive up to 25% weight loss. (Aim 1c) Also, it is unknown whether the addition of dietary modifications and resistance-based exercises impacts skeletal adaptation, muscle mass and bone loss. (Aim 2) Furthermore, there are inconsistent data in non-Hispanic Blacks with the GLP-1 RAs because trial participation in under-represented populations has been poor. Hence,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in fat free mass (FFM) using DXA imaging. FFM equals all body composition that is not fat mass. This includes bone, skeletal muscle, organs, water and all connective tissues. The unit of measurement is in kilograms (kg) at baseline, 3 and 6 mo.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Tirzepatide
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle toolkit

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07154719
