CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06933433
Title: Assaults Against Health Care Professionals in a Tertiary Intensive Care Unit
Official Title: A Retrospective Analysis of Assaults Against Health Care Professionals in a Tertiary Intensive Care Unit
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 865
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study aims to investigate the occurrence of workplace violence, both physical, verbal, and sexual assaults, from patients and their relatives towards intensive care unit staff members.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Workplace violence, as defined by the International Labor Organization, includes any action, incident, or behavior that assaults, threatens, harms, or injures a person during their work. Healthcare workers face the highest risk of workplace violence among all professions. Violence can take many forms, including verbal abuse, physical offenses to sexual harassment. While most research focuses on psychiatric and emergency departments, workplace violence in intensive care units (ICUs) is understudied and often underreported.

As a result, little is known about its prevalence and risk factors, leading to a lack of awareness and effective prevention strategies. The aim of this retrospective single-center cohort study is to investigate the occurrence of workplace violence, both physical, verbal, and sexual assaults, from patients and their relatives towards ICU staff members. The study will assess the frequency, characteristics, and circumstances of these events in an intensive care setting. Additionally, the consequences of such incidents and the measures taken afterward will be examined. This analysis aims to identify potential risk factors and possible targets for intervention, ultimately contributing to the development and implementation of protocols that enhance the safety of both healthcare professionals and patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Demographic information
  - Acute prehospital management data
  - Duration of intensive care unit stay
  - Duration of hospital stay
  - Discharge destination

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06933433
