CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06088667
Title: Fascial Release After Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair
Official Title: The Effect of Fascial Release on Pain, Range of Motion and Functionality After Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (IASTM) is a popular treatment method that can be used for myofascial restriction and fascial release. IASTM is used to reduce pain in the area where the pathology is located, increase range of motion (ROM), improve movement function and provide a mobilizing effect. When the literature was examined, no study was found examining the effectiveness of the IASTM technique, which is known to require less effort and stimulate healing compared to manual interventions, in the rehabilitation period after rotator cuff arthroscopic surgery. Therefore, our study aimed to examine the effects of instrument-assisted fascial mobilization given in addition to conventional rehabilitation on long-term pain, function, joint range of motion, fear of movement, and daily living activities in patients who have passed 4 weeks after rotator cuff arthroscopic surgery and are candidates for rehabilitation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rotator cuff (RC) rupture causes shoulder pain, muscle weakness, and decreased shoulder range of motion (ROM). Additionally, fear of movement develops due to shoulder pain, affecting ROM and function. Treatment of RC rupture is initially conservative. In cases where conservative treatment is inadequate, surgical option is preferred. Open, mini-open and arthroscopic repair can be used in surgery. In recent years, arthroscopic repair has been mostly preferred because it causes less pain than other surgical options, has a shorter hospital stay, and does not cause complications. A postoperative rehabilitation program is a crucial component of surgical success. The aim of this program is to reduce pain, increase ROM, and improve patients' functional level and activities of daily living. The postoperative rehabilitation program includes electrophysical agents, manual therapy and exercise.Surgery-related inflammation may restrict fascial tissue. Inflammation changes the mechanical properties of connective tissue, causing adhesions and eventually leading to stiffness. Thus, the slip between fascial surfaces decreases and, accordingly, ROM and function decrease.

Instrument Assisted Soft Tissue Mobilization (IASTM) is used for myofascial restriction and fascial release. IASTM is used to reduce pain in the area where the pathology is located, increase range of motion (ROM), improve movement function and provide a mobilizing effect. However, it is noteworthy that there is a lack of studies examining the long-term effectiveness of fascial mobilization in shoulder pathologies. When the literature was examined, no study was found examining the effectiveness of the IASTM technique, which is known to require less effort and stimulate healing compared to manual interventions, in the rehabilitation period after rotator cuff arthroscopic surgery. Therefore, our study aimed to examine the effects of instrument-assisted fascial mobilization given in addition to conventional rehabilitation on long-term pain, function, range of motion, fear of movement, and daily living activities in patients 4 weeks after rotator cuff arthroscopic surgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain severity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Fascial mobilization group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06088667
