CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03320993
Title: Impact of Meal Composition and Alcohol Consumption on Postprandial Glycemic Control in Subjects With Type 1 Diabetes
Official Title: Evaluación Del Impacto de la composición Nutricional de la Ingesta y Del Consumo de Alcohol en el Control glucémico Postprandial en Pacientes Con Diabetes Tipo 1
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: beta alanine

SUMMARY:
Postprandial glucose control is a challenging issue in everyday diabetes care. Indeed, excessive postprandial glucose excursions are the major contributors to plasma glucose (PG) variability in subjects with type 1 diabetes (T1DM). In addition, the poor reproducibility of postprandial glucose response is burdensome for patients and healthcare professionals.

To date, the majority of prandial insulin dosing algorithms for subjects with T1DM considers only the carbohydrate (CHO) content of the meal. However, there is evidence (although with a certain degree of heterogeneity) that meal composition significantly affects postprandial glucose control, contributing to glycemic variability. Moreover, despite the high prevalence of alcohol consumption among patients with T1DM (about 30%, similar to that of the general population), data regarding its effect on the postprandial period are very limited.

This project will evaluate the effect of meal composition and alcohol consumption on postprandial glucose control in subjects with T1DM under intensive insulin treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized, prospective, single-centre (Hospital Francesc de Borja, Gandia, Spain), single-blind (analysis), three -way, crossover study on type 1 diabetic subjects (n=12) under intensive insulin treatment.

Aim:

To assess the effect of mixed meal composition on postprandial glycemic control, in subjects with type 1 diabetes:

1. Combined effect of proteins and fats
2. Effect of alcohol consumption

Methods:

Each subject will undergo three mixed meal test studies (on three different days), with identical CHO content: On one occasion a low fat-low protein meal will be given, and on another a high fat-high protein one, both consumed with a non-alcoholic drink; on a third occasion the same high fat-high protein meal will be consumed, but this time accompanied by an equal volume of an alcoholic drink.

Patients will arrive at the research unit at 8:00 am and their blood glucose will be stabilized around 90 mg/dl before each mixed meal test. After the mixed meal, blood will be drawn every 5-30 min during a 6 hour post-prandial period to assess plasma glucose, hormones and metabolites concentration.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Plasma Glucose

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mixed meal with different macronutrient composition

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03320993
