CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07083531
Title: Bone Loss, Physical Function and Frailty in Older Women With Sickle Cell Trait Sickle Cell Trait
Official Title: Bone Loss, Physical Function and Frailty in Older Women With Sickle Cell Trait
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
This is a cross-sectional, clinical research study comparing postmenopausal women of African Descent (AD) with different hemoglobin genotypes: normal and sickle cell trait (SCT). This research study has two purposes. The first purpose is to determine whether having SCT is a risk factor for the development of bone thinning in older women. The second purpose is to investigate whether women with SCT have reduced muscle function and increased frailty compared to women without SCT. The investigators estimate enrolling 50 female volunteers who are at least 50 years old and have not had a menstrual period for at least 12 consecutive months. Volunteers need not know whether they have SCT as this will be evaluated as part of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a collaborative project involving three different disciplinary areas, including The Division of Hematology/Oncology, The Division of Endocrinology, and The Center on Aging (CoA)/Geriatrics in the UConn School of Medicine. The project consists of two specific aims: (1) determine effects of SCT on bone mineral density in postmenopausal women of African descent and (2) investigate the association of SCT on skeletal muscle function and frailty in postmenopausal women of African descent. The investigators hypothesize that individuals with SCT have reduced bone mineral density, decreased muscle function, and increased frailty compared to controls. This research may identify a hitherto unrecognized risk factor for racially disparate fracture incidence and outcomes in AD women. These findings will set the basis for a more extensive clinical study directly examining the association of SCT on fracture incidence and fracture-related morbidity and mortality.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in bone mineral density between older African descent (AD) women with (N=25) and without (N=25) sickle cell trait (SCT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Healthy volunteers without SCT
  - OTHER: Healthy volunteers with SCT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07083531
