CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04803825
Title: The NOrwegian Tennis Elbow (NOTE) Study
Official Title: The Feasibility of Heavy-slow Resistance Training, Radial Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy (rESWT) and Information and Advice. The NOrwegian Tennis Elbow (NOTE) Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Trial Design:

The Norwegian Tennis Elbow (NOTE) study is a single-centre; three-armed, feasibility randomised controlled trial.

Aim:

The primary aim of this study is to pilot the methods proposed to conduct a definite RCT study.

Objectives:

* Measure the process of recruitment.
* Measure intervention adherence and acceptability.
* Measure outcome measure retention rate and completeness. The Patient-Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) will be used as the primary outcome measure.

Intervention:

Patients will be randomised to either: 1) Heavy slow resistance training (HSR), 2) Radial extracorporeal shock wave therapy (rESWT) or 3) Information and advice.

Follow-up will be after 3 and 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Lateral epicondylalgia, also known as tennis elbow, cause functional disability with high costs due to productivity loss, healthcare use and sickness absence. Evidence shows that physiotherapy is the most preferred patient treatment among Norwegian patients. However, the most efficient treatment for chronic tennis elbow is yet to be acknowledged. Exercises are a commonly used modality for tennis elbows. However, contradictory to lower limb tendinopathies, a pragmatic heavy slow resistance (HSR) exercise training protocol for tennis elbow have not yet been investigated. Radial extracorporeal shock wave therapy (rESWT) is another widely used modality and evidence is spares and inconsistent, reviews conclude that more high quality studies are needed.

This feasibility study will provide methodological evidence that will play an important role in the development of future RCT. The project will include 60 patients with lateral epicondylalgia, these patients will be randomised to either: 1) HSR exercises 2) rESWT or 3) information and advice. The randomization sequence is computer-generated with blocks of variable size, which is unknown to the treater and the outcome assessor. A research assistant will supply the trial physiotherapist with allocations to which group. The investigator assessing the outcome measures will be blind to group allocation. Statistical analysis will be conducted on a blinded intention-to-treat basis. Due to the nature of the intervention in the study, blinding of the trial physiotherapist will not be possible.

Tele rehabilitation and welfare technology are rapidly increasing its usability and value. To investigate if tele rehabilitation is suitable for a RCT, the exercise group will be offered voluntary tele rehabilitation as an alternative to physical follow-up.

Aims:

The objectives that will be evaluate is; 1) the process of recruitment, 2) intervention adherence and acceptability and 3) the outcome measures.

1. The process of recruitment will be measured by descriptive statistics from the enrolment. If participants redraw after baseline testing or are unwilling to be randomized, the participant will be asked to describe the reason.
2. To measure adherence to the intervention, participants will be asked to fil out an exercise diary which will be controlled at follow up consultations and collected at 3 months. Usage of tele rehabilitation and percentage of participants meeting to their appointments will be measured with descriptive statistics after 3 months. The acceptability and understanding of the intervention will be measure by a -9/+9 likert scale for acceptability of treatment the second session after randomization and at 3 months.
3. The retention rate and completeness of data of the primary and secondary outcome measures for a future full power RCT will be measured with explorative outcomes.

Statistical plan:

The analysis will focus on descriptive statistics with confidence intervals for the variable

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The process of recruitment
  - Intervention adherence (appointments)
  - Intervention adherence (training sessions)
  - Intervention acceptability and understandability
  - Retention and completeness of patient-reported outcome measures

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Heavy Slow Exercises
  - DEVICE: Extracorporeal Shock wave therapy
  - OTHER: Information and advice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04803825
