CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05499507
Title: The Path to Optimal Black Maternal Heart Health: Comparing Two CVD Risk Reduction Interventions (Change of HEART)
Official Title: The Path to Optimal Black Maternal Heart Health: Comparing Two CVD Risk Reduction Interventions (Change of HEART)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 432
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The overarching goal of our proposal is to reduce disparities in perinatal cardiovascular disease risk factors among Black women utilizing a community-driven, social ecological framework.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
What is this research about? Heart disease (e.g., heart attack, stroke) is a major threat to safe motherhood and is the leading cause of maternal death in the United States, responsible for nearly 50 percent of pregnancy-related deaths among Black women, three times the rate of white women, and is largely preventable. It is well established that eating healthy foods and monitoring blood pressure can help prevent heart disease. While prior studies addressing these individual behaviors have led to some success, a single individual-level approach has not been enough to stop the rising rate of Black maternal mortality. Researchers have also established that depression, social isolation, and stress from racism lead to poor heart outcomes. But few studies have treated these psychosocial and structural factors in addition to individual behaviors to ensure optimal Black maternal heart health, particularly for mothers at higher risk (e.g., those with high blood pressure and/or obesity). To meet this need, the research team plans to compare two approaches that treat multiple factors leading to heart disease among 432 patients age 18 and older who self-identify as Black or African American, have either obesity and/or high blood pressure, are less than 24 weeks pregnant, and have a smart phone. Both approaches address individual behaviors through nutrition and physical activity text messages and home blood pressure self-monitoring as well as provide training to medical care providers in order to reduce patients' experiences of racism or mistreatment. But only one of the approaches being studied also adds supports for Black women by Black women (community doula care, mental health services, and lactation consultation) during their pregnancy, birth, and postpartum in order to learn if these supports lead to lower blood pressure and also treat social isolation, depression, and increase experiences of respectful maternity care.

Who can this research help? This study will increase Black mothers' understanding of the many influences on their heart health. Findings from this study will help Black women with obesity and/or high blood pressure make informed decisions about the use of community doulas, lactation professionals, and psychotherapists as part of their care to reduce risks for heart disease during pregnancy or in the first year after their baby is born. Results may also strengthen health systems' commitment to anti-racism training as part of their efforts to provide quality health care for Black pregnant and postpartum people. And further, this research may provide evidence to insurance companies that coverage of this study's package of supports is needed.

What outcomes are being studied? The primary outcomes are changes in maternal blood pressure and body weight at six weeks and one year after giving birth. The team will also evaluate how well the treatments are implemented and able to reach patients, be adopted into practice consistently, and lead to h

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in blood pressure at 6-weeks postpartum.
  - Change in blood pressure at 12-months postpartum.
  - Change in body weight at 6-weeks postpartum.
  - Change in body weight at 12-months postpartum.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: COH
  - BEHAVIORAL: COH+

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05499507
