CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05104034
Title: Comprehensive Risk Assessment and Prevention Plan of Osteoporosis and Sarcopenia for the Elderly Participating in Community-based Long-term Care Services
Official Title: Comprehensive Risk Assessment and Prevention Plan of Osteoporosis and Sarcopenia for the Elderly Participating in Community-based Long-term Care Services
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 600
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this project is:

1. Provide the epidemiological data of the prevalence, incidence, and risk factors of osteoporosis and sarcopenia among the elderly in rural areas.
2. Screen osteoporosis and sarcopenia among the elderly and provide with assistance for following care in order to improve the diagnosis and treatment rates of osteoporosis and sarcopenia
3. Construct a pragmatic and integrated care service model for osteoporosis and sarcopenia in the elderly people from rural areas

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description:

Investigators plan to use a stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial that allocates participants into the following three groups:

1. Screening group: Inform the elderly about the results of the screening and recommend those with moderate to high risk of fracture to receive active examination and treatment.
2. Multi-disciplinary team intervention group: Introduce integrated services of health education, nutrition, rehabilitation, medication evaluation and other multi-specialties to assist study participants with health promotion.
3. Control group (Delayed intervention): receive general care after collecting basic information, and provide health education related information such as osteoporosis sarcopenia. After two year's follow-up, multi-disciplinary team intervention service will be implemented.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The changes of Quality of life and quality adjusted life year
  - Intrinsic capacity
  - Institutionalilzation rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Osteoporosis screening and treatment as needed
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sarcopenia
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pharmaceutical care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05104034
