CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05775016
Title: Effects of Adding L-BAIBA to Exercising Adult Overweight and Obese Men and Women
Official Title: Effects of Adding L-BAIBA to Exercising Adult Overweight and Obese Men and Women on Changes in Body Composition, Glucose Control, and Cardiometabolic Risk Factors
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Beta-amino isobutyric acid (BAIBA) is a myokine produced in skeletal muscle and has been shown to impact how our body metabolizes fuel. We seek to examine changes in body composition, weight loss, glucose control, and cardiometabolic risk factors after adding supplementation of BAIBA to exercise in overweight and obese men and women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be conducted using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group design. Eligible study participants will be randomly assigned to one of three supplementation groups: placebo (resistant dextrin) supplementation + exercise group, 750 mg BAIBA supplementation + exercise group, and a 1500 mg BAIBA supplementation + exercise group. After signing an IRB-approved consent form, prospective participants will be scheduled for a screening visit where they will have their eligibility finalized through completion of a peak VO2 assessment using a motorized treadmill and metabolic cart. Eligible participants will then be fully explained the study and scheduled for a baseline testing session (week 0). Prior to scheduling this visit, participants must complete a 4-day food record. Once a food record is completed, participants will observe an overnight fast and be scheduled to complete the testing session between the hours of 0600 - 1000 hours. Upon arrival, changes in medical status, medications, and dietary supplements will be confirmed before having their body mass and hemodynamics assessed. Next, participants will have their waist circumference, body water (BIS), and body composition (DEXA) assessed to evaluate changes in body composition and obesity status throughout the study protocol. Participants will then have a venous blood sample collected for evaluation of health markers (complete blood counts, comprehensive metabolic panels, and lipid panels) before completing a resting metabolic rate measurement. The resting metabolic rate measurement will be used to prescribe energy intake throughout the study protocol. Participants will then use an electronic tablet and complete the Profile of Mood States and visual analog scales to evaluate perceptions of hunger and appetite. Participants will then be given their first daily dose. All participants will be given instructions and meal plans as well as be offered weekly educational sessions on how to restrict calories and meet protein goals throughout the study protocol. Participants will complete five days per week of exercise consisting of a mixture of walking and resistance training. Daily compliance to the exercise and supplementation groups will be monitored weekly for a 12-week period. Participants who complete at least 80% of their assigned workouts will be considered compliant and will be scheduled for follow-up visits after 6 and 12 weeks of supplementation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fat Mass (4-compartment)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05775016
