CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05279989
Title: Healthy Weight and Stress Management Study
Official Title: Healthy Weight and Stress Management Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Approximately 1 in 10 mid-life (age 35-64) Americans have mobility impairing disabilities. People with mobility impairing disabilities are defined using the World Health Organization criteria: community living adults with mobility impairment (e.g., amputation, spinal cord injury). Women with mobility impairing disabilities often struggle with stress, abdominal fat (measured as waist circumference), lack of muscle tissue (measured as handgrip strength) and high cardiometabolic risk. This study investigates the usefulness, acceptability, and effectiveness of two strategies to reduce stress, improve health habits, reduce abdominal fat and increase muscle tissue in mid-life women with mobility impairments. These strategies involve either gentle stretching and strengthening exercises or watching informative videos.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
About 1 in 10 mid-life (age 35-64) Americans have mobility impairing disabilities, steadily increasing due to medical and technological innovations. People with mobility impairing disabilities (PMI) are defined using the World Health Organization criteria, as community living adults with mobility impairment (e.g., amputation, spinal cord injury). Mid-life is a critical time for people to improve their current functioning and enhance healthy aging, by improving emotional health and increasing physical activity (PA). A review showed PA improves emotional and physical health among PMI. PMI have unique challenges to meeting PA guidelines; innovative strategies are needed to achieve emotional and physical benefits for optimal health and aging.

The higher prevalence of daily stress encountered by mid-life PMI is linked to emotional health and abdominal fat (cardiometabolic disease risk) that can lead to premature mortality. This is especially so for women with mobility impairment (WMI) who have higher prevalence of excess body fat, higher cardiometabolic risk, and are not eligible for most interventions that involve PA. PA interventions also increase muscle mass, which helps to prevent cardiometabolic conditions. Although vigorous PA may not be well-suited for WMI, lighter intensity PA such as Tai Chi, Qigong and Yoga-also called meditative movement-adapted for seated practice, are a possible solution.

Tai Chi and Qigong have been tested in non-impaired populations. Our work combines these two forms of low-to-moderate PA meditative movement, Tai Chi and Qigong (TCQ), in a mind-body practice. Our research, and others', show that TCQ consistently shows strong improvement in women in depressive symptoms, anxiety, emotional eating, and sleep quality-all contributing to excess abdominal fat (measured as waist circumference), improved muscle tissue (measured as handgrip strength) and strongly associated with cardiometabolic risk. Conventional health assessment strategies do not always work well for PMI; recent innovations have yielded scalable, low-contact assessment. We have demonstrated robust recruitment, reliable questionnaire administration and strong intervention implementation expertise via social media, video sharing, and gaming platforms.

Aim 1: Assess the potential efficacy of TCQ to reduce waist circumference and increase handgrip strength compared to controls from T1 to T2 and sustain this change to T3 and T4 when compared to control.

Aim 2: Assess the potential efficacy of TCQ to reduce stress-related behaviors (depressive symptoms, anxiety, emotional eating, and sleep) that impact abdominal fat and strength when compared to control.

Aim 3: Evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of an online delivered TCQ intervention in women with mobility impairments.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Waist Circumference assessed by measuring tape
  - Waist Circumference assessed by measuring tape
  - Waist Circumference measured by measuring tape
  - Waist Circumference measured by measuring tape
  - Handgrip strength measured by isokinetic handgrip dynamometry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Seated Tai Chi Qigong
  - OTHER: Health Information Videos

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 64 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05279989
