CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05001581
Title: Irreparable Rotator Cuff Tears Treatment. Comparison of Two Methods: With and Without Biceps Tendon Augmentation
Official Title: Massive and Irreparable Rotator Cuff Tears Treated by Arthroscopic Partial Repair and Partial Repair With Long Head of the Biceps Tendon Augmentation. Comparison of Clinical and Radiological Findings
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Management of massive rotator cuff tears (MRCT) is associated with high rates of failure. The long head of the biceps tendon augmentation (LHBTA) by reinforcement of the reconstruction and additional blood supply may improve healing and provide better outcome than partial repair only.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients with irreparable supraspinatus muscle (SSP) tear, and complete infraspinatus muscle (ISP) tear are including in the prospective, comparative study. Excluding criteria consist of: problems or previous surgery of contralateral shoulder, subscapularis muscle tear larger than stage 2 by Lafosse classification, uncontrolled diabetes and previous surgery. First group consisting of patients treated by partial cuff repair with LHBTA. Second group is comparative group consisting of patients treated by only partial cuff repair without LHBTA. Group stratification depends on quality of the biceps tendon. In case of good tendon quality - its used for biological augmentation, if it's degenerated- tenotomy of the tendon and only partial repair is performing. Irreparability is defined as SSP ≥ 3 in Goutallier classification and stage 3 in Patte classification what is preoperatively assessed by MRI. Assessment tools consisting of range of motion (ROM), strength measurements in position adequate to assess reconstructing tendons and muscles force, Acromio-humeral index (AHI), Constant, SST, Hamada, and Sugaya scores. Goutallier classification for SSP and ISP and diameter of the teres minor muscle (TMn). Radiological and clinical assessment is performing one year after the surgery

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Comparison of improvement in shoulder range of motion
  - Comparison of improvement in shoulder strength
  - Comparison of improvement in shoulder pain in VAS score
  - Comparison of shoulder function measured in Constant-Murley Score
  - Comparison of shoulder function measured in SST Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic partial repair of massive rotator cuff tear
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic partial repair of rotator cuff with biceps augmentation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05001581
