CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02152930
Title: The Effects of Fish Oil Supplements During Supervised Exercise Therapy in Patients With Intermittent Claudication
Official Title: The Effects of Fish Oil Supplements During Supervised Exercise Therapy in Patients With Intermittent Claudication
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Intermittent claudication (IC) is caused by peripheral arterial disease and has a high morbidity and mortality. Etiologic factors are similar to those of cardiovascular disease. Primary treatment consists of cardiovascular risk management and improvement of functional capacity with supervised exercise therapy (SET). A potential additional therapy is the administration of fish oil supplements containinGHigh amounts of omega-3 Poly Unsaturated Fatty Acids (PUFAs). In earlier clinical and experimental trials omega-3 PUFA's improved hemorheological parameters such as erythrocyte deformability and aggregation, and a number of cardiovascular risk factors. Hemorheological parameters determine the blood flow in the microcirculation, which is of main importance in patients with IC since the macrocirculation is compromised. Inflammation is considered an important etiologic factor in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and contributes to peripheral arterial disease Since omega-3 PUFAs also have a strong anti-inflammatory effect, they might be effective in patients with IC by lowering the inflammatory response. In addition, visceral fat rather than obesity in general has been recognised as an etiologic and prognostic factor in atherosclerosis.

We hypothesise that the administration of omega-3 PUFA's in patients with IC has a synergistic effect with SET and improves walking distance after SET, by improvinGHemorheological parameters resulting in a better microcirculation. Second, we hypothesise that omega-3 PUFA's result in a less proinflammatory of whole blood in response to ex vivo stimulation with endotoxin. Third, we hypothesise that omega-3 PUFA's and SET result in a decrease in visceral fat mass.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal walking distance with standardised treadmill test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Omega-3 fatty acids

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02152930
