CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06773975
Title: The Effect of an Oral Nutritional Supplement on the Nutritional and Health Outcomes of the Elderly
Official Title: A 12-week Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial of an Oral Nutritional Supplement in Improving the Nutritional and Health Outcomes of the Elderly in Peri Urban Communities of the La Nkwantanang Madina Municipality in the Greater Accra Region
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 81
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
I am conducting this research to find out if a peanut based food that is ready to use would improve the nutritional and health outcomes of the elderly when they consume it daily for 12 weeks. Eligible participants will be assigned randomly to any of these 2 groups.

1. To consume the food once a day in between meals in addition to their usual food for 12 weeks (3 months) or
2. A control group that will not be given the food. Measurements such as weight, blood pressure and the hand grip strength will be taken at the certain points of the study. A sterile needle will be used to draw about 5 ml of venous blood (from the arm) at the beginning of the study and after 12 weeks. Analyses would be carried out on the blood to know if the food has made an impact on serum albumin, ferritin, haemoglobin and cholesterol. If the findings of the study are favourable, it would provide insights for a larger randomized controlled trial that could establish the efficacy of a locally produced peanut based food for the feeding of the elderly.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design A hybrid study comprising of a cross sequential study and a randomized controlled trial.

Study area The study locations are the following five peri urban communities out of the ten peri urban communities in the La Nkwantanang Madina Municipality (LANMA) of the Greater Accra Region in Ghana; Ayi Mensah, Kweiman, Danfa, Adoteiman and Otinibi. These have been conveniently selected because they are a continuous stretch of five communities in the order listed above to reduce the cost of transportation of data collectors and logistics, distribution of the intervention and data collection based on funds available for the project.

Sample size Assumptions: A Cohen's medium effect size of 0.3, a statistical power of 80% at a 5% level of significance, G-power 3.9.1.7 software generated a sample size of 90 participants per treatment group. Accounting for attrition rate + loss to follow up of 10% = 99 participants \* 2 treatment groups

= A total sample size of 198 elderly individuals. This has been rounded off to 200 participants. The census to recruit the 200 eligible participants has been completed as of December 13, 2024.

A cross-sectional survey to identify the relationship between usual dietary intake, handgrip strength and blood pressure has been conducted for the 200 participants. Eighty of the participants will be randomly selected as participants for a 12 week randomized control trial.

Assumptions (80 participants): A Cohen's medium effect size of 0.25, a statistical power of 90% at a 5% level of significance, GPower 3.1.9.4 generated a sample size of 36 participants per treatment group. Accounting for attrition rate and a loss to follow up of 10% = 40 participants \* 2 treatment groups. A total sample size of 80 elderly individuals.

Data collection for the randomized control trial An interviewer administered questionnaire will be used to obtain the following information at different points of assessments

Baseline data collection Sociodemographic characteristics and medical history such as age, sex, highest level of education, marital status, ethnicity and use of iron supplements, anti-hypertensive drugs and cholesterol lowering drugs will be collected.

Baseline, midline (6 weeks) and endline (12 weeks) A multiple pass quantitative 24-hour dietary recall to obtain information on dietary intake. Household measures and food models will be used to estimate portion sizes. The Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE) by Washburn et al. (1993) will be used to measure level of physical activity. Body weight, hand grip strength, systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be measured.

Weekly All participants will receive nutrition education at baseline and weekly thereafter. Information on adherence will be collected by evidence of pouches of previous week's ration to calculate percentage of quantity consumed. The 24-hour dietary recall will also be used to track adherence. Information on morbidity on the use of oral nutritional su

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of serum albumin in g/dL; a change in the concentration of serum albumin from baseline to 12 weeks
  - Body weight measured in kilograms to determine the change in weight at 3 different points of measurements within the 12 weeks of commencement of intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oral nutritional supplementation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06773975
