CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06648967
Title: Impact of Different Carbohydrate Feedings on a Hydrogen Breath Curve and Self-reported Gastrointestinal Complaints
Official Title: Hydrogen Breath Test Results After Consuming Fructose at Baseline and After Protein Supplementation
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 5
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
GI distress is widely prevalent among athletes, ranging from 30 to 90% in recreationally and professionally active athletes. As the recipient of nutrients, the gastrointestinal (GI) tract plays an important role in athleticism. The following pilot project aims to better understand if a fructose load after hiking under heat stress will result in a meaningful hydrogen breath elevation as a marker for malabsorption in healthy participants, and if supplementation of a multi-ingredient fermented whey supplement will result in a different hydrogen breath response rate after a heat stress hiking test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present study aims to examine the difference between two different boluses of carbohydrate after a hiking test in the heat on fructose malabsorption measured by determining a hydrogen breath curve, as well as taking multiple self-reported gastrointestinal symptom ratings.

In addition, the study aims to evaluate the difference in hydrogen breath response and gastrointestinal symptom ratings (using one of the previously determined carbohydrate boluses) after supplementing a multi-ingredient whey protein for 3 weeks, followed by 2 more weeks of supplementation.

The objective of the study is to answer following questions:

Question 1: Does treadmill hiking in the heat combined with a glucose-fructose feeding (i.e. ration 2:1 or 1:2) result in different hydrogen breath malabsorption curves and GI symptoms.

Question 2: Is there a difference in hydrogen breath test curves and self-reported gastrointestinal symptom ratings over time, after 3 and 5 weeks of supplementation, when consuming a multi-ingredient whey supplement compared to baseline.

No study procedures will start until informed consent has been obtained.

The familiarization: If participants meet all the inclusion criteria and choose to participate, participants will start with the familiarization to get a better feeling of the type of exercise they need to perform. Participants will perform an "Ebbeling Submax Test", a two-stage walking protocol lasting \~10 minutes. After this VO2max is determined from the steady state heartrate (HR) and speed following the last 4 minutes of the second stage at 5% grade. Steady state HR is defined as over 120 bpm and ±5 bpm range over at least 2 minutes.

Test protocol: The night prior to each exercise test date, the participant will be asked to consume a standardized, low-fiber meal which will be provided to them. After 10pm, participants will be asked not to consume any calorie containing items and to only consume water. Participants will also be asked to avoid exercising the day prior to testing. The day of the test, participants will arrive fasted, and they will perform a 60-minute hiking protocol in a warm environment. The exercise consists of hiking on a treadmill in a warm environment (\>30-35°C), while reaching an exercise intensity of 70% ±5 bpm of the subject's HR max (calculated by the Karvonen method as described below). Which is an intensity in which the subject has an elevated breathing frequency but is still able to talk. The treadmill has a 5% incline, and participants will start at a speed informed by their Ebbeling test results, after this each minute the speed will be increased with 0.5 mph until the heartrate reflects the target HR range, in case walking speed is maxed out treadmill incline can be altered as well. Heart rate and speed will be continuously monitored, if speed needs to be adjusted at a later phase during the protocol (because heartrate is not within the targeted HR-range) this will be recorded to allow for exact cop

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hydrogen breath curve

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Supplementation with a multi-ingredient whey supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06648967
