CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04786418
Title: Low-Calorie Diet in People With Prediabetes/Metabolic Syndrome
Official Title: Metabolic, Multi-organ and Microvascular Effects of a Low-calorIe Diet in Younger Obese With Prediabetes and/or Metabolic Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Significant weight reduction, achieved by low-calorie diet (LCD), will mobilise ectopic fat (visceral and particularly liver fat), improving insulin sensitivity and other metabolic syndrome components, with secondary beneficial effects on cardiac structure and function.

This CALIBRATE study (metabolic, multi-organ and effects of low-calorie diet in younger obese patients with pre-diabetes) will compare the effects of a safe and effective 12-month weight management intervention, initially using a low-calorie, liquid replacement diet for 12 weeks, anticipating at least 10% reduction in body weight. The investigators will examine how much the weight loss improves the metabolic abnormalities that precede type 2 diabetes (T2D), and in reversing the pre-clinical/subtle clinical abnormalities of the liver and heart that precede liver and cardiovascular disease (CVD).

This study will compare the effects of a safe and effective 12-month weight management intervention, initially using a low-calorie, liquid replacement diet for 12 weeks, followed by a weight maintenance phase. The investigators will examine how much the weight loss improves the metabolic and neuropathic abnormalities that precede and accompany type 2 diabetes (T2D), and in reversing the pre-clinical/subtle clinical abnormalities of the liver and heart that precede liver and cardiovascular disease. In an additional optional sub-study, the investigators will additionally assess how the weight loss impacts upon appetite regulation within the brain with functional MRI (fMRI).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Prediabetes affects up to 35% of the population. It is defined as an intermediate metabolic state of glucose dysregulation between normoglycaemia and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Prediabetic individuals have 3-12 times higher annual incidence of type 2 diabetes than the general population. Further, these individuals have a considerable increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), (myocardial infarction, stroke, CV death) and even in the absence of coronary artery disease, an increased risk of heart failure. Individuals with prediabetes manifest the same clustering of cardiovascular risk factors (dysglycaemia, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, obesity, physical inactivity, insulin resistance, pro-coagulant state, endothelial dysfunction, inflammation) that confer the high risk for macrovascular complications in type 2 diabetes. For example, 37% and 51% of individuals with prediabetes have hypertension and dyslipidaemia.

Results of large randomised control trials focusing on diabetes management have shown improvements in cardiovascular and renal outcomes and treatments for patients with established type 2 diabetes. Studies examining cardiovascular and renal burdens in patients with prediabetes have demonstrated that the same therapeutic benefits have not been observed in adults with prediabetes. This study focuses on a younger age group considering the aggressive phenotype of young-onset type 2 diabetes as it provides the opportunity to address and effectively manage the associated cardio-metabolic risk factors, prevent progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes and reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease, heart failure and liver-related burden.

Liver fat predicts both cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes independent of obesity. NAFLD is a growing clinical problem which has become the most prevalent chronic liver disease in Western society. It can be associated with isolated hepatic triglyceride accumulation (steatosis), through steatosis plus hepatocellular damage with inflammation and fibrosis (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may ultimately progress to liver fibrosis/cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome and is commonly associated with insulin-resistant states including obesity, a higher prevalence of prediabetes and type 2 diabetes (T2D).

NAFLD has a bi-directional relationship with prediabetes and T2D being a risk factor for Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease but conversely, individuals with prediabetes and type 2 diabetes have significantly increased liver fat versus non-diabetic control subjects with a higher risk of NAFLD than Body Mass Index (BMI) -matched non-diabetic controls.

NAFLD is associated with a metabolic phenotype similar to that observed in T2D: hepatic and peripheral insulin resistance with reduced skeletal muscle glucose uptake and increased non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) release from adipose t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in liver fat >5 percent, determined by MRI, from baseline to after 12 months of intervention.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Standard of care
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Low-calorie diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04786418
