CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01689896
Title: Testosterone and Pain Sensitivity
Official Title: Effects of Testosterone Replacement on Pain Sensitivity and Pain Perception in Men With Chronic Pain Syndrome
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This research is being done to see whether testosterone replacement in men who take opioid-based pain medications and have low testosterone levels will show improvement in pain tolerance, pain perception and quality of life.

Some men who take opioid-based medications (narcotics) for pain develop low testosterone levels. Research has shown that low testosterone levels may make a person more sensitive to pain. This means that if a person with a painful condition develops low testosterone level as a result of his pain medications, he might become more sensitive to pain and so may need higher doses of pain medications for pain control.

Testosterone is a male hormone that is important for sperm production and the development of male characteristics such as muscle mass and strength, fat distribution, bone mass and sex drive. Testosterone hormone replacement therapy has been used for decades to treat men with low testosterone levels (male hypogonadism). Testosterone replacement therapies are available in the form of an injection into the muscle, implants under the skin, oral capsules taken by mouth, topical gels applied to the skin, and skin patches.

This study will use Fortesta®, a topical testosterone gel (T-gel) absorbed into the skin. Fortesta® is currently on the market as an FDA-approved treatment of male hypogonadism (low testosterone levels).

Men with non-cancer related pain who take opioid-based medications for pain and have low testosterone levels may join this study. (A low testosterone level is defined as early morning (before noon) blood testosterone level of 300 ng/dl or less, or a free testosterone of 50 ng/dl or less)).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Tolerance - CPT
  - Pain Tolerance - PPT
  - QOL
  - Pain Tolerance - TPPT

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Gel
  - DRUG: Placebo Gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01689896
