CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05810376
Title: Effects of Digital-based Physical Activity Intervention in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Digital-based Physical Activity Intervention on Pain, Function and Exercise Adherence in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Physical activity is recommended in the guidelines to improve pain and function in the treatment of knee OA, regardless of the severity of the disease, but still, patients rarely do enough physical activity. The choice of intervention to improve symptoms and disorders may be key to increasing the level of physical activity. Adapting physical activity to the patient's needs and preferences can improve compliance and outcomes. In a Delphi study, the only statement that received 100% support was stated as "Individualized exercise is an integral component of treatment for anyone with osteoarthritis". However, healthcare providers often recommend physical activity programs that do not place too much emphasis on the patient's preferences. The decision to engage in physical activity is multifactorial, and it is necessary to understand people's physical activity preferences better in order to increase participation and compliance.

Digital health interventions have the potential to address physical inactivity as they are accessible to a large part of the population and can be delivered with high efficiency at a low cost. By enabling patient education, support for self-management, motivation, follow-up, feedback and communication, it can prevent, cure or treat many chronic conditions. These features can increase patient motivation and encourage compliance with home exercises and physical activity. Digital behavior change interventions use digital technologies (such as websites, mobile apps, SMS or wearables) to promote and maintain health and have the potential to overcome many barriers compared to in-person programs by providing cost-effective, effective, and accessible information. No study has been found in Turkey examining digital interventions or walking programs that include behavior change techniques to increase physical activity in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Considering environmental, cultural and economic factors in this patient group in our society, we think that walking, which we think is the most appropriate physical activity method in terms of cost, accessibility and equipment, should be a permanent behavior.

Our aim in the study; To examine the effects of digitally assisted physical activity intervention on pain, functionality and exercise commitment in individuals with knee osteoarthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Functional capacity and quality of life decrease in individuals with knee osteoarthritis (OA). This is due to loss of strength and physical inactivity caused by pain or fatigue. Increasing levels of physical activity have been shown to reduce these problems. Another reason why individuals with osteoarthritis have a lower level of physical activity than the general population may be the fear of moving with the thought of more pain. However, physical activity is recommended as a basic treatment for osteoarthritis (Shih, Hootman et al. 2006).

Physical activity is recommended in the guidelines to improve pain and function in the treatment of knee OA, regardless of the severity of the disease, but still, patients rarely do enough physical activity (Zhang, Moskowitz et al.

2008, Zhang, Doherty et al. 2010, Dunlop, Song et al. al. 2011). The choice of intervention to improve symptoms and disorders may be key to increasing the level of physical activity. Adapting physical activity to the patient's needs and preferences can improve compliance and outcomes. In a Delphi study, the only statement that received 100% support was stated as "Individualized exercise is an integral component of treatment for anyone with osteoarthritis" (French, Bennell et al. 2015). However, healthcare providers often recommend physical activity programs that do not place too much emphasis on the patient's preferences. The decision to engage in physical activity is multifactorial, and it is necessary to understand people's physical activity preferences better in order to increase participation and compliance (Holden, Nicholls et al. 2009, Dierckx, Deveugele et al. 2013, Pinto, Danilovich et al. 2017).

Digital health interventions have the potential to address physical inactivity as they are accessible to a large part of the population and can be delivered with high efficiency at a low cost (Iribarren, Cato et al. 2017). By enabling patient education, support for self-management, motivation, follow-up, feedback and communication, it can prevent, cure or treat many chronic conditions. These features can increase patient motivation and encourage compliance with home exercises and physical activity (Meier, Fitzgerald et al. 2013). Digital behavior change interventions use digital technologies (such as websites, mobile apps, SMS or wearables) to promote and maintain health and have the potential to overcome many barriers compared to in-person programs by providing cost-effective, effective, and accessible information. McCabe et al. 2018). No study has been found in Turkey examining digital interventions or walking programs that include behavior change techniques to increase physical activity in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Considering environmental, cultural and economic factors in this patient group in our society, we think that walking, which we think is the most appropriate physical activity method in terms of cost, accessibility and equipment, should be a permanent behavio

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual analogue scale (VAS)
  - Visual analogue scale (VAS)
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) osteoarthritis index
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) osteoarthritis index
  - Exercise adherence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Digital-based physical activity intervention
  - OTHER: Patient education and exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 80 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05810376
