CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07065552
Title: Tirzepatide in Obesity-Driven Endometrial Cancer
Official Title: A Pre-Operative Window Study of Tirzepatide in Obesity-Driven Endometrial Cancer
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
LCCC2415 examines the antiproliferative effect of tirzepatide on the endometrium of endometrial cancer (EC). This is a pre-operative window clinical study. Endometrial biopsy samples from patients before tirzepatide treatment will be compared to their post-intervention hysterectomy specimens. If archival tissue is unavailable, a fresh biopsy will be taken before tirzepatide treatment. Post-intervention tissue will be collected from the hysterectomy specimen.

The hypothesis is that tirzepatide's anti-tumorigenic effects are due to both an improvement in the host's metabolic milieu (indirect effect) and a direct effect on the EC tumor microenvironment via the inter-related pathways of insulin, lipid, and mTOR signaling. Therefore, tirzepatide may be an innovative approach to effectively induce weight loss and inhibit tumor growth in EC, the most obesity-driven of all cancers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary objective is to determine if tirzepatide decreases proliferation in the tumors of EC patients. The effect of tirzepatide on the endometrium of 20 obese women with EC will be evaluated by comparing each patient's endometrial biopsy before tirzepatide treatment to their post-treatment hysterectomy specimen, through a pre- operative window study. These women will begin tirzepatide treatment for 4 weeks prior to standard-of-care (SOC) surgery. Subjects will have a single end-of-treatment visit 4 weeks after completing therapy and will be followed for 24 months via medical record abstraction to monitor weight loss maintenance.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Proliferation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Tirzepatide

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07065552
