CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01907009
Title: A Phase II Study Evaluating Intravenous Melphalan With Autologous Whole Blood Stem Cell Transplantation Over Three Cycles In Patients With Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (MEL-CAP)
Official Title: A Phase II Study Evaluating Intravenous Melphalan With Autologous Whole Blood Stem Cell Transplantation Over Three Cycles In Patients With Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (MEL-CAP)
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 29
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The management of (castration-resistant) prostate cancer (CRPC) is becoming increasingly complex. The use of peripheral anti-androgens with gonadorelin analogues (maximum androgen blockade) is common place. Following the failure of such an approach, several strategies may be employed. Both corticosteroids and estrogens have a role and increasingly chemotherapy is being used. The demonstration of enhanced survival using 3 weekly docetaxel has meant that this is viewed by many as the standard of care for fit patients.

Melphalan is an established alkylating drug that has demonstrated some activity in CRPC, but to date, myelosuppression has prevented adequate dosing. We have recently conducted a phase I dose escalation study using melphalan and whole blood stem cell re-infusion and it shows that median overall survival is 22 months, which is higher than the median survival rate of 19 months for Docetaxel

Data from a previous phase I study has proved the successful administration of higher doses of IV Melphalan in combination with autologous blood infusion in patients with Castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Rapid falls in circulating tumour cells were seen within 2 weeks of starting Melphalan, however slow platelet recovery meant longer periods of platelet transfusion. For this study we intend to assess the efficacy of an intensified intravenous melphalan with autologous whole blood stem cell transplantation over three treatment cycles.

39 patients will be enrolled over a 3 year period and at least 17 patients need to survive progression free at least 6-months for this study to be considered positive.

Mel-CAP is a combination chemotherapy consisting of two chemotherapy drugs:

MELPHALAN and LENOGRASTIM for 3 cycles alternately.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To determine the efficacy of intensified intravenous Melphalan with autologous whole blood stem cell transplantation in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer using progression free survival.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Melphalan
  - DRUG: Lenograstim

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01907009
