CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07352163
Title: PNF Training Effects on Jump and Balance in Basketball Players
Official Title: Effects of Training With Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation on Vertical Jump Performance and Postural Stability in Male Basketball Players
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of PNF applications on vertical jump performance and postural control in male basketball players.

The hypotheses of this study are:

H1: PNF applications affect vertical jump performance in male basketball players.

H2: PNF applications have an effect on postural control in male basketball players.

H3: There is no difference between the PNF group and the control group in terms of the effect of PNF applications on vertical jump performance and postural control in male basketball players.

Participants will be included in a 6-week program based on the group they are assigned to in the randomization. Those in the exercise group will perform lower extremity PNF patterns 3 days a week for a total of approximately 20-30 minutes. No intervention will be performed on the control group. Participants' vertical jump performance and postural control will be assessed twice: before and after the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is planned as a randomized controlled trial. After obtaining ethical committee approval, the study will be conducted on male basketball players within one year. The population of the study consists of male basketball players. The sample of the study will consist of male professional basketball players aged 18-35 who volunteer to participate in the study. To calculate the sample size of the study, a study (14) using similar methods was considered, and based on the hypothesis that the difference between the two groups would have a medium effect size, a two-way variance analysis was performed using the G\*Power Version 3.1.9.2 (Franz Faul, Universitat Kiel, Germany) program. The results indicate an effect size of f=0.41, replication = 2, number of groups = 2, correlation between repeated measures = 0.5, Type I error = 0.05, and statistical power = 0.99. This resulted in a sample size of at least 15 patients per group, totaling 30 patients. Participants will be divided into two groups using the block randomization method: the PNF group and the control group. Block randomization will be performed via https://www.sealedenvelope.com/simple-randomiser/v1/lists.

All participants' demographic information will be collected via a form. Participants will be included in a 6-week program based on the group they are assigned to in the randomization. If they are in the exercise group, they will perform lower extremity PNF patterns 3 days a week for a total of approximately 20-30 minutes. Rhythmic initiation and combined isotonic PNF techniques will be used during training. Two basic PNF techniques will be applied during the training process. Rhythmic initiation is performed by gradually and repeatedly performing the movement pattern using passive, active-assisted, and resistive movement phases to improve movement learning and coordination. Each phase of the movement pattern (passive, active-assisted, resistive) will be performed 3 times, for a total of 1 set. The goal of combined isotonic exercises is to increase muscle activation and improve neuromuscular control throughout the targeted lower extremity movement pattern. During the application, sequential manual resistance is applied at different stages of the movement, and all concentric, isometric, and eccentric contractions are performed in a single fluid movement. Resistance is applied in a controlled manner by the therapist at the beginning, middle, and end of the range of motion. Combined isotonic exercises will be performed with 6-10 repetitions and 3-4 sets, with 60 seconds of rest between sets, by sequentially and fluidly applying concentric-isometric-eccentric contractions under moderate manual resistance throughout the target pattern. All techniques will be applied bilaterally in a controlled, standardized manner appropriate to participant tolerance. No intervention will be applied to the control group. Participants' vertical jump performance and postural control will be assessed twice: bef

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - VERTICAL JUMP PERFORMANCE
  - POSTURAL CONTROL

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07352163
