CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02513407
Title: Eat, Move, Live Intervention in Reducing Chronic Disease Risk in Medically Vulnerable Communities
Official Title: Reducing Cancer and Chronic Disease Risk in Medically Vulnerable Communities: A Feasibility Study Measuring Behavioral and Biological Outcomes of the Eat Move Live Intervention
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This randomized pilot research trial studies how well Eat, Move, Live (EML) works in reducing chronic disease risk in medically vulnerable communities. Obesity, unhealthy diet, and physical inactivity are linked to increased cancer risk, especially hormone-related cancer (example, breast cancer). Improving healthy lifestyle practices, namely increasing physical activity and encouraging healthy eating behaviors may reduce the risk of getting cancer and chronic disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Level of exercise.

II. Reduction in barriers to exercise.

III. Level of self-reported 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables consumption.

IV. Reduction in barriers to fruit and vegetable consumption.

V. Improvement in biologic/metabolic markers such as hemoglobin A1c, fasting plasma glucose, and body weight.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Participants complete an assessment on knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors at baseline and attend 2 weekday sessions comprised of interactive education segment that is culturally responsive, and based on the community EML program, and topics including: nutrition guideline, nutrition label reading, comparison shopping/grocery store tour, recipe modification and healthy food preparation, eating healthy on a budget, and making healthy choices outside the home (e.g., restaurants) and physical activity over 1 hour led by Certified Health Educator (CHE), a physical activity conducted by Duarte Fitness Centers instructors over 30 minutes, and cooking/taste test demonstration co-led by the CHE and local chef over 30 minutes over 12 weeks. Participants are also prescribed and encouraged to participate in 3 days a week exercise classes (for \> 30 minutes) including salsa, Zumba and other aerobic exercises that are provided at Duarte Fitness Center.

GROUP II: Participants receive a fitness tracker to track their physical activity and be wait listed to receive the intervention during month 10-12.

After completion of study, participants are followed up immediately and at 3 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in plasma glucose level measured using point of care glucometer OneTouch Ultra® 2
  - Changes in hemoglobin A1c level measured using a point of care device A1CNow®
  - Changes in level of self reported 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables using self evaluation and the daily food diary
  - Changes in reduction in barriers to exercise using self-report evaluation based on historical EML program using Likert-type scale items
  - Changes in self-reports of activity tracker readings

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Dietary Intervention
  - OTHER: Educational Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
  - OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02513407
