CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06882291
Title: Intermittent Fasting Diet Versus Resistive Exercise Program on insulin Resistance in Obese Women With P.C.O.S
Official Title: Intermittent Fasting Diet Versus Resistive Exercise Program on insulin Resistance in Obese Women With P.C.O.S
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
This study will be carried out in an attempt to know which is more effective, Intermittent fasting diet or resistive exercise program on insulin resistance in obese woman with polycystic ovarian syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) significantly impacts women, since the broad spectrum of clinical manifestations associated with it are significant and include reproductive dysfunction, menstrual irregularities, and an increased risk of infertility. However, the consequences of PCOS go beyond the reproductive axis, with psychological and social impairments, including stress, depression, anxiety and sexual dissatisfaction. There is also a high prevalence of dyslipidemia, hyperinsulinemia, obesity, hypertension, and glucose intolerance which are risk factors that predispose women to cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM2).

Improving insulin resistance and excess adiposity are therefore key targets in PCOS management. International Evidence Based Guideline for the Assessment and Management of PCOS , highlights lifestyle intervention as the primary early management strategy. Lifestyle interventions are traditionally defined as those designed to improve dietary intake or physical activity through appropriate behavioural support. Time restricted eating (TRF), where patients are asked to consume all energy within a restricted daily time period, appears to offer more sustainable weight loss and cardiometabolic changes and may be more acceptable as a permanent lifestyle change.

Eight hour TRF may have beneficial effects on improving menstruation, hyperandrogenemia and reducing weight especially body fat, decreasing insulin resistance and chronic inflammation in women with anovulatory PCOS. TRF may be suitable for PCOS women with appropriate counseling and patient management.

The progressive resistance training (PRT) improved hyperandrogenism and the menstrual cycle as well as the functional capacity with increased muscle strength and resulted in changes in body composition with increased lean muscle mass and decreased central obesity without a reduced total weight. There were also improvements in quality of life and sexual function as complementary benefits.

So, This study will be carried out in an attempt to know Which is more effective, Intermittent fasting diet or resistive exercise program on insulin resistance in obese woman with polycystic ovarian syndrome.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HOM-IR calculation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Intermittent fasting diet
  - OTHER: Resistive exercise program
  - DRUG: Medical treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06882291
