CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03032224
Title: Analysis of Body Composition in Relation to Outcome After Surgery in a Cohort of Patients With Esophageal Cancer
Official Title: Analysis of Sarcopenia and Body Composition in Relation to Outcome in a Cohort of Patients With Esophageal Cancer or Cancer of the Gastroesophageal Junction Before and After Surgery With Curative Intent
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The occurrence of dysphagia is a well-known early feature of esophageal cancer that may reduce caloric intake and thus cause weight loss. Sarcopenia is considered to be a consequence of such involuntary nutritional restriction. The prevalence of sarcopenia in patients with esophageal cancer before and after surgery is not well known and its possible consequences have been debated.

Aim: The aim of this study was to prospectively explore body composition and function in a cohort of patients with esophageal cancer before and after surgery with curative intent. In particular, to investigate the prevalence and development of sarcopenia and body composition as a consequence to surgery for esophageal cancer and the possible relation to morbidity, length of stay and quality of life (QoL).

Methods: In a cohort of 76 patients who had esophageal- or cardia-cancer and were planned for surgery with a curative intent, data on body-composition measured with bioimpedance, working capacity (cardiac stress test), grip strength and QoL (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaires (QLQ)-C30 version 3.0) were prospectively collected. Data regarding dysphagia was derived from an esophagus related quality of life form (EORTC QLQ-OES18). Data on tumour stage and type, complications, length of stay and preoperative weight loss were collected from medical charts.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Body composition after surgery for esophageal cancer with curative intent.
  - Changes in Body composition after surgery for esophageal cancer with curative intent
  - Changes in Body composition after surgery for esophageal cancer with curative intent.
  - Changes in Body composition after surgery for esophageal cancer with curative intent.
  - Changes in Body composition after surgery for esophageal cancer with curative intent.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Resection of the esophagus and the gastroesophageal junction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03032224
