CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01322412
Title: Adapted Physical Activity Effect and Fatigue in Patients With Breast Cancer
Official Title: Adapted Physical Activity Effect on Aerobic Function and Fatigue in Patients With Breast Cancer Treated in Adjuvant Phase
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Physical exercise has been identified as a major item of many chronic diseases and cancer rehabilitation.

Therefore, physical activity for health is a valid and relevant way to improve quality of life and to manage cancer patient fatigue. The aim of the study is the assessment of the effects of a physical activity retraining program on aerobic capacity, strength and fatigue, in a breast cancer population treated by adjuvant chemotherapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Physical exercise has been identified as a major item of many chronic diseases and cancer rehabilitation. It contributes to an improvement in the quality of life and to a decrease in the current treatment side effects and mortality. Cancer in association with treatment toxicity and an inactive lifestyle lead to a fall in physical capability and causes problems in daily activities. The physical capacity and the tolerance for exercise fall simultaneously leading to a deconditioning vicious circle which increases physical, psychological and emotional symptoms of fatigue. Therefore, physical activity for health is a valid and relevant way to improve quality of life and to manage cancer patient fatigue. The aim of the study is the assessment of the effects of a physical activity retraining program on aerobic capacity, strength and fatigue, in a breast cancer population treated by adjuvant chemotherapy.

A total of 44 subjects is required. The programme is organised as follows: Arm A (aerobic and strength training) and during the 27 weeks of treatment (chemotherapy and radiotherapy); Arm B (control group). This study includes 3 assessments phases (T0: before adjuvant chemotherapy; T1 (week 27) and T2: final evaluation at the 54th week). These assessments include: cardiopulmonary exercise test including maximal oxygen uptake test (VO2max), six-minute walk test, muscular testing, assessment of physical activity (IPAQ questionnaire), fatigue (MFI20 questionnaire), quality of life (EORTC QLQ C30), anxiety and depression symptoms (HADS) and nutritional evaluation: BMI and total body photonic absorption.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - main criterion is exercise tolerance at 27 weeks, measured by VO2 max, following a physical activity (PA) programme

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01322412
