CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06110104
Title: Effect of Retrowalking Program Versus Whole Body Vibration in Patients With Chronic Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effect of Retrowalking Program Versus Whole Body Vibration on Quadriceps Muscle Torque in Patients With Chronic Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis is one of the most common degenerative joint disease that affects approximately more than 300 million people worldwide

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
this study compare the efficacy of Retro-walking program and whole body vibration on quadriceps muscle torque,endurance, Balance and knee functional disability in patients with chronic unilateral knee Osteoarthritis . it has three groups. first group recieves The Routine physiotherapy program comprises a combination of closed kinetic chain and open kinetic chain exercises cause the least intraarticular inflammation, bone destruction, and pressure over the joint. the seconed group recieves routine physiotherapy and Retro-walking which is considered a safe Closed Kinematic Chain exercise since the compressive forces at the patello-femoral joint are reduced. it include improvement in muscle activation pattern, Reduction in adductor moment at knee during stance phase of gait and augmented stretch of hamstring muscle groups during the stride; all of these may have helped in reducing disability thus leading to improved function.It reduces quadriceps eccentric function, while the isometric and concentric quadriceps strength are preserved improved pain relief and aerobic fitness level, without aggravating symptoms following walking programs in patients with knee OA. the third group recieves routine physiotherapy program and Whole-body vibration training which is now a day's got its wider importance, especially in clinical cases. It has a role in maintaining balance, proprioception, blood circulation, and hormone level that enhances the effect on the neuromuscular system . it is a new type of exercise therapy, which mainly improves muscle coordination to optimize joint function .it is performed as a neuromuscular modality in muscle strength training . As it is safe, effective and potentially feasible treatment, WBV training has also been proposed for several musculoskeletal system diseases.

the study ethical committee number is NO:P.T.REC/012/004280. the total sample size are 45 (for 3 groups), 45 patients (15 patients per group).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - quadriceps torque
  - quadriceps endurance
  - balance
  - knee functional disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: routine physiotherapy program for knee osteoarthritis
  - OTHER: Retro-walking program
  - OTHER: whole body vibration training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06110104
