CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06729138
Title: Resisted Training in Runners
Official Title: Resisted Training in Runners. A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
INTRODUCTION: Sprint training and resisted sprint training with sled has generated interest in the scientific literature due to its potential to improve performance, different studies have shown that incorporating strength training and sprints into studies have shown that the incorporation of strength and sprint training into the training programmes of long-distance runners can have significant training programmes for long-distance runners can have significant effects on running economy, anaerobic capacity of the runners and the anaerobic capacity of athletes, along with various neuromuscular adaptations. Despite these findings, the application of sprint and resisted sprint training with dragging in middle-distance and long-distance runners has been and long-distance runners has been scarcely studied, with most studies focusing on sprinters and athletes from team sports and sprinters, leaving a gap in the understanding of how these methods can influence distance runners. Along with how the intensity of external external loads affect this type of work and the influence on key kinetic variables such as vertical oscillation, contact time with the oscillation, ground contact time and muscle stiffness in this specific population.

PURPOSE: Analyse the effects that sprint training and resisted sprint training can have on running economy, force production, speed and various kinetics variables such as vertical oscillation, contact time, speed and vertical oscillation, ground contact time and muscle stiffness. MATERIAL AND METHODS: A randomised, longitudinal, prospective, blinded, assessor-blinded clinical trial will be conducted. Different variables related to sports performance will be evaluated, such as maximum oxygen consumption, critical power, heart rate variability or kinetic variables, among others.

kinetic variables among others. The evaluation will be carried out before the application of the training intervention and after two months. The study will be conducted with runners recruited through athletics clubs in the region of Cadiz, being randomly assigned a system of numerical tables using a computer programme between the sprint group (n=40) and the resisted sprint group (n=40). Both groups will perform two training sessions training sessions for eight weeks, consisting of sprint or resisted sprint repetitions based on the assigned group.

KEY WORDS: athletics, runners, resisted training, sprint.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - V02 max
  - Critical Power
  - Jump Height
  - Heart Rate
  - Heart Rate Variability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resisted Sprint Training
  - OTHER: Sprint Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06729138
