CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05314244
Title: Comparison Between Pylorus-resecting and Preserving Pancreaticoduodenectomy on Delayed Gastric Emptying and Nutrition
Official Title: A Prospective Randomized Comparison Between Pylorus-resecting and Preserving Pancreaticoduodenectomy on Postoperative Delayed Gastric Emptying and Nutritional Status
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 394
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy has been standard procedure for periampullary benign and malignant disease. Delayed gastric emptying is one of most common complications after the procedure. Recently, pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy has been actively performed because some studies reported that the procedure can reduce postoperative delayed gastric emptying.

However, the level of evidence is low and there was few studies considering nutritional status after pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy.

The purpose of this study is to compare between pylorus-resecting and preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy on postoperative delayed gastric emptying and nutritional status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy has been standard procedure for periampullary benign and malignant disease. Delayed gastric emptying is one of most common complications after the procedure. It can lead to delay initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy as well as postoperative recovery. Since 2010, pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy was introduced to reduce postoperative delayed gastric emptying. The cases have been actively increased. However, several prospective randomized controlled trials reported pylorus resection during pancreaticoduodenectomy did not reduce the incidence or severity of delayed gastric emptying. Recent meta-analysis also showed same results.

Previous randomized controlled trials were single center studies participating a relatively small number of patients. A large-scale multicenter study is needed to obtain high level of evidence. And nutritional difference may appear between pylorus preservation and resection groups. Few studies have dealt with nutritional status between two groups.

* This study aimed to compare between pylorus-resecting and preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy on postoperative delayed gastric emptying and nutritional status in 5 tertiary referral centers in Korea..
* A case of pancreaticoduodenectomy with periampullary benign and malignant tumors will be included. The expected number of patients is 394. The pylorus resecting group was performed in the experimental group and the pylorus preserving group was performed in control group.

This clinical study is a randomized prospective comparative study of the outcome of pylorus resecting and preserving pancreatoduodenectomy, and the research hypothesis is as follows.

* Nursing Hypothesis: There is no difference in incidence of delayed gastric emptying between patients who underwent pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy and patients who underwent pylorus preserving surgery.
* Alternative Hypothesis: Based on the results of the same operation of the existing institution, the average incidence of delayed gastric emptying for pylorus preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is estimated to be 20%, and the average incidence of delayed gastric emptying for pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy is estimated to be 10%.

The random assignment of this study is assigned according to the order of assignment in the planning stage of the study as a block randomization scheme with appropriate block size set.

* Plan for recruitment of research subjects : All patients scheduled for open pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic or periampullary lesions will be explained about this study and will be selected after informed consent.
* Operative method : Both patients underwent conventional open pancreaticoduodenectomy with or without pylorus resection. In the experimental group, stomach resection was performed 1.0cm proximal to pylorus. In the control group, duodenal resection was performed 2.0cm distal to pylorus. Both groups are performed through the same surgi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of delayed gastric emptying

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Pylorus resecting pancreaticoduodenectomy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 79 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05314244
