CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04350944
Title: FGF-23 and PTH in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: FGF-23 and PTH During Hemodialysis Patients Under Consideration of Calcification Propensity - a Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
In this pilot study the investigator will examine the levels of fibroblast growth factor (FGF-23) and parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels during hemodialysis therapy in 30 patients and assess the correlation between these parameters and the T-50 calcification propensity, as well as further parameters of secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT), like serum calcium (sCa), phosphate (P), 25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25(OH)D) and 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D (1,25(OH)2D).

The investigator hypothesize that FGF-23 and PTH levels are at their highest at the beginning of dialysis and decrease during the treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: The development of sHPT in hemodialysis patients is a common complication which induces an increase in calcification and atherosclerosis. Elevated FGF-23 levels are already found in early stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and it has been shown that high FGF-23 levels are associated with the development of cardiovascular disease and increased overall mortality.

Method: In this pilot study a total number of 30 patients on maintenance haemodialysis will be enrolled. The investigator will examine the course of FGF-23 and PTH levels during a single hemodialysis session. In addition, the T-50 time, a novel non-traditional cardiovascular risk factor as well as further parameters of sHPT, such as serum calcium (sCa), phosphate (P), 25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25(OH)D) and 1,25 dihydroxy-vitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) will be assessed.

Hypothesis and specific aims: The major end point of the study is the level of FGF-23 and PTH at three points during hemodialysis treatment. As secondary end points the T-50 calcification propensity and further parameters of sHPT, as well as the correlation between these parameters will be measured.

Hemodialysis is classified as a kidney replacement therapy and FGF-23 and PTH are partly metabolized and excreted by the kidneys. Based on this the investigator hypothesize that FGF-23 and PTH levels are at their highest at the beginning of dialysis and decrease during the treatment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time course of FGF-23 and PTH levels during hemodialysis treatment.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04350944
