CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01698255
Title: Psychotherapy for Late Life Depression
Official Title: Psychotherapy for Late Life Depression
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This randomized pilot study will test the feasibility of a behavioral intervention for late life depression. Enrolled participants will receive 9 weeks of a specialized form of psychotherapy we call "ENGAGE" or standard of care psychotherapy. ENGAGE is a stepped care psychotherapy based on what is currently known about older adults' response to depression interventions. Stepped care is a model of treatment that starts with the minimum effective therapeutic techniques first, and then based on how well people respond to treatment, additional therapeutic techniques are added until individuals recover from their depression. The treatment components of ENGAGE were selected to match the most common problems seen in older adults with depression. They include instructing the participant in basic problem solving techniques and encouraging re-engagement in rewarding activities.

Participants will be depressed, older adult clients of Westchester Jewish Community Services or outpatient research subjects recruited by the Cornell Institute of Geriatric Psychiatry. In addition to receiving therapy, study participants will also undergo research assessments at the beginning of the study and then at weeks 6 and 9.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A concern about existing psychotherapies is that, while effective in depression, community clinicians find them difficult to implement in older people, particularly those with medical illnesses or disability. As a consequence evidence-based psychotherapies are utilized by a small number of specialized clinicians and offered to small number of select patients.

ENGAGE approaches these problems with a four prong strategy: 1) It developed a brief treatment program consisting of psychotherapeutic components of known efficacy. 2) Among them, ENGAGE selected components most pertinent to older adults. 3) ENGAGE distilled and simplified these components so that they can be accessible to most depressed older patients and taught to large numbers of clinicians. 4) To further simplify and personalize its administration, ENGAGE relies on a stepped approach focusing on engagement in rewarding social and physical activities (a form of behavioral activation), and when needed, adding techniques for management of emotionality (emotional control), negativity bias, and apathy. The self-correcting and least restrictive nature of stepped care approaches has appeal from patient cost/time efficiency and personalized treatment perspective. This project aims to further develop ENGAGE, to study the feasibility of training professionals (master's level social workers) offering care to depressed elderly patients in the community, to obtain preliminary data of its efficacy compared to community-based therapy (CT), and to prepare for an effectiveness (R01) study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Depression

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ENGAGE
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care Psychotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01698255
