CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01576900
Title: The Effect of Combined Systematized Behavioural Modification Education Program (SyBeMeP) With DDAVP in Patients With Nocturia
Official Title: 
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 124
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
In patients with nocturia, combinational treatment of DDAVP and SyBeMeP might show better outcomes.

Systemic video instruction might prove to be beneficial by helping patients have better understanding on treatment and replacing healthcare personnel.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
One of main reason of nocturia is known as nocturnal polyuria. For the treatment of nocturia caused by overactive bladder, the combined therapy of anticholinergics plus behavioural modification has been established as the first line therapy. However, nocturia mainly comes from polyuria has been treated with desmopressin pharmacotherapy and the effect of behaviour modification education has not yet evaluated. Therefore, in this study, short term synergistic effect of combinational treatment of desmopressin and SyBeMeP (Systemized Behavioral Modification education Program) comparing desmopressin monotherpy will be evaluated in patients with nocturia.

Control group: Desmopressin (Minirin Tablet 0.1-0.4mg/day) + simple instruction Study group: Desmopressin (Minirin Tablet 0.1-0.4mg/day) + SyBeMeP. Patients will be randomized and assigned to each group at the ratio of 1:1. At screening visit, flowmetry and residual urine measurement, complete blood count (CBC), atypical diabetes mellitus (ADM), electrolytes, urinalysis micro, urine concentration, and demographic examination will be done. Voiding diary will be distributed. At 2nd visit, patients will be randomized and each treatment will be initiated. IPSS, ICIQ-nocturia, and PPTB will be completed. Voiding diary will be distributed. At 3rd visit (2 weeks after from 2nd visit): IPSS, ICIQ-nocturia, and PPTB will be completed. Assess the treatment outcome including voiding diary analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Decrease in urinary frequency (No. of nocturia)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SyBeMeP (Systemized Behavioural Modification education Program)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01576900
