CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03704064
Title: Behavioral Weight Loss and Stigma Reduction
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial of Behavioral Weight Loss and Stigma Reduction for Long-Term Weight Loss
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 105
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized controlled trial to test the effects on long-term weight loss of a novel stigma-reduction intervention combined with standard BWL treatment, as compared to BWL alone. Participants will be a total of 104 men and women seeking weight loss, ages 18 years and older, with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 kg/m2 or above (or 27 kg/m2 or above with an obesity-related comorbidity), a history of experiencing weight bias, and elevated levels of WBI. Participants will attend a screening visit in which they will complete a behavioral evaluation with a psychologist and a medical history that will be reviewed by a nurse practitioner or physician. Questionnaires assessing experiences and internalization of weight bias, with confirmation by interviewer assessment during the behavioral evaluation, will be used to determine whether participants meet criteria for having high levels of WBI. Eligible consenting participants will be randomly assigned to the standard BWL intervention (n = 52) or the stigma + BWL intervention (n = 52). All participants will attend weekly, 90-minute group meetings for 20 weeks (20 visits). In the stigma + BWL treatment group, 60 minutes will be devoted to BWL and 30 minutes to weight stigma. In the standard BWL treatment group, the additional 30 minutes will be devoted to sharing recipes and food preparation tips. Following 20 weeks of weight loss treatment, participants will attend group meetings focused on weight loss maintenance, monthly from weeks 21-46 (6 visits), and every-other-month from weeks 47-72 (3 visits). maintenance sessions in the stigma + BWL group will continue to incorporate discussion of WBI and stigma-related barriers to physical activity. Assessments - which include questionnaires, blood draws, and measurements of body weight and physical activity - will occur at baseline and weeks 20, 46 (no blood draw this week), and 72. Weight will be measured at every group meeting for clinical purposes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent Weight Change at Week 72

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Stigma-Reduction Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Weight Loss (BWL)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03704064
