CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01088230
Title: The Impact of Botox® During Robotic Rehabilitation of the Wrist Following Stroke
Official Title: The Impact of Botox® During Robotic Rehabilitation of the Wrist Following Stroke: A Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to see whether treating subjects for wrist rehabilitation following stroke with Botox® and robotic therapy is more effective than treatment with robotic therapy alone and no Botox®.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will explore new ways to facilitate rehabilitation of wrist function after stroke. One of the challenges of recovery is muscle stiffness or excessive muscle tone that often limits exercise or therapy progress. Taking this into account, the investigators propose treating the wrist and forearm with a combination of a one-time Botox® injection and a 6-week robotic therapy protocol to maximize recovery.

Botox® is a drug that is injected directly into a muscle to temporarily relax the muscle. Botox® is commonly used to decrease muscle tone in tight muscles in the stroke population. Robotics therapy provides highly repetitive mass practice with visual and haptic feedback.

Subjects will be randomized to two groups. Group A will receive the Botox® injection and group B will receive a placebo saline injection. Both groups will receive the same robotics therapy protocol. Subjects and investigators will be blinded to group assignment. The investigators would like to know if there are trends between groups in a variety of outcome measures depending on what intervention they received. The investigators predict that the treatment group will have better results than the control group on the Fugl Meyer, our primary outcome measure. The investigators hope the results of this pilot study will guide development of a larger clinical trial.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change scores on Fugl Meyer- Upper Extremity Section

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Botox®
  - OTHER: saline solution

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01088230
