CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07370272
Title: CMCT Versus CSE in Treatment of SIJ Pain
Official Title: Lumbopelvic Cognitive Movement Control Training Versus Core Stability Exercises in Treatment of Sacroiliac Joint Pain
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to investigate the difference between integrating lumbopelvic cognitive movement control training versus core stabilization exercises to the conventional physiotherapy program on pain, function, lumbopelvic stability, functional load transfer, and postural control in patients suffering from SIJ pain. The main question it aims to answer is:

What are the effects of adding lumbopelvic movement control training versus core stabilization exercises to the conventional physiotherapy program in treating patients with SIJ pain?

Researchers will compare adding lumbopelvic movement control training versus core stabilization exercises to the conventional physiotherapy program to investigate its effectiveness in treatment of SIJ pain

Participants will:

1. receive the intervention as follows:

   * Group (A) - Control Group: will receive conventional physiotherapy program (US and MET)
   * Group (B) - Core Stability Exercises Group: will receive conventional US, MET, and core stability ex's
   * Group (C) - Lumbopelvic cognitive movement control training Group: will receive conventional US, MET, and cognitive movement control training.
2. receive the training protocol 3 times a week for 8 weeks according to the set schedules.
3. perform a home exercise program in the same dose of repetitions and time as in the session.
4. be assessed before and after the intervention and training period to address the outcome measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The sacroiliac joint (SIJ) pain is a significant contributor to LBP at any age, but it affects the elderly and young active people more frequently. Based on estimates from several studies, the SIJ causes pain in 10-38% of LBP patients. Altered lumbopelvic stability causes faulty movement of the spine during limb movement, and the faulty movement may cause mechanical irritation to the adjacent joint which when repeated and accumulated may cause LBP or SIJP. Additionally, it was revealed that patients with LBP have altered movement strategies in the form of uncontrolled movements which cause symptoms. This uncontrolled movement can be defined as 'an inability to cognitively control movement at a specific site and direction, while moving elsewhere to benchmark standards'.

Despite the need to identify the most effective treatment options for SIJ pain, controversy still remains with unclear definite conclusion regarding the use of physiotherapy interventions in those patients. Clinically, the diagnosis pathway has become more definite, but the treatment algorithm is less well-defined with conflicting evidence of the standard treatment either invasively or conservatively. For the management of SIJP, the conventional approach which includes ultrasound (US) application combined with muscle energy technique (MET) for the lumbopelvic region can be successfully used. Moreover, core stabilization exercises are considered a fundamental component of physiotherapy with the goal to improve the strength and coordination of deep core stabilizers such as the transversus abdominis, multifidus, and pelvic floor muscles, which are critical for maintaining lumbopelvic stability, reducing pain and disability and also, lowing the risk of recurrent injury. Among the conservative interventions, cognitive movement control training has begun to emerge as a promising management approach and garnered attention in recent years because it involves active cognitive participation and focuses on improving stability and neuromuscular control of the lumbosacral region.

Despite that stabilization and motor control exercises, in the context of the physiotherapy literature, are a well-established management method for LBP and SIJ region pain, there is still limited evidence on which stabilization or motor control training approach is more effective and leads to better outcomes in patients with LBP of sacroiliac origin. Unfortunately, within the available literature, various treatment plans for SIJ pain have been described but there are few published studies regarding postural lumbopelvic stability and SIJ and as a result, the assessment and management of SIJP subjects with potential balance or postural control deficits are valuable and needed.

Although the effectiveness of motor control training in reducing pain in the lumbar spine was confirmed, the need for the selection of exercises due to the occurrence of various forms of movement pattern disorders is still critical. This underl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain: using Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS)
  - Functional disability: using Oswestry Disability Index (ODI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: The conventional Physiotherpay Program (US & MET)
  - OTHER: Core Stability Exercises (CSE)
  - OTHER: Lumbopelvic cognitive movement control training (CMCT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07370272
