CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06459609
Title: Effect of Protein Supplementation on Craving in Subjects Hospitalised for Addiction Treatment
Official Title: Effect of Protein Supplementation on Craving in Subjects Hospitalised for Addiction Treatment. Monocentric Pilot Study.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Moncentric pilot study conducted in the addictology department of the Pau Hospital, designed to demonstrate the benefit of protein supplementation on craving in patients with a substance use disorder at the start of their treatment for addiction.

This study will be conducted according a crossover design with a one-week phase with protein supplementation (P) and a one-week phase without protein supplementation (SP).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Addiction is a chronic psychiatric disorder characterised by the loss of control over the use of rewarding substances or behaviours, despite the accumulated damage. Craving, defined as an irrepressible, obsessive craving, is a key early symptom of addiction. Protein supplementation could reduce this craving. Nutritional abnormalities aggravate addictions but no study have directly assessed the impact of protein supplementation on craving. Evidence suggests that protein supplementation reduces cravings for sugary and hyperpalatable foods, which could extend to rewarding substances. The hypothesis is that this supplementation reduces the intensity, duration and frequency of craving in withdrawal patients by influencing dopaminergic reward circuits.

Protein supplementation takes the form of a powder sachet mixed with yoghurt or compote. It will be given twice a day, at the same time (8am and 4pm).

Patients will be enrolled at the admission to the addiction unit. They will be assessed psychologically, addictologically and nutritionally for one week and then will be randomised. Patients will be asked to assess their cravings, dietary needs, consumption of addictive substances and palatable foods.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evolution of craving for the main substance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: protein supplementation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06459609
