CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05409092
Title: Astaxanthin, Exercise Inflammation, Skin Health
Official Title: Influence of Astaxanthin Supplementation on Exercise-Induced Inflammation and Skin Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Vigorous exercise can stress the body. Consuming special types of diet supplements may help the body recover better from exercise. This includes a bright red supplement called astaxanthin that is found in certain algae and causes the pink-red color in salmon. Astaxanthin is an antioxidant and may protect cells from damage and improve the way the immune system functions. The main purpose of this study is to determine if 4 weeks of consuming astaxanthin improves recovery from 2.25 hours of intensive running on a treadmill. This study will also measure whether or not astaxanthin supplementation improves skin health

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
RESEARCH PROCEDURES The research procedures will be conducted at the Human Performance Laboratory (Room 1201, Plants for Human Health Institute Building, 600 Laureate Way), operated by Appalachian State University at the North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) in Kannapolis, NC. Subjects will come to the Human Performance Lab (HPL) for orientation/baseline testing with pre-supplementation blood sample collections, two 2.25 h running sessions, and additional lab visits to provide 1-day 7:00 am recovery blood samples) (thus 6 total performance lab visits). Skin health measurements will occur the morning before and during Performance Lab Visits #1, 2, 4, 5 (thus 8 total visits, with four of them occurring with HPL visits and four of them occurring separately). The total amount of time subjects will be asked to volunteer for this study is about 16 hours at the North Carolina Research Campus (over a 10-week period).

Orientation/Baseline Testing (Performance Lab Visit #1) Four weeks prior to the first 2.25 h running session, subjects will report to the Human Performance Laboratory at approximately 7:00-8:30 am. Skin health measurements will be conducted the day before (following review of the consent form, with signing) and the day of baseline testing. Following the second skin health measurement, demographic and training histories will be acquired with questionnaires. A symptom inventory will be conducted using a 4-week retrospective questionnaire. Delayed onset of muscle soreness (DOMS) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS) will be assessed with standardized questionnaires. A blood sample will be collected in an overnight fasted state to coincide with the same time of the day for the post-supplementation blood draw. Body composition will be measured with the seca BIA and Bod Pod body composition analyzer (Life Measurement, Concord, CA). Study participants will be tested for maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) during a graded, treadmill test with the Cosmed CPET metabolic device (Cosmed, Rome, Italy). Supplements for the 4-week supplementation period will be supplied in food supplement trays to facilitate compliance to the supplementation protocol. 3-day food records and the food list will be supplied with thorough instructions (for the 3-day period prior to the 2.25 hour treadmill running sessions).

4-Week Supplementation Periods Study participants will be randomized to astaxanthin and placebo groups, with supplements ingested daily (with the first meal) for 4-weeks prior to participation in the first 2.25 h running session. To assess potential adverse effects, a symptom inventory will be conducted using a 4-week retrospective questionnaire before and after the 4-week supplementation period. After a 2-week washout period, participants will repeat all procedures using the counterbalanced supplement. The astaxanthin and placebo supplements will look identical and be supplied by the sponsor. The astaxanthin capsule will contain 8 mg of astaxanthin from fr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Plasma lipid mediators

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Astaxanthin
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 57 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05409092
