CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03781557
Title: Effects of Omega-3 Fatty Acids Supplement in Cognition of Young Healthy Adults and in Their Reaction Time of Computerized Test After 3 Months of Taking High-concentrated DHA and EPA Fish Softgels
Official Title: Effect of Omega-3 in Cognition of Young Healthy Adult
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
In this trial, the investigators are going to investigate the improvement of cognitive brain domains after ingestion of omega 3 products that have high concentrations of DHA, Docosahexaenoic acid, and EPA, Eicosapentaenoic acid, in comparison to control group young healthy adults. The study will assess the improvement by computerized testing by their reaction time before and after the intervention. The researchers will follow the scientific and ethical regulations prevent any harmful effect on recruited subjects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Question :

Research question: Will daily consumption of omega-3 fish oil improve brain cognitive domains?

Study Methodology Research Design:

A placebo-controlled, double-blinded, 3-armed randomized controlled trial.

Population and Sample :

Our target population will be young, healthy adults, educated academic students which are the students of Sulaiman Alrajhi Colleges in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Regarding the sample size, the investigators will put into consideration the confidence level of 95%. Also, the investigators will take into account the size of our population which is the number of students in Sulaiman Al-Rajhi Colleges. In addition to that, the investigators will consider the margin of error to be around 10%. Taking these variables together will give us an estimated sample size of about 66 students which the investigators will reduce to 60 due to financial limitations.

Sampling strategy:

The investigators will recruit the participants from the students of Suliman Alrajhi Colleges by announcing through the emails and by spreading paper announcements in the campus and the housing for volunteering in the research as subjects and the investigators will try to give the participants activity points after coordinating with the students' affairs department. If more than 60 students volunteered for the trial, then the investigators will choose 60 of them based on the exclusion and inclusion criteria and by random sequence generation.

Plan of subjects' recruitment:

The investigators will recruit our subjects from the students of Suliman Al-Rajhi Colleges, both males and females sectors. The sample size will be 60 students in 3 arms (20 control, 20 high doses of Docosahexaenoic acid, DHA, and 20 high doses of Eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA,). The investigators will take the baseline characteristics and do the preliminary cognitive testing using Psytest, (TAP 2.3.1) software. Recruiting the subjects will be according to the exclusion and inclusion criteria mentioned below. After collecting the sample, the investigators will enroll the subjects in the study 6 students a day. So that the investigators will do the preliminary testing and take the baseline characteristics for 6 students at day 1 and then the day after the same group will start taking the intervention (either high dose DHA or high dose EPA or placebo) and another 6 students will be enrolled and so on. Hence day 10 will be the last day of enrollment and the process of enrollment will take 10 days. So, the investigators are going to have ten groups of subjects allocated randomly to the three arms of the study. After 90 days from the date of the enrollment, each group will be assessed, and the post-intervention testing will be carried out. The investigators will take the informed consent from all participant after explaining everything about the study and the potential side effects of supplements, in addition, to take their written agreement after explaining all their inqui

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Attention
  - Working memory
  - Sustained attention
  - stimulus-reaction incompatibility (Simon effect)
  - Go/ No go

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Docosahexaenoic acid
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Eicosapentaenoic acid
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Olive oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03781557
