CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03808675
Title: Aerobic Exercise in Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Long Term Aerobic Exercise to Slow Progression in Parkinson's Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 57
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an incurable brain illness that afflicts more than one million Americans, including many aging Veterans. PD places an unbearable burden on the individual due to progressive impairment of movement and mental function. As a result, patients lose critical abilities such as driving and can become isolated. Although drugs and surgery help movement problems, their benefits are temporary and may cause side effects. Drugs provide limited and temporary benefit for cognition and do not prevent dementia. Animal and preliminary human studies on aerobic exercise show promising results in helping a broad spectrum of symptoms. However, due to limited and inconsistent research results, the long term effects of aerobic exercise on brain health and clinical features in PD is unknown. The investigators will conduct a clinical trial to test the long term effects of aerobic exercise on the brain tissue, movement, mental functions, and driving in PD. If effective, aerobic exercise can be implemented immediately as a low cost, easily accessible treatment in PD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Parkinson's disease (PD) culminates in dementia, immobility, and death at a huge societal cost. Even early in the course, motor and cognitive dysfunction impairs instrumental activities of daily living (IADL). Non-motor symptoms due to fatigue, mood, sleep, and autonomic disorders further reduce quality of life (QoL). DTI shows progressive decline in brain tissue integrity. Usual care of PD centers on medical and surgical treatments relieve motor symptoms, but these cause side effects and lose efficacy over time. Usual treatment for non motor manifestations with pharmaceuticals (e.g., antidepressants) is symptomatic and not specific for PD. Acetylcholine esterase inhibitors exert modest symptomatic benefits on dementia, but there is no approved treatment for mild cognitive impairment. Physical Therapy is usually prescribed in later stages when mobility impairment ensues. There is no approved standard exercise regimen for PD. There is no cure or disease modifying treatment. Thus, there is a critical need for treatments that provide broad spectrum of benefits and slow PD.

Preliminary research suggests that aerobic exercise has potential to meet this need. However, aerobic exercise is demanding and carries some risks. It is unknown if aerobic exercise is more beneficial than usual care in PD in long term due to gaps in the investigators knowledge about the effects of cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) on brain tissue integrity, motor function, cognition, IADL, QoL, and disease progression. Limitations of current studies include short duration, small sample size, lack or inadequacy of controls, lack of outcome measures for cognition and IADL, and lack of biological markers to measure progression. The objective in this application is to fill the translational gap by determining the biological, clinical, and functional effects of long term aerobic exercise (LTAE) in PD.

The overall hypothesis is that LTAE improves brain tissue integrity and slows down PD. The FIRST AIM is to determine the effects of LTAE on clinical features and functional abilities in PD. The investigators' prior 6-month, uncontrolled trial showed preliminary evidence that aerobic exercise improves aspects of motor function, cognition, and QoL in PD, but long term outcomes and implication for functional abilities are unknown. The investigators hypothesize that LTAE will provide sustained improvement in motor function, cognition, and non-motor symptoms with translation of benefits to QoL and IADL. The investigators will test this with a one-year randomized controlled trial (RCT) that compares the effects of moderate aerobic exercise vs usual care. The investigators will use driving as the outcome for IADL. Driving represents an important symbol for independence, and depends on integrity of cognitive and motor systems. The SECOND AIM is to determine the mechanism of LTAE effects in PD. CRF reflects complex improvements in vascular, cardiac, and metabolic health from aerobic exercise. The

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in MDS-UPDRS Part III Motor (OFF) Score
  - Change in Flanker Task
  - Change in Road Safety Error Count
  - Change in the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 (PDQ-39) Score
  - Change in Cingulum Cingulate Radial Diffusivity (rD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic walking
  - BEHAVIORAL: Usual care with PD specific health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03808675
