CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04804475
Title: Effects of Square-stepping Exercise Training on the Attention, Dynamic Balance and Lower Extremity Motor Coordination
Official Title: Effects of Square-stepping Exercise Training on the Attention, Dynamic Balance and Lower Extremity Motor Coordination
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Physical activity plays an indispensable role to lead a healthy life. Square-stepping exercises (SSE) are aerobic exercises. Our study was designed to investigate the effects of square-stepping exercise training on the attention, dynamic balance and lower extremity motor coordination of sedentary healthy young individuals.

A total of 112 volunteers within the age range of 20-25 participated in the research. Participants were randomly divided into two groups, as 56 participants were study group (28 females, 28 males) and 56 participants were control group (28 females, 28 males). Demographic data and exercise habit of the individuals were documented. Stroop Test was used to assess Attention, Four-step Square Test was used to assess Dynamic Balance and Lower-extremity Motor Coordination Test was used to assess Motor Coordination. Throughout 3 weeks SSE training was administered 4 days a week for a length of 45 minutes in each session. All the analyses were conducted at the start and at the end of 3-week long training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Demographic data and exercise habit of the individuals were documented. Stroop Test: The Stroop test measures cognitive functions such as cognitive flexibility, attention, inhibition, and reaction time. The test is administered by asking participants to name the colors of words written in different colors; they must focus on the colors of the words, not their meanings. Research has shown that age significantly affects processing speed and reaction time, especially in children aged 5-15 and adults aged 20-82.

Four-step Square Test: The subject is required to sequentially step over four canes set-up in a cross configuration on the ground. At the start of the test, the subject stands in Square 1 facing Square 2. The aim is to step as fast as possible into each square with both feet in the following sequence: Square 2, 3, 4, 1, 4, 3, 2, 1 (clockwise to counterclockwise).

Lower-extremity Motor Coordination Test was developed as an easy, yet effective tool to clinically assess, measure, and evaluate the deficits in Lower Limb Motor Coordination

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Attention Assessment (Stroop test)
  - Dynamic Balance Assessment (Four-step Square Test)
  - Motor Coordination Assessment (Lower extremity Motor Coordination Test)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise Trainig

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04804475
