CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06579495
Title: Effects of Competitive Exergame on Weight Loss, Mental Health, and Social-emotional
Official Title: Effects of Competitive Exergame on Weight Loss, Mental Health, and Social-emotional Among Overweight and Obese Male Adolescents in China
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Overweight and obesity are prevalent, especially among adolescents. By 2016, over 124 million children and adolescents, comprising 6% of girls and 8% of boys, were classified as obese. Over the past century, childhood obesity has transitioned from a symbol of prosperity and well-being to being acknowledged as a significant health concern. Furthermore, according to the World Health Organization, it is now considered "one of the most serious challenges of the 21st century." Overweight and obese adolescents have serious problems with weight loss, mental health and social-emotional. A previous study by Lopez identified time constraints and a lack of motivation as hindrances to physical activity, a key component of effective weight loss measures.

In today's society, developed modern technology plays a very important role in the growth of teenagers and in their daily life. Exergame is a new type of video game that allows participants to be more active, stimulating their whole body movement game experience and promoting non-sedentary physical activity. Active Video Games (AVGs) utilize motion-sensing technology to simplify the complex functions typically associated with computer operations. Exergaming is a novel video game that stimulates an active whole-body gaming experience that allow to play multiple players compete or cooperate on a team. Playing against a peer offering both virtual and real social interaction is more likely to sustain engagement, and also promotes higher energy expenditure in an exergame compared to playing alone.

Harnessing adolescents' fascination with video games represents an innovative strategy in the battle against pediatric obesity and sedentary lifestyles. It is especially important to intervene with overweight and obese adolescents using Competitive exergame to become more actively involved in sports, no longer afraid of social interaction, and improve quality of life. Competitive exergame provides a virtual and a real social interaction to improve mental health on overweight and obese adolescents. Therefore, the study will systematically investigate the effects of Competitive Exergame on Weight loss, Mental health,and Social-emotional among overweight and obese male adolescents in China.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To assess the effectiveness of Competitive exergame as an intervention, overweight and obese adolescents participating in this study were randomly assigned to three groups (two experimental and one control). This experimental design consists of peer involvement in AVG play and AVG single-player, as well as one control group (children maintained normal daily life without intervention). The sample is 12-14-year-old Chinese overweight and obese male middle school students. The test site is in the school, and the child needs to complete the experimental task under the PE teacher's supervision. The researchers will set up their groups on the WeChat platform, which will be used to contact parents to learn about the subjects' daily diets. The experiment lasted for 8 weeks, with the experimental group conducted three 45-minute interventions per week. The independent variable in this study was the Competitive Exergame intervention, while the dependent variables were weight loss, mental health, and social-emotional. Based on the study design, which involves learning from and summarizing quantitative studies, the dependent variables were measured at three points: pre-test (before the intervention), post-test 1 (4 weeks after the intervention), and post-test 2 (8 weeks after the intervention). The data from these three measurements were collected, organized, and analyzed.

BMI was calculated using a formula, body fat was measured using bioelectrical impedance (BIA), and waist-to-hip ratio was measured using an accurate tape measure. Satisfaction was measured using Multidimensional Students' Life Satisfaction Scale (MSLSS). It should be noted that a 6-point agreement format has been used with middle and high school students. For each item, there are 4 response options ranging from 1 to 6 (1=Strongly Disagree'2=Mostly Disagree, 3=Mildly Disagree'4=Mildly Agree'5=Mostly Agree'6=Strongly Agree). Hence'10 negatively-keyed items are scored so that Strongly Agree= 1, and so forth. Higher scores thus indicate higher levels of life satisfaction throughout the scale. Previous studies have confirmed the Cronbach's alpha is 0.90. Self-confident was measured using Self-Confidence Scale for Chinese Primary and Secondary School (SCS). A 17-item self-confidence scale for primary and secondary school students in China was developed through theoretical construction exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis. The SCS used a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (disagree a lot) to 5 (agree a lot). A higher score indicates a student perceived higher Self-Confidence. The scale has been validated with a Cronbach's alpha of 0.84. Depression was measured using Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). It comprises 9 diagnostic symptom criteria based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV (DSM-IV) major depressive disorder. Each item has 4 response options ranging from 0 = "not at all" to 3 ="nearly every day" with total scores ranging from 0 to 27. Previous stu

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight
  - Height
  - Body Mass Index (BMI)
  - Waist-to-hip ratio
  - Body fat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Peer involvement in Two player mode(peer involvement) in Competitive Exergame play
  - OTHER: Single player mode in Competitive Exergame play
  - OTHER: Children did not engage in any Competitive Exergame play

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 14 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06579495
