CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05961462
Title: Effects of Exercise trening on Patients With Long COVID-19
Official Title: Effects of Exercise trening on Patients With Long COVID-19, aromasingle-center, Randomized, Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Effects of Exercise trening on Patients With Long COVID-19, is aromasingle-center, randomized, controlled trial designed to evaluate the effects of 4- week aerobic exercise administered to patients with long COVID-19 symptoms. The main outcome is cardiopulmonary fitness and long COVID-19 symptom improvement. Quality of life, depression, anxiety, insomnia status and perceived stress will also be assessed before and after the exercise program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Long COVID-19 symptoms are characterized by systemic deterioration of the entire body, leading to significant physiological and functional imbalances. Common symptoms may be related to decreased short-term or long-term exercise capacity resulting from organ tissue damage, such as myocardial and pulmonary dysfunction. Currently, even vaccines and medications cannot effectively address the long-term consequences of COVID-19. Exercise treninGHas been proven to improve exercise capacity and quality of life during the recovery period for various chronic disease patients.

A total of 24 patients will be included in the study. Following informed consent and baseline testing, the participants will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to receive a 4-week aerobic exercise trening or attention control.The main objective is to assess the effects of a 4-week aerobic exercise trening program on cardiopulmonary fitness and long COVID-19 symptom improvement. Secondary objectives include: to characterize baseline and intervention-related changes in quality of life, depression, anxiety, insomnia status and perceived stress status.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Symptom improvement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05961462
