CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07466758
Title: Personalized Pharmaconutrition Therapy for Myosteatosis, Sarcopenia, and Prognosis in Gastric Cancer Patients
Official Title: The Effect of Personalised Pharmaconutrition Therapy on Myosteatosis, Sarcopenia and Prognosis in Patients With Gastric Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
This randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the effect of personalized pharmaconutrition therapy on myosteatosis, sarcopenia, and disease prognosis in patients undergoing surgery due to gastric cancer. Myosteatosis refers to the accumulation of fat within skeletal muscle and is an important indicator of muscle quality and may be associated with postoperative recovery and disease outcomes.

A total of 40 patients will be included in the study (20 controls, 20 intervention). In addition to standard nutritional care, the intervention group will receive an amino acid-based pharmaconutrition protocol containing glutamine, arginine, and beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate. The pharmaconutritional intervention will be dosed according to individual requirements so that the total protein intake from the diet is 1-1.5 g/kg, based on the analysis of weekly food consumption records taken from the start to the end of the study. The control group will receive only standard nutritional care.

Myosteatosis, an indicator of muscle quality, will be assessed using computed tomography (CT) images obtained at the level of the third lumbar vertebra (L3). For the evaluation of myosteatosis, the mean radiodensity of skeletal muscle within the range of -29 to +150 Hounsfield Units (HU) will be used. Sarcopenia will be determined using the skeletal muscle index (SMI), which is calculated by dividing skeletal muscle area (SMA) by the square of height (cm²/m²). In addition, clinical and nutritional parameters will also be evaluated.

Measurements will be performed at one week before surgery and at postoperative week 4. Disease prognosis will be evaluated using the Glasgow Prognostic Score and the Prognostic Nutritional Index. The aim of this study is to determine the effects of personalized pharmaconutrition therapy on myosteatosis, sarcopenia, disease prognosis, and clinical outcomes in patients with gastric cancer.

Research Question: Does personalized pharmaconutrition therapy affect myosteatosis and sarcopenia in patients undergoing gastric cancer surgery?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Skeletal Muscle Myosteatosis at the L3 Level Assessed by Computed Tomography

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Pharmaconutrition

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07466758
