CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06604416
Title: Forward and Backward Walking Exercise on Physical and Cognitive Functions
Official Title: Acute Effect of Forward and Backward Walking Exercise on Physical and Cognitive Functions
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
To investigate the acute effects of forward and backward walking exercise on physical functions such as static and dynamic balance and cognitive functions such as attention, concentration, memory, processing speed, visual structuring skills, calculation and orientation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is planned to investigate the acute effects of forward and backward walking on physical functions such as static and dynamic balance and cognitive functions such as attention, concentration, memory, processing speed, visual structuring skills, calculation and orientation. 50 healthy individuals were randomly divided into three groups for the study. The groups were divided into Backward Walking Exercise Group (GYE) (n=17), Forward Walking Exercise Group (FWE) (n=16) and Control Group (CG)(n=17). Before treatment for all three groups; sociodemographic and clinical data with the sociodemographic information form, physical activity levels with the International Physical Activity Survey Short Form, pain severity with the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), fatigue levels with the Borg Scale, the person's selective attention capacity and skills, processing speed and general executive processing abilities. Stroop Test with TBAG Form to evaluate executive functions such as working memory, complex attention, planning and set shifting, with Trail Making Test, evaluation of dynamic balance, neuromuscular control and movement asymmetries with Y-Balance Test, static balance, postural stability evaluation on One Leg It was evaluated with the Standing Test. The GYE group completed a 25-minute backward walking exercise session, the FWE group completed a 25-minute forward walking exercise session, and the control group completed a 30-minute sitting rest between evaluation tests. After the exercises, there were significant differences in parameters such as attention, processing speed, concentration and maintenance of attention, working memory, planning, static and dynamic balance, and in the comparison between groups, significant differences were found in static balance and postural control (p\<0.05). It was observed that individuals in the backward walking group showed better improvements in some parameters after walking. However, these results need to be supported by future studies.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stroop Test TBAG Form
  - Trail Making Test
  - Y-Balance Test
  - One Leg Standing Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Forward walking
  - OTHER: Backward walking

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06604416
