CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05915715
Title: McGill Stabilization Exercises VS Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation Technique in Chronic Non-specific LBP
Official Title: Comparative Effects of McGill Stabilization Exercises and Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation Technique on Pain, Range of Motion and Functional Disability in Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Non-specific chronic low back pain (NS-CLBP) is defined as lumber pain persisting for longer than three months, in absence of a suspected pathology or any specific cause. A specific diagnosis of low back pain cannot be obtained in approximately 80% patients with low back pain, indicating that patients with low back pain are often diagnosed with non-specific low back pain and these are the majority of the individuals with low back pain that present to physiotherapy In other cases the cause may be a minor problem with a disc between two spinal bones (vertebrae), or a minor problem with a small facet joint between two vertebrae. There may be other minor problems in the structures and tissues of the lower back that result in pain. Objective of this study is to compare the effects McGill stabilization exercises and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation technique on pain, range of motion and functional disability in chronic non-specific Low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain (LBP) is one of the commonest musculoskeletal disorders and one of the most demanding ones in cost of care and medical attention. It was stated earlier that 70% of adults would experience LBP at least once over their lifespan. Furthermore, over 80% of such patients report recurrent episodes. The worldwide point prevalence of low back pain (acute, subacute and chronic) was 7.83% in 2017, with 577 million people affected at any one time. In 2017, low back pain was responsible for around 65 million years lived with disability, representing a deterioration of about 17.5% since 2007 mainly owing to population growth and ageing, with the greatest increase recorded for low-income and middle-income countries. People more often leave their job because of low back pain than diabetes, hypertension, neoplasm, asthma, heart and respiratory disease combined. A sedentary lifestyle with a lack of physical activity results in the loss of muscle power and strength and can be a predictor of LBP leading to recurrent LBP. Non-specific chronic low back pain (NS-CLBP) is defined as lumbar pain persisting for longer than three months, in absence of a suspected pathology (red flag conditions such as e.g. tumor, infection or fracture).Patients commonly have limited range of motion and dis-coordination in the function of various body parts due to pain. Nonspecific LBP is described as pain that has no specific pathology as infection, neoplasm, etc.; rather, it might develop for mechanical reasons. It is characterized by heavy pain worsening with exertion, especially in the afternoon, and reliving with rest. Moreover, the application of faulty ergonomic principles may be a cause of LBP or worsen its symptoms. Chronic LBP is associated with histomorphologic and structural changes in the paraspinalis muscles. These back muscles are smaller, contain fat, and show a degree of atrophic changes in select muscle fibers. Therefore, the lumbar paraspinalis muscles are weak with excessive fatigability. Furthermore, poor coordination of the paraspinalis muscles has been associated with chronic LBP. These contribute to a vicious cycle of LBP and deconditioning syndrome. One type of NSCLBP is continuing and recurrent primarily nociceptive CLBP due to vertebral joint overload subsequent to functional instability of the lumbar spine. This condition may occur due to disruption of the motor control system to the key stabilizing muscles in the lumbar spine, particularly the lumbar multifidus muscle (MF).Traditionally, treatment of CLBP has focused on analgesia and activity restriction. However, this treatment is ineffective and can even be harmful, generating distrust among patients and frustration towards PHCPs. Most guidelines agree on the first line of care in case of acute episode: advice, reassurance and encouragement to engage in light physical activity. When second-line treatment is needed, a range of therapeutic interventions (pharmacological and physiotherapy) for acute

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 1. Numerical Rating Scale (NPRS)
  - 2. Bubble Inclinometer
  - 3. Modified Oswestery Disability Index (MODI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: McGill stabilization exercise
  - OTHER: Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05915715
