CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00424164
Title: Lapatinib and Tamoxifen in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
Official Title: Pharmacokinetics Study of Combined Treatment Lapatinib and Tamoxifen in Advanced/Metastatic Breast Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
RATIONALE: Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using tamoxifen may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Giving lapatinib together with tamoxifen may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase I trial is studying the side effects of lapatinib and tamoxifen in treating patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the pharmacokinetics of lapatinib ditosylate and tamoxifen citrate in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary

* Assess the safety of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine any relationship between drug exposure and adverse events or biological modifications of this regimen in these patients.
* Assess the antitumor activity of this regimen in patients with measurable disease.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral tamoxifen citrate on days 1-28 of course 1. In all subsequent courses, patients receive oral tamoxifen citrate and oral lapatinib ditosylate on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate on days 1-14 of course 1. In all subsequent courses, patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate and oral tamoxifen citrate on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

In both treatment arms, blood is collected periodically during courses 1 and 2 for pharmacokinetic studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients will be accrued for this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pharmacokinetic profile of lapatinib ditosylate and tamoxifen citrate alone and in combination

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate
  - DRUG: tamoxifen citrate
  - OTHER: pharmacological study

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00424164
