CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02517632
Title: Physical Exercise Program in Chronic Chagas Heart Disease
Official Title: Impact of a Physical Exercise Program in Cardiopulmonary RehAbilitation In Patients With Chronic Chagas Heart Disease: a Randomized Controlled Trial (PEACH Trial)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The aim of this investigation is to evaluate the impact of exercise in a cardiac rehabilitation program on functional capacity, clinical markers, quality of life and biomarkers in patients with chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present study consisted in a randomized clinical study conducted at the Evandro Chagas National Institute of Infectious Disease (INI), located on Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. INI is a national reference center for treatment and research in infectious diseases and tropical medicine in Brazil, which follows a large cohort of patients with Chagas disease, all of them diagnosed by two simultaneously positive serological tests (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and indirect immunofluorescence). Patients included in the study are randomly divided in two groups: intervention and control groups. Safety analysis will be performed by monitoring any symptoms presented during data collection and follow-up study.

One of the potential risks that the patient may experience during the study is a noninvasive test that will be performed on a treadmill in a controlled environment, with the possibility of the appearance of symptoms such as fatigue, dyspnea, chest pain, dizziness, with minimal chances of occurring complications of difficult clinical control. Except for the blood test and the cardiopulmonary exercise test, the other tests to be performed are non-invasive and do not bring any risk to the participant's health. Will be collect 10 ml of blood which will be stored for up to five years for biomarker assessments.

During the exercise sessions, patients will be clinically monitored for decompensation, need for hospitalization and suspend or end the participation on the study. All cases will be individually assessed to determine the reversibility of the clinical status. Those cases will continue to be followed by the assistant staff, offering all the clinical support available in INI.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional capacity measured by peak exercise oxygen consumption

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise, nutritional and pharmaceutical counceling
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutritional and pharmaceutical counceling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02517632
