CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04432194
Title: Effect of Nutritional Supplementation and Pulmonary Rehabilitation on the Clinical Status of HF and COPD
Official Title: Evaluation of the Effect of Nutritional Supplementation and Pulmonary Rehabilitation on the Clinical Status of Patients With Heart Failure and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are the leading cause of death in the world and our country. The prevalence of Heart Failure (HF) is 1-2% in the adult population in developed countries, up to 10% among people 70 years of age. Concerning COPD, it is estimated that by 2030 will be the third leading cause of death in the world; the prevalence in Mexico is 18.4%. Also, according to INEGI data, it is the 5th cause of death in people over 65.

50% of patients with COPD die of cardiovascular causes, and they are at higher risk of developing HF, hospital readmissions, and death.

Subjects with HF and COPD concomitant have alterations such as; systemic inflammation, loss of muscle mass and strength of both skeletal and respiratory muscles, reduced tolerance to exercise, and lung function, which has an important impact on clinical status, quality of life and prognosis.

The objective of nutritional treatment in HF is to reduce heart overload and reduce cardiovascular risk. On the other hand, in COPD, it is to improve lung function. However, this is not enough to maintain the protein reserves of patients due to previously affected factors. Therefore, it is vitally essential to contemplate the supplementation with amino acids that prevent and delay the loss of protein reserves, as well as the delay in clinical status.

The β-hydroxy-β-methyl butyrate (HMB) is a metabolite of leucine, with an anticatabolic and anabolic effect. HMB improves the synthesis of proteins, muscle mass, strength, and muscle functionality. Citrulline has been associated with increased muscle mass, VO2, and exercise tolerance.

On the other hand, pulmonary rehabilitation (RP) has improved exercise tolerance, mass, and strength of skeletal and respiratory muscles, quality of life, reduction of hospitalizations, and mortality. However, in concomitant HF and COPD, there are no guidelines that specify the type of RP or if there is a synergistic effect with nutritional supplementation and its impact on clinical status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart Failure

Heart Failure (HF) is a complex syndrome consequence of any structural or functional abnormality that impairs the capacity of filling or ejected of the heart. (1, 2).

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive, systemic, and multi-organic disease with structural and functional changes, mostly in the lungs. It is characterized by a progressive limitation of airflow as a response to external factors such as airflow contamination, smoking, biomass, which are associated with chronic inflammation. (3).

Epidemiology

The cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide (4); The HF prevalence goes from 1-2% in developed countries and increases to 10% in older \>70 years old.

COPD is an important global load affecting more than 600 million people corresponding to the 5 % off all cause of death worldwide (5).

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Heart Failure

COPD and HF are related between them, sharing the same risk factors and pathogenic mechanisms. They are growing in time and are epidemic diseases because of multiple factors. The cardiovascular disease takes an essential role in COPD, 30 to 50% of deaths are because of them; one of the most important is HF. COPD patients have three times the risk to developed HF (6), and between them, the risk of hospital readmission and death is higher than those without HF (7).

Nutritional Supplementation

β-Hydroxy-β-Methylbutyrate (HMB) HMB is a leucine metabolite, are a branch chain amino acid, and a regular potent in the muscular protein replacement and endogen sub-production that occurs in the muscles and liver. The first stage of change is through the transamination of the leucine to KIC, occurring in the mitochondrial and cytosol of the muscular cell. In the mitochondria, the KIC oxidates into isovaril-CoA, subsequently by other metabolism processes, it produces 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA). Approximately 90% of KIC oxidize into isovaril CoA in the hepatic mitochondrial, lastly, acetoacetate and Acetyl-CoA. While the last 10% oxides into HMB in the cellular cytosol (8-10).

Supplementation with HMB

HMB develops a nutritional role; the daily supplementation has an anti-catabolic effect in the protein synthesis, increasing the muscular mass and diminished the muscular damage in adulthood.

Several studies evaluate the effects of supplementation with HMB, isolated, or combined in muscle functionality, strength, mortality, and indifferent pathologies(11). Recently, in a meth analysis and systemic review of randomized clinical trials made by Wu et al. to evaluate the effect of the administration with HMB over the corporal composition and muscular strength in adulthood in 65 years with pathologies. The study includes supplementation of HMB at 3mg doses at least eight weeks to increase the muscular strength and functionality (12). Supplementation with Ca-HMB with or without resistance exercise in ol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluate the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation on the clinical status
  - Evaluated the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation over the skeletal muscle mass
  - Evaluated the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation over pulmonary function
  - To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over muscle function in COPD and HF patients
  - Evaluated the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation over prognosis in COPD and HF patients

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional supplementation and Pulmonary Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04432194
