CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03863808
Title: Effect of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy on Chronic Low Back Pain With Sensitization
Official Title: Effect of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy on Chronic Low Back Pain With Sensitization
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
PURPOSE:

The main objectives of the study are:

1. To find the efficacy of using cognitive behavioural therapy on chronic low back pain with central sensitization.
2. To assist in planning an ideal physical therapy rehabilitation program for these patients.

BACKGROUND:

Recent research has shown that CLBP is a multifactorial disorder comprising psychosocial factors like pain catastrophization, fear avoidance and central sensitization. Central sensitization has been defined as "An amplification of neural signaling within the central nervous system that elicits pain hypersensitivity", and "increased responsiveness of nociceptive neurons in the central nervous system to their normal or subthreshold afferent input".

Maladaptive behavior, false beliefs and misinformation regarding the cause of the pain are all contributing factors to the chronicity of LBP.

Central sensitization has been attributed to cortical reorganization and amplification of the somatosensory representation of the back causing increased pain and further contributing to the maladaptive behavior and beliefs.

Cognitive behavioral treatment has been an important intervention for psychological disorders for decades and recently has gained a lot of interest as an intervention for chronic pain in general and CLBP in specific.

HYPOTHESES:

It will be hypothesized that: Cognitive behavioural therapy will have a significant effect on centrally sensitized pain intensity and disability.

RESEARCH QUESTION:" Does cognitive behavioral therapy have a significant effect on chronic low back pain with central sensitization"

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Oswestry disability index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
  - OTHER: Strengthening exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03863808
