CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03851627
Title: Effects of Testosterone Undecanoate vs Placebo on Intrahepatic Fat Content in Overweight/Obese Men With T2DM or Prediabetes and Hypogonadism
Official Title: 52 Week RCT to Investigate the Effect of Testosterone Undecanoate vs Placebo on Intrahepatic Fat Content in Obese/Overweight Men With T2DM/Prediabetes and Hypogonadism and Subsequent 108 Week Open Label Phase to Investigate Effects on Cardiometabolic Parameters
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The epidemics of obesity, MeTSy, T2DM and CVD are increasing worldwide. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is becoming recognized as a condition possibly involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases. The prevailinGHypothesis for NAFLD pathogenesis is the 'two-hit' model, with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia playing essential roles, which have a plethora of effects on hepatic lipid metabolism and can lead to accumulation of triglycerides in hepatocytes. Accepted treatment for NAFLD is lifestyle modifications. Sex hormones might be relevant in T2DM development and treatment. Low testosterone (T) has deteriorating effects on glucose levels, and aggravates in obesity as aromatization of T is enhanced. T deficiency is related to increases of visceral fat accumulation and associated with development of NAFLD. T replacement might be a successful way in hypogonadism to treat obesity and counteract progression of MEtSy,T2DM or CVD driven by visceral fat accumulation or NAFLD.

Primary Objective To investigate the effects on hepatic lipid content reduction of a therapy with Testosterone undecanoate 1000mg compared to placebo given for 52 weeks in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypogonadism.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background The epidemics of obesity, metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, and atherosclerosis are increasing worldwide. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), for a long time unnoted in the metabolic field, is becoming recognized as a condition possibly involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases. Support for this hypothesis emerges from studies revealing that NAFLD precedes the manifestation of the metabolic derangements. NAFLD includes the whole spectrum from non-evolutive simple steatosis to progressive non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with/without cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma in individuals without relevant alcohol consumption. NAFLD is a relevant issue in public health owing to its' epidemiologic burden. It represents the most common chronic liver disease in the general population and is expected to increase in the future as a result of an ageing population, the improving control of other major causes of chronic liver disease and the epidemics of obesity and diabetes. The prevalence of NAFLD varies according to age, gender and ethnicity. In the general population, the prevalence of NAFLD is about 25% and the incidence is of two new cases/100 people/year. 2-3% of individuals in the general population will suffer from NASH. Furthermore, up to 15-20% of patients with NASH may develop cirrhosis and 30-40%of these patients who develop cirrhosis may suffer from liver-related mortality. NAFLD is tightly associated with the metabolic syndrome. The metabolic syndrome is a condition characterized by a cluster of alterations including glucose intolerance/ insulin resistance, abdominal obesity, atherogenic dyslipidemia (low concentrations of high density lipoprotein- cholesterol and high concentrations of triglycerides), elevated blood pressure, a proinflammatory and a prothrombotic state. It increases morbidity and mortality, especially due to cardiovascular disease. The prevailinGHypothesis for NAFLD pathogenesis is the 'two-hit' model, with insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia playing essential roles. insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia have a plethora of effects on hepatic lipid metabolism and can lead to accumulation of excess triglycerides in hepatocytes. The progression to NASH entails a 'second hit', which is believed to be due to oxidative stress, upregulation of inflammatory mediators, and dysregulated apoptosis, resulting in inflammation (producing NASH) and fibrosis. Currently, the only accepted treatment for NAFLD regardless of stage is lifestyle modifications. These include weight loss by a combination of decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity.

Study rationale Many patients worldwide are suffering from type 2 diabetes with steeply rising numbers predicted for the next decades. Although much progress can be seen in the field of diabetic research and new treatment modalities, new approaches have to be found to cure the disease and underlying risk factors. As men and women show sex specific diff

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Liver fat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Undecanoate
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03851627
