CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04044963
Title: The Effect of a Prehabilitation Exercise Program on Physical Functioning for Patients Undergoing Kidney Transplantation
Official Title: The Effect of a Prehabilitation Exercise Program on Physical Functioning for Patients Undergoing Kidney Transplantation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Pre-operative physical functioning has been acknowledged as a factor influencing post-operative complication risk, recovery progression and mortality risk. Current guidelines have yet to focus on the pre-operative period as a potential target to improve levels of physical functioning before renal transplantation. This project proposes the introduction of an exercise intervention pre-operatively to mitigate functional decline pre-operatively and improve post-operative outcomes following renal transplantation.

We hypothesize that a home-based exercise prehabilitation program prior to kidney transplantation will result in improved functional outcomes including the 6-minute walk test, 60-second timed sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, quality of life and fatigue. Further we hypothesize that prehabilitation will result in improved outcomes regarding post-operative recovery, complication rate, length of stay and mortality.

Objectives

A) Identify whether a prehabilitation program can mitigate functional decline pre-operatively regarding walking speed, strength, endurance, quality of life and fatigue

B) To determine whether a tailored home-based exercise program prior to kidney transplantation is feasible with regards to adherence in patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD).

C) To determine if a prehabilitation program results in improved clinical outcomes within one week following Kidney Transplantation (KT) as well as at 30 and 90 days including but not limited to time to first ambulation, time to first bowel movement, postoperative complications (Clavien-Dindo classification), mortality and length of stay.

D) Quantify the differences described above, if any exist.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a pilot study involving kidney transplant recipients who will be receiving a kidney from a live donor and receiving care at Vancouver General Hospital or St. Paul's Hospital.

Upon enrollment baseline demographics, including age, sex, BMI, ethnicity will be recorded. Baseline physical measures will include resting HR and BP, 6-minute walk test (6-MWT) (measuring HR and RPE every minute throughout), 30-second timed sit to stand (HR and RPE at the end), Fried Frailty score (Subjective: weight loss, energy level, physical activity levels - Objective: weakness, slowed walking speed), and a quality of life (QOL) and fatigue survey. These baseline measures will be recorded at onset of enrollment, every 3 months, again 1 week prior to KT, 4 weeks post operatively, and each month after for 5 months. This will add up to 6 months of follow up. The patient reported outcomes - post-op recovery survey and fatigue survey will also be completed on day 2 and day 5 post-operatively as well as 1, 2 and 4-weeks post-operatively.

Questionnaire Administration:

All questionnaires will be available electronically using Qualtrics as well via a paper copy. These will be administered based on patient preference; they will both be administered either electronically using Qualtrics or via a paper copy.

Participant Expectations: Assessment and Follow-up

Baseline Assessment:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey, Baseline Exercise Level Questionnaire

Every 3 Months Leading Up to Renal Transplant:

I.e. 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, 12-month post baseline assessment - Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

One-week Prior to Renal Transplant:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

Two Day Post Operation:

Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey

Five Day Post Operation:

Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey

One Week Post Operation:

Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Fatigue survey

Two Week Post Operation:

Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Fatigue survey

One Month Post Operation:

Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

Two Month Post Operation:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

Three Month Post Operation:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

Four Month Post Operation:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

Five Month Post Operation:

Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

Six Month Post Operation:

Physical Fitn

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in 6-minute walk test (6-MWT).
  - Change in 30-second timed sit to stand.
  - Change in Fried Frailty Score.
  - Change in fatigue level.
  - Change in quality of life (QOL).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise and Prehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04044963
