CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02423993
Title: Education Effectiveness for Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus on insulin Pump Therapy
Official Title: Efficiency Assessment of the Structured Education Program for Type 1 Diabetes Patients on insulin Pump Therapy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 77
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of structured group education on glycemic control and Quality of Life (QoL) among users of continuous subcutaneous insulin infusions (CSII).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will include 80 patients with type 1 diabetes that will be transferred from multiple daily injection (MDI) regimen to continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII). All patients will be divided into 2 groups: 1) structured education group (n=40) and 2) control group (n=40).

Patients from structured education group will be transferred from MDI to CSII using special structured education program for type 1 diabetes patients on insulin pump therapy. Before the transferring to CSII the patients from this group will be randomized in two subgroups, depending on type of blood glucose control: patients which will use CSII and self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) (n=20) or patients which will use sensor-augmented pump (SAP) (n=20).

Follow-up duration in structured education group will be 4 months; follow-up visits included treatment adjustment, glucose data review and and collection of data on adverse events every 4 weeks. Between visits, communication with clinicians will be initiated at the discretion of the patient.

The control group will include patients with type 1 diabetes using CSII during 4-6 months before. The patients from this group will be divided in two subgroups, depending on type of self blood glucose control: patients using CSII (n=20) and SMBG or patients using SAP (n=20). In this group patients should be transferred to CSII by endocrinologist-specialist in CSII or technical trainer individually and will be monitored by coaching specialist or local endocrinologist within 4 months prior to inclusion. All patients from this group should be educated in intensive diabetes management, including carbohydrate counting, the administration of correction doses of insulin and technical aspects of CSII and self glucose control by continuous glucose monitoring in real-time ("CGM-RT").

All patients will provide written informed consent.

Diabetes-management software (CareLink Therapy Management System for Diabetes-Clinical, Medtronic) will be used for glucose data review including frequency of hypoglycemia, assessment of frequency of bolus calculator use.

Diaries of self-control will be analysed for glucose data review.

The level of knowledge about the basics of diabetes self-management will be assessed using a standard questionnaire for patients with type 1 diabetes.

For Quality of Life (QoL) assessment will be used the following validated questionnaires (in Russian):

1. The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36).
2. The Audit of the Diabetes-Dependent Quality of Life (ADDQoL) (С. Bradley et al., 1999, adjusted by Starostina E.G., 2003).

Patients from structured education group will complete the QoL Questionnaires prior to education and 4 months after transferring to CSII. Patients from the control group will complete the Questionnaires during the enrollment.

Assessment of diabetes complications will be held before and 4 months after transferring to CSII in structured education group and at the time of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Education by structured programme
  - DEVICE: CSII
  - DEVICE: CGM-RT
  - PROCEDURE: Screening for Complications
  - PROCEDURE: Glycaemic control assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02423993
