CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06724393
Title: Blood Flow Restriction and Functionality in Older Adults
Official Title: Demonstrating the Effects of Blood Flow Restriction During Resistance Training on Functionality, Strength and Oxygen Capacity in Older Adults
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Resistance training is beneficial for stimulating muscle and bone growth and is uniquely important for older adults to avoid frailty and to maintain bone density. Seniors tend to be anxious to use a large resistance or try heavier weights as it is not common for them to exercise this way. Therefore, blood flow restriction is a fantastic way to increase intensity while keeping the resistance low. Wearing blood flow restriction straps allows the muscles to adapt to working at a lower oxygen pressure, therefore, mimicking a higher intensity. Additionally, as we age, oxygen consumption decreases, commonly due to loss of lean body mass and a reduced maximum heart rate. However, resistance training can counteract these declines by reducing the resting heart rate and improving cardiac output, therefore, bettering oxygen consumption.

The study will consist of 10 weeks of resistance exercises performed twice per week. The classes will be open to seniors of 60 years of age or older. The classes will be held on zoom- allowing for easy access, no travel and an opportunity for seniors to be active in their own home. The exercises will consist of general resistance training movements focusing all the major muscle groups. One group of seniors will wear blood flow restriction bands on both legs at the upper thigh and a control group which will complete the same exercise classes with no restriction.

Before, at midpoint and after the 10 weeks, the participants will perform strength tests using the BIODEX and three functional tests focusing on the lower extremity. There will be a practice trial for all the functional tests where results are not recorded. Once the practice is completed, the participants will have one trial of each test. The BIODEX is a dynamometer that allows testing in many different settings including rehabilitation. During the functional tests, the participants will be asked to wear a VO2 non-invasive mask (VO2 Master) to measure their oxygen consumption. The functional tests will include:

* Sit to stand: rise from a chair as many times as possible without using hands or arm rests to help.
* Timed up a go: Rise from a chair and walk 8ft as fast as possible without running and return to sit on the chair.
* Sitting-rising test: lowering to the floor and coming back up without using hands, knees or arms.

Thus, the purpose of this study is three-fold: 1) To assess the effects of the 10-week online exercise intervention on strength and functionality 2) To assess the effects of the 10-week intervention on oxygen consumption using a VO2 non-invasive mask and 3) To assess if the addition of blood flow restriction over a 10-week intervention increases the improvements in strength and oxygen consumption compared to the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Blood flow restrictions in combination with low-intensity resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06724393
