CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03888235
Title: Correction of Low Back Pain From Sacroiliac Malrotation With a Simple in Home Exercise
Official Title: Frequency of Sacroiliac Malrotation in Low Back Pain and Correction With a Simple In-home Exercise: A Randomized Study Comparing Those Treated Immediately to Those Waiting One Month for Treatment
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
60 participants with low back pain will be examined to determine the direction and extent of sacroiliac malrotation. If malrotation exists, they will be randomized to 3 treatment groups: 1 will be taught how to use their thigh to push the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) backwards for an anterior malrotation and their sartorius and rectus femoris to pull their ASIS and anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) forward for a posterior malrotation. 2: will be given a pelvic stabilization belt. 3: will return in one month. At the second visit at one month all participants will be treated with both exercise and belt. They will be reassessed at the third visit one month later: the scores for immediate and delayed treatment groups will be compared. Their response to these exercises and/or the pelvic belt will be tested at the first second and third visits, using the brief pain inventory pain, the Oswestry disability scores and the distance between the (posterior superior iliac spine) (PSIS) levels, filled out at every contact. Their satisfaction with previous treatments used will be compared to their satisfaction when using the exercise and belt.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Potential participants with low back pain will answer a questionnaire to eliminate lumbar or hip pathology, ankylosing spondylitis or major leg length discrepancy as cause. If they state they do not have these, they will be given an appointment to be assessed to eliminate the presence of these conditions and to determine if they suffer from sacroiliac malrotation. To this effect, the sacroiliac forward flexion test (SIFFT) will be done: leaning on a counter with their body horizontal to tilt the pelvis forward and lower the sacrum and their legs vertical to push the innominate bones upwards via the hip joints, to expose the posterior superior iliac spines (PSISs). Pressure below the PSISs will be used to assess their inferior limits which will be marked and their levels assessed using a carpenter's level. The distance between the PSIS levels will be recorded. If there is tenderness under the higher PSIS, the ilium is malrotated anteriorly on the sacrum. If the area under the lower PSIS is tender, the ilium is malrotated posteriorly on the sacrum.

Participants are then randomized into three groups: group 1 is taught how to assess the direction of the malrotation, then how to perform the appropriate corrective exercise:

* With the foot of the anteriorly rotated side and the knee on the posteriorly rotated side on the floor, hands on the floor on either side of the foot, the participant leans forward hard to push his anteriorly rotated ilium posteriorly with his thigh and stretches the opposite thigh posteriorly to pull the posteriorly rotated ilium forward.
* Anterior malrotation can also be corrected by placing the foot on the malrotated side on a chair seat, flexing the other knee to touch the seat edge and pulling with both hands up on the seat while leaning back, to drive the thigh against the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS), thus pushing it backwards.
* If unable to do these, participants can lie supine on the table, thigh on the posterior side extended. On the anterior side the knee is flexed and the foot is on the assistant's sternum as he/she leans forward, pushing the thigh against the ASIS. Downward pressure on the sartorius and rectus femoris just above the knee causes the ASIS and the anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) to be pulled on, rotating the ilium anteriorly.

Each position is held for 2 minutes, with up to 2 repetitions as needed. At home, the procedure is repeated as needed for pain relief.

Group 2 are given a pelvic stabilization belt and taught how to apply it: tightly around the pelvis below the anterior superior iliac spines (ASISs), to stabilize the sacroiliac joints as malrotation occurs as a result of pelvic instability. The belt is used for activities known to cause back pain.

Group 3 are instructed to continue their usual treatments and given an appointment to return one month later to receive instruction for the exercise and given the belt At 1 month all are reassessed. Group 1: use and effectiveness of the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Low-back Pain Disability Questionnaire Score Change Baseline Minus 1 Month: Comparison Immediate Corrective Exercise or Pelvic Stabilization Belt V Delayed: Usual Care
  - Oswestry Low-Back Pain Disability Questionnaire Score Change Baseline Minus 2 Month Score, After One Month Of Using Corrective Exercise + Pelvic Stabilization Belt

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Immediate corrective exercises
  - DEVICE: Immediate use of pelvic support belt
  - OTHER: Delayed treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03888235
