CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03812744
Title: Neurophysiological Effects of Whole Coffee Cherry Extract in Older Adults
Official Title: Neurophysiological Effects of Whole Coffee Cherry Extract in Older Adults: An fMRI Investigation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study was designed to characterize the changes in the brain and body associated with whole coffee cherry extract (WCCE). WCCE is a patented extract of whole coffee fruit (coffee berries) from coffea arabica. Whole coffee cherries are a source of naturally occurring nutrients. There are no known side effects or allergens associated with WCCE other than that which would be associated with a consuming typical cup of coffee.

Previous studies suggest that increases in serum concentrations of both serum total and exosomal brain-derived neurotrophic factors (BDNF) may represent one of the mechanisms responsible for improved cognitive function after acute WCCE administration. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an intermediate stage between the expected cognitive decline of normal aging and the more serious decline of dementia. It can involve problems with memory, language, thinking and judgment that are greater than normal age-related changes. Furthermore, MCI is associated with reduced circulating BDNF. Due to earlier studies reporting the ability of WCCE to stimulate increases in circulating and exosomal BDNF, it has been postulated that WCCE may also acutely improve cognitive function (as measured using behavioral tasks and fMRI). The purpose of this study is to extend and elucidate the findings of previous investigations by examining the acute neurophysiological effects of WCCE using blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) employing a double-blind, randomized crossover design to investigate the acute effects of a single dose of WCCE or placebo (silica oxide) on neuronal activity in older participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Behavioral Measures - Change in Go/No-Go Reaction Time
  - Behavioral Measures - Change in N-back Reaction Time
  - Behavioral Measures - Change in Go/No-Go Accuracy
  - Behavioral Measures - Change in N-back Accuracy
  - Change in Concentration of Neurometabolites

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Whole coffee cherry extract (WCCE)
  - DRUG: Placebo Oral Capsule [CEBOCAP]

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03812744
