CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02881021
Title: Effects of Kinesiotaping on Symptoms, Functional Limitations, and Underlying Deficits of Patients With Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy
Official Title: Effects of Kinesiotaping Added to a Rehabilitation Program for Patients With Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy: Protocol of a Single-blind Randomized Controlled Trial Addressing Symptoms, Functional Limitations, and Underlying Deficits.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Rotator cuff tendinopathy (RCTe) is the most frequent cause of shoulder pain, resulting in considerable losses to society and public resources. Muscle imbalance and inadequate sensorimotor control are deficits often associated with RCTe. Kinesiotaping (KT) is widely used by clinicians for rehabilitation of RCTe. While previous studies have examined the immediate effects of KT on shoulder injuries or the effects of KT as an isolated method of treatment, no published study has addressed its mid- and long-term effects when combined to a rehabilitation program for patients with RCTe. The primary objective of this randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be to assess the efficacy of therapeutic KT, added to a rehabilitation program, in reducing pain and disabilities in individuals with RCTe. Secondary objectives will look at the effects of KT on the underlying factors involved in shoulder control, such as muscular activity, acromiohumeral distance (AHD), and range of motion (ROM).

Methods and analysis: A single-blind RCT will be conducted. Fifty-two participants, randomly allocated to one of two groups (KT or no-KT), will take part in a 6-week rehabilitation program. The KT-group will receive KT added to the rehabilitation program, whereas the no-KT group will receive only the rehabilitation program. Measurements will be taken at baseline, week-3, week-6, week-12 and 6-month. Primary outcomes will be symptoms and functional limitations assessed by the DASH questionnaire. Secondary outcomes will include shoulder ROM, AHD at rest and at 60º of abduction, and muscle activation during arm elevation. The added effects of KT will be assessed through a 2-way ANOVA for repeated measures.

Discussion: Investigations with a high level of evidence are needed to determine scientific evidence-based concerning the efficacy of KT for the rehabilitation of individuals with RCTe. This RCT will be the first to assess the effectiveness of KT added into a conventional RP for patients with RCTe, addressing underlying factors that could explain the possible benefits of this method, in a mid- and long-term. Results may contribute to build solid evidence on the addition of KT in a physiotherapy intervention for this population.

Ethics and Dissemination: Ethics approval was obtained from the Ethics Committee of Quebec Rehabilitation Institute (IRDPQ) of the CIUSS-CN. Results of this protocol will be disseminated through international publications in peer-reviewed journals, in addition to international conference presentations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional Limitations (changes during treatment; from baseline to 6 months follow-up).
  - Symptoms (pain intensity; changes during treatment; from baseline to 6 months follow-up).
  - Symptoms (shoulder disabilities; changes during treatment; from baseline to 6 months follow-up).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation program
  - DEVICE: Kinesiotaping

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02881021
