CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02381938
Title: Care2BWell: Worksite Wellness for Child Care
Official Title: Care2bWell: A Worksite Physical Activity & Wellness Program for Child Care Staff
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 553
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study will evaluate the efficacy of a 6-month child care-based intervention to improve workers' physical activity and other health-related behaviors compared to an attention control intervention (Healthy Lifestyles vs. Healthy Finances). The study sample will use a cluster randomized design and a sample of 104 child care centers and 416 child care workers (4 workers/center). The intervention arm will receive a 6-month child care-based intervention designed to improve workers' moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) and other health-related behaviors (Healthy Lifestyles). The control arm (attention control) will receive a similarly structured program about financial health (Healthy Finances). The primary outcome is workers' MVPA; and secondary outcomes include workers' dietary intake, weight, smoking, sleep, and stress, as well as the centers' health supportive policies/structures for staff wellness and the overall physical activity environment for children. All primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention (6 months), and maintenance (18 months).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study will evaluate the efficacy of a 6-month, child care-based intervention to increase workers' MVPA and other health-related behaviors (Healthy Lifestyles) compared to an attention control condition (Healthy Finances). This study will use a two-arm, cluster-randomized controlled trial (RCT) and a sample of 104 child care centers and 416 workers (4 workers/center). The primary outcome will be workers' MVPA; and secondary outcomes include workers' weight, dietary intake, smoking status, sleep habits, and emotional health as well as child care centers' programs, policies and environment around worksite wellness and teachers' interactions with children around physical activity. All primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention (6 months), and maintenance (18 months).

For this study, 104 child care centers will be recruited from a mix of urban/suburban and rural areas. Potential child care centers in these counties will be identified using an online database of licensed child care facilities maintained by the North Carolina (NC) Division of Child Development and Early Education. State and local community partners will be engaged to help inform centers in targeted counties about the research study. Direct recruitment of centers will employ a variety of strategies (e.g., mail, email, telephone, website, video, in-person contacts). Once a center expresses interest, the center director will be engaged to recruit their staff (child care workers) to participate as a team.

Outcome Measures:

A series of measurements will be collected on participating child care center directors and staff at three time points - baseline, follow-up (6 months), and maintenance (18 months). Primary outcome measures will assess moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) of center staff. Secondary outcomes measures will assess staff members' behavioral health risk factors as well as centers' programs, policies and environment around worksite wellness and teachers' interactions with children around physical activity. These measures will be collected during a one-day, on-site visit to the child care center, and supplemented with physical health assessments completed at the kick-off event. Center visits will be conducted by research assistants who have undergone extensive training and certification on all measurement procedures and are blinded to study-arm assignment. Similar data collection protocols will be used at all three time points - baseline, follow-up and maintenance.

Randomization:

Centers will be randomly assigned (1:1) into the intervention or control arm. Randomization will occur during local kick-off events (each center must attend one event). Each kick-off event will include a short wellness fair in the morning (including stations to collect baseline biomedical health assessments). Lunch will be provided, followed by random assignment into either the intervention or control arm. Timing allows for all of baseline m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Healthy Lifestyles
  - OTHER: Healthy Finances

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02381938
