CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04437966
Title: Chronic Disease Self-management Program for Hypertension Control in Churches
Official Title: Assessing Effectiveness of a Chronic Disease Self-management Program in Faith-based Organizations in Barbados: a Cluster Randomized Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 384
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
In Barbados, levels of hypertension are high (40.7%) and cause of a high proportion of deaths due to cardiovascular diseases. In this study, the Stanford University-led Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP) will be modified to form one of the basic components of a three-pronged intervention to improve blood pressure control.

Our overall goal is to evaluate the effectiveness of a hypertension self-management program in community-based settings. With the advent of the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) we recognize that it may be necessary to adapt the programme to accommodate virtual delivery.

Our specific aims are to:

1. Adapt the Stanford (CDSMP) to ensure cultural appropriateness to Barbados. In view of the need to adhere to physical distance guidelines in the era of COVID-19 disease, modifications will be made to enhance virtual delivery while maintaining programme fidelity. We will engage stakeholders in performing modifications related to content, context and mode of delivery of the CDSMP program with the goal of ensuring cultural appropriateness.
2. Determine the clinical effectiveness of CDSMP combined with medication enhancement tools. We will conduct a cluster randomized trial in twelve faith-based organizations(FBOs) in Barbados. We are primarily interested in studying the changes in systolic blood pressure. Secondarily, we will also assess change in weight, medication adherence, dietary behavior and physical activity.
3. Understand the barriers and facilitators to implementation and sustainability of CDSMP plus self-monitoring tools in faith-based organizations. We will assess cost and sustainability of the intervention and qualitatively assess factors associated with barriers and facilitators of implementation in FBOs in Barbados.

Impact and novelty: We aim to increase the proportion of patients with controlled hypertension leading to reduced illness and deaths from strokes and heart attacks in particular. Few studies have looked at a blended approach to CDSMP delivery and these will become more necessary in the era of COVID-19. Findings on the factors impacting implementation will be transferable to small island developing states and other predominantly black populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Setting: This cluster randomized trial will be conducted among members of selected church groups in Barbados - a small island developing state in the Caribbean with a population of approximately 287 025 (52% female). According to the Barbados' 2010 census, approximately three-quarters of the population identify as Christian. This study is intended for Christian churches in Barbados, from any denomination. Barbados is divided into 11 parishes. Given the small sizes of many churches in Barbados we have chosen to cluster by parish and divide the most densely populated parish (St. Michael) into two divisions. This gives us a total of 12 geographic divisions. Each division consists of 7-9 of our target churches comprising a total of about 350 members per division. The study will consider each division as a single unit which will be randomized to either intervention or control. The treatment of a division as one assembly allows the study to have sufficient participants at each recruitment event to be able to meet the required sample size of persons with uncontrolled hypertension.

Recruitment: Potential participants will be invited to recruitment days where they are screened for hypertension. All persons with a previous diagnosis of hypertension or currently on anti-hypertensives AND the occurrence of two or more blood pressure readings above 140 mmHg (systolic) or 90mmHg (diastolic) on the day of recruitment will be deemed eligible. Persons not known to have hypertension but who have two or more blood pressure readings above 140 mmHg (systolic) or 90mmHg (diastolic) on the day of recruitment are also eligible.

Clinical screening will also be conducted and persons will be included in the study if their systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) readings are greater than or equal to 140 mmHg or 90 mmHg respectively on two or more readings taken at rest more than 5 minutes apart on the day of screening. Persons who are well controlled on blood pressure lowering drugs will be excluded. To obtain eligible participants, fliers and information on the study will be circulated on social media and via telephone. Recruitment days will be conducted with strict physical distancing protocols in place which are in keeping with the stage of restriction Barbados is experiencing at the time of recruitment. Recruitment will not occur during times of day time curfew and will conform to government directives.

Randomization of the churches will occur after completion of all baseline assessments, and the study statistician will randomly assign each church to either intervention or control groups based on a 1:1 ratio, using a pre-specified random number generator (Stata statistical software version 16). Using a 3-church block, we will assign 2 churches to intervention and 2 churches to control in each randomization block. Given the nature of the intervention, the trial will not be blinded. However, data collectors will be blinded to church randomizati

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Systolic blood pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced Chronic Disease Self-management program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04437966
