CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05695092
Title: Effectiveness of Progressive Muscle Relaxation on Sleep Disturbance in Athletes
Official Title: Effectiveness of Progressive Muscle Relaxation on Sleep Disturbance in Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Literature supports that athletes have so many reasons for sleep disturbance in their day to day practice and during competition. This study is aimed to build familiarity with the significance of sleep for greatest athletic execution as well as providing Progressoive Muscle Relaxation(PMR),(A technique proposed by Jackobson to improve sleep and degrease the anxiety) as strategy to improve sleep prior to a significant competition during tournament

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adequate sleep is necessary to accomplish ideal athletic performance, cognitive functioning and overall well-being. Inadequate sleep is likewise connected to slow reaction time, delayed perception which can prompt impaired performance and increase risk of injury. A few investigations on sleep and athlete performance have additionally shown that sleep quality can be disturb for so many reasons.

A range of interventions are available that may be beneficial or are commonly utilized in athletes to enhance sleep quantity and quality in athletes. Drug strategies and hypnotics are related with side effects, for example, drug resistance and withdrawal symptoms. Thus, there has been increase in utilization of non-drug strategies for further developing sleep quality. Among such strategies are relaxation methods. It has been considered as one of the cost effective and simple methods for easing sleep. Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR) is a method that involved efficiently relaxing global muscles of body with the objective of mental and physical relaxation. PMR is widely used previously to improve sleep in general population however there is currently no evidence to support PMR to improve sleep quality during a competition/tournament as a non-pharmacological method to improve participating athlete's sleep.

The aim of this study is to build familiarity with the significance of sleep for greatest athletic execution as well as providing PMR as strategy to improve sleep prior to a significant competition during tournament.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Progressive muscle relaxation
  - OTHER: control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 36 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05695092
