CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04807491
Title: Kabat Technique and Neuromuscular Effect in Patients With Bell's Palsy
Official Title: Effects of Kabat Technique and Neuromuscular Re-Education in Patients With Bell's Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Bell's palsy is the sudden one-sided peripheral weakness of seventh cranial nerve (Facial nerve), represents 50% to 75% of all etiologies with a rate of 58.2 to 8 new cases per 1 million per year. The objective is to compare the effects of Kabat techniques and Neuromuscular Re-Education on facial disability and synkinesis in patients with bell's palsy. A Randomized Control Trial was conducted on 20 participants, equally allocated in Kabat and PNF training group from February-2020 until December- 2020. Participants were selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria on purposive sampling technique and randomization was done by sealed envelope method. The assessment was done after taking consent before the first and last session. The tools included Facial disability index, Sunnybrook facial grading system and synkinesis assessment questionnaire. Data were analyzed using SPSS v.20.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Bell's palsy is the sudden one-sided peripheral weakness of seventh cranial nerve (Facial nerve), represents 50% to 75% of all etiologies with the rate of 58.2 to 8 new cases per 1 million per year. It can be either a complete palsy or weakness of facial nerve. This condition may start with pain over half of face especially mastoid region with other symptoms like decreased sensation over half of face, decrease lacrimation, hyperacusis, pain and numbness over half of face. Bell's palsy patients may show signs of absent/decrease facial creases, positive bells phenomenon and forehead folds, associated with other disabilities like contracture in facial muscles and synkinesis due to which patient cannot close his eye.The cause of bell's palsy is unknown therefore it is also called idiopathic facial palsy but recent studies claim that "herpes simplex virus" can be a cause of bell's palsy.Other causes such as tooth extraction, removal of the tumour, local anaesthesia, TMJ surgery, ischemic neuropathy, facial fracture can also be considered. Different studies were carried out on the incidence, risk factors and treatments methods of bell's palsy.The most common risk factors for bell's palsy, reported by a study, is diabetes, and hypertension. A study reported that patients with diabetes are 4 to 5 times more likely to have Bell's palsy.Men and women are equally affected by this disorder.There are different treatment methods for Bells palsy i.e. medical management, physical therapy management, surgical management etc.Although Physical therapy management is not considered to be treatment of choice in treating bell's palsy but there is several clinical studies which claims the benefits of rehabilitation if applied in early stage. Physical therapy managements include different techniques, namely Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation, Kabat rehabilitation, Kinisio taping, cryotherapy, massage therapy biofeedback, muscular reeducation.As claimed in a study in 2013, Kabat technique is quite effective in treating the facial disabilities if the therapist is trained. In this study different Kabat techniques namely "rhythmic initiation on those patients who did not perform any movement, repeated stretch was used at the start and also through full ROM in case of muscular weakness, isotonic were used when patients had voluntary movement control, were used on three patients .A study claimed in a case report in 2017 that PNF techniques are very effective in improving functional outcomes in Childs with "bell's palsy".Several studies were done on effects of "Kabat rehabilitation" in "Bell's Palsy". As another conducted a study in 2017.Two groups of Bell's palsy were compared after application of two different treatment protocols. Participants of group A was given Kabat exercises with electrical stimulation and kinesio taping while group B was given electrical stimulation plus home exercises. Study reported that Kabat exercise is quite effective in improving facial asy

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - SunnyBrook Facial Grading System

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kabat Technique's
  - OTHER: Neuromuscular Re-Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04807491
