CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06197932
Title: Big Toe Strength trening on Athletic Performance Parameter
Official Title: Effects of Big Toe Strength trening on Athletic Performance Parameter in Runners
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Running form and technique have a direct influence on a runner's economy, and therefore small changes in specific running mechanics could be useful to improving running performance. The thumb plays an important role in the functionality of the foot. During standing, the big toe is more loaded than the head of the five metatarsals and the heel. In this study, it will aimed to examine the relationship of big toe strength with parameters that affect anaerobic athletic performance in runners. In this study, it will aim to examine the relationship of big toe strength with parameters that affect anaerobic athletic performance in runners such as vertical jump, horizontally jumping, strength, agility and speed.

The study design will be Randomized Controlled Trial. This study will be conducted in Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of eight to ten months after the approval of synopsis. Sample size will be 30 subjects. Non-probability convenient sampling technique will be used to recruit the individuals for the study and then randomization will be done by lottery method to divide the individuals into 2 treatment groups. The experimental group is given big toe strengthening program for 4 weeks along with running trening on other hand control group will do only their running trening and after that measures their pre post values on SPSS 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overall performance, particularly in a very popular sports activity such as running, is typically influenced by the status of the musculoskeletal system and the level of trening and conditioning of the biological structures. Any change in the musculoskeletal system's biomechanics, especially in the feet and ankles, will strongly influence the biomechanics of runners, possibly predisposing them to injuries. A thorough understanding of the effects of a therapeutic approach focused on feet biomechanics, on the strength and functionality of lower limb muscles will contribute to the adoption of more effective therapeutic and preventive strategies for runners. this study group consists of male runners between the ages of 18-28. The participants will consist of a total of 30 people, 15 of which were in the experimental group and 15 in the control group. Time of the Study: study was determined as 2 days a week for 4 weeks. During this period, exercise with resistance bands to improve the toe strength will apply to the experimental group together with running trening. The control group continued their running trening and general lower extremity strength during this time Content of the Study: Extension (up) and flexion (down) exercises for the big toe will apply to the experimental group on the thera-band. The exercise will be done in 3 sets and 10-15 repetitions. The athletes got on the platform and performed the exercise according to the instruction of the researcher. The researcher will determine the tempo of the repetition numbers. All participants will command at the same tempo, and the number of repetitions and rest between sets will adjust equally. Measurement of Height: The height measurements of the participants will make with the height measuring device/ inch tape in cm. Measurement of Body Weight: without shoes and clothes (shorts and t-shirts may be allowed) while keepinGHis/her balance. Weight will measure on a weight machine in kilograms (kg). Measurement of Big Toe Strength: The strength rate of the big toe will take by using the Baseline brand digital display hydraulic pinch meter manufactured in the USA. Athletes placed their feet on the ground prepared in accordance with the big toe and adjust their big toes according to the location of the pinch meter. During the measurement, athletes will ask to apply maximum force with their big toe. Strength measurements will be made on the athletes in the sitting position without any support. Dynamic balance measurements of the participants will take with the Y balance test. To examine the effect of this trening on the athletic performance parameters (vertical jump, force, and dynamic balance) were determined. Primary Null Hypothesis: • There is no significant Role of trening on the athletic performance parameters (vertical jump, force, and dynamic balance) Primary Alternative Hypothesis: ● There is significant Role of trening on the athletic performance parameters (vertical jump, force, and d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Jump
  - Balance
  - Strength
  - Agility

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Routine exercise and running trening
  - OTHER: Big Toe Strengthening Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06197932
