CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06022302
Title: Effects of Changing Intestinal Transit Time on Gut Microbial Composition and Metabolism
Official Title: Effects of Changing Intestinal Transit Time on Gut Microbial Composition and Metabolism During a Dietary Intervention with Low and High Fiber.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate how a short versus a long transit time impacts the gut microbiome's response to a high-fiber and a low-fiber diet, respectively. Such insights could help us understand personal responses to diets and be a first step towards personalized dietary recommendations targeting the gut microbiome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study consists of two parallel arms of whole-meal diets, a low-fiber diet, and a high-fiber diet, respectively. Each arm is designed as a cross-over where participants, in random order, are administered a laxative (Movicol) along with the provided diet to shorten their intestinal transit time or simply consume the provided whole-meal diet (control).

The two intervention periods both involve the following:

* One week of run-in where participants consume the provided whole-meal diet.
* One week where participants either consume Movicol with the provided whole-meal diet or simply continue consuming the provided whole-meal diet (control).

Both arms begin with a screening visit and one week where participants consume and record their habitual diets. Subsequently, the first intervention period follows with one visit before and after each of the two weeks (visit 1-3) followed by the second intervention period with one visit before and after each of the two weeks (visit 4-6). The two cross-over periods are split by a washout of at least two weeks.

The study thus runs for approximately 7-8 weeks depending on the length of the washout and consists of seven visits (one screening visit and six regular visits) in total.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fecal butyrate over urine p-cresol sulfate ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Diet + laxative
  - OTHER: Diet only

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06022302
