CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04145479
Title: Exercise in Pregnant Women With Gestational Diabetes
Official Title: Evaluating the Effects of Low-resistance and Aerobic Exercise on Glucose and Lipids in Pregnant Women With Gestational Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Gestational diabetes (GDM) impacts 1 in 10 pregnancies; hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia are common features of the condition. Women are recommended to do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity a week during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Exercise both during and out of pregnancy has been shown to be an effective non-pharmacologic tool to reduce glucose and lipid profiles. The goals and purpose of this pilot study is to 1) determine the influence of exercise and the timing of exercise surrounding a meal on glucose and lipid metabolism in pregnant women with GDM and 2) determine the feasibility of low-resistance and aerobic activity and measuring exercise metrics during pregnancy. The overarching objective of this study is to determine the effects of low-resistance and aerobic exercise on glucose and lipids following a meal in pregnant women with GDM.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gestational diabetes (GDM) impacts 1 in 10 pregnancies; hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia are common features of the condition. Women are recommended to do at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity a week during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Exercise both during and out of pregnancy has been shown to be an effective non-pharmacologic tool to reduce glucose and lipid profiles. The goals and purpose of this pilot study is to 1) determine the influence of exercise and the timing of exercise surrounding a meal on glucose and lipid metabolism in pregnant women with GDM and 2) determine the feasibility of low-resistance and aerobic activity and measuring exercise metrics during pregnancy. The overarching objective of this study is to determine the effects of low-resistance and aerobic exercise on glucose and lipids following a meal in pregnant women with GDM. Women will perform either low-resistance or aerobic exercise. Blood will be taken before and 2 hours after a fixed meal. For safety, women will have supervised exercise and oxygen consumption will be measured throughout the activity.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - postprandial glucose
  - postprandial triglyceride

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: physical activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04145479
