CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06502626
Title: Effects of Sprint Interval Training on Field Hockey Players.
Official Title: Effects of Sprint Interval Training on Speed, Change of Direction and Running Performance Among Field Hockey Players.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Field hockey is a team sport that is played using sticks and balls. Player's motions are impromptu and determine how competitive matches are played. Athletes can enhance their performance through a variety of training regimens. "Sprint Interval Training," for short bursts of maximal or supramaximal exercise, is one type of training used to improve sports performance. During recovering intervals, participants alternate between passive rest or light to moderately hard work. In both skilled and novice players, Sprint interval training significantly increases anaerobic and aerobic performance. This study aims to determine the impact of sprint interval training on hockey player's running performance, speed, and direction changes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Field hockey is a team sport played with sticks and balls in which players' movements are spontaneous and dictate the fluctuating nature of competitive match play. A number of training programs are used to improve the performance of the athlete. One of the trainings that is used to enhance the performance of a sports person is "Sprint Interval Training" and it consists of short bursts of maximal or supramaximal exercise interspersed with passive rest or light to moderately intense exertion during rebound periods. Sprint interval training dramatically improves anaerobic and aerobic performance in both trained and untrained athletes. The aim of this study is to find the effect of sprint internal training on speed, change of direction and running performance among field hockey players.

A randomized controlled trial will be conducted at Pakistan Sports Academy, Lahore through non-probability convenience sampling technique on 28 players which will be allocated into both interventional and control group. Pre-training values of the players will be recorded by 20 m sprint test for speed, 505 Change of direction test for change of direction and 3000m time trial for running performance. Both groups will perform regular training. Sprint interval training will be given to Group A and regular training will be performed by Group B. Players will perform the training 3 times a week for 4 weeks and treatment evaluation will be done after 4 weeks. Data will be analyzed using SPSS software version 26. After assessing normality of data by Shapiro-Wilk test, it will be decided either parametric or non-parametric test will be used.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Speed
  - Change of direction
  - Running performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Regular training
  - OTHER: Sprint Interval Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06502626
