CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02869659
Title: Valued EpiGenetic Glycemic ImprovEments Through Weight Loss
Official Title: Valued EpiGenetic Glycemic ImprovEments Through Weight Loss
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 138
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This randomized controlled clinical trial will use methylomic and transcriptomic profiling to examine the effects of a weight loss intervention on the cholesterol metabolism gene network in monocytes and adipocytes and investigate the longitudinal relationship between these modifications and glycemic improvements.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators plan to recruit a total of 200 middle-aged (40-65 years) obese (BMI=30-39.9 kg/m2), sedentary, pre-diabetic participants who will be randomized to either a 18-week dietary weight loss (n=100) followed by a 8-week transition and then 26 weeks of maintenance (Weight Loss group) or a delayed weight loss (Control group, n=100) intervention.

During the screening visit, eligible participants who provided informed consent will complete a 3-day food record and then start a 3-day run-in period using the Medifast® meal replacement products to be used for the weight loss intervention. At the next visit the participant will meet with the Registered Dietitian (RD) to undergo an assessment of Readiness to Change (18). All participants must be approved for eligibility by the RD based on her clinical judgment of likelihood of success for weight loss, likelihood of compliance to the Medifast® meal plan, and willingness to be randomized to either group.

Control/Delayed Weight Loss Group: (18 weeks) Participants randomized to the delayed weight loss intervention (n=100) will serve as a no-weight loss control to the weight loss group during the first 18 weeks of the study. During the control (18 weeks) phase these participants will receive a monthly phone call visit from staff to maintain contact and interest in the study. At the end of the initial 18 weeks participants will complete all follow up assessments prior to being offered the opportunity to participate in a weight loss program. This weight loss program will involve 18 weekly, group dietary and exercise sessions led by the study staff in which participants will follow a modified Diabetes Prevention Program. Participants will be given an individual introduction session to the weight loss program by study staff and will be guided by the RD on their food purchasing and preparation of their meals, but no meal replacements or supplements will be provided.

Weight Loss group: Phase 1 (18 weeks): Participants assigned to this group will undergo a dietary intervention for the first 18 weeks of the study designed to elicit an approximate 8-10% weight loss. The intervention will incorporate partial meal replacements, nutrition education, and some behavior modification.

This level of weight loss will be achieved through the combination of a partial meal replacement (MR) program and individual and group nutrition/behavioral counseling. Participants will be provided with and asked to consume 4 Medifast® MR per day. All participants will follow the Medifast Achieve TM 4 \& 2 \& 1 Plan® which includes the 4 MR products per day, with the addition of 2 Lean and Green™ Meals and 1 Healthy Snack. The Lean and Green™ Meals will be prepared by the participants and each will consist of 5-7 oz. lean protein, 3 servings of non-starchy vegetables and up to 2 servings of healthy fat. The Healthy Snack will consist of one serving of fruit, dairy, or grain. Each MR from Medifast® contains \~90-110 kcals and 10-15 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Chang in Epigengene score (and related individual transcriptional and methylation measures)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weight Loss Group
  - BEHAVIORAL: Delayed Weight Loss

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02869659
