CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03940924
Title: HIIT + RT on Body Composition and Gut Microbiota in Postmenopausal Women (PACWOMan)
Official Title: Effect of High-Intensity Interval Training Combined With Resistance Training on Body Composition and Gut Microbiota in Postmenopausal Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Postmenopausal women, as men, are more prone to central or android obesity than premenopausal women. Recently, some studies have shown that obesity is associated with gut microbiota dysbiosis and gut microbiota could be responsible of fat mass accumulation. Moreover, abdominal fat mass accumulation is associated with an increase of cardiovascular disease risks.

Recent studies suggest that physical activity may positively alter gut microbiota composition. Accumulating evidence suggests that high intensity interval training (HIIT) is an effective strategy for reducing body fat of overweight individuals, especially at the abdominal level. Resistance Training (RT) is associated with increased muscle mass and strength gain in main muscle groups. Thus, RT is also an interesting modality to fight against deconditioning and autonomy loss with age.

The aim of the study was to observed the effects of a 12-week high intensity interval training (HIIT) combined with resistance training (RT) program on gut microbiota and body composition changes in postmenopausal women.

It is hypothesized that HIIT +RT will improve gut microbiota and body composition (including whole body and (intra)-abdominal fat mass) in a concomitant and parallel way.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of the study was to observed the effects of a 12-week high intensity interval training (HIIT) combined with resistance training (RT) program on gut microbiota and body composition changes in postmenopausal women.

30 postmenopausal women will be randomly assigned to HIIT + RT (n= 15) group or Control group (n=15).

HIIT+RT: Each subject performed HIIT protocol consisted of repeated 60 cycles of speeding up for 8 s followed by pedalling slowly for 12 s (20min) Then they performed a single set of 10 exercises with 1 or 2min resting period between exercises. The set consisted of 8-12 repetitions at about 80% maximum repetition (1RM).

Control group : (no training program) Subjects will keep their life style.

Faecal microbiota and body composition will be measured before and after the intervention (3 months).

The investigators will examine the effects of HIIT + RT programs on:

Body composition : total-abdominal and visceral fat mass, total fat free mass and muscle mass Faecal concentration of short chain fatty acids Total fat free mass (and appendicular fat free mass) (DEXA) Glycemic profile (plasma HbA1c, plasma glucose, plasma insulin) Lipid profile (TG, HDL, LDL, total cholesterol) Aerobic capacity (VO2 max) Muscular capacity (fatigability, isometric and dynamic strenght)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in the composition of gut microbiota

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03940924
