CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06990685
Title: Effect of Salidroside on Pregnancy Outcomes in High Childbearing Age Patients in Viro Fertilization
Official Title: Effect of Salidroside on Pregnancy Outcomes in High Childbearing Age Patients in Viro Fertilization: an Open-label Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 370
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
With the decreasing of birth rate and population in our country, population problem has become a long-term and strategic problem. In addition to the decrease in the number of women of childbearing age and the impact of unmarried women, the increase in the incidence of reproductive disorders and the delay of marriage and childbearing are also important factors leading to the continuous decline of the birth population in China. Among them, ovarian aging is a key factor causing female fertility difficulties. Therefore, establishing an effective prevention and treatment strategy for ovarian aging is of great significance for improving female reproductive health and serving the national population strategy. Recently, several supplements have been found to promote folliculogenesis and improve oocyte quality. However, to date, there is no approved therapeutic agent for the treatment of ovarian aging. Therefore, it is urgent to develop effective strategies for the prevention and treatment of ovarian aging.

Salidroside is the main active component of Chinese medicine Rhodiola, and its content is highest in the root of rhodiola, which is also the main medicinal part. The main efficacy of salidroside in traditional Chinese medicine is to benefit qi, promote blood circulation, unblock pulse and relieve asthma. At the same time, in basic research, more and more experiments have shown that salidroside has a variety of pharmacological properties, including anti-hypoxia, anti-fatigue and anti-aging effects, anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidation, antiviral and so on. These pharmacological effects suggest that salidroside may be an effective drug for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, pneumonia and other diseases. In terms of aging, it has been confirmed that salidroside supplementation can prolong the life span of pseudogill oryzias zhan and rescue premature aging of human skin fibroblasts, etc., which further confirms.

The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of salidroside as an adjuvant drug in improving the pregnancy outcomes of fresh embryo transfer in high childbearing age patients with poor ovarian response by comparing the pregnancy outcomes of fresh embryo transfer between salidroside group and blank control group. This pragmatic clinical study is expected to improve pregnancy outcomes of fresh embryo transfer cycles in women of advanced childbearing age with poor ovarian response.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
With the continuous decline in China's birth rate and number of births in recent years, the population issue has become a long-term and strategic issue in China. In addition to the impact of the decrease in the number of women of childbearing age and the non-marriage, the increase in the incidence of reproductive disorders and the postponement of the age of marriage and childbearing are also important factors leading to the continuous decline in the number of births in China. Among them, ovarian aging is a key factor causing fertility difficulties in women. Therefore, it is of great significance to establish an effective ovarian aging prevention and treatment strategy to improve women's reproductive health and serve the national population strategy. Recently, studies have found that a variety of supplements can promote follicular genesis and improve oocyte quality. However, to date, there are no approved effective treatments for ovarian aging. Therefore, it is urgent to develop effective strategies for the prevention and treatment of ovarian aging. Salidroside is the most active ingredient of Rhodiola rosea in traditional Chinese medicine, and has the highest content in the root of Rhodiola rosea, which is also the main medicinal site. The main effects of salidroside in traditional Chinese medicine are to invigorate qi and blood, and to relieve asthma. At the same time, in basic research, more and more experiments have shown that salidroside has a variety of pharmacological properties, including anti-hypoxia, anti-fatigue and anti-aging effects, anti-cancer effects, anti-inflammatory effects, antioxidant effects, antiviral effects, etc. These pharmacological effects suggest that salidroside may be an effective drug for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, pneumonia and other diseases. In terms of aging, it has been confirmed that supplementation of salidroside can prolong the life of Pseudogill medaka and save the premature aging of human skin fibroblasts, which further confirms the anti-aging effect and potential application value of salidroside. In the process of clinical assisted reproduction, the proportion of elderly women has been increasing in recent years; Due to the significant decline of female ovarian function in middle age, the success rate of assisted reproduction in elderly women has always been at a low level. However, whether in animal model studies or in human tissue sections, it is generally believed that there are still a large number of follicles in the ovaries of middle-aged females or females that are sufficient to support reproductive activities, but because the physiological reasons for the decline of ovarian function in middle-aged women are unknown, the contradiction of abundant follicles but declining ovarian function in middle-aged women cannot be overcome.Recently, Zhang Hua's team in China used high-resolution ovarian organ imaging technology combined with genetic

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Ongoing pregnancy rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Salidroside

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 39 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06990685
