CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05433246
Title: Effects of Massage Therapy on Peripheral Neuropathy and Quality of Life
Official Title: Effect of Massage Therapy on Peripheral Neuropathy and Life Quality of Colorectal Cancer wıth Patient Receiving Chemotherapy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this randomized controlled experimental study was to determine the effect of massage applied to colorectal cancer patients receiving chemotherapy on peripheral neuropathy and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this randomized controlled experimental study was to determine the effect of massage applied to colorectal cancer patients receiving chemotherapy on peripheral neuropathy and quality of life.Investigation was carried out between February 2012- May 2013 with 52 patients meeting study criteria and receiving chemotherapy in Akdeniz University outpatient chemotherapy unit (28 study group, 24 control).

Massage therapy group:The experimental group patients were given a series of effleurage, petrissage and surface fraction types of classical massage on local parts of they're body-below, elbow-frontal arm-hand (20 minutes) and below knee-leg (lower part)-foot (20 minutes) two days of treatment of 16 times total.The patients in the massage group received 16 sessions of classical massage performed by the research nurse, who had classical massage training and certification.Baseline, patient characteristics , peripheral neuropathy symptoms, neuropathic pain, cancer and chemotherapy-related symptoms, and quality of life were completed. Peripheral neuropathy symptoms, cancer, and chemotherapy-related symptoms were assessed at each cycle (2th, 4th, 6th, 8th,10th,12th,14th, 16th. week- (two-week intervals)). Neuropathic pain and quality of life were measured at 4, 10, and 16 weeks. At week 16 (2 weeks after the intervention), the grade of peripheral sensory neuropathy was determined.

Control Group: The patients received routine care. Baseline, patient characteristics , peripheral neuropathy symptoms, neuropathic pain, cancer and chemotherapy-related symptoms, and quality of life were completed. Peripheral neuropathy symptoms, cancer, and chemotherapy-related symptoms were assessed at each cycle (2th, 4th, 6th, 8th,10th,12th,14th, 16th. week (two-week intervals)). Neuropathic pain and quality of life were measured at 4, 10, and 16 weeks. At week 16 (2 weeks after the intervention), the grade of peripheral sensory neuropathy was determined.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Peripheral Neuropathy Evaluation Form
  - Self-Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs Pain Scale (S-LANSS)
  - MD Anderson Symptom Inventory
  - European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Quality of Life Scale
  - American National Cancer Institute Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria, Version 2.0

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Massage therapy group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05433246
