CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02773771
Title: Strategies to Reduce Organic Muscle Atrophy in the Intensive Care Unit
Official Title: Strategies to Reduce Organic Muscle Atrophy in the Intensive Care Unit (STROMA-ICU)
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Acute muscle wasting occurs early and rapidly during the first week of critical illness and contributes substantially to weakness acquired in the ICU. Muscle wasting and subsequent weakness is associated with delayed liberation from mechanical ventilation, prolonged hospital length of stay, long-term functional disability, and worsEQuality of life. Moreover, low muscle volume as well as ICU-acquired weakness increases the risk of mortality in critically ill patients. Although several factors likely accelerate skeletal muscle wasting during critical illness (e.g., immobility, inflammation, multi-organ failure), the understanding of the underlying mechanisms remains limited and is reflected in the lack of effective interventions to prevent the loss of muscle mass in ICU patients. To-date, there is no known safe and effective pharmacological or nutritional intervention to attenuate the acute loss of muscle mass in ICU patients.

Leucine is an amino acid widely regarded for its anabolic effects on muscle metabolism. However, the concentrations required to maximize its anti-proteolytic effects are far greater than the concentrations required to maximally stimulate protein synthesis. This has resulted in the search for leucine metabolites that may also be potent mediators of anabolic processes in skeletal muscle; one such compound is β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB). HMB is thought to primarily facilitate protein synthesis through stimulation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a protein kinase responsive to mechanical, hormonal, and nutritional stimuli that plays a central role in the control of cell growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Randomized, controlled trials to assess the effect of HMB supplementation on clinical outcomes in patients with chronic diseases are limited, and even fewer studies have assessed its effects on skeletal muscle metabolism during critical illness. Furthermore, despite compelling preclinical evidence, the exact mechanisms underlying the effect of HMB supplementation during acute catabolic stress in humans is not well defined. Therefore, the investigators goal is to study the impact of early HMB supplementation on skeletal muscle mass in ICU patients and to explore the mechanisms by which HMB may exert its effects on skeletal muscle metabolism during critical illness.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Acute muscle wasting occurs early and rapidly during the first week of critical illness and contributes substantially to weakness acquired in the ICU. Muscle wasting and subsequent weakness is associated with delayed liberation from mechanical ventilation, prolonged hospital length of stay (LOS), long-term functional disability, and worsEQuality of life. Moreover, low muscle volume and ICU-acquired weakness increases the risk of mortality in critically ill patients. Although several factors likely accelerate skeletal muscle wasting during critical illness (e.g., immobility, muscle unloading, inflammation, multi-organ failure), the understanding of the underlying mechanisms remains limited and is reflected in the lack of effective interventions to prevent the loss of muscle mass in ICU patients.

Muscle mass is maintained through balanced protein breakdown and synthesis . As such, for wasting to occur, catabolic pathways must be increased relative to anabolic processes. In general, nutritional status is an important factor for maintaining skeletal muscle homeostasis. However, adequate caloric delivery is often challenging in ICU patients and recent data suggest that high protein delivery in early critical illness may adversely impact muscle protein synthesis. Moreover, randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trials (RCTs) in ICU patients do not support the use of aggressive early macronutrient delivery. Such findings emphasize the need for targeted therapies to enhance anabolic pathways, which may improve clinical outcomes in critically ill patients.

The amino acid leucine is widely regarded for its anabolic effects on muscle metabolism, but the concentrations required to maximize its anti-proteolytic effects are far greater than the concentrations required to maximally stimulate protein synthesis. This has resulted in the search for leucine metabolites that may also be potent mediators of anabolic processes in skeletal muscle -- one such compound is β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB).

HMB is thought to primarily facilitate protein synthesis through stimulation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a protein kinase responsive to mechanical, hormonal, and nutritional stimuli that plays a central role in the control of cell growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Indeed, preclinical studies demonstrate that HMB supplementation increases phosphorylation of mTOR as well as its downstream targets. Preclinical data also suggest that HMB supplementation results in an increase in skeletal muscle insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor 1(IGF-1) levels, which may further stimulate mTOR. In addition, HMB may influence systemic levels of myostatin, a key negative regulator of mature skeletal muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Myostatin has been shown to reduce muscle protein synthesis by inhibiting mTOR signaling and by increasing proteolytic mechanisms. Recent preclinical data suggest that HMB may reduce myostatin levels and attenuate skeletal muscle atrophy. Furthermore, preclinical data has shown that HMB also stim

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in muscle thickness (diaphragm) at 14 days after ICU admission.
  - Change in muscle thickness (quadriceps at 14 days after ICU admission.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vital HP®

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02773771
