CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02598830
Title: The Granheim COPD Study - Vitamin D and Strength trening
Official Title: The Granheim COPD Study: Effects of Vitamin D3-supplementation on the Efficacy of Strength trening in COPD Patients and Healthy Controls - a Double-blinded RCT
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 97
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the effect of vitamin D supplementation on outcomes of 10 weeks progressive strength trening in 100 ageing subjects (\>45 years of age). Participants will be recruited into two similarly sized strata; one containing COPD patients and one containinGHealthy subjects of similar age. In each stratum, half the participants will receive vitamin D supplementation and half the participants will receive placebo

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Physical activity is a potent way of relieving some of the adverse morbidities associated with COPD, such as muscle atrophy and reduced musclEQuality. It is thus problematic that 20-30% of patients fail to elicit positive adaptations to trening. This oddity has been ascribed inherent muscular properties, with potential links to comorbidities such as vitamin D and testosterone deficiency and the nature of the trening program. In the present project, a double-blinded RCT will be performed to disclose the functional and biological efficacy of vitamin D supplementation (with concomitant ingestion of 1000 mg Ca2+) on the outcomes of 10 wks strength trening in 100 aging individuals with or without COPD. The strength trening intervention will be preceded by 3 weeks of progressive introduction to trening protocols.

50 COPD patients and 50 healthy subjects will be allocated into two strata and separately randomized into two equally sized supplementation groups; (1) vitamin D3 and (2) placebo. The planned 50:50 ratio between COPD patients and healthy individuals may change, depending on the access to COPD patients. All subjects will perform lower-limb strength-trening protocols in a contralateral manner: (leg 1) high-resistance (10 RM) and (leg 2) low-resistance (30 RM). Such a one-limb-at-a-time protocol ensures trening that is unconfined by the cardiorespiratory limitations inherent to these patients, and allow comparison of the two trening modalities in a manner unconfined by individual variation in exercise adaptability. A pilot study investigating the possible central pulmonary capacity limitation to two-legged strength trening exercise in COPD patients will be performed. In this pilot study, we will compare exercise performance involving large and small muscle mass. In addition, all subjects will perform a selection of bilateral upper body exercises (10 RM), ensuring adequate hormonal responses and compliance to the study. The study is likely to revitalize guidelines for rehabilitation of COPD patients, and to provide vital information regarding the role of vitamin D in adaptations to strength trening.

For outcome measures specific to COPD pasients, final analyses will be performed on data from the COPD population only. For other outcome measures, final analyses will be performed on data merged from COPD patients and healthy subjects. An important rationale behind implementinGHealthy control subjects is to increase the statistical power of outcome measures unrelated to COPD epidemiology, which are of general relevance to physiological adaptation to strength trening. In a related set of analyses, we will perform between-groups comparisons, including multivariate analyses. We will also compare the efficacy of high- and low-resistance strength trening in COPD patients and healthy control subjects. The two trening modalities are expected to result in similar muscular adaptations.

In general, baseline vitamin D levels in blood, measured 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle size
  - Muscle phenotype

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D3
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02598830
