CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06416839
Title: VR Exercise Intervention in a Workplace Setting
Official Title: Virtual Reality Fitness Program to Promote Active Lifestyle and Psychological Wellbeing
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
This research study is designed to better understand how a virtual reality (VR) exercise application may influence overall physical activity and well-being. VR games can make exercise more enjoyable and interactive, which has been shown to increase engagement in physical activity. Adult participants will do a progressive exercise program and report on overall physical activity, health, and psychological wellbeing. The intervention is expected to have a positive impact on these lifestyle factors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
irtual Reality (VR) fitness applications are promising interventions to promote exercise in a home setting. Multiplayer fitness games for virtual reality platforms, addresses several common challenges associated with decreased exercise adherence such as social accountability, trensportation, weather, gym memberships, and self-consciousness. This study aims to assess the impact of regular usage of a commercially available virtual reality fitness application on quality of life measures, including physical activity, health, and well-being. This study will enroll healthy participants, age 18- 50 years old, and they will be issued a Quest 2 virtual reality headset and given access to the virtual reality fitness application (VRWorkout - VRW). Participants will be asked to use VRW on a regular and progressive basis over a six-week period and to complete surveys about physical activity and wellbeing over a 9-week period. The activity completed within VRW is based on participant choice. A suggested progression schedule will be provided, but not enforced. This study of healthy working individuals, is foundational to assessing whether immersive fitness applications may be used as a lifestyle intervention to increase overall physical activity and well-being.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity Questionnaire
  - World Health Organisation- Five Well-Being Index (WHO-5)
  - Self-Efficacy for Exercise
  - 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: VR exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06416839
