CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06817941
Title: Speech and Arm Combined Exergame
Official Title: Enhancing Rehabilitation Outcomes in Cerebral Palsy Through Gamified Multidisciplinary Interventions: Integrating Speech and Upper Extremity Motor Therapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to develop innovative home therapy games to train the weak arm and improve speech intelligibility (clarity) of children with hemiplegia from cerebral palsy. The investigators are exploring the effects of these therapy games and how they change the children's speech, hand movement, and brain activation.

15 children who are 8-17 years old will be recruited for this study. These children should have a diagnosis of cerebral palsy, mild to moderate speech issues but use speech as the primary mode of communication, mild to moderate movement difficulty and muscle spasticity, adequate hearing (pass a hearing screening), and be able to follow simple task-related directions.

Children who have severe vision impairment that limits the child's ability to interact with the entire computer screen, have severe arm weakness so they cannot move their arm enough to interact with the computer games, have severe increase in tone in their weak arm, or have difficulty following instructions or paying attention to computer video games for at least 10 minutes cannot participate in this study.

The therapy games will take 8 weeks to finish at home. Each child will play these games for 30 minutes each day, 5 days per week.

In addition, children will come to the lab 4 times for speech and hand movement assessment: (1) 1st assessment takes place immediately before the child start to play the video games. (2) 2nd assessment takes place 4 weeks (midpoint) after the child starts to play the games. (3) 3rd assessment takes place immediately after the video games are finished. (4) 4th assessment takes place 6 weeks after the video games are finished.

Each assessment should take about 2 hours to complete in the Rutgers movement lab or at Rutgers SLP Clinic.

A total of 15 children will take part in this research study. The research will last for 2 years overall.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In recent decades, rigorous treatment utilizing the principles of motor learning and activity-dependent neuroplasticity have shown significant improvement in speech and upper extremity (UE) function in children with cerebral palsy (CP). While intensive motor treatment can provide significant therapeutic benefits, it is often difficult for children to participate and complete such therapy, especially when they find the process to be tedious or lack immediate feedback and tracking of improvement over time. The need to maximize engagement during therapy is thus pivotal to ensure that treatment is both effective and sustainable. To this end, gamified therapy may be ideal, as it has been well-documented in literature to enhance not only targeted motor functions during UE therapy but also participation and motivation in children. Furthermore, combining speech and UE in a multidisciplinary gamified therapy may provide benefits to many children with CP who have concomitant impairment of speech and UE. Due to the neurological similarities underlying speech production and hand/arm movement execution, synergistic effects may be expected when treating both domains simultaneously. Research on this clinically significant topic deserves attention and further examination.

Specifically, in this proposed study, the following aims will be targeted:

Aim 1: Develop computer-based therapy games designed to improve speech intelligibility and UE function.

Aim 2: Evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a gamified multidisciplinary treatment method (i.e., combined speech and UE) and compare it to the independent effects of gamified speech and UE therapy.

Aim 3: Examine the potential overlap in the neural correlates of speech and UE movement as well as the post-treatment changes in these correlates under the combined versus independent conditions.

The goal of this project is to develop and evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of a gamified multidisciplinary treatment for speech and UE, and to examine the underlying neural correlates of the two domains in response to treatment. This approach will enhance participation of children with CP and, consequently, the effectiveness of therapy aimed at improving speech intelligibility and UE function. Furthermore, the games that will be developed can be part of a home-based therapy system and thus used in telerehabilitation to provide treatment to a much greater number of children. The impact of these research goals is crucial to refine therapeutic approaches and tailor them to meet the specific needs of children with CP, ultimately aiming to increase the children's independence and improve their quality of life.

Cerebral Palsy (CP) is the leading cause of motor impairment in children. Approximately 1 in 345 children in the United States have CP. It is a heterogeneous, nonprogressive, and lifelong disorder, with many children presenting with the motor speech disorder of dysarthria as well as sensorimotor issues of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Intelligibility measures
  - Melbourne Assessment 2

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Speech only
  - BEHAVIORAL: Hand/Arm only
  - BEHAVIORAL: Speech and arm combined

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06817941
