CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05302804
Title: The Influence of Menthol Gel During Exercise With Heat
Official Title: The Influence of Topical Menthol Gel on Thermoregulatory and Perceptual Outcomes During Exercise Within the Heat
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to examine the human thermoregulatory impact of applying a commercially available menthol gel (BioFreeze) to the skin prior to moderate intensity walking under heated conditions. Experimental Visits will consist of 30 min of treadmill walking at a moderate pace (3.5 mph, 5% grade) under hot conditions (38°C, 60%RH) and will be randomized and counterbalanced for BioFreeze or a hypoallergenic gel (control) application. Gels will be applied to areas commonly exposed during outdoor activity in warm conditions (shoulder to wrist, mid thigh to ankle). Accordingly, participants will wear shorts and a tank top shirt during exercise. Core temperature, skin temperature, galvanic skin response, laser doppler blood flow, and heart rate will be continuously recorded throughout the exercise bout via an integrated analog to digital converter. Sweat will be collected during exercise using commercially available absorbent patches. Thermal sensation will be assessed throughout exercise via the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) thermal sensation likert scale (cold to hot). Lastly, nude body weight will be recorded pre and post exercise for sweat rate determination. The BioFreeze and control trials will be separated by a 7-14 day washout period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
3 experimental visits to the laboratory will be conducted. All visits will take place at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, Exercise Physiology Laboratory. Visit 1 will consist of the physical activity readiness questionnaire (PARQ), adverse reaction to BioFreeze, and body composition (hydrostatic weigh, bioelectrical impedance). Visits 2 and 3 will be separated by 7-14 days, randomized, and counterbalanced for experimental (BioFreeze) and control (hypoallergenic cream) trials. Both the experimental and control visits will follow the same protocol.

Participants will arrive following an overnight fast state while also refraining from strenuous activity, alcohol consumption, tobacco use, and recreational drugs for the previous 24 hour period. During these visit researchers will apply BioFreeze using a gloved hand from shoulder to wrist and mid thigh to ankle (areas outside of the clothing). A hypoallergenic cream will be applied during the control visit.

Exercise will consist of 30 min of moderate intensity treadmill walking (3.5 mph at 5% grade) within a heated temperature/humidity controlled chamber (38°C, 60% relative humidity). Participants will be weighed before, and after completion of the exercise calculate sweat rate. Prior to the exercise session, participants will sit for 5 min in an ambient room temperature environment as a baseline. During baseline and during the exercise core temperature, skin temperature, laser doppler blood flow, galvanic skin response, and heart rate will be collected continuously. Sweat patches will be adhered to the forehead during exercise at minute 10 for collection of sweat composition over the next 10-20 minutes. Thermal perception using the ASHRAE scale (cold to hot) will be assessed pre and during exercise.

VISIT 1 Visit 1 will take approximately 1 hour. Informed consent will be given. Participants will then complete the physical activity readiness questionnaire (PARQ) to be cleared for physical activity. Participants will have a small amount of the BioFreeze cream applied to a small area of the forearm (\~2 x 2 in) to test for any adverse reaction over a period of 15 minutes. This initial skin reaction test is not a part of the research protocol. Those without a reaction will have height, weight, and body fat composition measured. Height and weight will be measured using a medical scale and stadiometer, respectively. Body fat will be assessed with hydrostatic weighing using an electronic load cell based system (Exertech, Dresbach, MN) correcting for residual lung volume or via a bio-electrical impedance analyzer (InBodyUSA, Cerritos, CA).

VISITS 2 AND 3 Visits 2 and 3 will take approximately 2 hours each. Upon arrival at the lab, a nude body weight will be collected with the subject in a private room. While still in the room, subjects will self-insert a rectal thermistor 12-15 cm beyond the anal sphincter and don a chest strap heart rate monitor. After dressing in their exercise clothing, subjects wil

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Skin Blood Flow
  - Skin Blood Flow
  - Galvanic Skin Response
  - Sweat Composition
  - Sweat Rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Menthol Gel
  - DRUG: Control Gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05302804
