CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04167020
Title: Hip Fracture and Muscle Resilience
Official Title: Mucle Resilience: Muscular Markers Predictive of Functional Recovery After Femoral Neck Fracture in Orthogeriatrics
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 67
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aging of the population is a major public health problem, particularly with regard to the quality of life and the maintenance of autonomy.

The fracture of the upper end of the femur (EFSF) is a pathology:

* Frequent, affecting the elderly: in France, 80,000 patients / year, 83% aged ≥ 75 years (DREES, 2011),
* severe, on mortality and autonomy: 40% will not recover their walking capacity earlier than 6 months, 13% of patients \> 85 years old walk unaided at 4 months and 11% of patients will be newly admitted to an institution in 6 months after the fracture (UPOG / PSL data).
* and costly: costs related to acute care (excluding prostheses and osteosynthesis equipment), are estimated at € 475 million for health insurance in France.

Currently, despite optimized orthogeriatric management, it is difficult to predict how the individual will respond / recover from acute stress related to the EFSF. Physical resilience is an emerging concept in medicine that defines the dynamic ability of a subject to resist or recover from functional decline as a result of stress or disruption. In this context, developing new approaches to assessing resilience is important, to take into account this resilience specific to each patient in order to develop a personalized functional rehabilitation strategy. The objective of the HIPRESM study is to be able to identify, in elderly patients after an EFSF intervention, the muscular signature associated with good functional recovery (= physical resilience). The goal of the investigators is to develop software that will provide this muscle signature by measuring and analyzing parameters from high-definition surface electromyography (HD-sEMG). This technology is innovative, non-invasive and portable, CE marked but not yet used in clinical routine.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aging of the population is a major public health problem with its multifactorial impact, quality of life and the maintenance of autonomy.

The upper femoral fracture (UFF) is a common pathology: in France, it concerns nearly 80.000 patients per year, 83% of whom are aged 75 (DREES, 2011).

The UFF is a pathology with serious consequences, on the mortality but also on the functional level, since 40% of the patients will not recover their walking capacity previous to 6 months, only 13% of the patients over 85 years old will walk unaided to 4 months and 11% of patients will be newly admitted to an institution within 6 months of the fracture (UPOG data, 20% for patients with major neurocognitive disorders, 4% for others). In the literature, at least 25% of elderly people will not recover their previous walking ability, especially for transfers, walking and climbing stairs (Alarcon 2011, Arinzon 2010, Visser 2000).

The UFF is an expensive pathology, whose costs related to acute care (excluding prostheses and osteosynthesis equipment), are estimated at € 475 million in health insurance in France.

Currently, despite optimized orthogeriatric management, it is difficult to predict how the individual will respond/recover from acute UFF-related stress. Physical resilience is an emerging concept in medicine, which defines the dynamic ability of a subject to resist or recover from a functional decline due to stress or disruption. In this context, developing new approaches to assess resilience is important, to take into account each patient's specific resilience in order to develop a personalized functional rehabilitation strategy. The objective of the HIPRESM study is to identify, in older patients after a UFF intervention, the muscle signature associated with good functional recovery (= physical resilience). The objective of the investigators is to identify the parameters derived from high definition surface electromyography (HD-sEMG) by developing software that will provide this muscle signature. This technology is innovative, non-invasive and portable, and already CE marked.

Main objective: to identify HD-sEMG parameters, measured during quadriceps extension of the lower limb not affected by surgery, within 7 days post surgery for UFF, associated with functional status without human assistance (SPPB) at day 30.

Main Evaluation Criterion: To investigate the association between the parameters provided by HD-sEMG (32 simultaneous channels; portable device and software, Mobita®) of the rectus femoris and functional status without human assistance measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB = walking speed over 4 meters, chair satnds, balance) at 30 days after surgery for FESF.

Secondary objectives: to study the association between parameters from HD-sEMG measured during quadriceps extension of the lower limb not affected by surgery within 7 days post surgery for FESF and :

1. the walking capacity at D30
2. the autonomy at D30
3. the walk

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HD-sEMG correlated to SPPB

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: High definition surface electromyography (HD-sEMG)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04167020
