CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05281016
Title: Integrating Community LITE Programme as an Online Family-based Intervention to Combat Childhood Obesity
Official Title: Integrating Community LITE Programme Into a School-clinic-community Partnership as an Online Family-based Intervention to Combat Childhood Obesity
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Childhood obesity in Singapore is rising with a record prevalence of 13% in 2017 (1). Given that 70% of overweight children remain so into adulthood (2), this will further increase the public health epidemic of diabetes among Singaporeans. Early intervention is thus critical to improve the weight trajectory of overweight children and foster life long healthy lifestyle habits. Family-based interventions combining dietary, physical activity and behavioural interventions are currently recommended as the best practice in the management of childhood obesity in children younger than 12 years old (3-7). Our pilot study on family-based intervention in the tertiary setting demonstrated feasibility and short-term effectiveness. However, its outreach and sustainable results are limited. Currently, school-based screening, weight management clinics and community recreational facilities are operating in silos with limited effectiveness. Here, the investigators will integrate our family-based intervention into a school, clinic and community partnership to achieve an impactful and sustainable outcome for families with overweight children.

The community Lifestyle InTervention for Everyone (LITE) program is a structured, group family-based multicomponent lifestyle intervention. Community LITE program will introduce various exercise programs within the family based online sessions to reduce perceived barrier and promote self-efficacy of community sports facilities to increase physical activity. Children have minimal control over their food and physical activity choices especially in current obesogenic environment (8). Parents are the most important influencers(9) to impose interventions for childhood obesity through parental practices and parenting style(10). Therefore, they are the main focus of the community-based intervention program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators hypothesize that our community LITE program can reduce the prevalence of overweight children aged 6-12 years old in Singapore with sustainable lasting effects by encouraging healthy lifestyle and behaviours. The investigators will test our hypothesis with the following aims:

Primary aim: To investigate whether community LITE programme will lead to a reduction in Body Mass Index (BMI) z-score. Intervention outcome will be compared with that from the usual care at 6 months and 12 months.

Secondary aims:

1. To demonstrate implementation feasibility and acceptability of the community LITE programme
2. To estimate cost and cost effectiveness of programme
3. To estimate the effectiveness of programme. Children will demonstrate improvements in health outcomes at 6-months and 12 months, including waist-height, blood pressure, fruits and vegetables intake and MVPA level at 6 months and 12 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Mass Index (BMI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care
  - BEHAVIORAL: Online community LITE programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05281016
