CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04466800
Title: Functional and Respiratory Rehabilitation and Nutritional Care of COVID-19 Patients (RECOVER-19)
Official Title: Functional and Respiratory Rehabilitation and Nutritional Care of COVID-19 Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 160
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Following the acute phase of COVID, some patients may have sequelae, such as breathing difficulties or malnutrition. We hypothesize that a functional and respiratory rehabilitation program associated with personalized nutritional care will improve quality of life, physical performance and respiratory capacities and will decrease the prevalence of malnutrition among those patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In France, more than 150 000 patients have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and COVID has been responsible for more than 100 000 hospitalizations. Following the acute phase of this disease, some patients may have sequelae, such as breathing difficulties or malnutrition. However, the prevalence and intensity of those sequelae still remain unknown. Thus, a functional and respiratory rehabilitation program associated with personalized nutritional care may be necessary to improve those patients' prognosis.

This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a 4-week rehabilitation program following the acute phase of COVID. This program includes regular physical activity supervised by a physical acticity educator, a systematic malnutrition screening and a nutritional follow-up performed by a dietitian. Patients will be randomized in two groups: rehabilitation program (intervention group) or usual care (control group). Quality of life, physical performance, respiratory capacities and nutritional status will be assessed in both groups at inclusion and one month later (corresponding to the end of the rehabilitation program for the intervention group).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Impact of a multidisciplinary and personalized rehabilitation program on COVID patients's quality of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Intervention group_rehabilitation program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04466800
