CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04039620
Title: EAMA Sarcopenia in Acute Care Patients in 9+European Countries
Official Title: Sarcopenia in Acute Care Patients: Protocol for the European Collaboration of Geriatric Surveys: Sarcopenia 9+ European Academy for Medicine of Ageing (EAMA) Project
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 366
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This collaborative study in 9 geriatrics units across Europe aims to apply emerging research to clinical practice, following the "Action-Research Philosophy" (11). The overall goal is to improve care in patients with - and help prevent - sarcopenia. Understanding the frequency of and risk factors for developing sarcopenia in an acute hospital setting, may help shed light on potential interventions and thus inform the development of future therapeutic strategies. It involves crucial implications for research, clinical practice, and policy towards optimal aging.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Sarcopenia is a nutrition-related disease leading to physical impairment and adverse clinical outcomes. Data regarding its characteristics in hospitalized patients are limited.

Aim: This study will assess in older patients admitted to acute medical wards, the prevalence, incidence, and risk factors for development of sarcopenia, or alteration in its severity, and evaluate associated clinical adverse outcomes.

Methods: This collaboratively-designed, longitudinal prospective observational study will be carried out in patients aged \>70 admitted to acute geriatric units in 9 European centers. The new sarcopenia diagnostic criteria of the European Working Group on Sarcopenia 2 (EWGSOP2) will be tested at admission and discharge, using isometric handgrip dynamometry, gait speed, and, pragmatically, calf circumference. There will be 3- and 12-month telephone follow-up (including the SARC-F questionnaire).

Discussion: Our study will be the first collaboration to assess the prevalence and incidence of sarcopenia (EWGSOP2) and its risk factors in hospitalized patients across Europe.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Prevalence of sarcopenia as defined by the European consensus on definition and diagnosis (EWGSOP2)
  - Incidence of sarcopenia as defined by the European consensus on definition and diagnosis (EWGSOP2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Observational study, no interventions expected

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04039620
