CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01236209
Title: Stimulating Self Management in Patients With Fibromyalgia Through Web-based Situational Feedback
Official Title: Stimulating Self Management in Patients With Fibromyalgia Through Web-based Situational Feedback
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The overall objective of this randomized controlled study (RCT) financed by the Norwegian Research Council (grant no. 182012/V50) is to establish the effectiveness of situational feedback to the self-management of fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) using innovative means of patient-provider communication in a randomized controlled study (RCT). Thereby this project will contribute to the knowledge of treatment of patients with FMS. The effectiveness of the intervention will be expressed in terms of a) reduced pain, b) psychometric outcomes, c) quality of life, d) improved engagement in daily activities and e) prevented transition to chronic disability. We furthermore aim to 1) determine the effectiveness of providing regular situational feedback in enhancing self-management and, consequently 2) study the effectiveness of enhancing self-management in reducing pain and physical disability.

Self-management of chronic pain is increasingly seen as an important tool in providing adequate care to patients with FMS and other types of Chronic Non-malignant Pain. Enhancing the patient's self-management of her/his condition is thought to be effective in reducing pain and disability. However, sufficient empirical evidence to support this is yet unavailable. This may be due to the non-situational nature of many interventions studied so far: Patients are taught management skills in a clinical setting, and may not be able to successfully use these skills in daily care. Therefore, enhancing self-management of chronic pain, by providing immediate feedback that is directly related to patient's daily life ("situational" feedback) complementary to care-as usual, is thought to be more effective than conventional interventions in a clinical setting. This may even be even more effective when the patient receives quick response feedback using mobile communication technology, i.e. any place any time.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in catastrophizing cognitions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Webpage
  - OTHER: Webpage and situation feedback

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01236209
