CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06407414
Title: Effectiveness of Neuromuscular Exercise in Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome
Official Title: The Effect of Neuromuscular Exercise Program on Strength, Balance, Sleep Quality and Functionality in Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to investigate the effects of a neuromuscular exercise program on strength, balance, sleep quality and functionality in individuals with Patellofemoral pain syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The research is planned as a quantitative study. Classical knee exercises will be given to 25 individuals in the control group of the study. An exercise program consisting of Neuromuscular exercises will be applied to 25 individuals in the intervention group. In data collection, strength and balance measurements will be measured face to face by a physiotherapist, and the scales to be made through a survey will be sent to the patients online and they will be asked to fill them out. The scales and forms to be used are as follows: 1.Kujala Patellofemoral Score Scale 2.Lysholm Knee Scoring Scale 3.International Physical Activity Survey 4.Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index 5.Y Balance Test 6.30 Seconds Sit and Stand Test Applied scales will be done by the physiotherapist. The surveys will be uploaded to the Google Forms database and the participants will be contacted via e-mail or mobile phone applications (such as Whatsapp, Telegram) to participate. They will first be asked to fill out the surveys before starting the exercise program and they will be asked to apply the exercise program. It will be explained as follows. Exercises will be planned 3 times a week and for 12 weeks. Participants will be asked to participate in the survey again after completing the exercise program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Kujala Patellofemoral Score Scale
  - Lysholm Knee Scoring Scale
  - International Physical Activity Survey
  - Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
  - Y Balance Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: control
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06407414
