CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02718612
Title: Prevalence and Determinants of Sarcopenic Obesity in Taiwanese Dialysis Patients
Official Title: Association Between Sarcopenia and Sarcopenic Obesity With Metabolic and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Taiwanese Dialysis Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Uraemic sarcopenia is complex, and progressive . As older persons are particularly susceptible to renal failure and this accelerates the physiological muscle wasting in this patient group. Hence sarcopenia is an important factor of functional impairment in elderly patients suffering from chronic kidney disease. On the other hand, overweight has become increasing common in dialysis patients, and is paradoxically reported to be associated with better survival. It remains unclear if adipose tissue in overweight in elderly dialysis patients is a source of proinflammatory mediators, which could contribute to protein-energy wasting (PEW), cardiovascular disease, and increased mortality. This study attempts to explore the prevalence of Sarcopenic Obesity (SO) in a cohort of hemodialysis patients with a more well defined criteria. In addition, this study aims to examine the association between sarcopenia and SO with metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors in these patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients

The study is a cross-sectional analysis of all patients on hemodialysis patients treated at Tungs' Taichung Metroharbor hospital(500 patients). Patients ≥20 years of age and been on maintenance hemodialysis for at least 3 month before the study. The dialysis sessions were 3.5 to 4.5 h three times per week, with a blood flow greater than 300 mL/min, a dialysate flow of 600 mL/min, and a bicarbonate buffer.

Clinical assessments and data collection

The investigators collect baseline clinical data \[such as age, sex, height, bodyweight, clinical etiology of Chronic Kidney Disease if possible, comorbidities, blood pressure, laboratory measures \[such as serum creatinine, albumin, C-reactive protein (CRP), total cholesterol, complete blood counts, total carbon dioxide, anthropometric information and various potential indicators of PEW \[such as body mass index, waist/hip ratio, mid-arm circumference (MAC), triceps skinfold thickness (TSF), mid-arm muscle circumference (MAMC), mid-arm muscle area (MAMA), SGA, BIA analyses, and hand grip Strength (HGS). For the laboratory tests, fasting blood samples are obtained from each patient and are performed in the Department of Clinical Pathology of the investigators hospital by means of routine methods. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α )levels are measured via immunometric enzyme immunoassay. insulin is analyzed using human ELISA kits . Sensitivity is 2.88 pmol/L, and the upper limits of intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were 3.3 and 7.6, respectively. Homeostatic Model Assessment insulin Resistance(HOMA-IR) was calculated as fasting insulin (U/l) × fasting glucose (mg/dl)/405, as described by Matthews et al.

All patients received echocardiograms studies performed within 3 months after enrollment, which were used to estimate Congestive Heart Failure (defined as an ejection fraction of \<40%) or left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH, defined as left ventricle mass index 125 g/m2 in men and 100 g/m2 in women). Cardiovascular disease is defined as a previous history of Congestive Heart Failure, LVH, ischemic heart disease(including prior history of angina, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous cardiac catheter intervention) or cerebrovascular disease (including prior history of transient ischemic attack and stroke).

Anthropometric measurements

The actual bodyweight and height on the day of assessment was used. Anthropometric measurements include TSF used skinfold calipers MAC measured by a stretchable measuring tape, MAMC equals MAC(centimeter) -3.14 x TSF (millimeter)/10 and MAMA equals (MAMC2/4π).

Body composition measurements

1. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) device :(Tanita BC-418) Body composition was measured using an 8-contact electrode bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) device (Tanita BC-418, Tanita, Tokyo, Japan), as well as BIS (FMC) and followed the standard procedure and the manufacturer's instructions.This 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Presence of sacropenia

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02718612
