CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01684579
Title: Exercising Our ABC's (African- American Breast Cancer Survivors)
Official Title: Exercising Our ABC's (African- American Breast Cancer Survivors)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Recent studies have shown that some behavioral factors such as physical activity and exercise may improve quality of life and outcome in patients with breast cancer as well as decrease body fat, increase lean mass and reduce cancer-promoting hormones. None of these studies have been performed in African-American women with breast cancer. The medical field needs to understand how exercise may benefit cancer patients, particularly African Americans, and how to optimize these benefits to improve the quality of life, prognosis and survival.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All exercise training will take place at the Gathering Place, Beachwood OH, in the new Wellness Center that is equipped with state-of-the-art aerobic and resistance training apparati. All exercise will be performed under the supervision of the Gathering Place trained and certified staff. The patient group will perform a 20 week aerobic and resistance exercise training program to evaluate (compared to baseline) changes: in body composition (fat, lean tissue and bone mass); cytokines including insulin, leptin, adiponectin, IL-6, and TNFα; oxidative stress including urine isoprostane; cardiorespiratory fitness (VO2max); upper and lower body strength (assessed using a dynamometer); sleep (assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index \[PSQI\]); fatigue and quality of life (Qol) (assessed using the SF-36, FACIT instruments). Patients will be evaluated before and after a 20 week intervention and a 10 week post-intervention period. Participants also will be evaluated for motivation barriers and compliance. These feasibility parameters will provide the basis and guidance for an NCI grant application to focus on mechanisms and extend our evaluation to larger cohorts of African-American patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Identify factors contributing to or limiting the success of development of the community-academic partnership.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Group Counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01684579
