CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05140070
Title: Fruit and Vegetable Products Enriched With Fibre From Potato Starch With Prebiotic Properties for Children and Youth
Official Title: Development and Implementation of an Innovative Technology for the Production New Generation Fruit and Vegetable Products Enriched With Dietary Fibre Preparation From Potato Starch With Prebiotic Properties for Children and Youth
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The main goal of the project is to test fruit and vegetable mousse, with the addition of a fiber preparation made of potato starch with prebiotic properties, on selected clinical, metabolic and immunological parameters in overweight and obese children.

The study will be performed in a group of 80 to 100 children aged 6 to 10 years (pre-pubertal age), using a double-blind procedure. Children will be randomly assigned into two groups, i.e. the intervention group (they will receive a vegetable and fruit mousse with the addition of potato starch fiber preparation with prebiotic properties) and the control group (they will receive an identical preparation in their diet, but without the addition of potato starch fiber preparation).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose and nature of the study:

The study financed by the National Center for Research and Development is aimed at examining the vegetable and fruit mousse with the addition of a potato starch fiber preparation with prebiotic properties, in terms of preventing overweight and obesity in children and limiting the occurrence of metabolic disorders secondary to obesity.

Description of the procedures Children participating in the study will consume a daily fruit and vegetable mousse with or without the addition (control group) of a fiber-based potato starch preparation with prebiotic properties. Random selection will decide whether child will consume vegetable and fruit mousse with the addition of a fiber-based potato starch preparation with prebiotic properties. The study will be double blinded: neither parent and child, nor the attending physician will know whether the consumed mousse contains a fiber preparation. This method of conducting the study (random selection to the study group and control group and the so-called study blind) aims to eliminate the attitude of both the study participant and the observer to the therapy, which could affect the final assessment.

Children will take the mousse every day for six months (6 months). In order to evaluate the effect of fruit and vegetable mousse with the addition of a fiber preparation made of potato starch with prebiotic properties, the following tests will be performed: measurements of height, weight and, based on this measurements body mass index (BMI) will be calculated, waist circumference and blood pressure, bioimpedance test to assess the content of adipose and muscle tissue in the body, ultrasound of the carotid vessels and the liver, the speed of the pulse wave using the oscillometric method, the elastographic examination with a fibroscan, the examination of the composition of the intestinal flora in a stool sample, and a venous blood sample (7-10 ml volume) will be taken to evaluate lipid, carbohydrate metabolism, liver function, adipose tissue function, antioxidant status, and immune response parameters. The mentioned tests will be performed three times during the observation, i.e. at the time of enrollment in the study, after 6 months of taking the fruit and vegetable mousse and 3 months after the end of the vegetable and fruit mousse. In connection with participation in the study, the Child and Parents will be provided with dietary and physical activity advice as well as psychologist's advice on the day of enrollment in the study and at 3-month intervals up to 9 months from the start of participation in the study. Additionally, 3 months after starting taking the fruit and vegetable mousse, anthropometric and blood pressure measurements will be performed. During the participation in the study possible side effects will be registered.

A questionnaire containing questions about the child's date of birth, questions about the child's general health and taking medications, about the socio-d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMI z-score change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vegetable and fruit mousse enriched with a fiber preparation from potato starch with prebiotic properties
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vegetable and fruit mousse
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary and physical activity counselling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 10 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05140070
