CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03747185
Title: Corticospinal Excitability of Deep Back and Abdominal Muscles
Official Title: Corticospinal Excitability of Deep Back and Abdominal Muscles in Individuals With History of Clinical Lumbar Instability
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to understand the roles of corticospinal excitability in controlling the trunk movement, and the clinical utility of clinical observation, as well as the effect of lumbopelvic stabilization during hamstrings muscle stretching.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will use a sample of convenience between the ages of 20 and 40. Subjects with and without history of low back pain will be recruited by flyers posted in university physical therapy clinics in 2 locations, as well as word of mouth from subjects and friends. Subjects who are interested in participation will undergo a screening process using inclusion-exclusion criteria checklist and receive brief information regarding the study. If the participants meet all inclusion criteria, the consent process will be performed. To ensure the participants understand the study, the participants will be simply asked regarding the study (i.e. objectives, benefits, etc.) before signing the consent form. Total data collection including intervention between pre- and post-intervention will take approximately 2 hours.

After obtaining the written informed consent, all participants will fill out the information sheet for demographic data. Participant will have the right to refuse answering the demographic questionnaire, but the participants can participate in biomechanical data collection. Then, participants will asked to remove the metal accessories that could influence the electromagnetic field, change the cloth to lab tank top and shorts to expose the lower back and right knee, and wear the shoes throughout the test protocol. The body landmarks will be identified. These landmarks include 1) lumbar spine level 1 (L1), 2) sacrum level 2 (S2), 3) lateral epicondyle of right (RE) and left (LE) knees, and 4) head of fibula of right (RF) and left (LF) leg. These locations will be used to place motion sensors for outcome measures. The preparation process will take approximately 10 minutes.

The subjects will stand in a natural stance with arms down by sides. The participants will be instructed to perform functional movements including active forward bend, right and left straight leg raise tests, right and left hip abduction with knee flexion tests, quadruped backward rock test, prone with right and left knee flexion tests, prone with right and left hip internal/external rotation tests, prone with right and left hip extension tests. Each subject performs 2 trials of 3 consecutive repetitions of each functional movement tests. Heart rate and rating of perceive exertion (RPE) will be monitored after each functional movement tests. Two physical therapists (PT-A and PT-B), who are blinded to the group membership, will simultaneously observe and independently rate aberrant movement patterns. After physical therapists completing the clinical observation, the participants will hand the rating form to the principal investigator to input into a spreadsheet for further analysis. These data will be used to determine inter-rater reliability and diagnostic accuracy of clinical observation of aberrant movement patterns during functional movements to identify individuals with a history of CLI. The clinical observation will take about 20 minutes.

Prior to performing SLR, motion s

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Resting and active motor threshold
  - Motor evoke potentials
  - Center of gravity of Topography
  - Volume of Topography
  - Clinical observation of aberrant movement.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Lumbopelvic stiffening technique
  - OTHER: Lumbopelvic relaxing technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03747185
