CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06749912
Title: Effects of a Lower Back Wrap Device on Lower Back Pain, Physical Function, and Quality of Life
Official Title: Effects of a Lower Back Wrap Device on Lower Back Pain, Physical Function, and Quality of Life
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 153
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this counterbalanced cross-over study is to determine whether a recovery lumbar wrap effectively reduces lower back pain and improves outcomes related to physical function and quality of life in adults with LBP in adults 20-65 years old. This study will also explore whether improvements in other health metrics that are typically related to, or seen in, lower back pain research (i.e. stiffness, mobility, physical activity, validated clinical scoring methods, etc.) are improved with the use of the product.

The main question this study aims to answer is:

• Does the lumbar wrap effectively reduce low back pain symptoms and improve outcomes related to physical function and quality of life in adults with lower back pain.

Participants experiencing lower back pain will be asked to use the lower back wrap for at least 20-minutes per day for a 2-week period, counterbalanced with a 2-week period of no device use. Participants will fill out small daily surveys about their symptoms and complete a pre-, middle-, and post- survey and functional screening to determine efficacy of the device.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants with both acute and chronic low back pain will be recruited from the emergency department, research registry, social media, and e-mails. Participants will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria and consented. This study utilizes a counterbalanced cross-over design. Each participant will complete both conditions: 1) Intervention (wrap), or 2) Control (Nothing). A counterbalanced assignment approach will be used to determine the starting condition for each participant (Phase 1). After completion of Phase 1, each participant will complete the remaining condition for Phase 2.

Each phase of the intervention will take 2 weeks, for a total of 4 weeks (2 weeks in Phase 1, 2 weeks in Phase 2). When participants are in the Intervention phase of the study, they will be asked to use the lower back wrap at least once per day for the standard treatment length (20 minutes). To support ecological validity, participants will be able to use the device ad libitum (several times throughout the day) as desired. The Researchers will administer simple daily surveys to log compliance to treatment.

A pre-, mid-, and post- survey and functional screening will be conducted to gather additional information about the participant and device efficacy and use.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain
  - Function survey
  - Function test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Low back pain wrap

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06749912
