CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01880515
Title: Tetracycline as a Prophylaxis for Rash in Patients With NSCLC Receiving Treatment With BIBW2992 (Afatinib)
Official Title: Phase II, Open-label, Single Blind, Randomised Clinical Trial With Tetracycline as a Prophylaxis for Rash and Dermatological Recommendations Versus Dermatological Recommendations in Patients With NSCLC Receiving Treatment With BIBW 2992
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 107
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
1. Advanced NSCLC has a poor prognosis and the positive impact of chemotherapy is limited by the development of intrinsic and acquired resistance.
2. Over the past decade, less toxic agents such as the innovative targeted therapies, i.e. erlotinib or gefitinib, have the potential to improve the effectiveness and keep a good quality of life with a low toxicity
3. BIBW2992 (afatinib), an aniline-quinazoline, is an epidermal growth factor receptor (eGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) irreversible inhibitor, and it has activity against erlotinib-resistant isoforms having mutations in eGFR and HER-2.
4. This molecule has shown benefits as a single agent in pre-treated patients who have progressed despite platinum-based chemotherapy, with a minimal toxicity compared to chemotherapy.
5. BIBW2992 is associated with adverse effects similar to those for erlotinib and gefitinib, such as rash and diarrhea. These symptoms can reduce the quality of life (QL) in patients and lead to inconsistent eGFR inhibitor dose administration
6. There is not a standard treatment for rash. However, case reports have tried to demonstrate the benefit in the treatment of these cutaneous injuries obtained with alcohol-free emollients, sunscreen with titanium dioxide or antibiotic (topic or oral) treatment regimens that include clindamycin or doxycycline, as well as anti-inflammatory drugs such as steroids and isotretinoin.
7. In order to reduce the incidence and severity of cutaneous toxicities, we will compare the prophylactic antibiotic treatment using tetracycline and general dermatological recommendations versus using only dermatological recommendations, in patients initiating the treatment with BIBW2992.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Case reports have tried to demonstrate the benefit in the treatment of rash obtained with: alcohol-free emollients used 2-3 times daily, sunscreen with titanium dioxide or zinc oxide with a skin protection factor (SPF) greater than 15, topic or oral antibiotic regimens (such as clindamycin, metronidazole, tetracyclines) when there is secondary infection as well as steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (betamethasone, triamcinolone) and isotretinoin.

The objective of this project is to evaluate whether the prophylactic treatment with tetracycline can reduce dermatological toxicities such as rash, induced by the eGFR and HER-2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor BIBW 2992 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Frequency of Participants Who Experienced Any Grade of Rash As Characterized By The Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) V4.0

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Tetracycline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01880515
