CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07094347
Title: Effects of Intradialytic Inspiratory Muscle Training on Functional Capacity in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: Effects of Intradialytic Inspiratory Muscle Training on Functional Capacity in Hemodialysis Patients
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
There is a need for long-term sustainable studies that will increase the potential health benefits in hemodialysis patients. Inspiratory muscle training, one of the recommended treatments to increase exercise capacity and quality of life during dialysis treatment in people with chronic renal failure, is a method that can be applied intradialytically, in addition to being easy to apply, cheap and sustainable. It improves functional capacity by increasing respiratory muscle strength. In this context, our study aims to investigate the effects of inspiratory muscle training on functional parameters and on hemodialysis patients with a personalized portable device and to add it to the literature.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic kidney disease is defined as abnormalities in kidney structure or function that have been present for more than three months and will adversely affect health. Two markers used to define chronic kidney disease, which is characterized by progressive loss of kidney mass and function, are glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and albumin-creatinine ratio. Chronic kidney disease can be divided into five stages according to GFR, and the most severe end-stage chronic kidney disease is also defined as chronic renal failure and requires renal replacement therapy to maintain homeostasis. The most commonly applied method of renal replacement in our country is hemodialysis.

It is known that muscle atrophy, where muscle regeneration and repair capacity decrease, is frequently seen in chronic kidney disease patients. Although it is partly due to aging, muscle atrophy is frequently seen due to the accumulation of uremic toxins, inflammation, insulin resistance, malnutrition and lack of physical activity; increased muscle loss also increases the risk of morbidity, mortality and end-stage renal disease in patients.

Studies have shown that there is a decrease in respiratory muscle strength as well as skeletal muscle strength in chronic kidney disease patients. Decreased respiratory muscle strength causes individuals to have low cardiorespiratory fitness, and chronic kidney disease patients face limitations in daily life activities and increased mortality.

Pulmonary system involvement and decreased exercise tolerance are among the important causes of functional capacity and disease-related complications in chronic kidney disease patients. Inspiratory muscle strength is related to functional capacity in hemodialysis patients. In the literature, it is shown that inspiratory muscle training improves functional parameters and modulates inflammatory biomarkers, as in aerobic and combined exercise training. Inspiratory muscle training is a useful method to increase peripheral and inspiratory muscle strength, respiratory function, quality of life and balance, and to reduce dyspnea and fatigue in patients with chronic kidney disease.

Exercises performed during dialysis are called intradialytic exercises. It does not require extra time to exercise; The advantages of this exercise protocol include the fact that patients can be monitored by healthcare professionals during exercise and that any complications can be detected and treated immediately, and that intradialytic exercise increases blood flow to the muscles and increases solute removal. Inspiratory muscle training, one of the recommended treatments to increase exercise capacity and quality of life during dialysis treatment in people with chronic renal failure, is a method that can be applied intradialytically, in addition to being easy to apply, cheap and sustainable. It improves functional capacity by increasing respiratory muscle strength. It is stated that inspiratory muscle training protocols applied in the 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Inspiratory muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: inspiratory muscle training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07094347
