CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04016415
Title: Decreasing Stress in Diabetes
Official Title: Decreasing Stress in Diabetes: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 309
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to determine the effects of an online 6-month Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) intervention compared to an active control Stress Management Education (SME) on glucose control in adults with uncontrolled type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The study will randomize at least 290 adults with uncontrolled diabetes to a 6-month MBSR intervention or SME control. Both MBSR and SME will be delivered online by experienced instructors in a live interactive virtual classroom using videoconferencing. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, a follow-up phone call after Class #4, and study visits at 2-months (2MO) and 6-months (6MO).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific Aims are: 1) To conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine the effects of an online 6-month Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) intervention compared to an active control Stress Management Education (SME) on glucose levels in at least 290 adults with uncontrolled type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Both MBSR and SME will be delivered online by experienced instructors in a live interactive virtual classroom using videoconferencing. The primary outcome will be hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), a measure of the average glucose level over the past 3 months. We hypothesize that between the two groups, there will be a clinically significant 0.5% absolute difference in the mean change in HbA1c from baseline to 6-months. We will also look at the 2-month HbA1c, however it may be too brief a time period to fully capture the impact of MBSR. An absolute reduction in HbA1c of 0.5% would be expected to reduce the risk of any diabetes-related complication by at least 10%. Additionally, we will assess fasting glucose as a secondary outcome as it is linked with adverse health outcomes, and can be lowered with MBSR based on our pilot study; 2) To determine the effects of online MBSR compared to SME control on psychosocial, behavioral and physiological mechanisms potentially mediating the effects of MBSR and/or SME on glucose levels in adults with uncontrolled diabetes. Secondary outcomes include: diabetes-related distress, subjective stress, craving, the impact of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) on subjects' lives, subject expectancy, dietary intake, physical activity, and serum hs-CRP as a marker of chronic inflammation. Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) will be assessed at baseline. It is hypothesized that these measures may mediate the effects of MBSR and/or SME on glucose.

The proposed study has the potential to transform current standards of care for diabetes by using a novel long-term MBSR intervention as a powerful adjunct intervention for diabetes. MBSR could impact the clinical picture of diabetes by empowering patients with skills for strengthening their own internal resources to promote self regulation and adaptive coping and reduce stress reactivity, which are all essential for implementing healthy behaviors and are expected to lead to improved glucose control and reduced risk of diabetes complications. This proposal is relevant to the mission of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) to conduct research on diabetes to improve people's health and quality of life.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in A1CNow® Self-Check Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) Home Kit Values From Baseline to 6-Months (6MO)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction
  - BEHAVIORAL: Stress Management Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04016415
