CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05147116
Title: The Effect of Hypoxia on Type 2 Diabetes and Weight Loss
Official Title: The Effects of Repeated Moderate Overnight Normobaric Hypoxia on Glucose Homeostasis, Appetite, Body Weight, Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The number of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) continuing to rise, this pandemic is expected to reach 700 million people by 2045. T2DM is a metabolic condition characterized by progressive insulin resistance and chronic hyperglycemia (high blood glucose concentrations). Hyperglycaemia increases the risk of both micro- and macrovascular damage, whilst interventions that reduce blood glucose mitigate this risk. Weight loss, achieved through exercise and dietary modification, is effective at reducing hyperglycaemia. However, despite the clear benefits of exercise and weight loss, diverse psychological, sociological and logistical factors can make it difficult for some individuals with T2DM to initiate, or adhere to, these lifestyle interventions. Alternative approaches to treatment are therefore required.

The purpose of this research project is to investigate whether 10-days of overnight exposure to moderate hypoxia is effective at improving blood glucose control in individuals with T2DM and to provide insight into the physiological mechanisms responsible for any beneficial effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a metabolic condition characterized by progressive insulin resistance and chronic hyperglycemia (high blood glucose concentrations). Hyperglycaemia increases the risk of both micro- and macrovascular damage, whilst interventions that reduce blood glucose mitigate this risk. Weight loss, achieved through exercise and dietary modification, is effective at reducing hyperglycaemia. However, despite the clear benefits of exercise and weight loss, diverse psychological, sociological and logistical factors can make it difficult for some individuals with T2DM to initiate, or adhere to, these lifestyle interventions. With the number of people with T2DM continuing to rise, this pandemic is expected to reach 700 million people by 2045. Thus, there is a clear need for cost-effective interventions that can effectively improve glycaemic control in people with T2DM and which people will adhere to.

A simple exposure to a lowered concentration of inspired oxygen (i.e. hypoxia) may represent such an intervention. In addition to the beneficial effects on glucose homeostasis that have been reported following a single acute hypoxic exposure, repeated intermittent, or continuous, hypoxic exposure may also have therapeutic potential in individuals with T2DM. In rodent models, daily hypoxic exposures returned fasting blood \[glucose\] to normal levels and increased glucose transporter 4 translocation in mice with T2DM. Similar effects on glucose homeostasis have been shown in overweight humans and those with insulin resistance, (during intermittent hypoxic training) which was explained, at least in part, by reduction in body mass (\~ 1.2 kg).

The mechanisms underpinning the improved glycaemic control in response to hypoxia are likely multifactorial. Specifically, our objective is to assess a novel therapeutic intervention for the treatment and management of T2DM which overcomes many of the barriers to uptake and adherence that are associated with some lifestyle interventions such as exercise and weight loss.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Δ Mean AUC (Area Under the Curve) Plasma [Glucose]

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Sleeping in a tent

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05147116
