CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05924360
Title: Impact of Mulligan and Maitland Techniques on Rotator Cuff Lesions
Official Title: The Impact of Mulligan and Maitland Techniques on Pain, Functionality, Proprioception, and Quality of Life in Individuals With Rotator Cuff Lesions
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The shoulder joint in the human body has a broader range of motion and opening compared to other joints, resulting in a multitude of potential problems. The rotator cuff lesion is one such issue. The rotator cuff is found in the subacromial space of the shoulder and results from the compression of the subacromial bursa and the long head of the M.biceps muscle between the humerus and the coracoacromial arch.

Upon reviewing the literature, therapeutic exercise and electrotherapy modalities are the most preferred and studied areas. Alongside these, we also observe the usage of Mulligan and Maitland techniques for the treatment of rotator cuff lesions.

The Mulligan technique was developed by Brian Mulligan in 1980, who lent his name to it. Also known as mobilization with movement, this technique is often applied to the body's distal joints. The Maitland mobilization technique is used to treat the relevant joint with specific methods, particularly focusing on pain and stiffness in the joint. The technique's application is graded from 1 to 4. Grade 1 is a small oscillation created without loading throughout the joint movement. Grade 2 is performed with a slightly more oscillation from the beginning of the movement. Grades 1 and 2 aim to restrict the pain stimulus going to the central nervous system by stimulating the mechanoreceptor in the joint, thereby reducing the sensation of pain.

Grade 3 is applied at a larger amplitude until a limitation is felt from the middle of the joint movement. Lastly, grade 4 is applied to the limited small amplitude until tissue resistance is felt. Grades 3 and 4 are used to alleviate joint stiffness by applying shorter oscillation stimuli to a shorter tissue. The results of the use of Mulligan and Maitland techniques have been demonstrated in different studies in the literature. However, as far as we know, no study in the literature compares these two techniques in individuals with rotator cuff lesions. Based on this gap in the literature, the purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of the Mulligan technique and the Maitland method on pain, range of joint motion, functionality, joint position sense, and quality of life in individuals with a rotator cuff problem.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to examine the effectiveness of the Mulligan and Maitland techniques on pain, range of joint motion, functionality, joint position sense, and quality of life in individuals diagnosed with rotator cuff lesions. Individuals diagnosed with a rotator cuff lesion and admitted to Medipol University Hospital will be included in the study. Participants will be randomly divided into three groups. A conventional treatment program will be applied to individuals in all three groups five days a week for three weeks. The first group will only receive conventional treatment. The second group will receive conventional treatment plus the Mulligan technique. The third group will receive conventional treatment plus the Maitland technique. The conventional treatment program will be applied to all participants included in the study, consisting of wand, codman, active and passive stretching exercises, and TENS. This program will be administered to all patients five days a week. Wand exercises will be applied in the directions of flexion, abduction, extension, internal and external rotation, and will consist of 10 repetitions. Codman exercises will be applied in the directions of flexion, abduction, and circular, and will also consist of 10 repetitions. Active and passive stretching exercises will be applied in the directions of flexion, abduction, and external rotation, and will consist of 10 repetitions. TENS application will be administered for 20 minutes at 100Hz. All these exercises will be applied to the control, Mulligan, and Maitland groups.

Mulligan Group: The mobilization with movement technique, a part of Mulligan applications, will be performed twice a week in the directions of flexion, abduction, and external rotation.

Maitland Group: The Maitland application will be applied in the anterior-posterior, posterior-anterior, and caudal directions. The Maitland application will be administered at grades 2-3. Patients in this group will receive the application in five sets of 30 seconds, twice a week.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale
  - Range of Motion
  - Joint Postion Sense

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: conventional exercise program
  - OTHER: Mulligan application
  - OTHER: Maitland application
  - DEVICE: TENS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05924360
