CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03926845
Title: Efficacy and Tolerability of an Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol Cream 0.2% for Facial Hyperpigmentation
Official Title: Efficacy and Tolerability of an Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol Cream 0.2% for Facial Hyperpigmentation, A Randomized Double-blind and Vehicle-Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Facial hyperpigmentation is a common skin issue that can cause embarrassment and affect the quality of life in majority of people. The investigators are conducting a research to study an efficacy and tolerability of Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol 0.2% in lightening of the facial hyperpigmentation in comparison to vehicle intervention in 4, 8 and 12-week period. The ultimate goal is to provide the best cosmetic cream to improve the quality of life of people who suffer from facial hyperpigmentation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Facial hyperpigmentation is a skin issue that occurs frequently in people with darker skin types. Studies show that the prevalence of facial hyperpigmentation is related to ethnicity and is accounted for up to 40%of the total population. The pathogenesis of facial hyperpigmentation is still unclear, but several factors seem to contribute such as ultraviolet radiation, female hormones, and genetics, which increase melanin production in the skin cells, specifically the epidermal melanocyte, and dermal melanophage. Hyperpigmentation can be embarrassing and affect the quality of life in the pertained individuals.

Tyrosinase enzyme plays a key element in melanin production which causes dark areas. In 2018, several studies have reported a new cosmetic product using Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol (Beiersdorf AG, Hamburg, Germany) in facial hyperpigmentation. In vitro studies found that in melanocyte culture, Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol inhibit melanin production. Studies discovered that Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol 0.2% can reduce facial hyperpigmentation within 4 weeks. Hyperpigmentation begin to fade away within 12 weeks of daily application.

The objective is to study efficacy and tolerability of a cosmetic formulation with Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol 0.2% compared to its vehicle in facial hyperpigmentation after 4, 8 and 12-week.

This is a randomized double-blind and vehicle-controlled study. Two hundred subjects both male and female 18 years or older with facial hyperpigmentation are recruited in the study. The study was performed at the Institute of Dermatology, Bangkok, Thailand. Subjects agree to attend monthly sessions every 4 weeks for 12 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Color assessment of facial hyperpigmentation by Color Analysis program will be evaluated every visit.
  - Physician's Global Assessment of facial hyperpigmentation will be evaluated every visit.
  - Patient's Global Assessment of facial hyperpigmentation will be evaluated every visit.
  - Patient's Self-Grading of facial hyperpigmentation will be evaluated every visit.
  - Evaluate side effects of Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol cream 0.2% or vehicle cream every visit.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Isobutylamido-thiazolyl-resorcinol Cream 0.2%
  - OTHER: Vehicle

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03926845
