CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05629221
Title: Organisational Models Supported by Technology for the Management of Diabetic Disease and Its Complications in a Diabetic Clinic Setting. A Randomised Controlled Trial Targeting Type 2 Diabetes Individuals With Non-ideal Glycemic Values
Official Title: Organisational Models Supported by Technology for the Management of Diabetic Disease and Its Complications in a Diabetic Clinic Setting. A Randomised Controlled Trial Targeting Type 2 Diabetes Individuals With Non-ideal Glycemic Values
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this randomised trial is to evaluate the impact of using a digital platform called "TreC Diabete" embedded into a novel organizational asset for poorly controlled type 2 diabetes individuals in the Autonomous Province of Trento (PAT). The main question aims to answer whether individuals using the "TreC Diabete" platform will improve their haemoglobin glycated level (Hb1Ac) at 12-month post-randomisation. Participants will be asked to perform some tasks and to share their data with the healthcare staff members through the platform. Control group will receive standard care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a non-communicable disease representing one of the most serious public health challenges of the 21st century. Its incidence continues to rise in both developed and developing countries, causing the death of 1.5 million people every year. The use of technology (e.g. Smartphone application - App) in the health field has progressively increased as it has been proved effective in helping some individuals manage their long-term diseases. Therefore, it has the potential to reduce health service utilization and its related costs. The objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of using a digital platform called "TreC Diabete" embedded into a novel organizational asset targeting poorly controlled T2DM individuals in the Autonomous Province of Trento (PAT), Italy.This trial was designed as a multi-center, open-label, randomised, superiority study with two parallel-groups and a 1:1 allocation ratio. Individuals regularly attending outpatients diabetes clinics, providing informed consent are randomised to be prescribed TreC Diabete platform or not as part of their personalised care plan. Healthcare staff members will remotely assess the data shared by the participants through the App by using a dedicated online medical dashboard. The primary end-point is the evaluation of the Hb1Ac level at 12-month post-randomisation. Data will be analysed on an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis.This trial is the first conducted in the PAT for the use of an App specifically designed for individuals with poorly controlled T2DM. If the effects of introducing this specific App within a new organizational asset are positive, the digital platform will represent a possible way for people diagnosed with T2DM to better manage their health in the future. Results will be disseminated through conferences and peer-reviewed journals once the study is completed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Haemoglobin glycated (Hb1Ac) mean changes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: TreC Diabete App

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05629221
