CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03156075
Title: Postoperative Intervention Program Effectiveness in Hip Fracture Patients: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Official Title: Sponsor Investigator, Assistant Professor at Public Health and Community Medicine Department, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 124
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to investigate whether a simple intervention improves the physical functioning and reduce mortality after surgery for elderly hip fracture patients in a period of one year follow up. We hypothesized that the postoperative intervention program decreases the mortality in one year and improves mobility.

This study is a randomized controlled trial designed as a prospective intervention and a historical control group from the previous three months admitted operated hip fracture patients from another study and with bone mineral density and measurement of weight and height done. The study will include patients of both sexes, 50 years and older, after their approval to participate and applying exclusion criteria. A baseline assessment will be done for the included hip fracture patients, who will be admitted to Trauma Unit of Assiut University Hospitals and will be surgically treated for a period of 1 year. The exclusion criteria include patients with major accidents, polytrauma, pathological fractures and bilateral hip fractures. Also patients with thyroid malfunctions, renal diseases, cardiac diseases, long term immobilization, liver diseases and musculoskeletal disorders. Two well-trained nurses will carry out the personal interviews in the Trauma Unit ward with each patient and/or patients 'relatives using a structured questionnaire. Data collection will be done after providing informed consent.

Bone mineral density, weight and height for every patient will be done. The follow up phone calls will be done for every patient at 3 months, 6 months and one year postoperative.

Intervention group:

Patients in the intervention Group will be provided with postoperative health education intervention program, which includes nutrition education for improving general and bone health and physical exercise training for the patient and his relative before discharge.

This group will receive the usual care prior to the start of intervention and participating in the study.

The phone calls will include questions about: if the patient is alive or not. If not, subsequent detailed questions about causes and timing of death will be filled in.

If the patient is alive, subsequent questions about nutrition, commodities and physical activity will be filled in. Assessment of physical activity will be done by the Western Ontario And McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of the study is to investigate whether a simple intervention improves the physical functioning and reduce mortality after surgery for elderly hip fracture patients in a period of one year follow up. We hypothesized that the postoperative intervention program decreases the mortality in one year and improves mobility.

This study is a randomized controlled trial designed as a prospective intervention and a historical control group from the previous three months admitted operated hip fracture patients from another study and with bone mineral density and measurement of weight and height done.

The study will include patients of both sexes, 50 years and older, after their approval to participate and applying exclusion criteria. A baseline assessment will be done for the included hip fracture patients, who will be admitted to Trauma Unit of Assiut University Hospitals and will be surgically treated for a period of 1 year. We aim to minimize other factors that affect the intervention program compliance and could increase the mortality. The exclusion criteria include patients with major accidents, polytrauma, pathological fractures and bilateral hip fractures. Also patients with thyroid malfunctions, renal diseases, cardiac diseases, long term immobilization, liver diseases and musculoskeletal disorders.

Two well-trained nurses will carry out the personal interviews in the Trauma Unit ward with each patient and/or patients 'relatives using a structured questionnaire. Data collection will be done after providing informed consent. The questionnaire for baseline data includes sociodemographic characteristics such as name, sex, and age, associated comorbidities and some nutrition habits. The nutrition habits in pre and post intervention will be evaluated by the dietary history qualitative subjective method using closed ended questions \[1\].

Bone mineral density (BMD) evaluation and anthropometric measurements:

BMD measurements will be assessed as soon as possible postoperative for all participants by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan of the femoral neck, using GE Lunar, GE Healthcare, USA.

From the measured BMD, sex-specific T scores will be calculated. All DEXA measurements will be carried out by one machine and the interpretations by the same radiologist. The criteria recommended by the International Osteoporosis Foundation and the World Health Organization were used to assess BMD and to determine the prevalence of osteoporosis. BMD will be assessed according to T score and classified to three groups as normal (T score ≥ -1 SD), osteopenic (T score from -1 to -2.5 SD), or osteoporotic (T score ≤ -2.5SD) \[2\]. Height while lying down without shoes and weight will be measured while the patients were dressed in light clothes. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated from the height and weight will be recorded while performing the DEXA scan. The BMI will be calculated based on the formula: weight (kg)/\[height (m)\]2. The standard categori

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mortality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition and exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03156075
