CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03470090
Title: The Effects of Neuromuscular Exercises Training on Physical Activity, Functionality and Balance in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Assessment Effects of Neuromuscular Exercises Training on Physical Activity, Functionality and Balance in Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 81
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This study was planned to evaluate the effect of neuromuscular exercise program on physical activity, functionality and balance in patients with knee osteoarthritis aged 35-65 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The degeneration that occurs in the osteoarthritis of the knee joint leads to the loss of proprioception, resulting in the misalignment of the mechanoreceptors in that region, the joint stabilization is impaired, the muscles do not fulfill the protective role and the joint neuromuscular is inadequate for control. Neuromuscular control is the subcortical activity of effector structures against stimulation with mechanoreceptor, visual, and vestibular affinities. Proprioception, kinesthesia, sensation of joint position, visual and vestibular information constitute sensory data; functional motor patterns, dynamic joint stability and reactive neuromuscular control motor efferent response definitions. Disturbance of neuromuscular control of the muscles also affects walking and balance with abnormal weight transfer. There are many ways to treat knee osteoarthritis such as patient education, weight control, different physical therapy modalities (hot, cold, electrotherapy, deep heat), exercise, pharmacological treatments (topical, systemic, intraarticular). There is no radical treatment of osteoarthritis to restore structural changes; but with the treatment applied, findings such as pain and loss of function of the individual can be reduced and the patients become more independent in daily life activities. Surgical treatment is the last resort in osteoarthritis. In osteoarthritis( OA), there is no pharmacological method to treat the deformed joint structure that will change the course of the disease. This situation significantly increases the importance of rehabilitation in the treatment of osteoarthritis. The aim of neuromuscular rehabilitation that reestablish and regulated features such as dynamic joint stability, reactive neuromuscular control, functional motor patterns. Rehabilitation programs created for this purpose include balance exercises, strengthening exercises, postural control, functional exercises, postural orientation, flexibility, agility, plyometric exercises, spore-specific exercises. neuromuscular exercise program includes 7 parameters including functional mobility, functional stability, sensorimotor system training, proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation training techniques, plyometric exercises, reactive neuromuscular system training, technical training. Main purpose of this study is that the effect of neuromuscular exercise program on physical activity, functionality and balance in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) of patients with knee osteoarthritis at 6 weeks.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Neuromuscular Exercises
  - BEHAVIORAL: Conventional Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03470090
