CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00410436
Title: Resistance Exercise in Already-active Diabetic Individuals (READI) Trial
Official Title: Resistance Exercise in Already-active Diabetic Individuals (READI) Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 131
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the READI tiral is to examine the effects of resistance training (weight training) on the blood sugar control of aerobically active individuals with Type 1 Diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Juvenile-onset type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes is associated with a 15 year reduction in life expectancy, primarily due to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Poor blood glucose (glycemic) control, reflected in elevated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is a major risk factor for diabetes complications; each 1% absolute reduction in HbA1c leads to a 15-20% reduction in risk of a major cardiovascular event, and a 25-37% reduction in risk of microvascular disease. Exercise is appealing as a potential non-pharmacological intervention to improve glycemic control. However, while aerobic exercise (e.g. walking, running) improves insulin sensitivity, most published studies found that aerobic exercise did not improve glycemic control in type 1 diabetes. This paradoxical finding is likely due to the tendency of type 1 diabetic individuals to decrease their insulin doses and/or increase carbohydrate intake more than necessary in order to avoid exercise-induced hypoglycemia. In comparison to aerobic exercise, the smaller acute rise in glucose uptake associated with resistance exercise may offer the metabolic benefits of exercise while minimizing risk of exercise-induced hypoglycemia. Only two small published studies (n=8 and 10; men only) evaluated resistance exercise (weight lifting or exercises with weight machines) in type 1 diabetes, but their results were promising. In a crossover trial, glycemic control was significantly better during resistance training than during non-exercise control (HbA1c 5.8% versus 6.9%; absolute difference 1.1%). In a before-after study, combined aerobic and resistance exercise reduced absolute HbA1c by 0.96%. People with type 1 diabetes who already do regular aerobic exercise would likely be open to starting an additional form of exercise if it were proven to improve glycemic control. We therefore wish to evaluate the incremental effect of resistance training on HbA1c in already-aerobically-active type 1 diabetic individuals in a randomized, controlled trial.

Primary research question: In type 1 diabetic individuals who already engage in regular aerobic exercise, does adding a 6-month resistance training program result in improved glycemic control as reflected in reduced HbA1c compared to aerobic training alone?

Secondary research questions: In type 1 diabetic individuals who already do regular aerobic exercise, does adding a 6-month resistance training program have favourable effects on body composition, non-traditional and traditional CVD risk factors, and quality of life vs. aerobic exercise alone?

Exploratory research questions: What is the incremental effect of resistance training on insulin requirements and frequency of hypoglycemia? Do changes in glycemic control, body composition, or quality of life during the resistance training intervention predict exercise participation during the subsequent 6 months? How cost-effective is it to add the resistance training program?

Methods: Type 1 diabetic subjects aged \&#8805;

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in HbA1c

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00410436
