CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03841981
Title: Body Fat as Determinant of Female Gonadal Dysfunction
Official Title: Amount, Distribution and Dysfunction of Body Fat as Determinants of Female Gonadal Dysfunction: From Functional Hypothalamic Amenorrhea to the Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Reproduction requires from women enough energy depots to warrant an adequate nutritional supply to the fetus. Hence, adipose tissue is able to communicate with female hypothalamic-pituitary-ovary axis. The hypothesis of the project is that abnormalities in the quantity (absolute and relative to lean body mass), distribution and/or function of adipose tissue are associated with functional forms of female gonadal dysfunction in predisposed women, in a spectrum of anomalies that go from hypothalamic amenorrhea to the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). To challenge this hypothesis, the investigators will study 5 groups of 10 women each: women with exercise-associated hypothalamic amenorrhea, women without ovulatory dysfunction that exercise equally, non-hyperandrogenic patients with PCOS, hyperandrogenic patients with PCOS, and healthy control women comparable to those with PCOS. The aims of the study will be:

Primary objective: To identify novel signalling factors originating from adipose tissue and muscle using targeted and nontargeted evaluation of the proteome and of gene expression of superficial subcutaneous fat, deep subcutaneous fat (which mimics visceral adipose tissue) and skeletal muscle.

Secondary objectives:

1. To study the serum adipokine profile - including those identified by the primary objective - and circulating gut hormones during fasting and after a glucose load in the 5 groups of women, and their associations with sexual hormones and body fat distribution.
2. To study body composition and body fat distribution in these women and their relationships with:

2.1, Sex steroid profiles.

2.2. Classic cardiovascular risk factors: carbohydrate metabolism, lipid profiles and blood pressure.

2.3 Markers of low-grade chronic inflammation.

2.4. Oxidative stress markers.

2.5. Cardiovascular autonomic function.

2.6. Surrogate markers of subclinical atherosclerosis.

2.7. Circulating concentrations of endocrine disruptors.

2.8. Oral and gut microbiome.

The results will provide a better understanding of the mechanisms linking body energy depots with the female reproductive axis and, hopefully, the identification of potential biomarkers for the diagnosis and treatment of the disorders studied here.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adipokine and myokine signaling identification

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Anthropometric and physical examination
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Indirect calorimetry, accelerometer and seven-day dietary recall
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Biochemical, hormonal and metabolic phenotyping
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Sonographic studies
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 24-hour Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03841981
