CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04529083
Title: Mixed Reality Based System to Manage Phantom Pain Phantom Pain for Patients With Lower Limb Amputation
Official Title: Feasibility and Functional Outcomes of a Novel Mixed Reality Based System to Manage Phantom Pain for Patients With Lower Limb Amputation.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The primary goals of this pilot research project are a) to design and develop the a mixed reality based system for managing phantom pain and b) to evaluate the feasibility and preliminary functional outcomes of this system in a sample of patients with lower limb amputation. Findings from this pilot study will serve as preliminary data to inform regarding a fully powered clinical trial to determine the effectiveness and practical implementation of these findings in real-world settings.

Aim1: Design and develop a feasible mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain in patients with lower limb amputation qualifying for on-going mirror therapy.

Hypothesis 1: The investigators hypothesize that the mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain will be feasible and well-received by a sample of patients with lower limb amputation needing mirror therapy.

Aim2: Evaluate functional outcomes in a sample of lower limb amputees (n=10), using this mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain.

Hypothesis 2: Using this system, the investigators hypothesize that patients who participate in the mixed reality based system will show improvements in functional mobility based on performance evaluations and patient reported outcome measures (PROs). The investigators also hypothesize that this mixed reality based system will help to alleviate the phantom pain based on McGill Pain questionnaire and visual analog scale (VAS).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary goals of this pilot research project are a) to design and develop the a mixed reality based system for managing phantom pain and b) to evaluate the feasibility and preliminary functional outcomes of this system in a sample of patients with lower limb amputation. Findings from this pilot study will serve as preliminary data to inform regarding a fully powered clinical trial to determine the effectiveness and practical implementation of these findings in real-world settings.

Aim1: Design and develop a feasible mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain in patients with lower limb amputation qualifying for on-going mirror therapy.

Hypothesis 1: The investigators hypothesize that the mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain will be feasible and well received by a sample of patients with lower limb amputation needing mirror therapy.

Aim2: Evaluate functional outcomes in a sample of lower limb amputees (n=10), using this mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain.

Hypothesis 2: Using this system, the investigators hypothesize that patients who participate in the mixed reality based system will show improvements in patient-reported outcome measures (PROs). The investigators also hypothesize that this mixed reality based system will help to alleviate the phantom pain based on Pain questionnaires and visual analog scale (VAS).

Patients 18 years of age and over with history of lower limb amputation and complaint of phantom limb pain. Phantom limb pain is a condition experienced commonly by patients with major limb amputations.

Men and women, over the age of 18 with lower limb amputations (greater than 3 months post surgery) with phantom limb pain.

-Exclusion criteria: ---

* Patients with lower limb amputations with open wounds or active infection in residual or contralateral limbs
* Patients with history of seizures.
* Patients with visual (self-reported) or cognitive impairment (assessed by the mini-mental state examination) that interferes with ability to interact with, participate in, and adhere to a computerized rehabilitation system.
* Any patient with a cardiac event in the last 6 months.
* Any patient with an active medical issue to minimize risk of exacerbating their condition.
* Lives more than 60 miles away from the Dallas VA Medical Center
* Any patient with the motion sickness induced by head mounted displays (HMDs) or immersive environment.
* Any patient experiencing the motion sickness induced by HMDs during the therapy session can also opt out of the study.

In this exploratory, pilot study, a convenience sample of 10 patients will be recruited. A sample of 10 subjects is adequate and consistent with other pilot behavioral intervention trials at the VA that have been completed and published.

This is a pilot study is intended to yield preliminary data that will inform a fully powered trial to determine effectiveness of the novel Mixed Reality based system to manage phantom pain.A HIPAA waiver will b

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Numerical Rating Scale
  - Change in McGill Pain Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Mr. MAPP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04529083
