CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05152719
Title: Effect of Sprint Interval Training and Intermittent Fasting on Cognitive Function
Official Title: Effect of Sprint Interval Training and Intermittent Fasting on Cognitive Function
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Several lifestyle modifications, such as manipulating diet and exercise, have been shown to enhance cognitive function. This study aims to determine if a combination of Sprint Interval Training (SIT) and Time Restricted Eating (TRE) elicits greater enhancements in cognitive function than either of these interventions alone. SIT and TRE have both been proven to have high adherence rates and require minimal lifestyle changes, therefore the implementation of these may allow for a feasible method of improving cognition in healthy populations. A group of young adults will be randomized into either a SIT group, TRE group, or a SIT+TRE group. To assess the changes in cognitive function, cognitive tests will be performed at baseline and biweekly. Secondly, we will be monitoring the differences in the three groups in terms of body composition, which will be measured using a BodPod. It is hypothesized that the SIT+TRE group will display the greatest improvements in cognitive function and body composition versus the TRE only group and the SIT only group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will explore how a combination of a time restricted eating (TRE) strategy and a sprint interval training (SIT) exercise program will affect cognitive function. Both TRE and SIT have been shown to present significant brain challenges, and are both easily implemented lifestyle habits. Participants will be randomized into 3 groups of either SIT alone, TRE alone, or SIT + TRE. We will be assessing acute effects (single day of TRE, followed by a single session of SIT the next day), and the effects over a 6 week period. The SIT protocol consists of four 30 second sprinting bouts, separated by 2 minutes of recovery. An additional sprint bout will be added biweekly to maintain progressive overload. SIT will be performed 3 times a week for the treatment group. The TRE involves no restrictions on the type or amount of food consumed, however, food must be consumed between 12pm and 8pm. The SIT will occur in an unfed state towards the end of the fast. The study will involve sedentary young adults. To evaluate the success of the intervention, 2 cognitive tests (Stroop and Corsi block) will be performed at baseline and biweekly over a 6 week treatment period. Additionally, body composition testing will occur at baseline and once every three weeks using a BodPod. We hypothesize that the combination treatment group will have greater improvements in their cognitive function and body composition compared to either intervention alone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stroop Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Performance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05152719
