CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02289625
Title: Effects of Exercise Training on Cognitive Performance and Sympathetic Activity in Obstructive Sleep Apnea
Official Title: Effects of Exercise Training on Structure and Cerebral Metabolism, Cognition and Neurovascular Control in Individuals With Obstructive Sleep Apnea
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Abstract

Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSA) is characterized by complete or partial collapse of a narrowed pharynx and it's associated with reduction in cerebral blood flow, cardiovascular disease, and neuropsychological deficits and reduces survival. In patients with AOS structural, metabolic and hypoperfusion cerebral were associated not only with physiological functions but also with attention and executive function. There is a higher association between apnea hypopnea index and Mini-Mental State Examination in individuals with the exon 4 of APO E gene, indicating that exon 4 of APO E gene confers an increased risk for cognitive decline in individuals with sleep apnea. The analysis of presence and consequences of OSA in cerebral structure, inflammation and neurovascular control can permit a better investigation of abnormalities in these individuals and implement interventions to reduce the risk of development of cognitive and cardiovascular impairment. The non-pharmacological intervention through exercise training can represent an important strategy for improvement in cerebral alterations, cognition and reduction in sleep apnea index. The purpose of present study is investigate the volume and metabolism cerebral, neurovascular control, cognition and exon 4 of APO E gene and their

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators recruited both male and female sedentary individuals between 40 to 65 years from sleep laboratory that had recently performed sleep study. All non-menopause women were studied between the first and the fifth day after the onset of menstruation, since hormonal variability during the regular menstrual cycle may affect blood pressure (BP) or stress perception. Hypertension was carefully excluded in the groups. All subjects had at least three office BP measurements made by one of the study investigators, in addition three out of office BP measurements. Study subjects who had a body mass index (BMI) \> 30 kg/m2, cardiopulmonary disease, chronic renal disease, diabetes mellitus, atrial fibrillation, pacemaker, hypertension, renal failure, echocardiographic evidence of impaired left ventricular function (ejection fraction \>45%), history of psychiatric disorders, dementia or other neurodegenerative disorders, a history of smoking or alcohol abuse (2 or more drinks per day), any sleep apnea treatment, story of circadian desynchrony (e.g. shift workers), incomplete 2 years of formal education, resting blood pressure lower than 140/90 mmHg, body mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m2. The study was approved by the institutional committee on human research and all subjects gave written, informed consent.

Daytime sleepiness. The chance of falling asleep in different situations was assessed by means of Epworth Sleepiness Scale.

Screening of Cognitive Functions. Brief cognitive functions were assessed by means of Mini Mental State Examination test (Folstein et al., 1975).

Intelligence Quotient. Intelligence was estimated by means of Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test using vocabulary and matrices subtests (Wagner et al., 2010).

Depression. Symptoms and depressive attitudes were assessed by means of Beck Depression Inventory that consists of 21 items, whose intensity varies from 0 to 3. Individuals with cutoffs \< 10 (no or minimal depression) were included in the protocol (Beck et al., 1961).

Perception of Anxiety. Self-evaluation on the perception of anxiety was assessed by means of Beck Depression Anxiety Inventory (Beck et al., 1988).

Psychiatric Mental State. Current mental state was assessed by means of Self Reporting Questionnaire (SRQ-20). Individuals with cutoffs \< 8 were included of the protocol.

Experimental Design. All subjects were healthy as confirmed by medical history and physical examinations, blood profile, echocardiographic evaluation and were not taking medications. All subjects abstained from caffeine for 24 hours before the study. All studies were performed in the post-absorptive state with exception of blood sample collection. Microneurography was performed in a quiet, temperature-controlled room on morning at approximately the same time of day. The right leg was positioned for microneurography. After an adequate nerve recording site was obtained, the subject rested quietly for 10 minutes. Baseline muscle sympatheti

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - effects of exercise training in patients with sleep apnea

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02289625
