CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03760393
Title: A Combined HAPA and mHealth Intervention to Reduce Sedentary Behaviour in University Students
Official Title: Using a Combined Health Action Process Approach and mHealth Intervention to Reduce Sedentary Behaviour in University Students - A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Societal changes have resulted in reduced demands to be active and increased daily time spent sitting. Sedentary behavior (SB) has been linked to many health problems such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease. University students are a high-risk population for excessive SB. Increasing the length and frequency of breaks from sitting and increasing the time spent standing and engaged in light physical activity are ways to decrease SB. The purpose of this study is to determine whether combining a Health Action Process Approach-based (theory-driven), specifically action and coping planning intervention, with a tailored text messaging intervention can reduce occupational (student) sitting time among university students. Participants in the intervention group will receive one behavioural counselling session, followed by daily, tailored text messages over a 6-week period, with a focus on encouraging them to reduce their sitting time as a student by increasing their frequency and duration of breaks from sitting, as well as time spent standing and engaged in light-intensity physical activity. It is expected that university students who receive the planning intervention and tailored text messages will report greater increases in non-sedentary behaviours (e.g., break frequency, break duration, standing, light physical activity) than those who do not receive the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Using a randomized controlled trial design, the purpose of this study will be to examine whether combining a Health Action Process Approach (HAPA)-based intervention, specifically action and coping planning, with a tailored text message intervention can reduce occupational (student) sitting time by increasing frequency and length of breaks from sitting and non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) behaviours (i.e., standing, light-intensity physical activity) among university students. A secondary purpose will be to examine the effects of the intervention on participants' action planning, coping planning and action control regarding reducing their sitting time as a student, as well as self-rated work performance and health-related outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due to personal or emotional problems, emotional well-being, and energy/fatigue). Another secondary objective will be to determine if action and coping planning and action control towards reducing occupational (student) sitting time are related to actual break behaviour, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity.

If successful, participants in the intervention group (sedentary intervention group) will report greater break frequency and break duration, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity, compared to participants in the control group (no treatment). In addition, it is hypothesized that participants in the intervention group will report greater action and coping planning and action control towards reducing sitting time as a student, as well as improved work- and health-related outcomes.

This study will employ a prospective, 2-group, repeated measure, randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. Participants will be full-time university and/or college students.

Potential participants (estimated enrolment: 112) will be recruited by Andrew Scott Rollo, Co-Investigator, for this study. Participants will be recruited from (1) undergraduate and graduate classes at the University of Western Ontario. Professors across faculties at UWO will be contacted via email and asked to (a) distribute the recruitment poster and study invitation to students in their course(s), and/or (b) allow study investigator(s) to provide a short presentation during their lecture time. The opportunity for students to participate will be posted on their UWO OWL site, as well as presented in their class. Participants will be instructed to contact the researcher via email and/or phone if they wish to participate or receive additional details prior to making a decision as to whether to participate. A second recruitment approach will involve recruiting full-time university and/or college students through recruitment posters distributed through social media (i.e., Facebook, LinkedIn). Recruitment posters and brief study details will be posted on social media. For social media outlets, permission from group administrators

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Frequency of Breaks from Sitting as a Student
  - Changes in Duration of Breaks from Sitting as a Student
  - Changes in Time Spent Standing as a Student
  - Changes in Time Spent Engaged in Light-Intensity Physical Activity (i.e., walking) as a Student

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: (SB-related planning + daily text messages)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03760393
