CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03781102
Title: Type 2 Diabetes Prevention in Community Health Care Settings for at Risk Children and Mothers
Official Title: Type 2 Diabetes Prevention in Community Health Care Settings for at Risk Children and Mothers
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 92
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The two main questions that this research study will answer:

1. will a 16-week community-based diabetes prevention program for delivery to at-risk mothers and children in a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) setting show (a) pre- and post-intervention improvements to Type 2 Diabetes risk factors in 60 mother-child dyads; (b) intervention vs. control improvements to T2D risk factors in 30 mother-child dyads; and (c) maintenance effects to changes to Type 2 Diabetes risk factors in 30 mother-child dyads; and
2. based on the acceptability, adoption, relevance to FQHC and participants, feasibility, fidelity, program costs, and factors influencing sustainability of this program, can it be disseminated nationwide to other FQHC's?

The investigators hypothesize that participants (a) will show improvements following the intervention to T2D risk factors, (b) in the intervention will show significant improvements to T2D risk factors in versus the controls, and (c) will maintain the benefits beyond the 16-week intervention. The investigators also predict that this program will meet criteria to be disseminated nationwide to other FQHC's.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal is to implement and evaluate the effects of a 16-week behavioral lifestyle intervention on Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) risk factors delivered by trained staff at a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) to 60 mothers with prediabetes or a history of gestational diabetes (GDM) and 60 overweight/obese children. The specific aims are to (1) adapt an efficacious community-based diabetes prevention program for delivery to FQHC patients, (2) evaluate indicators of program implementation and potential for dissemination (Proctor 2011), and (3) assess the preliminary impact of the program on participants' T2D risk factors.

The study aims to adapt an efficacious community-based diabetes prevention program developed for delivery to at-risk mothers and children at a FQHC. Successful T2D prevention in children necessitates family adoption of lifestyle behaviors associated with prevention of excess weight gain, while supporting normal growth and development. In accord with the 2012 Institute of Medicine Report (IOM 2012) and guidelines set forth by an Expert Committee (Barlow 2007), three healthy lifestyle goals form the basis for youth-focused aspects of the intervention: i) make physical activity an integral and routine part of life; ii) eat a healthy diet (both quality and quantity), and, iii) create food and physical activity environments to insure healthy options and behaviors are the routine, easy choice. These goals align with two evidence-based T2D prevention goals mothers will be encouraged to adopt: i) lose 7% of body weight through healthy eating, and ii) participate in at least 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity each week. Achievement of these goals has been associated with significant T2D risk reduction in participants of programs based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Diabetes Prevention Program (CDC 2017, Albright 2013). The intervention duration, content, and activities, designed to support families in meeting these recommendations, were drawn from the intervention literature (Wilfley 2010, Epstein 2007, Ackermann 2008, Hingle 2015). Intervention "dose" (duration × time) was modeled after the successful adult-focused DPP/YDPP (characterized by 16 core sessions) and the recently released 2017 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) evidence-based recommendations for weight loss, behavior change, and cardio-metabolic risk reduction in youth (O'Connor 2017). The topics are focused on practical, culturally-relevant strategies for modifying the behaviors associated with the pathogenesis of T2D in youth (Spruijt-Metz 2014) (e.g., availability and accessibility of nutrient- and calorie-dense foods and food preparation strategies in the home, reducing intake of sugar-sweetened beverages, increasing time spent in physical activity/decreasing time spent in sedentary activities, stress management, and obtaining quality sleep), while engaging participants in fun, active, and interactive food dem

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Weight
  - Change in Body Height
  - Change in Body Mass Index (BMI)
  - Change in Body Mass Index (BMI) Percentile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: 16-Week Diabetes Prevention Program for Mothers and Children

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 54 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03781102
