CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02319122
Title: A Prospective Study of Two Home Based Muscle Strengthening Programs for Children With Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: A Prospective Study of Two Home Based Muscle Strengthening Programs for Children With Cerebral Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of this randomized, stratified, single-blinded study is to compare two home based strength-trening protocols (High Intensity Interval trening and Progressive Resistance trening) and their effects on muscle strength, gait and aerobic and anaerobic capacity in children with cerebral palsy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral palsy is a common neuro-developmental disorder. Among other signs of upper motor neuron syndrome, walking pathologies and muscle weakness are leading signs of disability in children with cerebral palsy. Moreover, the gradual decline in muscle strength is part of the aging process and can be particularly devastating for people with motor disabilities. Therefore muscle-strengthening programs are indicated for children with cerebral palsy. There is evidence that lower extremity muscle strength can be increased by Progressive Resistance trening (PRT) in children with cerebral palsy. However, PRT is time consuming and therefore not always feasible for children with neurologic disorders. Moreover, it does not influence the anaerobic capacity needed for everyday activities in children. High Intensity Interval trening (HIIT) is a time efficient method, which increases both aerobic and anaerobic capacities. The aim of this randomized, stratified, single-blinded study is to compare two home based strength-trening protocols (HIIT and PRT) and their effects on muscle strength, gait and aerobic and anaerobic capacity in children with cerebral palsy.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in time for 6 minute Walk Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval trening
  - OTHER: Progressive Resistance trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02319122
