CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05568771
Title: Core Strength Training on Anaerobic Power And Core Strength in Basketball Players
Official Title: The Effect of The Modified Injury Prevention Program Asisted With Core Strength Training on Anaerobic Power And Core Strength in Young Women Basketball Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of injury prevention program with core strength training support on anaerobic power and core strength in woman basketball Players In this direction, it is expected that the program will contribute to the decrease in the incidence of injury, the vertical jump distance, which is an indicator of anaerobic power, and the increase of core muscle strength.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was approved by the ethics committee of Istanbul University Istanbul Faculty of Medicine.It will be done in the Exercise Test Laboratory of the Department of Medicine.

Istanbul University youth women's basketball team and Galatasaray youth women's youth basketball teams will be included in the study.The Vertical Jump test, Cybex Isokinetic Core Strength Assessment will be measured before and after the 8-week exercise training for both the study and control group.The sample group of the study was found to be 40 people as a result of the statistical analysis made with reference to the peak torque.

First of all, people will be informed about the "Informed Voluntary Consent Form" and the study will be explained. Then, volunteers who agree to participate in the study and meet the criteria for participation in the study will be asked to read the "Informed Voluntary Consent Form" or sign it themselves or their legal guardians.

Athletes will be distributed into two groups by randomization method. The 1st group (working group) will apply the additional warm-up program to the core training program, which will be included in the routine training of the team, for 8 weeks, the 2nd group (control group) will continue their routine training programs.

Cybex Isokinetic Core Force Assessment: Core strength will be evaluated using Cybex HUMAC/NORM (CSMI, 2004) brand isokinetic equipment, which measures torque produced against different speeds. With the isokinetic machine, the body extension-flexion movement will be measured with an angle of 60° and 90°. Similar to athletic performance tests, subjects will also complete a practice session on the machine prior to the test. Prior to core strength tests, subjects will warm up on the treadmill at low speeds for approximately 10 minutes for warm-up purposes. Trunk extension-flexion and measurements will be obtained following Smith et al.'s procedures.Verbal support will be provided by subjects to encourage maximum effort. Any report of symptoms of pain, shortness of breath, and/or dizziness will be recorded during the testing session.

The range of motion will be adjusted from 10° extension to 45° flexion (ROM: 55°).

Mutually concentric trunk flexion and extension will be evaluated at 60°/sec and 90°/sec angular velocities.

During each trial, five repetitions of submaximal warm-ups will be performed before each test rate. A 5-second rest period will be allowed between the warm-up reps and the actual test session. For the test procedure, five maximum concentric contractions will be performed at an angular rate of 60°/sec. To test durability, 15 repetitions will be used at an angular rate of 90°/sec. The tests will begin in the full extension position. There will be a 20 second rest period between each angular speed test.

They will be verbally encouraged during the test session to show maximum physical effort.

* Peak torque (Newton-meter (Nm)): It is the highest force value produced by the muscle. It can

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Anaerobic Power
  - Core Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core Exercises Assisted Injury Prevention Training Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 24 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05568771
