CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06080425
Title: Promoting Intergenerational Health in Rural Kentuckians With Diabetes (PIHRK'D)
Official Title: Addressing Intergenerational Obesity and Promoting Healthy Eating and Physical Activity Among Individuals [PIHRK'D] Living With Diabetes in Rural Kentucky
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The goal of this feasibility study is to use family units as support to promote nutrition and physical activity of individuals with type 2 diabetes. The main question it aims to answer is:

• How does the family structure impact the health of its members living with type 2 diabetes?

Participants will be asked to;

* Tell us about their access to food sources and places in the community to engage in physical activity.
* A nutrition and physical activity plan will be developed for participants and their families to use for 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed project is informed by the National Framework for Health Equity and Well Being, which was recently developed by the Cooperative Extension Service. This framework explicitly acknowledges the multiple levels of influence on health outcomes and the role of Cooperative Extension Service as a mitigator of community-level health inequities. The framework acknowledges factors that contribute to health inequities at various societal levels, including root causes of structural inequity; norms, policies, and practices; and social determinants of health. As individuals flow through multiple sectors of the environment, each is known to have a direct influence individually and collectively. For the proposed grant, the study will focus on how county-level Extension agents (federally funded program) can be used to mitigate health disparities that contribute to intergenerational obesity and T2DM management in rural Kentucky. Community-level factors also impact health outcomes, such as lack of access to healthy, affordable food, as well as availability of health-related resources. Community assets will be gathered using subjective and objective community audits and assessed at the participant level using social network analysis. Societal-level factors include social norms and cultural health beliefs that impact health decision-making within the community, particularly families/households.

Participants will be recruited on a staggered basis from 2 rural counties in Kentucky. Recruitment will be conducted via Extension Offices, word-of-mouth, social media, UK Healthcare outpatient clinics (e.g., internal medicine, family medicine, endocrinology), as well as UK's Barnstable Brown Diabetes and Obesity Center. Once enrolled, participants will be screened by the RD to confirm obesity/overweight, T2DM diagnosis, and identify each participant's placement within the Transtheoretical Model (Six Stages of Change): pre-contemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, maintenance, or relapse. The enrollment stage of change will be used to develop appropriate goals for each participant. Beyond the primary enrolled participant in the study, members of the household will be invited to attend meetings with the RD and Dining with Diabetes program sessions.

Aim 1: Use social network analysis to describe (a) community assets (e.g., access to healthy eating and ways to participate in physical activity) and (b) intergenerational links to obesity and diabetes (e.g., parent, sibling, child).

Social network analysis will be used to map food sources and food assistance (e.g., supermarket, convenience store, fast food, food pantries), including the types of food offered and frequency of engagement with food sources. Similar methods will be used to identify areas/places within the community that could be used to engage in physical activities (e.g., gym, community center, green space, walking trails). A network map will be developed per household to be used to develop a tai

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - hemoglobin A1c values measured at the five post-baseline follow-up points
  - body weight measured at the five post-baseline follow-up points

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Medical Nutrition Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06080425
