CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03388502
Title: Novel Text-Messaging Bot in Patients Undergoing Joint Arthroplasty
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Novel Text-Messaging Bot in Patients Undergoing Total Joint Arthroplasty: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 159
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the addition of an automated physician-specific text-messaging (SMS) bot in patients undergoing total joint arthroplasty. Half of the patients received the traditional perioperative education and instructions (control group), while the other half were enrolled in their physician's SMS bot (intervention group).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In an era of value-based reimbursement and high-volume surgery, the patient experience is becoming increasingly important. Despite publicized efforts to place a greater emphasis on patient-centered care, patients often report poor access to their physician, lack of effective perioperative education, and frustration as their care is commoditized.

A text-messaging (SMS) bot has the potential to help fill some of these voids. Bots are computer programs that are inherently automated to simulate human-like tasks. While a physician may wish he or she could contact each of their patients daily, it would be an impossible undertaking for most. An SMS bot could make daily contact possible by automating it, potentially improving patient education and engagement before and after surgery. Standard SMS has been previously reported to be an effective means for delivering timely information, increasing patient compliance and outcomes (medication adherence, decrease surgical infections with antiseptic showers), and reaching a socioeconomically diverse patient population. Further benefits may be seen with an SMS bot due to its automated capabilities.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time Participating in Home-Based Exercises

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Automated Text Messaging (SMS) Bot (intervention group)
  - OTHER: Routine perioperative education & teaching (control group)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03388502
