CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04276181
Title: Combined Nerve and Tendon Transfer for the Restoration of Hand Function in Individuals With Tetraplegia
Official Title: Combined Nerve and Tendon Transfer for the Restoration of Hand Function in Individuals With Tetraplegia
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 94
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Tetraplegia after a cervical spinal cord injury (C-SCI) radically alters an individual's ability to perform normal activities of daily life due to paralysis in all extremities, resulting in lifelong dependence.\[1\] Traditional tendon transfer surgery has proven successful in restoring grip functions which greatly improves autonomy, but with a restricted passive opening of the hand. The number of transferrable muscles in the arm is however limited, why nerve transfer surgery is a new attractive option to further improve hand function by enabling active opening of the hand. Significant advantages of distal nerve transfers include less extensive surgical dissection, greatly reduced hospital stay, rehabilitation and restrictions, and thereby less health care use and costs. In an effort to further improve hand function and independence in patients with tetraplegia, hand surgeons at Centre for Advanced Reconstruction of Extremities (C.A.R.E.), Sahlgrenska University Hospital (SUH)/Mölndal have developed a strategy in which a nerve transfer procedure aiming to restore active opening of the hand is done prior to reconstruction of grip functions. To date, no study has compared the efficacy of this combined nerve and tendon transfer (CNaTT) procedure to traditional grip reconstruction by means of tendon transfer alone, thus constituting a major gap in the literature. The purpose of this study is therefore to fill that knowledge gap by comparing the clinical outcomes of a cohort of patients who undergo the CNaTT procedure to restore hand function, to those treated by means of tendon transfer alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Despite its incurability, surgical reconstruction of arm and hand function is a powerful tool to restore upper limb functions, as well as independence and control in individuals with tetraplegia. Patients with tetraplegia rank better use of the upper limb as their top functional priority, and surgical rehabilitation of the upper limb is proven highly rewarding. Starting in the 70s, pioneering work by dr. Moberg, and continued work by professor Fridén at SUH has guided the development of reconstructive surgical procedures in tetraplegia. As one of the leading units in the field C.A.R.E., SUH/Mölndal is responsible to continue the refinement of surgical treatment strategies. The center works in a value-based patient-oriented environment, with high demands on quality.

The traditional approach to surgical reconstruction of hand function in SCI uses tendon transfer, in which a functionally intact muscle is detached, rerouted and re-attached to a nonworking muscle to replace its original function. By this procedure, finger- and thumb flexion can be successfully and predictably restored, enabling strong active grip functions, but with passive and limited hand opening. Successful nerve transfer surgery in brachial plexus injuries has inspired interest in nerve transfers for patients with C-SCIs. Nerve transfers are conceptually quite similar to tendon transfers but are rarely applied in tetraplegia. To maximize outcome, nerve transfers must be done no later than 1 year after injury. In this procedure, a healthy nerve serving one function is cut and reconnected to a nonfunctional nerve (below the injury level), serving a more important function. Within 6-12 months, the recipient muscle has begun to receive nerve impulses. The preliminary results are very promising and show re-innervation of paralyzed muscles, enabling active opening of the hand. It is an attractive surgical procedure since it allows direct reanimation of the muscle, which is anatomically and mechanically designed to perform that function.

Further advantages of nerve transfers include less extensive surgical dissection, minimal hospital stay, rehabilitation and restrictions, and thereby less health care use and costs. Although the utility of nerve transfers in tetraplegia has yet to be fully determined, early results show promise.

The application of nerve transfer surgery to incomplete tetraplegia offers novel and exciting reconstructive possibilities when combined with tendon transfer techniques, especially in groups with very limited resources. Due to nerve regeneration factors, nerve transfers are not as reliable as tendon transfers, why restoring finger flexion in terms of strength is preferably performed with tendon transfers. It has been suggested that research should be directed at evaluating combined tendon and specific nerve transfer techniques, such as the Bertelli S-PIN (supinator to posterior interosseous nerve transfer) procedure. The S-PIN nerve transfer procedure can rean

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cylinder test

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04276181
