CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05303753
Title: Protein-Prebiotic Wellbeing Study
Official Title: An Exploratory Study on the Effect of Fermented Dairy Protein With Prebiotic Fiber in Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 98
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Healthy participants with self-reported GI complaints will consume the protein supplement that they normally use for recovery purposes after exercise during a 3-week baseline period, followed by a 3-week intervention period in which they maintain usage of their product, but replace a part of this product with a fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber. In addition, a group of healthy participants without self-reported GI complaints will serve as a reference group by consuming the protein supplement that they normally use for recovery purposes after exercise during a 3-week period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A substantial number of athletes suffer from gastro-intestinal problems, which may impair performance and/or subsequent recovery. Also, gut barrier integrity is impaired with high-intensity trening. Emerging studies are showing a positive correlation between the gut microbiome and muscle function, athletic performance, body composition, and natural energy levels. This study will perform an exploratory analysis of the well-being and digestive health of well-trened athletes, and assess the potential effect of fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber on these parameters.

Question 1: Does the 3-week supplementation of a fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber affect the self-reported digestive comfort compared to a 3-week baseline period? And additionally, will thEQuality of life (self-reported general well-being and states of mood) change with the use of this type of product?

Question 2: Does the 3-week supplementation of a fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber show an alteration in gut microbiota in comparison to a 3-week baseline period, while dietary intake remains unaffected?

Question 3: How is the 3-week supplementation of a fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber experienced by the participants (taste and concept liking)?

Question 4: Is there a difference in baseline gut microbiota between athletes with and athletes without self-reported GI complaints.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in self-reported digestive comfort
  - Change in daily self-reported digestive comfort

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: fermented dairy protein with prebiotic fiber

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05303753
