CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04797598
Title: Effects of Virtual Reality and Cyclic Training on Balance
Official Title: Effects of Virtual Reality and Cyclic Training on Balance in Sub-acute Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Stroke is the third leading cause of functional disability and death in the world. It leads to many problems that affect gait, upper extremity function and balance. In stroke patients balance dysfunction leads to impaired postural control and walking. Because of poor balance fall rate increases in stroke patients. Balance is an important predictor of outcome in stroke rehabilitation. After stroke difficulties in balance control may be caused by multiple factors such as muscle weakness, impaired proprioception, and asymmetry in weight wearing, spasticity and impaired motor control. Different means are used to treat stroke, some conventional treatments along with new adjunct therapies are usual practice for the rehabilitation of the stroke.

Virtual Reality is choice of adjunct therapy now a days and can be used in different ways for the rehabilitation. Virtual Reality or active video gaming proved their role as vital part of the treatment program in pediatric rehabilitation as well as adult rehabilitation program. These programs help the patient to achieve goals for functional and activities of daily living skills.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a randomized control trial, used to compare the effectiveness of virtual reality and cyclic training on balance in sub-acute stroke patients. Subjects with sub-acute stroke meeting the predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria will be divided into two groups using simple random sampling technique. Assessment will be done by using berg balance scale (BBS) and time up and go test. Subjects in one group will be treated with Virtual reality and Conventional therapy and in other group Cyclic training and Conventional therapy.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Berg Balance scale
  - Time up and Go

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Virtual reality group
  - OTHER: Cyclic training group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04797598
