CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05961189
Title: Influence of Short-Term Antibiotic Therapy on Exercise
Official Title: Influence of Short-Term Antibiotic Therapy on Exercise
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The gut microbiome refers to the trillions of bacteria that inhabit the stomach and other regions involved in the digestion of food, including the intestines. Compelling studies of animals (rodents) suggest that the health of the gut microbiome may influence skeletal muscle function and exercise performance. To date, there have been no similar observations reported in humans. A common experimental approach in animal studies to temporarily disrupt the gut microbiome is through the use of antibiotic therapies. Azithromycin is an antibiotic medicine prescribed to humans for the treatment of mild to moderate infections caused by bacteria. The purpose of the proposed project is to determine the influence of short-term (5-days) antibiotic therapy (azithromycin) on exercise performance in young, healthy adults. Treadmill exercise performance will be compared in two groups of adults before and after 5-days ingestion of azithromycin, or a placebo (something that has no physical effect).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Following screening, baseline evaluation, and protocol familiarization, young healthy adults will be randomly assigned to 5-days of antibiotic therapy (azithromycin) or placebo (something that has no effect). Prior to and the day after final therapy, participants will be studied during performance of treadmill exercise. Additional measurements to support data interpretation will include assessment of fecal samples to obtain insight into the gut microbiome, quantification of blood markers of inflammation and gut health, determination of body mass and composition, and quantification of daily physical activity. Azithromycin and placebo will be administered in a double-blind manner (i.e., neither the researchers nor the participants will know the identity of the placebo or the azithromycin until the study is over, and the data are analyzed).

Session 1 - Overview Participants will answer questions pertaining to health, medical history and habitual exercise. They will be assessed for body composition, and maximal oxygen uptake. Session 2 - Overview The purpose of this session is to habituate the participants to the exercise testing protocol. Habituation/familiarization with protocols decreases within-participant variability. Participants will perform standardized treadmill exercise, and then complete a performance test (time-trial).

Sessions 3 \& 4 - Overview These sessions will be very similar to Session 2. Participants will perform standardized treadmill exercise and complete a performance test (time-trial). Sessions 3 and 4 will be completed prior to and one-day after 5-days of daily antibiotic therapy (azithromycin) or placebo (something that has no effect).

Session 1 - Detailed description. Session duration \~ 90 minutes. During this session participants will complete the Informed Consent, provide a brief medical history, answer questions pertaining to habitual exercise, and will undergo basic measures of body composition (height, weight, and waist and hip circumference, and density), and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max). The medical history questionnaire will help identify contraindications to study participation. Previously it has been suggested that because of stomach upset and nausea, people receiving antibiotic therapy may lose their appetite and temporarily adjust eating behavior. Accordingly, it is also possible that over the duration of antibiotic treatment, body mass and composition may change. While not a primary outcome, body composition data will be used as an important statistical co-variable in our final analysis. The maximal exercise stress test will be used to quantify aerobic capacity and provide data such that standardized exercise may be expressed relative to maximal metabolic rate. The guidelines provided by the American College of Sports Medicine pertaining to physician supervision will be followed. During the maximal exercise test, exhaled gases will be collected in order to calculate VO2max. The VO2max measurement will char

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Oxygen Uptake
  - Changes in gut microbiota
  - Metabolomics
  - Time Trial

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Azithromycin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05961189
