CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01867710
Title: Abiraterone With Different Steroid Regimens for Side Effect Related to Mineralcorticoid Excess Prevention in Prostate Cancer Prior to Chemotherapy
Official Title: A Randomized Phase 2 Study Evaluating Abiraterone Acetate With Different Steroid Regimens for Preventing Symptoms Associated With Mineralocorticoid Excess in Asymptomatic, Chemotherapy-naïve and Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC) Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 164
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety and clinical benefit of the combinations of abiraterone acetate and prednisone or abiraterone and dexamethasone in prostate cancer patients. Prednisone will be given at one of three different dose schedules. Dexamethasone will be given at one dose schedule. This will include looking at what side effects occur and how often they occur. In addition the impact of the study drug on quality of life and pain will be evaluated. The study will also collect data on subsequent treatment of patients after they come off the study drug (approximately 4.5 years after the start of study treatment of the first subject participating in the study). By analyzing blood samples, the study aims to identify if some markers could help to understand if the treatment with abiraterone is effective and also help to understand if patients can become resistant.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized (study drug is assigned by chance), open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), parallel-arm, multicenter, phase 2 study of treatment with abiraterone acetate (AA) and 4 alternative steroid treatment strategies in asymptomatic, chemotherapy-naïve, mCRPC patients. A target of 144 patients will be enrolled in this study with 36 patients planned per treatment arm. All patients participating in this study will receive abiraterone acetate. All patients will also take either prednisone or dexamethasone. Patients will receive abiraterone acetate along with either prednisone at one of three different dose schedules or with dexamethasone at one dose schedule. Patients may also be asked to take a medication to protect from osteoporosis as this can be increased by long term use of corticosteroids. There are 4 treatment groups in this study: (a) Four 250 mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 2.5 mg tablet of prednisone taken twice daily; (b) Four 250 mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 5 mg tablet of prednisone taken once daily; (c) Four 250mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 5 mg tablet of prednisone taken twice daily; (d) Four 250 mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 0.5 mg tablet of dexamethasone taken once daily. The chance that patients will get prednisone is 3 out of 4 patients. The chance that they will get dexamethasone is 1 out of 4 patients. Abiraterone acetate, prednisone and dexamethasone will be considered as study drugs. The main study will consist of a screening phase of 4 weeks followed by an open-label treatment period of a maximum of 39 treatment cycles (156 weeks or approximately 3 years). The main study treatment period cut-off date will be 156 weeks after the start of study treatment for the first patient participating in the study. Patients will participate in the main study treatment period until the cut-off date, and will receive study treatment until radiographic disease progression and/or unequivocal clinical progression and/or other specific reasons for discontinuation of treatment. Patients will be asked if they would be willing to participate in a follow-up or extension phase of the study for approximately 4.5 years after the start of study treatment of the first subject participating in the study. The amount of time patients will be in the study will vary depending when they join the study and time remaining to the study end date and on their response to the treatment. Patients may come off the study drug if their cancer worsens, if they are unable to tolerate the study treatment, if their doctor determines that they should begin another cancer treatment, or if they decide to withdraw consent. A treatment "cycle" in this study is the amount of time a patient will be asked to take the study medication, and have regularly pre-scheduled checkups and laboratory assessmen

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants Experiencing Neither of the 2 Mineralocorticoid Excess Toxicity During the First 24 Weeks of Treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate
  - DRUG: Prednisone 5 mg twice daily
  - DRUG: Prednisone 5 mg once daily
  - DRUG: Prednisone 2.5 mg twice daily
  - DRUG: Dexamethasone 0.5 mg once daily

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01867710
