CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04691544
Title: Donor Versus Autologous Fecal Microbiota Transplantation for Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Official Title: Donor Versus Autologous Fecal Microbiota Transplantation for Irritable Bowel Syndrome: a Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Randomized Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 450
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Many patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) do not experience adequate symptom relief with current treatments. The pathophysiology of IBS is diverse, controversial and not completely understood. The next disruptive frontier would be to find a cure where the effect is predictable and lasting. The study groups phase 2 pilot trial was the first indication of a possible benefit from treating IBS with fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) (Number needed to treat only five) (Fecal microbiota transplantation versus placebo for moderate-to-severe irritable bowel syndrome: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, single-centre trial he Lancet Gastroenterology and Hepatology 2018). Additional results from the same trial show that the treatment response may be predicted (unpublished data), and that the pathophysiologic mechanisms behind the treatment response also can be identified (Effects of fecal microbiota transplantation in subjects with irritable bowel syndrome are mirrored by changes in gut microbiome, Gut Microbes 2020). This study is the first phase 3 trial of FMT for IBS worldwide.

The hypothesis of the trial is that donor FMT is more effective than placebo FMT in treating IBS, with little adverse events or complications. Patients ≥18 years with IBS are enrolled at five Norwegian Hospitals in this double blind randomized, placebo controlled, parallell-group multi center trial. Participants are randomized to FMT from a healthy donor (intervention group), or their own feces (placebo group). The primary outcome is the proportion of patients with ≥75 points decrease in the Irritable bowel Symptom Severity score 90 days after treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion in the donorFMT (dFMT) versus autologousFMT (aFMT) group with ≥75 points decrease in the Irritable Bowel Syndrome Symptom Severity Scale (IBS-SSS) day 90 after treatment when compared to the score 8 days before treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04691544
