CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00331123
Title: Study of Transdermal Testosterone Patches in Surgically Menopausal Women With Low Libido
Official Title: Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of Transdermal Testosterone and Safety for an Open-label Period in Women With Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder on Estrogen Replacement Therapy and Undergone Hysterectomy/Bilateral Oophorectomy.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 562
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to evaluate efficacy and safety of a testosterone patch as treatment for low libido in surgically menopausal women who are taking estrogen therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Women with hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) who had undergone bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and hysterectomy were randomized into a 52-week, multicenter, multinational study that included a 24-week, double-blind (DB), parallel-group, placebo-controlled period followed by a 28-week open-label (OL) period. Patients were stratified based on their use of oral or transdermal ET and randomized to receive placebo or testosterone transdermal system. Patients had to maintain a stable dose of estrogen throughout the study. Upon completion of the DB period, patients receiving placebo were switched to TTS, while the active cohort remained on active treatment. All patients were then followed for an additional 28 weeks for safety. Patients who completed the first 52 weeks of the study were given the opportunity to participate in an open label extension (Years 2, 3 , and 4), which was added to the protocol by amendment. Safety was assessed by adverse events, lipids, serum chemistry with hepatic, renal and carbohydrate metabolism evaluation, coagulation testing, and hematology. Physical exam including clinical assessments of facial hair and acne were monitored.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To assess the efficacy of testosterone transdermal system (TTS) as measured by the change from baseline in the frequency of total satisfying sexual activity captured by the Sexual Activity Log (SAL).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Transdermal System
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00331123
