CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00594399
Title: Enhancing Fitness in Older Pre-diabetic Veterans
Official Title: Enhancing Fitness in Older Overweight Vets With Impaired Fasting Glucose
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 302
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This study targets older adults (ages 60 and over) who are overweight (body mass index 25-40) with impaired fasting glucose (100 - 125). We propose a three-year, randomized controlled clinical trial (n=300) to determine the effect of a one-year physical activity counseling intervention on glucose metabolism and secondary outcomes compared to usual care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
IMPACT. Our proposed project will contribute to improved quality and efficiency of VA health care by: (1) providing an effective program of Enhanced Fitness counseling that will result in a significant increase in physical activity of sufficient magnitude to achieve noted improvements in glycemic control, and (2) developing and disseminating materials that can be used throughout the VHA for physical activity promotion for older, overweight adults.

BACKGROUND. The nation is experiencing a marked increase in obesity, and diabetes. Users of the VA medical facilities report higher than national average rates of obesity and diabetes. Current projections indicate that 70% of veterans using the VA medical care are overweight, 20% have diabetes, and 30- 40 % have metabolic syndrome. Approximately 30 % of VA health care costs are attributable to care for diabetes alone. Incidence and prevalence of these conditions increase with age and are associated with high medical costs. This is especially true of the older adult who typically has added comorbidities and functional limitations. The VHA has aggressively addressed the existing epidemic by implementing various programs and performance measures aimed at attaining optimal medical management of dyslipidemia, diabetes, and obesity. The component of all of these initiatives that has received the least amount of attention is physical activity despite overwhelming evidence that physical activity can favorably alter all of the medical conditions described above. The VA system-wide has been ill equipped to provide feasible, cost effective physical activity programs despite the imperative to seek ways to reduce incident diabetes and reduce potential health care costs.

OBJECTIVES. We propose an innovative home-based enhanced fitness counseling intervention that involves a unique partnership between veteran, primary care provider, and exercise counselor directed at the older adult. The proposed project, Enhanced Fitness, seeks to improve glycemic control in older, overweight adults with impaired fasting glucose receiving primary care at the VA. A novel design, adaptive randomization, will allow us to assess the impact of our intervention at an early stage and then reassign individuals to a more intense or reduced intervention based upon patient compliance. Due to the national implementation of MOVE! in primary care for the treatment of obesity we will consider MOVE! as part of usual care for this population. Primary Hypothesis. Compared to usual care (plus MOVE!), individuals receiving Enhanced Fitness counseling will have significantly improved glucose metabolism (fasting insulin). Secondary Research Hypotheses and Objectives. (1) Compared to usual care (plus MOVE!), individuals receiving Enhanced Fitness counseling will have significantly improved secondary outcomes related glycemic control (fasting blood glucose, HOMA-IR, HbA1c, metabolic syndrome score), physical function (self report and physical performance)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fasting insulin
  - 3 Month Fasting insulin
  - 12 Month Fasting insulin
  - Fasting Glucose
  - 3 Month Fasting Glucose

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity Counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00594399
