CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07152652
Title: Physiological, Hormonal, and DNA-based Mechanisms of Psychosocial Stress and Therapeutic Effect
Official Title: Physiological, Hormonal, and DNA-based Mechanisms of Psychosocial Stress and Therapeutic Effect
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 148
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this trial is to learn if the Groups 4 Health (G4H) intervention is effective in supporting student well-being at the University of Helsinki. It will also learn about the factors that may influence the efficacy of the intervention (such as facilitators characteristics, stress physiology and changes in gene expression). The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Is the G4H intervention effective and cost-effective in supporting student well-being?
2. To what extent participants' physiological, hormonal, or molecular characteristics mediate the therapeutic effect of the G4H
3. To what extent participants' genotype moderates the effect of the G4H
4. To what extent facilitators' characteristics mediate or moderate the effect of the G4H

Data is collected from both the intervention participants and the facilitators.

The G4H facilitators will:

* Facilitate the G4H intervention.
* Fill in questionnaires and provide physiological and molecular measurements before, during, and after the G4H intervention.

The G4H participants will:

* Participate in the G4H intervention.
* Fill in questionnaires and provide physiological, hormonal and molecular measurements before, during, and after the G4H intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a randomized waitlist-controlled trial for investigating the efficacy and cost-efficacy of Groups 4 Health (G4H) brief psychosocial intervention for loneliness among the students at the University of Helsinki. Furthermore, several biological and psychosocial mechanisms that may exert the effects of psychosocial stress and therapeutic change are studied. In addition to various psychosocial factors, the mechanisms include genetic factors and epigenetic alterations, hypothalamic-pituitary axis (HPA) activity (cortisol), and parasympathetic (heart rate variability) and sympathetic (alpha amylase) function of the autonomic nervous system (ANS).

This trial will investigate:

1. The efficacy and cost-efficacy of the G4H in a wait-list randomized controlled trial (RCT)
2. To what extent participants' physiological, hormonal or molecular measures of ANS, cortisol, alpha amylase, and Deoxyribonucleic Acid methylation (DNAm) mediate the therapeutic effect of the G4H.
3. To what extent participants' genotype moderates the effects of the G4H.
4. To what extent facilitators' characteristics mediates or moderates the effect of the G4H.

The participants will be randomized to start the G4H immediately after randomization or after the waitlist-period of 19 weeks (7 weeks active G4H + 3 months follow-up). The G4H includes five facilitated group sessions and will be delivered over a 7-week period. Data is collected before, during, and after the intervention, as well as in 1-, 3-, and 12-month follow-ups. The waitlist control group does not provide 12-months follow-up data, as they receive the intervention after the 19 weeks waitlist-period.

METHODS:

The study's outcome measures are described in the outcome measures -section. In addition, the following measures are used to answer the research questions.

Experience Sampling Method (ESM):

ESM is used to measure frequent, real-time assessments of participants self-reported mood, and stress appraisals at multiple times throughout the day. ESM is applied to explore the variation and changes in participants daily subjective well-being and loneliness in concurrence with G4H group facilitators stress appraisals before and after facilitation of G4H sessions. The ESM data will be collected using General Data Protection Regulation compliant experience-sampling software program that runs on smartphones (e.g. m-Path).

The daily ESM protocol consists of a morning and evening prompts in which participants are asked to rate their momentarily affect, and daily satisfaction with life. In the morning prompt, participants are also asked to assess daily physiological correlates such as sleep, amount of caffeine, and alcohol consumption, and exercise during the last 24h.

Intervention participants are also asked to answer questions about momentarily appraisal of social company, and loneliness (see outcome measures). Facilitators' event-based sampling takes place before and after the group facilitation and consists of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Loneliness
  - Depression
  - Active group memberships
  - Mental well-being
  - General well-being

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Groups 4 health

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Months to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07152652
