CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06274346
Title: Effect of Retro Walking Versus Isometric Multi-angular Exercises on Pain and Functional Performance in Knee Osteoarthritis in Geriatric Population
Official Title: Effect of Retro Walking Versus Isometric Multi-angular Exercises on Pain and Functional Performance in Knee Osteoarthritis in Geriatric Population: A Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis is a leading musculoskeletal cause of disability in elderly persons all over the world and a major cause of physical limitations and reduced quality of life (1). Its onset is around 40 years of age and it is estimated that over 80% of people over 55 have evidence of radiographic changes in the knee due to osteoarthritis. It has been estimated that the incidence has increased by the increase in life expectancy and it has been identified as a frequent cause for health services demand in patients over 65(2).

The common clinical manifestations of knee OA include pain, stiffness, joint enlargement, crepitus, muscle weakness, deformity, impaired proprioception, reduced joint motion, and disability(3).

Patients with knee Osteoarthritis seems to develop their own gait pattern and try to unload the affected structures during gait. More over patients with less severe knee osteoarthritis develop a gait pattern that differs from patients with severe osteoarthritis and control group of patients (4).

Isometric exercises are types of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction, and therefore this approach can be advantageous in the early stages of knee rehabilitation in cases where the range of motion is restricted due to pain (13). No physical work is performed during isometric exercise. Intensity and duration combination reflects the energy consumption of an isometric contraction (14). In addition, muscle strength increases in isometric exercise are specific to the angle applied. It was also concluded that isometric exercise performed at different angles should be especially considered as an alternative strength training since it induces the most noticeable and fastest increase in muscle moment (15). A study was conducted to investigate the effects of isometric quadriceps exercise on muscle strength, pain, and function in knee osteoarthritis, it was concluded that isometric quadriceps exercise program showed beneficial effects on quadriceps muscle strength, pain, and functional disability in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee (16).

Another study was conducted to assess the effectiveness of Isometric exercise and counseling on level of pain among patients with Knee osteoarthritis, the authors concluded that Isometric exercise and counseling program has significantly reduced pain, stiffness and improved physical function and the authors recommended that Isometric exercise and counselling should be adopted as a routine care in the hospitals treating patients with knee osteoarthritis (17) Thus, we hypothesized that a less intensive walking program such as retro walking program could provide an additional benefit more than those experienced by forward walking program in the previous studies. Therefore, the primary aim of the present study was to compare the effect of retro walking versus isometric multiangular exercises group on knee pain and function in geriatric people.

Materials and Methods

This randomized controlled experimental trial was carried out at the outpatient clinic of faculty of physical therapy, Delta University for science and technology from June 2023 to November 2023. The aims of the study and the study protocol were explained for each patient before participation in the study. All patients signed an approved informed consent form for participation in this study. Before starting the treatment program, a complete history and physical examination will be taken for all patients.

Subjects:

Sixty male and female geriatric patients had chronic knee osteoarthritis were chosen the outpatient clinic of faculty of physical therapy, Delta University for science and technology. In each case, the diagnosis of knee OA was based on the criteria specified by the American College of Rheumatology.

We recorded the height, weight, and medical history, and lower extremity dominance, level of education, occupation and duration of complaints of each patient. All were evaluated at the beginning of the treatment (week 0), at the endpoint of the treatment (week 4)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction:

Osteoarthritis is a leading musculoskeletal cause of disability in elderly persons all over the world and a major cause of physical limitations and reduced quality of life (1). Its onset is around 40 years of age and it is estimated that over 80% of people over 55 have evidence of radiographic changes in the knee due to osteoarthritis. It has been estimated that the incidence has increased by the increase in life expectancy and it has been identified as a frequent cause for health services demand in patients over 65(2).

The common clinical manifestations of knee OA include pain, stiffness, joint enlargement, crepitus, muscle weakness, deformity, impaired proprioception, reduced joint motion, and disability(3).

Patients with knee Osteoarthritis seems to develop their own gait pattern and try to unload the affected structures during gait. More over patients with less severe knee osteoarthritis develop a gait pattern that differs from patients with severe osteoarthritis and control group of patients (4).

Biomechanical studies indicated individual with O.A. knee walk more slowly, with less knee excursion, increased adduction moment and with more joint stiffness. These secondary compensatory gait adaptation in O.A. knee patients helps in reducing pain by decreasing ground reaction loading on knee (5). This prolonged usage of secondary gait compensation creates greater imbalances of muscle, progressively reduces muscle strength, endurance, flexibility and later ending to deformity (6).

Therapeutic exercises are often used to improve physiological impairments such as reduced joint motion, muscle weakness, impaired balance, disability, and proprioception(7).

Retro-walking is sometimes referred to as backward walking, has been thought to be used already for several decades in China, Japan and Europe to get a physical workout, improve sport performance, promote balance and also to stay mentally fit (8). Retro-walking is walking backwards (9).

Since there is propulsion in backward direction and reversal of leg movement in Retro-walking, different muscle activation patterns from those in forward walking are required (10). Backward walking increases stride rate, decreases stride length and increases support time. Muscular structure supporting ankle and knee reversed their role during retro-walking. Backward walking produces significantly lower patellar compressive force than forward walking and helps to reduce maximal vertical force and impulsive force on knee in comparison to forward walking because of Toe heel contact pattern. Retro-walking is associated with increased cadence, decreased stride length and different joint kinematics as compared to forward walking and hence may offer some benefits over forward walking alone (11, 12).

Isometric exercises are types of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction, and therefore this approach can be advantageous in the early stages of knee reh

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Functional assessment:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multiangular Isometric exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06274346
