CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02292108
Title: Hypnosis, Self-hypnosis and Weight Loss in Obese Patients
Official Title: Study of the Influence of Erickson's Hypnosis and Self-hypnosis Practice on Food Impulsivity and Weight Loss in Obese Patients: a Pilot Project
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 82
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
High food impulsiveness, impaired food reward and stress response are involved in the phenomena of weight gain and resistance at weight loss. Henceforth, hypnosis is a complementary medicine which is recognized as effective for defined indications. Complexity and diversity of methodological studies with hypnosis does not allow to conclude on its efficacy in treating this disease.

In obese subjects with high food impulsiveness, it is expected that Erickson's hypnosis and self-hypnosis practice would improve food disinhibition assessed by an adapted questionary (TFEQ 51).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obese failing patients are recruited in an university hospital. Half of the subjects will be randomised to practice hypnosis and will learn to practice self-hypnosis to reduce food impulsivity and specially disinhibition. In the same time, all the included patients will follow therapeutic workshops based on current recommendations of the High Health Authority of France (HAS) for physical activity and the dietetic.

In the hypnosis group, eight workshops are planned during six months. Furthermore, patients have to practice daily self-hypnosis. In the same time, all the patients included will participate in eight dietetic workshops.

It is expected an improvement in patient involvement in personalized care plan, that eating behavior is more suited and consequently a significant decrease in weight.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evolution of disinhibition score estimated by the TFEQ 51 at the beginning and at the end of the study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: dietetic counselling
  - BEHAVIORAL: Hypnosis and self-hypnosis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 69 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02292108
