CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06260111
Title: Photobiomodulation for Oral Mucositis and Functional Impairments During Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
Official Title: Laser Photobiomodulation to Prevent Oral Mucositis and Functional Impairment Among Adult Hematologic Cancer Patients Undergoing Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy of laser photobiomodulation in adult hematologic cancer patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). The main questions it aims to answer are: • Is photobiomodulation with laser in the oral cavity, compared to standard care, effective in preventing oral mucositis and functional impairments in adult patients receiving HSCT? • What is the level of patient´s acceptability of photobiomodulation with laser in the oral cavity during HSCT? Participants once a day will receive photobiomodulation (diode laser device) in their oral cavity from the first day of transplantation conditioning until third day post-transplant. Researchers will compare with usual care to see if photobiomodulation helps preventing oral mucositis and functional impairment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Oral mucositis is a highly prevalent condition in individuals treated for hematologic neoplasms, primarily during hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). This condition delays the recovery process, increasing infections, interventions, and hospital stays. To date, there are few experimental trials evaluating the use of photobiomodulation with laser for the management of oral mucositis and reporting its effect on functional outcomes in patients with hematologic cancer undergoing HSCT.

Aim: To evaluate the effectiveness and social acceptability of using photobiomodulation in the oral cavity to prevent mucositis and functional impairments in adult patients undergoing HSCT.

Methods: Randomized controlled clinical trial with parallel groups (intervention group with photobiomodulation versus a control group), assessor and statistician blinded. Participants and setting: 30 patients with hematologic neoplasms aged 18 to 65 undergoing HSCT at the Oncology and Bone Marrow Transplant Unit of Clínica Dávila. Primary outcome measures: Oral mucositis will be assessed on a daily basis with the World Health Organization Scale. Functional capacity will be evaluated with a 2-minute static walking test; handgrip strength using digital Jamar® dynamometry; lower limb strength with 30s Sits-and-Stand test; and quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Bone Marrow Transplant questionnaire. Acceptability will be assessed by recording treatment adherence and a Visual Analog Scale. Evaluations will be performed at two time points: on admission to the transplant unit before the start of the conditioning regimen and on the day of hospital discharge. Intervention: Photobiomodulation will be delivered from the first day of conditioning until day 3 post-transplant. A diode laser device with a wavelength of 660 nm, an output power of 40 mW, and an energy density of 4 J/cm2 measured at the end of the optical fiber with 0.04 cm2 of sectional area will be used. The investigators expect that photobiomodulation prevents oral mucositis and enhance functional capacity, muscle strength, nutritional status, and quality of life in patients with hematologic cancer undergoing bone marrow transplantation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oral Mucositis
  - Level of Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Photobiomodulation
  - OTHER: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06260111
