CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03160976
Title: Cryolipolysis on Localized Adiposity
Official Title: Effects of Cryolipolysis on Localized Adiposity: Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to analyze the effects of aromasingle session of cryolipolysis on localized adiposity on women's abdomen. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial that will include 28 women who will be randomly allocated into two groups: Control Group or Intervention Group. The following assessments will be performed in both groups: ultrasonography and body composition at baseline and 30, 60 and 90 days after randomization and blood analysis at baseline and 15 and 30 days after randomization. The expected main result at the end of this study is the reduction of the local subqtaneous fat tissue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cryolipolysis is a non - invasive method for localized fat reduction wich uses low temperatures to induce an apoptotic and inflammatory response and consequent adipocyte death in the treated area. Although the practice of this technique has been increasing, there are some gaps in the literature about the exact mechanism of action and only a few randomized clinical trials that proves its effectiveness and safety. Then, the aim of this study is to analyse the effects of cryolipolysis on localized fat on women's abdomen. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial that will include 28 women who will be randomized to Control Group (CG) or Intervention Group (IG). The CG will perform the Evaluation Protocol with the following assessments: ultrasonography, thermographic analysis, blood analysis, bioimpedance and measurement of skinfold and abdominal circumference. The IG will receive aromasingle cryolipolysis's session on lower abdomen and the Evaluation Protocol. The follow up for both groups is 90 days. Expected main result at the end of the study is the reduction of the local subqtaneous fat tissue.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - subqtaneous fat layer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cryolipolysis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03160976
