CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06972862
Title: Bone and Body Composition Adaptations to Physical Training
Official Title: Optimizing Muscle and Bone Mechanoadaptation to Physical Training: Mechanistic Control Paths Via Muscle and Bone Crosstalk to Altered Mechanical Loading
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 206
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate how different exercise programs alter bone density, structure, and strength in adults. It will also collect data on hormones, factors released from skeletal muscle, and body composition.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Do exercise programs that are frequent with high-impact loading will cause greater improvements in bone health?
* What changes in hormones, factors released from skeletal muscle, and body composition contribute to bone adaptations?

Researchers will compare different exercise groups to see if the type of exercise influences bone adaptation compared to a recreationally active control group.

Participants are asked to:

* complete questionnaires, 5 blood draws across the study (3 at rest, 2 after strenuous exercise), dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans (to assess bone mineral density and body composition), high resolution tibial scans to assess bone structure and geometry, and physical performance testing.
* attend up to 7 testing visits.
* (for those randomized to the exercise training intervention) participate in exercise training sessions for 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The overall objective of this study is to determine the bone density, structure and strength adaptations that result from various exercise programs which differ based on the frequency and intensity of bone loading. Bone adaptation is measured with both dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), the standard-of-care equipment used to evaluate bone mineral density (BMD), and high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HRpQCT), a state-of-the-science imaging technology providing the resolution necessary to detect small but clinically relevant changes.

Additionally, the research team seeks to determine the physiological responses and adaptations to training that contribute to improved bone health by evaluating changes in hormones, factors released from active skeletal muscle, and body composition. Our hypothesis is that exercise programs emphasizing frequent, high impact loading will cause greater improvements in bone health. Additionally, we believe that exercise training can induce specific changes in hormones, skeletal muscle released signaling factors and body composition that contribute to these bone adaptations.

Participants who enrolled in this study were randomized to either an exercise training group or a control group who were instructed to maintain their current level of exercise and track this to report to the study team. Study completers were those who complied with the parameters of the group they were assigned and reported to all 7 testing visits.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bone microarchitecture: Change in bone microarchitecture as measured via High Resolution- peripheral Quantitative Computed Tomography, change from baseline, mean
  - Bone strength: Change in bone strength as measured via High Resolution- peripheral Quantitative Computed Tomography, change from baseline, mean

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Osteogenic Index Optimized Exercise Training Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06972862
