CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04219488
Title: Investigating the Effects of Neuromobilization in Lateral Epicondylitis
Official Title: Comparison of the Effects of Neuromobilization and Conservative Rehabilitation Therapy on Pain, Grip Strength and Functional Status in Lateral Epicondylitis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study aimed to determine the effects of neuromobilization techniques and conservative rehabilitation therapy on pain, grip strength, and functional status in patients with lateral epicondylitis (LE). A total of 40 patients (26 females and 14 males; age: 42.80 ± 8.91 years) with a history of LE participated in the study. The patients were randomly assigned to two groups: the neuromobilization group and the control group. The neuromobilization group completed a 6-week conservative rehabilitation and radial nerve mobilization program, whereas the control group received conservative rehabilitation therapy only. Both groups underwent a 7-day weekly conservative home rehabilitation program. Pain severity, grip strength, pinch strength, joint mobility, and upper extremity functional level were assessed before treatment, at the third week, after treatment, and at the sixth week after treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lateral epicondylitis (LE) is a painful situation, which usually occurs due to the overuse of the wrist extensor muscles. The prevalence of LE is 1%-3% in both men and women, and it is highest in individuals aged \>40 years. Pain and tenderness over the lateral epicondyle of the humerus at the origin of the common extensor tendon are the main characteristics. Different conservative treatment methods have been used for treating LE; however, no standard protocol has been documented in the literature. Physiotherapy programs have focused on relieving pain, controlling inflammation, and increasing muscle strength and endurance. The use of eccentric strengthening programs has been supported by current research. Eccentric exercises have been demonstrated to reduce pain and increase function in patients with LE. Recently, neuromobilization techniques have been employed in treating musculoskeletal problems and various compression syndromes. These techniques aimed to provide nerve gliding via joint movements wherein a therapist extends the nerve length in one joint while shortening the same in the adjacent joint. This tensioning technique increases the distance between each end of the nerve, and this neural elongation ability significantly decreases in patients with LE. Neuromobilization techniques have been also proposed to modulate central sensitization and peripheral pain mechanisms in musculoskeletal disorders. Given that central sensitization plays an important role in the increased nociceptive reflex and hyperalgesia in LE, inducing hypoalgesia via neuromobilization techniques may provide pain relief in the long term.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain severity
  - Pain severity
  - Pain severity
  - Pain severity
  - Grip strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Radial nerve mobilization
  - OTHER: Supervised home program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04219488
