CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02982343
Title: BALTiC Study: A Feasibility Analysis of Home Based BALance Training in People With Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease
Official Title: BALTiC Study: A Feasibility Analysis of Home Based BALance Training in People With Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Charcot Marie Tooth (CMT) is the most common inherited neuropathy. It affects the nerves of the hands and feet first, slowly progressing towards the centre of the body. It causes varying degrees of weakness and reduced feeling, usually affecting the feet and ankles first. High incidence of falls and knock on effects in quality of life are common. This is a lifelong condition which, though not life limiting, does not have a cure. Research into the effect of balance rehabilitation in people with CMT has been limited to traditional exercises, which do not address the complex nature of balance impairments in this condition. Multi-sensory rehabilitation has proved beneficial in improving balance in people with sensory neuropathy. Research shows that strengthening trunk muscles can improve balance in older people. Trunk and muscles close to it are largely unaffected in people with CMT, therefore these muscles could be strengthened in these patients. This study proposes to assess the feasibility of multi-sensory balance training, strength training with a focus on the trunk and muscles close to the trunk, and falls management education. This comprehensive approach is reflective of a clinical physiotherapy programme. Though a life-long condition, many people with CMT lead full lives. A home based programme is proposed to so that patients can fit it into their lives without having to travel for treatment. Therapists will use self-management principles within treatment. Measurements will be taken prior to and following treatment including physical measures, questionnaires and interviews. The physiotherapy interventions will be taught home and data collection will be at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, University College London Hospitals (UCLH).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A recent, unpublished focus group study of people with CMT found that they reported more falls than healthy people. They reported problems walking on uneven surfaces, difficulty getting off the floor and a necessity to consciously think about every step to avoid falling while walking (GM Ramdharry et al., 2015). A retrospective survey of people with CMT found that 89% of the 94 respondents reported falls to the ground. Half of them reported falling at least once a month with 5% falling every day (Ramdharry et al., 2011). We have just completed an exploratory study of factors predicting falls risk. Preliminary analysis of prospective falls data for 32 people over 6 months showed that they fell a median of 4 times (range 0 - 54 falls) and functional balance performance may be predictive (Ramdharry et al., 2015). A study of people with CMT1a found that sensory impairment increased visual dependence for a static balance task (van der Linden et al., 2010). There has only been one small study of balance training in people with CMT, comparing a novel rehabilitation device with more traditional exercises (Matjacić and Zupan, 2006). Both interventions showed improvement in functional balance scores. Studies of proximal strength training in CMT have shown improvements in walking parameters (Chetlin et al., 2004; Lindeman et al., 1995), but the effect on balance has not been explored. Because of the mixed sensori-motor presentation of people with CMT, a combined approach of multi-sensory balance training and proximal strengthening will be delivered. A home-based model has been proposed as CMT is a life-long condition that needs to be managed by the individual outside of the medical or therapy environment.

STUDY DESIGN \& JUSTIFICATION A single blinded randomised controlled design has been chosen in this feasibility study. The intention is to see if there is an effect of the intervention to later be explored in a larger randomized controlled trial. A blinded assessor will measure balance performance prior to randomisation and following the 12 weeks of either intervention or control. They will also undertake qualitative interviews prior to randomization and following final measurement session. Interviews will inform the intervention and its acceptability. All participants will receive a falls assessment and falls education. Following randomisation, participants will either receive the 12-week intervention or control period. The intervention will include a holistic programme of physiotherapy including strength training of muscle groups unaffected by the condition and multi-sensory exercises to target balance. The program will be delivered by a physiotherapist trained in delivering treatment under the principles of self-management. Exercises will be carried out by the patients in their own homes and monitored by the research physiotherapist, progressing as appropriate. Those randomized to the control arm will receive monitoring telephone calls throughout this 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Balance performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Falls management plus exercise training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Falls management only

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02982343
