CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01323218
Title: Sleep Apnea Syndrome and Vitamin D
Official Title: Effect of the Correction of Vitamin D Deficiency in Patients With Obstructive Sleep Apnea-hypopopnea Syndrome (OSAHS)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is a highly prevalent disorder with multiple comorbidities.

OSAHS is characterized by repetitive episodes of airflow reduction (hypopnoea) or cessation (apnoea) due to upper airway collapse during sleep. Its major risk factor is obesity. However, its pathogenesis is complex and multifactorial. Reduced upper airway muscle tonus and/or unstable neuromuscular output seem to be involved in this collapsus.

A normal vitamin D status is necessary for normal muscle function and neuromuscular output. As obesity is associated with a high rate of hypovitaminosis D, it appears of interest to evaluate the effect of vitamin D supplementation on OSAHS patients with vitamin D deficiency.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Prospective, longitudinal, double bind, randomized study of the effect of vitamin D supplementation in OSAHS patients with hypovitaminosis D.

After written informed consent, patients will be randomized to receive a single dose of oral vitamin D (400 000 UI) or placebo. Subjects will undergo medical screening before randomisation into placebo or active group. Follow-up measurements will be performed at the beginning (day 0) and after 32 days of vitamin D supplementation: clinical examination, biological check up and sleep parameter evaluation. Patients will be instructed to stop using continuous positive airway pressure device for two nights before nocturnal sleep studies.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), defined as the average rate of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: 25 OH vitamin D

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01323218
