CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05341726
Title: BREATHE: An Efficacy-implementation Trial Among Black Adults With Uncontrolled Asthma
Official Title: BREATHE: An Efficacy-implementation Trial of a Brief Shared Decision Making Intervention Among Black Adults With Uncontrolled Asthma in Federally Qualified Health Centers (Trial and Post-trial)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study is an efficacy-implementation trial to:

1. evaluate systematically the efficacy of BREATHE in 200 Black adults receiving care at urban federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) for uncontrolled asthma; and
2. identify multi-level barriers and facilitators to the widespread adoption and implementation of BREATHE in FQHCs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Black adults with asthma are an appropriate target for shared decision-making (SDM) interventions that support disease self-management as Black adults experience a higher asthma burden and worse clinical outcomes than non-Black adults and/or children with asthma of any racial-ethnic background. To date, the application of SDM and community-based interventions targeting Black adults have failed to address these disparities. Therefore, the investigator used patient input to develop BREATHE - BRief intervention to Evaluate Asthma THErapy - a 9-minute SDM intervention focused on reducing the impact of erroneous beliefs on asthma control - and established its efficacy in this health disparity population. This intervention is unique in that it is a one-time brief, tailored intervention integrated into office visits, using the patient's own provider as the interventionist (e.g. scalable). A previously conducted pilot trial demonstrated high fidelity to BREATHE delivery and improved asthma control and reduced symptoms among BREATHE participants compared to a dose-matched attention control condition.

We will conduct post-trial mixed-method interviews with patient participants, their loved ones, and PCPs using evaluation frameworks to determine satisfaction with, and acceptability of, the active and control interventions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Asthma Control Questionnaire Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: BREATHE Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05341726
