CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06600581
Title: Safety and Efficacy of IMM01-STEM Against Placebo on Muscle Performance in Seniors With Obesity and Muscle Weakness
Official Title: Randomized Adaptive Study for Safety and Efficacy of Pluripotent Cell Secretome on Muscle Performance in Seniors With Sarcopenic Obesity
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Placebo controlled study for safety and efficacy of IMM01-STEM on muscle performance in seniors with obesity and muscle weakness

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a two-phase, placebo-controlled, dose expansion study that begins with 4 parallel dosing groups and one placebo control group (phase IIa). The treatment period and follow up will last 16 weeks, then an interim adaptation will initiate the second phase of the study (IIb). The study will target safety parameters, body composition, and muscle strength and function. Additional metabolic, inflammatory, and muscle-adipose crosstalk markers will be monitored.

During screening, a wearable activity tracker will be assigned to each participant to establish a baseline of daily physical activity.

The treatment will be administered by intramuscular (IM) in a regimen of two injections per week with 2-3 days intervals between injections, for 4 weeks. The dosing groups vary by IMM01-STEM total protein and will be adjusted for identical volumes or equivalent saline volume for placebo. The proposed doses will be 0.5 mg administered twice per week; 1 mg once per week (alternating with a placebo given on the second visit of the week); 1 mg twice per week; and 2 mg once per week (also alternating with placebo).

Each participant will be evaluated at baseline, at the time of treatment administration during the treatment period, then monthly until the end of trial.

Interim analysis with the purpose of design adaptation will be performed after 10 participants from each group have completed treatment. This point will be marked by the date when the final participant to enroll has completed the final treatment on Week 12. This would occur about 16 weeks after the final participant starts treatment.

Statistical analysis will be performed on all recorded outcomes. All participants will continue to be followed-up per protocol for additional 8 weeks.

Post-adaptation, enrollment will be restarted in accordance with the new randomization rules in a 2-arm placebo-controlled study (IIb). The best responding dose will be chosen, or the most convenient treatment (lowest dose, less frequent administration) in the case that all treatment arms responded equally at interim analysis. An amended clinical protocol will be submitted prior initiation of the phase IIb study.

Study participants will sign a written Informed Consent Form (ICF) prior to any study-related procedures. Treatment must begin within 28 days of signing the ICF, during which participant screening and any necessary drug wash-out period must be completed. Screening assessments will be conducted as specified in the Schedule of Activities of the protocol, after which the study participants' eligibility will be determined based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

Site staff will administer study medication by IM injection in the gluteal area using a small-gauge needle at all scheduled treatment visits. If gluteal area is not feasible, alternatively i.m. injection can be administered in thEQuadriceps or deltoid area. After each administration of study medication, participants will be observed for 1 ho

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs)
  - Change over time in gait speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: IMM01-STEM
  - OTHER: Placebo
  - BIOLOGICAL: IMM01-STEM alternating with placebo (saline)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06600581
