CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05978765
Title: Effect of Dynamic Cupping & Myofascial Release on Pain, ROM and Performance in Athletes With Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effect of Dynamic Cupping Versus Myofascial Release on Pain, Range of Motion and Functional Performance in Athletes With Non-specific Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Data will be collected at Pakistan Sports Board Lahore. Study design will be Randomized Clinical Trial. Sample size is 28. Population will be divided into two Groups by Convinient Sampling Technique. Group A willl be Treated with Dynamic Cupping And Group B will be Treated with Soft Tissue Myofascial Release. Inclinometer, Back Pain Functional Scale, Functional Mobility Scale and Numerc Pain Rating Scale will be used to generate the outcomes of study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of this study is to compare the Effects Of Dynamic Cupping Versus Myofascial Release on Pain, Range of motion and Function in athletes with non-specific low back pain.

Tools to be used in this study will be :

Inclinometer: An inclinometer is a sensor used to measure the magnitude of the inclination angle or deformation of any structure

. Back Pain Functional Scale: a subjective scale used to measure the patient's physical function after low back pain.

FMS: The Functional Mobility Scale (FMS) has been constructed to classify functional mobility.

Numeric PAIN Ratig Scale: The numeric rating scale (NRS) is a pain the screening tool, commonly used to assess pain severity at that moment in time using a 0-10 scale, with zero meaning "no pain" and 10 meaning "the worst pain imaginable".

The study will be collected from Sports related persons at Pakistan Sports Board Lahore. First, a consent form will be filled the person and then the data will be recorded through our questionaire on day 1 and then after 6 weeks of treatment. Group A will be treated with Dynamic Cupping and Group B will be treated with Myofascial release. Group A: will be an interventional group and it will be treated by using dynamic cupping. Heating pad will be applied for 10 minutes as a base treatment then olive oil or petroleum jelly will be applied and cup will be placed,a vacuum will be created by using a vacuum pump then the cup will be moved to and fro or in figure of 8 for 5 minutes. Group B : Will be a control group and it will be treated by soft tissue myofascial release. Heating pad will be applied for 10 minutes as a base treatment, and petroleum jelly will be applied to the area followed by soft tissue myofascial release technique for 5 minutes either crisscross, along the fiber or in Figure of 8.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Inclinometer
  - Back Pain Functional Scale
  - Functional Mobility Scale
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Dry Cupping
  - OTHER: Myofascial Release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05978765
