CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04002882
Title: Role of Body Fat Distribution in Metabolic and Pulmonary Decline in Cystic Fibrosis (ORBIT-CF)
Official Title: Outcomes Related to Body Composition in Teens and Adults With Cystic Fibrosis (ORBIT-CF)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Nutrition and body composition, the amount of muscle and fat in the body, has a role in overall health. This study wants to learn more about how nutrition and body composition affects health outcomes like glucose tolerance and lung function in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) who are ages 16-30 years old. 60 adolescents and young adults with CF will be recruited, and 30 volunteers without cystic fibrosis. A total of 40 of these study participants with CF will be asked to return for annual study visits for 2 years after the first visit.

The long-term goal of this study is to use the information collected to make decisions about future nutrition monitoring and interventions which help maintain optimal health for individuals with CF.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective, observation study to test the central hypothesis that individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) have a higher propensity to increased visceral adipose tissue (VAT) accumulation and decreased lean body mass (LBM) compared to healthy controls, and this dysregulation in adipose and protein deposition exacerbates glucose intolerance and lung function decline. A sub-set of participants with CF will be followed longitudinally for two years (n=40). The investigators will conduct detailed body composition, fat distribution, metabolic, and nutritional phenotyping in this cohort. Body fat distribution will be assessed with MRI. Whole body composition will be assessed with DEXA. Glucose tolerance will be assessed with an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and mathematical modeling of the C-peptide and insulin response to glucose. Lung health will be assessed by objective clinical data and self-reported symptoms.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Visceral Adipose Tissue volume (VAT) by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
  - Change in Disposition Index
  - Change in Forced Expiratory Volume in the first second (FEV1%)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04002882
