CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05473767
Title: Expanding the Family Check-Up in Early Childhood to Promote Cardiovascular Health of Mothers and Young Children
Official Title: Expanding the Family Check-Up in Early Childhood to Promote Cardiovascular Health of Mothers and Young Children (ENRICH)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 117
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This randomized-controlled pilot study will examine the implementation of a cardiovascular health intervention on postpartum mothers and infants. The investigators will adapt a cardiovascular health intervention into an evidence-based home visiting program, Family Check-Up to create Family Check-Up Heart. Through a Type 1 hybrid effectiveness implementation design, the pilot study will test the feasibility and effectiveness of Family Check-Up Heart (Family Check-Up Heart, n=100; Family Check-Up, n=50). The investigators hypothesize that Family Check-Up Heart will show comparable levels of engagement and acceptability as Family Check-Up alone, and mothers receiving Family Check-Up Heart will have greater improvements in cardiovascular health at 6 months postpartum compared to Family Check-Up alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This randomized-controlled pilot study will examine the implementation of a cardiovascular health intervention on pregnant and postpartum mothers. The investigators will adapt a cardiovascular health intervention into an evidence-based home visiting program, Family Check-Up to create Family Check-Up Heart. Through a Type 1 hybrid effectiveness implementation design, the pilot study will test the feasibility and effectiveness of Family Check-Up Heart (Family Check-Up Heart, n=100; Family Check-Up, n=50). The investigators hypothesize that Family Check-Up Heart will show comparable levels of engagement and acceptability as Family Check-Up alone, and mothers receiving Family Check-Up Heart will have greater improvements in cardiovascular health at 6 months postpartum compared to Family Check-Up alone.

A second goal of the hybrid study is to understand the reach, engagement, and context for implementation of Family Check-Up Heart and gather information for development of the multi-center home visiting model trial. The Family Check-Up Heart program is intended to improve the cardiovascular health of low-income mothers compared to the traditional Family Check-Up and other home visiting programs by incorporating individualized, culturally competent interventions that target diet and exercise, blood pressure control, stress management and self-care, and smoking cessation. The intervention includes cardiovascular assessment and feedback, followed by a tailored treatment program delivered by family coaches in 3-4 week modules to establish goals and track progress. These sessions will work towards obtaining positive cardiovascular health outcomes and empowering mothers of infants to achieve their goals through education and a connection to resources which the investigators hypothesize will also preserve child cardiovascular health. Primary analyses will assess the impact of Family Check-Up Heart on maternal cardiovascular health outcomes when the child is 6 months old compared to Family Check-Up alone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Postpartum Weight Retention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family Check Up Heart
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family Check-Up

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05473767
