CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00587626
Title: Proposal to Evaluate the Efficacy of the InterX 5000 in the Treatment of Chronic Neck and Shoulder Pain
Official Title: Proposal to Evaluate the Efficacy of the InterX 5000 in the Treatment of Chronic Neck and Shoulder Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the proposed study is to evaluate the efficacy of the InterX 5000 in relieving chronic neck and shoulder pain. This study will focus on the efficacy of treating patients who have functional limitations in activity because of chronic/recurrent neck or shoulder pain.

H1: InterX therapy will have a moderate effect to reduce pain.

H2: Functional gains will be greater in patients receiving InterX therapy compared to those who received placebo treatment.

H3: Chronic neck and shoulder pain is more prevalent in patients who exhibit radiographic evidence of degenerative spondylosis/arthrosis of the cervical spine.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Electrical stimulation modalities of various types have been used as a therapeutic intervention for years in a wide variety of applications. Individuals with neck and shoulder pain represent a significant segment of the pain population seeking relief. However, there is a paucity of data from quality studies published in mainstream peer-reviewed journals supporting the effectiveness of this intervention. No well-designed prospective, randomized, controlled trials investigating the efficacy or effectiveness of this intervention in patients with chronic neck and shoulder pain have been reported. The need for such work is becoming increasingly important considering the progressively greater demands for evidence-based medicine to justify reimbursement for care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale
  - Neck Disability Index (NDI)
  - Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey
  - Short-Form McGill Questionnaire
  - Biomarkers (inflammatory cytokines and SP)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Inactive InterX 5000
  - DEVICE: InterX 5000 Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 66 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00587626
