CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04776772
Title: Health Parameters in Soccer Players and Sedentary Individuals After Consuming a Synbiotic
Official Title: Differential Health Effects on Inflammatory, Immunological and Stress Parameters in Professional Soccer Players and Sed-entary Individuals After Consuming a Synbiotic. A Triple Blind-ed, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The main objective of this research was to carry out an experimental study, triple blind, on the possible immunophysiological effects of a nutritional supplement (Synbiotic, Gasteel Plus®, Heel España S.A.U.), containing a mixture of probiotic strains, such as Bifidobacterium lactis CBP-001010, Lactobacillus rhamnosus CNCM I-4036, Bifidobacterium longum ES1, as well as prebi-otic fructooligosaccharides, in both professional athletes and sedentary people. The effects on some inflammatory/immune (IL-1β, IL-10, and immunoglobulin A) and stress (epinephrine, nore-pinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, CRH, ACTH, and cortisol) biomarkers were evaluated, determined by flow cytometer and ELISA. The effects on metabolic profile and physical activity, as well as on various parameters that could affect physical and mental health, were also evaluated via the use of accelerometry and validated questionnaires.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This investigation was a triple blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled pilot study designed to identify the possible differing effects of the synbiotic Gasteel Plus® supplementation.

The participants were professional soccer players of the Second Division B of the Spanish League and sedentary students of the same sex and age range. Both study groups were randomly divided into two groups: a control group administered with placebo, and an experimental group administered with the synbiotic. Each participant was evaluated at baseline, as well as after the intervention which lasted one month. Only in the athletes group did the synbiotic intervention clearly improve objective physical activ-ity and sleep quality, as well as perceived general health, stress, and anxiety levels.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Objective determination of levels of physical activity, sedentary lifestyle and sleep quality: accelerometry
  - Objective determination of levels of physical activity, sedentary lifestyle and sleep quality: accelerometry
  - Questionnarie about general health.
  - Questionnarie about general health.
  - Questionnarie about anxiety levels (moment)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Synbiotic complement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04776772
