CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02507895
Title: Effect of Brain-Computer Interfaced-Assisted Motor Imagery for Gait Retraining in Stroke Patients
Official Title: Brain-Computer Interface-Assisted Motor Imagery for Gait Retraining in Neurorehabilitation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Currently the process for stroke recovery is slow with majority of its treatments focused around physical therapy. Among the many methods employed to facilitate recovery in stroke, the use of motor imagery (MI) training may be beneficial towards stroke rehabilitation.

In the current study, we propose 2 aims. Our first aim is to determine the feasibility and efficacy of a novel brain-computer interface-assisted MI train program (BCI-MI) in patients with chronic ischemic stroke. This is designed as a proof-of-concept study that only require a single-session trial. If patients successfully activate the BCI-MI system without much difficulty, our second aim is to enroll patients into a 4-week training program using the BCI-MI. Both functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) will be done to determine the effects of the 4-week training program. Subjects may potentially see improvements in walking gait as preliminary data from previous studies have demonstrated positive results.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the first study, we propose 20 subjects who have sustained their first ever haemorrhagic or ischaemic subcortical stroke with lower limb impairment more than 9 months prior to study enrollment. Subjects will be recruited from the existing patients on the study physician's cohort of patients and from referrals from attending physicians. During the initial screening visit, it will be ascertained that subject fulfills criteria for participation and informed consent will be obtained by study staff. Subjects will be fully briefed in detail regarding the experimental procedure, risk and benefits involved and their responsibilities during the study.

Once consent is provided, subjects will undergo a MI-BCI usability session, they will be seated comfortably in front of a computer screen. An EEG cap will be comfortably worn over the head of the subject to record EEG traces of any activated cortical areas. Subjects will then be instructed to perform a mental imagery task whereby they will imagine themselves walking properly with their affected leg. The accuracies in classifying correct motor imagery from the idle condition from EEG will be recorded for each subject. Subjects who obtain an accuracy of more than 57.5% are considered eligible for the MI-BCI training program. Subjects eligible for the MI-BCI training will then undergo a series of functional assessments, including (1) functional clinical measures (10 meter walk test and Up-to-Go test), (2) gait analysis , (3) cortical activity assessment using TMS, and (4) MRI and DTI scan. (5) Psychological tests including Beck Depression Inventory, fatigue severity scale, digital span test. Before the start of MI-BCI training, subjects will undergo one more MI-BCI session of calibration, which will be performed totally the same with BCI usability session to gather more valuable data for analyzing. After finishing all 5 assessments and MI-BCI calibration session, the MI-BCI training can be started at the frequency of 3 times a week lasting for 4 weeks. The procedure of MI-BCI training is identical to the one in BCI usability session except that a cartoon character in the computer screen will be activated to walk forward if subjects successfully perform an accurate mental imagery. Subjects undergoing MI-BCI training will be required to perform 160 trials of MI altogether with assigned rest periods (5 mins) every 40 trials. Each session will last approximate 45 minutes excluding set-up time. The number of times subjects can successfully perform the MI task and the ease in which they are able to perform the task will be recorded. Distinct brain signals such as event-related desynchronization or synchronization (ERD/ERS) are detectable on EEG for both real and imagined motor movements in healthy subjects. Using this technique, MI-BCI, which translates the imagination of movements into online commands, provides a promising neural communication system for stroke patients who suffer from motor disabilities. We hav

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - changes of " gait parameters measured by " from baseline to post-training and 4-6 weeks after training

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: MI-BCI

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02507895
