CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01775852
Title: Brief Behavioral Intervention for Comorbid Migraine and Depression
Official Title: Brief, Behavioral Intervention of ACT & Illness Management for Comorbid Migraine and Depression
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to examine whether a one-day group workshop, integrating principles from Acceptance and Commitment Therapy with Migraine Education, will result in improvements in depressive symptoms and functioning impairment in patients with comorbid migraine and depression.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Migraine affects approximately 35 million US residents (Bigal \& Lipton, 2009) and is associated with excruciating headache and marked functional impairment. Epidemiological and clinical research has shown that people with migraine suffer from psychiatric disorders at a disproportionately higher rate than individuals without. Depression, in particular, is 3-5 times more common in migraine patients than in non-migraineurs. The comorbidity of depression and migraine is a major health concern as it results in poorer prognosis, remission rate, and response to treatment. In addition, an increase in the severity of migraine is associated with a parallel rise in the severity and treatment resistance of comorbid depression.

Recent research in behavioral medicine suggests that the pain experience per se does not necessarily lead to depression or impairment. Instead, it is the preoccupation with avoiding aversive stimuli associated with pain (i.e., activities, places, movements) that results in depression and disability (e.g., McCracken et al., 2005). Therefore, given that patients with migraine and/or depression exhibit more avoidance behaviors and lower activity levels than healthy controls (e.g., Stronks et al., 2004), an intervention aimed at optimizing willingness and acceptance and minimizing behavioral avoidance may be beneficial at improving both their depression and migraine and, consequently, their daily functioning.

Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is an empirically based behavioral therapy that incorporates acceptance and mindfulness strategies with behavioral change strategies. ACT (in group and in individual settings) is effective in treating psychiatric disorders commonly associated with migraine, including depression, anxiety, and stress (e.g., Hayes, 2001) as well as chronic illnesses like pain and diabetes (Dahl et al, 2004; Gregg et al., 2006). Importantly, ACT resulted in positive long-term outcomes even when presented in brief form. For example, a two-day ACT workshop, in a group setting, led to improvements in depression and distress experienced by parents of children diagnosed with autism and these gains were retained 3 months later. Parents also exhibited a reduction in avoidance behaviors (Blackledge \& Hayes, 2006).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Change in Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) From Baseline to 12 Week Follow-up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ACT-IM

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01775852
