CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03111030
Title: ProACTIVE SCI Physical Activity Intervention
Official Title: ProACTIVE SCI Physical Activity Coaching Intervention
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This study will employ a randomized, wait-list controlled trial. A total of 30 participants (15 experimental, 15 wait-list control) between 18-65 years of age who have chronic SCI ≥ 1 year prior will be recruited. Physical activity measures will be taken using wrist-based accelerometers and the Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire for people with SCI (LTPAQ). Psychosocial factors will be evaluated through questionnaires. The primary health outcome measure (aPWV), and secondary cardiovascular parameters will be assessed using a combination of echocardiography and ultrasound. Fitness will be determined using a peak oxygen consumption test on an arm-cycle ergometer. All measurement will be taken at baseline and after 9 weeks following intervention commencement. Physical activity will also be sampled mid-intervention at 4 and 7 weeks. Training will involve weekly, 10-15 minute coaching sessions for 9 weeks. All pre- and post-assessments will take place at the Blusson Spinal Cord Centre at ICORD. Intervention content will be delivered in-person, over Skype or phone, and the wrist- worn accelerometers will be delivered and picked up from the participant's home during the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A randomized, wait-list controlled trial will be used to compare the effects of tailored PA coaching sessions versus no coaching on PA behaviour, psychosocial factors, and health outcomes. Eligible individuals will be randomly assigned (1:1) to either the experimental (PA coaching sessions) or wait-list control condition. Matched randomization based on baseline physical activity levels will be used. The randomization sequence will be generated by a research assistant independent of the trial.

Day 1 testing measures include vascular measures (arterial pulse wave velocity, arterial structure; 30 minutes), cardiac structure and function measures (30 minutes), a peak oxygen uptake test (60 minutes), for a total duration of 2 hours. Participants will be given an accelerometer to wear for the 6-day monitoring period (6.1.2) after which they will return for Day 2 testing.

Day 2 testing measures include administration of the LTPAQ (5 minutes), administration of the demographics and Health Action Process Approach model questionnaire (25 minutes), and a measurement of energy expenditure at different sub-maximal wheeling speeds to calibrate MVPA cut-points (30 minutes) and at baseline, the first PA coaching session will be administered (60 minutes) whereas at post-test a semi-structured interview will be administered (60 minutes). Total duration of day 2 testing will be 2 hours. The intervention protocol is described below. During the intervention, physical activity will be sampled at two time points; accelerometer and PARA SCI data will be taken during week 4 and week 7.

INTERVENTION

Intervention Protocol:

Experimental participants will receive weekly PA coaching sessions. Each session will be 10-15 minutes in duration and delivered either face to face, over Skype, or when the former modes are unavailable, over the phone. Additionally, supplemental resources may be emailed to the participants based on need throughout the intervention.

Participants' motivation to exercise will first be determined according to stages of the HAPA model. Those who identify as pre-intenders (no intention to exercise) will receive intervention strategies that focus on changing motivation to be physically active. Those identified as intenders (willing to exercise but have not started) will focus on providing resources and behavioural strategies to commence physical activity. Lastly, those identified as actors (already exercising) will receive intervention strategies that help participants maintain or improve PA behaviour.

For those in the intender or actor stage, the intervention aims to promote the international SCI PA guidelines to promote fitness (at least 20 minutes of moderate vigorous aerobic activity twice/week and strength training twice/week). For those exceeding the fitness guidelines, the international SCI PA guidelines to promote health are promoted (at least 30 minutes of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity three times/week and strength training twice/week).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical Activity: Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire for People With SCI (LTPAQ)
  - Change in Total Accelerometer Count as a Measure of Change in Physical Activity: 6-day Physical Activity Monitoring Period

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ProacTive SCI

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03111030
