CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06023693
Title: Effectiveness of a Guided Self-help Intervention for Improving Sleep in University Students
Official Title: A Study on the Effectiveness of a Guided E-health Sleep and Biological Clock Intervention in University Students (i-Sleep & BioClock)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 195
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This randomized controlled trials aims to assess the effectiveness of an online guided self-help intervention ('i-Sleep \& BioClock') based on CBTi principles for university students' sleep problems. The study will involve 192 students with subthreshold insomnia who will be randomized to the intervention or online psychoeducation. The intervention consists of 5 modules completed in about 5 weeks, supported by e-coaches. Outcomes include insomnia severity, mental health symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and academic performance, measured at baseline, post-treatment (6 weeks after baseline), and 18 weeks follow-up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: University students often suffer from sleep problems which affect their mental health and daily functioning. Cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBTi) has been proven effective in adults, but research in university students is still limited. The investigators hypothesize that a guided e-health self-help intervention based on CBTi principles ('i-Sleep \& BioClock') could offer convenient treatment to students with sleep problems by reducing insomnia severity and improving mental health outcomes.

Objective: The aim of this randomized controlled trial is to assess the effectiveness of a guided e-health sleep and biological clock intervention on sleep, mental health symptoms (depression and anxiety), functioning, quality of life, and academic performance in university students.

Study design: This is a two-arm parallel group superiority randomized controlled trial, comparing a guided e-health intervention based on CBTi to online psychoeducation (PE).

Study population: The aim is to include 192 university students (Bachelor, Master and PhD) with at least subthreshold insomnia (Insomnia Severity Index ≥ 10), aged ≥ 16, who are able to speak Dutch or English, and are affiliated to one of the nine participating universities. Students with current suicidal ideation are excluded.

Intervention: The intervention will be a guided e-health intervention based on CBTi principles (i-Sleep \& BioClock). It consists of 5 modules, to be completed in about 5 weeks, and is aimed at improving sleep in university students. The intervention will be entirely held online and will be supported by e-coaches.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome will be insomnia severity. Secondary outcomes will be depression, anxiety, daily functioning, academic performance, quality of life, and sleep \& light exposure diary outcomes. Outcomes will be measured at baseline, at post-treatment (6 weeks after baseline), and at 18 weeks follow-up. Mediators such as shift in chronotype and light exposure will be examined at baseline, mid-treatment, and post-treatment

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Insomnia Severity Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: i-Sleep & BioClock
  - BEHAVIORAL: Online Psychoeducation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06023693
