CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02123121
Title: Resveratrol to Enhance Vitality and Vigor in Elders
Official Title: Phase IIa Study of Resveratrol to Enhance Mitochondrial and Physical Function in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Resveratrol, a compound found in red wine and dark-skinned grapes, will improve the function of mitochondria (energy producing components) within the leg muscles of moderate functioning older adults.

The investigators will look at the role Resveratrol plays in improving physical function by studying the connection of changes in mitochondrial function and changes in physical function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
An initial telephone screening indicated that the subject may be eligible to participate in the study. The first study visit ("Screening visit") will further determine if the subject is eligible to participate. Should the subject be eligible to participate in the study, the subject will be asked to participate in a daily resveratrol or placebo supplementation program for approximately 90 days. The subject will also be asked to return to the clinic for two additional assessment visits to monitor his/her safety and measure study results.

Details regarding the tests to be conducted during this screening visit and other study visits are described below. Visits will take place at the University of Florida Institute on Aging (IOA).

The Screening Visit is approximately 1.5 to 2 hours and will include:

1. Blood Draw: The subject is asked to fast before the appointment because blood will be collected during this visit. The investigator will collect approximately 2 tablespoons of blood. The purpose of this blood draw is to determine levels of certain compounds in the subject's blood that will help determine eligibility.
2. Questionnaires: The subject will be asked questions about medical history and medications as well as mood and will also be asked to complete a short test of memory and reasoning.
3. Physical Measurements: measurements of the subject's height, body weight, waist circumference, pulse, and blood pressure.
4. Physical Exam: A licensed health care provider will perform a brief physical exam to determine if it is safe to continue with the study. This exam will include a review of medical history, medications, and measurement of height, blood pressure, radial pulse, weight, and waist circumference.
5. Tests of physical performance: The subject will be asked to complete tests of physical ability that include:

   1. Walking at the usual pace for a distance of 13 feet (4 meters) two (2) separate times
   2. The subject will be asked to go from a standing to a sitting position, without using their arms. If the subject is able to perform this task, then they will be asked to stand up from and sit down on chair five (5) times as fast as possible.
   3. Maintaining balance while standing in three (3) different positions

Baseline Visit 1: Should the subject be eligible for the study, they will be asked to return to the clinic for the first baseline study visit. This visit is expected to take 2 to 3 hours and will include:

1. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure
2. Measurement of body weight and waist circumference
3. Collection of fasting blood samples
4. Questions about the subject's health
5. Tests of physical performance, including:

   1. Walking as fast and far as the subject can for 6 minutes
   2. Walking at subject's usual pace for a distance of 13 feet (4 meters) two (2) separate times
   3. Standing from a sitting position, without using their arms. If the subject is able to perform this task, then they will be asked to stand up from

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change From Baseline in Mitochondrial Respiration in Muscle
  - Change From Baseline in Cytochrome Oxidase (COX) in Muscle Samples
  - Change From Baseline in Citrate Synthase (CS) Enzymes in Muscle Samples
  - Change From Baseline in Mitochondrial DNA Content in Muscle Samples

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Resveratrol 1000 mg/day
  - DRUG: Resveratrol 1500 mg/day
  - OTHER: Vegetable cellulose
  - OTHER: All groups

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02123121
