CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03386006
Title: Noom Coach for Bariatric Surgery
Official Title: Randomized Trial of an Innovative Smartphone Application for Bariatric Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The prevalence of overweight in America is a national public health crisis. As more people consider bariatric surgery for the treatment of severe obesity, it is imperative to identify factors influencing surgical outcomes. Technology, particularly the Noom Coach platform, offers a unique opportunity to improve standard interventions utilized in bariatric surgery programs. This study plans to test the efficacy of the Noom Coach platform on patients' adherence behaviors and psychosocial factors compared to standard care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overweight and obesity have reached epidemic proportions in the United States. Few behavioral treatments are effective for overweight, and bariatric surgery is consequently an increasingly important option. Although these procedures produce significantly more weight change than psychosocial treatments, post-operative weight losses vary widely, about 20% of patients clearly experience suboptimal weight loss, and a notable subset of these patients demonstrate substantial weight regain. Further, 20-30% report persistence of disturbed eating, depression or anxiety, or impaired health related quality of life. Adherence, or "the extent to which a person's behavior coincides with medical or health advice," contributes to variable weight and psychosocial outcomes, as well as failure to follow dietary guidelines, each of which negatively impacts weight loss.

The present study, utilizing "Noom Coach for Bariatric Health", offers a unique opportunity to overcome obstacles to providing empirically supported treatments and to improve standard interventions utilized in bariatric surgery programs; however, rigorous research on apps is limited, and high-quality, adequately powered, randomized controlled trials with large samples are required. The project will therefore test a combined smartphone app and health coaching system to improve adherence and behavioral outcomes for patients receiving bariatric surgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in adherence to dietary recommendations
  - Change in adherence to physical activity recommendations (Activity Tracker)
  - Change in adherence to physical activity recommendations (IPAQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Noom Coach for Bariatric Health

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03386006
