CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05046457
Title: Beta-cryptoxanthin Supplement: Absorption and Function
Official Title: Beta-Cryptoxanthin (BCX) Supplementation and Circulating Carotenoid Concentrations in Women: A Randomized, Controlled, Double-blinded and 8 Week Parallel Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Beta-cryptoxanthin (BCX) is a naturally occurring member of the carotenoid family, found in a wide range of fruits and vegetables. The unique biological functions of BCX have not been well-established, although BCX, like other members of the carotenoids have antioxidant functions. BCX, may also serve as a precursor of Vitamin A. Vitamin A has a wide range of functions including maintain immunity, vision, growth and development. Whilst not specific for BCX, epidemiological studies indicate that dietary intake of carotenoids may be of benefit in maintaining cognitive health and reducing stress via its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties. This pilot study aims to establish the relationship between supplemental dose and circulating concentrations of BCX and related carotenoids in circulation. Results obtained from this study will provide greater insight of bioavailability and carotenoid metabolism, necessary for larger supplementation in selected target populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In previous Singapore maternal and child health cohort study, Growing up towards healthy outcomes (GUSTO), it established potentially significant health function to be significantly correlated with BCX. At childbirth, mothers' blood concentrations of carotenoids, including α-, β-carotene and BCX were simultaneously measured by ultra-performance liquid chromatography. Unique to the carotenoids, there was a correlation between higher maternal plasma concentrations of BCX with lower rates of depression and reduced anxiety scores during pregnancy for the mother. Furthermore, the concentrations of BCX were uniquely correlated with child neurocognitive function by age 2 years.

Current studies have only been food-based efficacy trials with an increase of dietary BCX intake through BCX-rich foods in humans. There have been no direct assessments of risk associated with BCX exposure, and current evidence in the literature does not identify any consistent, substantial risks for any level of BCX supplementation. Overall, the utility of BCX as a pro-vitamin A is clear, but evidence towards benefits beyond this role is inconsistent.

Hence, this is a pilot study that will aim to examine bioavailability of a novel BCX preparation supplemented at 2 doses (3mg and 6mg daily) versus placebo, consumed once daily in a randomised, doubled-blinded parallel trial, in healthy female subjects of reproductive age.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in plasma concentration of BCX over 8 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beta-cryptoxanthin (BCX)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05046457
