CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06236451
Title: Atypical Antipsychotic-induced Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Patients With Schizophrenia
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial to Evaluate Atypical Antipsychotic-induced Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Patients With Schizophrenia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder with a global prevalence of 1%. The main cause of this condition is dysfunction in the signaling of neurotransmitters dopamine, serotonin, glutamate and Gamma-aminobutyric acid .According to recent research, a disturbed cellular energy state caused by mitochondrial dysfunction is thought to be a factor in the development of schizophrenia.

The aim of the treatment of schizophrenia is to reduce symptoms and is mainly based on the monoamine hypothesis. Atypical antipsychotics are the first-line of treatment.

Certain typical and atypical antipsychotic medications have been shown in prior preclinical research to decrease mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I activity. In contrast to individuals who were drug-naive, Casademont et al. found a significant decrease in complex I activity with haloperidol and risperidone in one cross-sectional observational study. Also, there is evidence suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction is linked to the extrapyramidal side effects seen with antipsychotics.

To date, there are no randomized controlled trials that assess the effect of these drugs on mitochondrial functions. Hence, the present randomized controlled trial has been planned to evaluate and compare the clinical and biochemical markers of mitochondrial dysfunction in schizophrenia patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics risperidone and aripiprazole.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I activity/concentration

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Aripiprazole
  - DRUG: Risperidone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06236451
