CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03701035
Title: Moderate Intensity Aerobic trening in Sub-acute and Chronic Stroke Patients - the Influence on Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and Upper-limb Rehabilitation. A Protocol for a Randomized Control Trial and Health Economic Evaluation
Official Title: Does Moderate Intensity Aerobic trening Influence Serum Levels of BDNF in Sub-acute and Chronic Stroke Patients and Consequently Increase the Efficacy of Upper-limb Rehabilitation? A Study Protocol for a Randomized Control Trial With an Embedded Health Economic Evaluation.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to evaluate the influence on three different trening modalities on the blood concentration levels of a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor called Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and on the recovery of arm function following in sub-acute and chronic stroke survivors. The trening modalities are 1. moderate intensity aerobic trening on a bike ergonometer followed by robotic or sensor-based upper-limb trening, 2. non-aerobic circuit trening followed by robotic or sensor-based upper-limb trening 3. circuit trening alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and Rationale:Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) belongs to a group of neurotrophins which influence neuroplasticity by increasing long-term potentiation and axonal and dendritic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Levels of serum BDNF are increased following moderate intensity aerobic exercise (MAE) in animal and healthy subjects. The influence of MAE on BDNF following stroke and the resultant efficacy of motor trening in this environment remains unclear.

Objective(s):To investigate the influence of MAE on acute and chronic levels of serum BDNF in sub-acute and chronic stroke patients, the efficacy of robotic upper limb or sensor based motor task trening in this environment and consequent effect on functional arm recovery compared to the same upper limb trening following non-aerobic trening circuit trening, or non-aerobic circuit trening alone To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the interventions. Study Interventions: Group 1: moderate intensity AE 40 minutes, 3 times weekly followed after 20 minutes break by 40 minutes robotic or sensor-based upper-limb trening. Group2: non-aerobic gait and balance circuit trening 40 mins 3 times weekly followed after 20 minutes break by 40 minutes robotic or sensor-based upper-limb trening, group 3: 40 minutes non-aerobic gait and balance circuit trening.In total 45 participants will be enrolled - 15 in each group.Study Duration:3 monthly Intervention period per intervention group, with a 3 month and 6 month follow-up. .

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BDNF
  - Action Research Arm Test (ARAT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic trening & UL Motor trening
  - BEHAVIORAL: Non-aerobic trening & UL Motor trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03701035
