CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05605444
Title: The Effect of an Acute Bout of Exercise on Pain Sensitivity and Clinical Pain in Adults With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The Effect of an Acute Bout of Exercise on Pain Sensitivity and Clinical Pain in Adults With Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this interventional study is to investigate the effectiveness of an acute bout of exercises on pain sensitivity and clinical pain among adults with knee osteoarthritis. The following question will be answered in this research Q1: Is acute bout of exercise effective in reducing pain sensitivity and intensity among adult with knee osteoarthritis?

Participants who agree to participate and sign the informed consent will be randomised to one of three groups:

Group 1: Isometric exercise with neutral language and no verbal suggestion consisting of 1 rep of wall squat, 3 min or to volitional fatigue at 100° knee angle;(n=30).

Group 2: Isometric exercise with neutral language and no verbal suggestion consisting of 3 reps of wall squat, 3 min or to volitional fatigue at 100°degree knee angle, 30 sec rest between rep, ;(n=30).

Group 3 (Control group): true control (do nothing);(n=30).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) has been defined as losing the function of cartilage which causes inflammation and pain. OA is one of the most common joint diseases affecting both men and women worldwide, with women being more affected than men. A previous report estimated that that OA affects approximately 240 million people globally. Furthermore, the 2016 Global Burden of Disease Study estimated that the global incidence of hip and knee OA is 199 cases per 100,000, with incidence rates varying by region and ethnicity. The economic impact of osteoarthritis is significant, and it continues to increase as the population ages and obesity increases.

The knee OA has more clinical symptoms than any other form of OA. Knee OA results not only in pain, but also causes loss of function, and decreased quality of life. The typical clinical presentation of Knee OA is knee pain, brief morning stiffness (less than 30 minutes), crepitus, bony tenderness, and enlargement without palpable warmth, muscles weakness. Furthermore, people diagnosed with OA commonly report psychological problems such as anxiety and fear of movement. These problems might prevent people from participation in exercise and social events, leading to further physical and social isolation. The prevalence of knee OA is estimated to be about 33% and it is one of the five causes of disability among people, especially in the elderly individuals.

Alleviating pain is critical to improve the lives of people with Knee OA. Exercise training is a fundamental treatment modality for chronic low back pain, knee osteoarthritis OA and fibromyalgia. However, pain intensity, kinesiophobia and low self-efficacy are barriers to initiating and adhering to an exercise training program. Therefore, an effective strategy to reduce pain intensity, kinesiophobia and increase self-efficacy to facilitate participation in an exercise training program for people with chronic musculoskeletal pain conditions is important. A single acute bout of exercise can produce a consistent reduction in pain sensitivity, termed exercise induced hypoalgesia, in pain-free populations. Although, the hypoalgesia response is likely dependent on the exercise mode or prescription variables applied. In chronic pain populations, exercise induced hypoalgesia is not always consistent, the optimal exercise dose is largely unknown and there are few studies in people with chronic low back pain, fibromyalgia and knee OA. It is not clear whether a single bout of exercise results in a clinically meaningful reduction in pain sensitivity or clinical pain intensity in these population groups. Pilot data from our lab showed adults with chronic low back pain (n=21) reduced pain sensitivity (via pain pressure threshold) globally (Cohen's d=0.5; medium effect), local to the site of pain (low back; d=0.5; medium effect) and distal to the site of pain (leg; d=0.8; large effect) following a single wall squat (100° knee angle) for three minutes or until volitional fatigue. 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain pressure threshold

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Single bout of exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05605444
