CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06200948
Title: Effects of Aerobic Cycling trening in Patients With Gynecologic Cancer-related Lower Extremity Lymphedema
Official Title: Effects of Aerobic Cycling trening in Patients With Gynecologic Cancer-related Lower Extremity Lymphedema: A Randomized Comparative Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Comparison of complete decongestive treatment and complete decongestive treatment + cycling ergometry treatment in patients with gynecologic cancer-related lower extremity lymphedema in terms of quality of life, lower extremity functionality and lower extremity volume measurement

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
After being informed about study and potential risks, all patients giving written informed consent will undergo screening period determine eligibility for study entry. The patients who met the eligibility recruitments will get into the assessment.

The study will include 63 participants (31 controls and 32 interventions). Simple randomization will be preferred in this study. The coin toss method will be used for simple randomization.

Researcher will record demographic and clinical data of the patients and will evaluate the patients' pre-treatment volumes by circumference measurement method. Researcher will evaluatEQuality of life by lymphedema quality of lifEQuestionnaire (LYMQOL) and lower extremity functionality by lower extremity functional scale (LEFS). While the patients in non-cycling group will get only complete decongestive treatment (CDT) for 3 weeks, the patients in cycling group will get CDT+cycling ergometry treatment for 3 weeks.Cycling ergometry treatment will be performed with Voit AT-200 Black Collection horizontal bike for 20 minutes. Exercise intensity will be adjusted to %40-59 of heart rate reserve (HRR). At the end of treatment; Researcher will evaluate volume, functionality and quality of life of the patients again and will compare the two groups in terms of volume measurement, functionality and quality of life.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effect of Aerobic trening

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic Exercise
  - OTHER: Complete Decongestive Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06200948
