CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04197089
Title: Biological Effect of Vitamin D in Patients With Urothelial Carcinoma
Official Title: Pilot Study of the Biological Effects of Vitamin D in Patients With Resectable Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The study population will be 50 women or men diagnosed with urothelial cancer candidates to undergo cystectomy as part of their antitumor treatment. The main objective of the study is to determine the biological effect of Vitamin D on tumor tissue phenotype; for thus, all subjects enrolled in the study will take Vitamin D supplementation 4 weeks prior undergoing surgery. Urothelial tissue will be obtained from the surgical procedure and will be studied for the Vitamin D effect on cancer cell, compared with that urothelial tissue biopsy obtained in the moment of cancer diagnosis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will enroll 50 patients (older than 18 and younger than 80 years old), recently diagnosed with urothelial cancer and candidates to undergo radical cystectomy or nephroureterectomy.

At the baseline visit, a blood sample will be obtained for 25OH-VitD analysis and all subjects will receive first dose of 10.000 IU Vitamin D. Depending of basal plasmatic Vitamin D value, patients will be stratified in either 10.000 IU treatment (25OH-VitD ≥ 20 ng/ml) or either 50.000 UI treatment dose (25OH-VitD \< 20 ng/ml). Treatment will consist of 4 doses taken weekly before their scheduled cystectomy. Last study follow-up visit will be 4 weeks post-surgery. Urothelial tumor tissue collected on surgery will be used to evaluate the expression of tumor differentiation and Vitamin D markers, using genomics and proteomics approaches. Blood sample will also be collect throughout the study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of Vitamin D in plasma and the expression of Vitamin D target genes in peripheral blood leukocytes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Analysis of gene expression in urothelial tumor tissue, comparing initial tumor biopsy and cystectomy tumor tissue exposed to Vitamin D (reported in number of mRNA copies)
  - Analysis of protein expression in urothelial tumor tissue, comparing initial tumor biopsy and cystectomy tumor tissue exposed to Vitamin D (reported in arbitrary units)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin D

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04197089
