CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04448067
Title: Dietary Incorporation of Lentils to Improve Metabolic Health
Official Title: Dietary Incorporation of Lentils to Improve Metabolic Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Approximately 40% of Americans are pre-diabetic or diabetic, mostly in the form of type 2 diabetes (T2D), which is heavily influenced by diet. Three interrelated factors driving the progression of T2D are large glycemic and lipidemic responses after a meal, consumption of excess calories, and increased fat within the abdominal compartment, referred to as visceral adipose tissue (VAT). Available research suggests that these problems may be attenuated with pulse consumption both at the time of consumption and at the next meal, in what is referred to as the second meal effect. Associations between pulse consumption and metabolic health have been measured in observational studies; unfortunately, randomized clinical trials data to establish cause and effect in humans are typically short in duration (≤ 4 weeks), limited to a single dose of pulse consumption (none exclusively for lentils), and not designed to strategically exploit the well-established second meal effect. We expect the impact of lentil intake will be greatest if consumed at the midday meal to offset the magnitude of the response to the large caloric intake typical in the evening. Our overarching hypothesis is that midday lentil consumption in individuals at greater risk for metabolically driven diseases will improve metabolic health. The purpose of this proposal is to determine whether eight weeks of 0, 300, or 600 grams per week of lentils by individuals with elevated VAT will improve insulin sensitivity, hepatic insulin resistance, lipid profiles (total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL and HDL lipoproteins), inflammation, appetite and satiety, body mass, body composition, and volume of VAT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Investigators utilized a parallel intervention of two separate dietary lentil doses versus control (no lentils) treatments for eight weeks in adults with elevated waist circumference. Enrolled participants were randomized to LOW (300 g lentils/week), HIGH (600 g lentils/week), or CONTROL (0 g lentils/week) treatment groups using block randomization. Outcome variables were assessed before and after 8 weeks of the dietary intervention.

Procedures:

Anthropometrics. Measurements were collected from participants before and after the intervention using the validated segmental multifrequency bioelectrical impedance analysis (SECA mBCA515, Hamburg, Germany) (cite). Fat mass (%) and estimated visceral adipose (L) were used for analysis.

Glycemic Challenge. An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was administered as a meal which contained white bread containing 75 g or available carbohydrate. Water was provided with the meal. Caffeinated black tea was provided for participants who identified as habitual morning caffeine consumers. Participants were instructed to avoid alcohol consumption and strenuous physical activity in the 24 hours before their visit and to complete an overnight fast (10 -12 hours) before blood collection. Fasting blood samples were collected by venipuncture by a trained phlebotomist before ingestion of the glycemic challenge meal. A fingerstick was used to obtain blood for glucose and insulin prior to ingestion of bread and every 30 minutes in the 2-hour postprandial period.

Dietary Intervention: Experimental diets were provided to participants in the form of five pre-made midday meals containing 0, 60, or 120 g per meal matched across treatment groups for total energy and protein. Midday meals were targeted in this study to exploit the second meal effect of lower caloric intake at the next meal, the evening meal. Participants were instructed to consume all of the meal provided to them at the midday meal and then proactively reduce portion sizes and not eat beyond fullness at the evening meal. Participants were instructed to eat the meals Monday through Friday, and to eat any missed meals on Saturday or Sunday. Compliance was checked with random emails once per week and verbal reporting when picking up weekly meals.

Assessment of Satisfaction with Meal Provided: An email or text message questionnaire was sent to each participant for them to complete in real time at 4:00 pm one evening per week. Day of the week was varied so that each of the five weekdays was sampled at least once. Participants were asked to rate the following question "How much do you like your meal provided today?" on a scale from 1 (dislike extremely) to 9 (like extremely).

Assessment of Satiety: An email or text message questionnaire was sent to each participant for them to complete in real time at 4:00 pm one evening per week. Day of the week was varied so that each of the five weekdays was sampled at least once. To assess the elements of satiety, participants 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glucose Tolerance
  - insulin Response During Glucose Tolerance Test
  - Visceral Adipose Tissue
  - Body Mass
  - Hunger during the 8-week Intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary Lentil Intake
  - BEHAVIORAL: No Dietary Lentil CONTROL

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04448067
