CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05424263
Title: Acetate and Age-associated Arterial Dysfunction
Official Title: The Short-chain Fatty Acid Acetate for Improving Age-associated Arterial Dysfunction
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of morbidity and mortality and contribute most to healthcare costs in the U.S. Age is the strongest cardiovascular disease risk factor, with \>90% of all deaths from cardiovascular disease occurring in adults \>50 years old. The age-associated increased risk of cardiovascular disease is due, in large part, to the development of arterial dysfunction, including endothelial dysfunction and stiffening of the large elastic arteries. Therefore, novel, effective interventions that improve arterial function will have a large public health impact by decreasing the risk of cardiovascular diseases.

The short-chain fatty acid acetate is endogenously produced by the gut microbiome from fermentation of dietary soluble fiber. High-fiber diets reduce risk of cardiovascular diseases, but unfortunately, a low percentage of Americans meet guidelines for adequate dietary fiber intake and, despite nationwide efforts to improve this, trends in fiber intake have not improved over the last 20+ years. Thus, directly supplementing acetate may be a more practical and feasible intervention for effectively improving arterial function in older adults and reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases.

The investigators will conduct a study to determine the efficacy of 12 weeks of oral supplementation with acetate for improving arterial function in late middle-aged and older (50+ years) adults. They will also assess the safety and tolerability of acetate supplementation in these adults and perform innovative mechanistic analyses to determine how acetate supplementation improves arterial function. The investigators hypothesize that oral acetate supplementation will improve arterial function by decreasing oxidative stress and increasing nitric oxide bioavailability, and also hypothesize that acetate supplementation will be safe and promote high rates of adherence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel design clinical trial to assess the efficacy of 12 weeks of oral acetate supplementation for improving arterial function in late middle-aged and older (MA/O) adults (50+ years). The primary outcome is brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMDba), the gold-standard measure of endothelial function in humans (hypothesis: FMDba will be improved by acetate). The secondary outcome is carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (CFPWV), the gold-standard measure of large elastic artery stiffness in humans (hypothesis: CFPWV will be reduced by acetate). Various other outcomes will also be measured. All measures will be assessed before and after 12-weeks of supplementation with 4,000 mg/day calcium acetate or placebo.

* Subject Enrollment and Screening: Potential participants will be made aware of the proposed study through various recruitment efforts. Interested participants will contact the research coordinator via phone or email and will be administered a screening form online through the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) system to determine eligibility. REDCap is a secure web-based application designed to support data capture for research studies.
* After hearing a study description and having questions answered by the research coordinator, those eligible and interested in participating in the study will provide written and verbal informed consent, and undergo in-person screening. The investigators plan to consent and screen 88 interested individuals in order to meet the enrollment target of 66 participants (account for an approximately 20% rate of exclusion based on inclusion/exclusion criteria that can only be determined in-person).
* In-person screening will include: review of medical history; physical exam; resting heart rate; resting blood pressure; and a blood draw for metabolic profile, lipid profile, complete blood count, thyroid stimulating hormone, and serum phosphorus. All screening will take place at the Division of Renal Diseases \& Hypertension's Clinical Vascular Physiology Core Laboratory, located within the CU Medicine building on the CU Anschutz Medical Campus.
* Participant Randomization: After completing screening, eligible subjects will be randomized to receive either: 1) calcium acetate; or 2) placebo (calcium carbonate), with equal numbers in each group, using a block randomization scheme to balance age group (middle-aged, 50-64 years vs. older, \>=65 years) and sex (male vs. female). This trial will be double-blind. Subjects and members of the investigative team involved in the acquisition and analysis of outcomes will be blinded to group assignment.
* Assessment of Study Outcomes: All subjects will undergo testing for all primary, secondary and other outcome measures, as well as assessment of subject characteristics known to effect arterial function, before and after 12-weeks of acetate or placebo supplementation. All measurements will be made after a 12 hour 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Brachial Artery Flow-Mediated Dilation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Calcium Acetate Oral Solution
  - DRUG: Calcium Carbonate Oral Suspension

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05424263
