CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03695458
Title: Local and Systemic Effects of Photobiomodulation Therapy on Muscle Performance and Recovery Post-exercise.
Official Title: Local and Systemic Effects of Photobiomodulation Therapy on Muscle Performance and Recovery Post-exercise.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Recent studies with photobiomodulation therapy have shown positive results in delaying skeletal muscle fatigue and improving performance through levels of biochemical markers and variables related to exercise when this therapy was applied before exercise. Some studies suggest that photobiomodulation therapy has systemic effects, but it is not known whether therapy exerts any systemic effects on human skeletal muscle. With this factor in mind, this research aims to verify the local and systemic effects of phototherapy on muscle performance and recovery after exercise in healthy male participants. This research consists in a randomized, triple-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, with participation of 30 healthy subjects. Will be analyzed parameters related to exercise performance (peak torque in the maximum voluntary contraction test- MVC), delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) by visual analogue scale (VAS), and biochemical marker of muscle damage (CK) and blood Lactate (BL). The analysis will be performed before exercise protocol (baseline), after 1 minute of the exercise, and 1, 24, 48 and 72 hours after the end of exercise protocol

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 30 healthy male non-athletes, between 18-35 years, will be randomly divided into 3 experimental groups, named "Placebo (Control)", "Local", "Systemic", according to the lower limb who will receive photobiomodulation therapy. Firstly, a blood collection will be performed by a nurse with sterile and disposable materials for posterior analysis of creatine kinase (CK) and Blood Lactate (BL). Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) will be assessed with the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) using a 10 cm line. Participants will be instructed to mark the line where their pain best fits at that time (0=no pain, 10=worst pain).Then, the maximum voluntary contraction test (MVC) will be performed, which will consist in performing 3 times of 5-sec isometric contractions of the non-dominant knee extensors in the isokinetic dynamometer device. During the execution of the MVC, the participants will be verbally encouraged to exert the greatest force at that moment. Photobiomodulation therapy will be applied 2 minutes after the MVC test in six points of non-dominant anterior thigh muscle. After irradiation, participants will perform the protocol of eccentric contractions. This protocol will be performed to induce muscle fatigue by resisting the movement of knee flexion in 5 series of 15 repetitions with 30 seconds -intervals (eccentric contractions). Assessments (blood collection, VAS and MVC) will be performed before warm-up (baseline), 1 minute after exercise protocol and 1, 24, 48 and 72 hours after eccentric exercise protocol.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximum Voluntary Contraction
  - Maximum Voluntary Contraction
  - Maximum Voluntary Contraction
  - Maximum Voluntary Contraction
  - Maximum Voluntary Contraction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Phototherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03695458
