CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07062198
Title: Combined Metabolic Activator Supplementation in Subjects Diagnosed With Alzheimer's Disease
Official Title: A Phase 3, Randomised, Double-blinded, Placebo-controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Tolerability, and Safety of Combined Metabolic Activator Supplementation in Subjects Diagnosed With Alzheimer's Disease
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 845
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study aims to establish metabolic improvements in subjects diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) by treatment with CMA2 including N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), L-carnitine-L-tartrate (LCAT), nicotinamide (niacinamide), and L-serine.

Participants will take the drug CMA2 or a placebo twice a day for 26 weeks. They will visit the clinic 4 times for checkups and tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, multi-centre Phase 3 study with the aim to establish metabolic improvements in subjects diagnosed with AD by dietary supplementation with CMA2, including NAC, LCAT, niacinamide, and L-serine. The study will be performed at approximately 9 clinical sites in Turkey and aims to include a total of 676 evaluable subjects (up to 845 randomised).

The study comprises four clinical visits. Consenting subjects will be screened for eligibility (Visit 1; screening) according to study-specific eligibility criteria within 28 days prior to randomisation and start of IMP administration. Eligible subjects will be randomised on Day 1 (Visit 2) to 26 weeks of b.i.d. oral administration of either CMA2 or placebo (1:1). The first dose will be administered at the study clinic. The subjects will be observed for 2 hours post dose for the development of any allergic reactions or intolerance after taking the first dose. Subjects who cannot tolerate the study agents will be withdrawn from the study.

Visits at the study site will be performed at Week 13 (Visit 5) and Week 26 (Visit 8; end of treatment). Monthly telephone contacts will be scheduled with the patients. At the telephone visits IMP compliance, Concomitant medication and adverse event will be addressed.

The following clinical scales will be used to assess the effect of CMA2 on cognition and daily life activity: MMSE, ADAS-Cog, and ADCS-ADL. Blood samples will be collected for advanced plasma metabolomics, proteomics, and lipidomics analysis. Whole genome sequencing will not be performed.

Optional blood samples will be collected for p- tau217, Nfl, GFAP, and S-Urate analysis. Optional Saliva and faeces sampling for oral and gut microbiome will be collected. CSF samples will be optional collected for determination of Abeta42, total-Tau, p-Tau181 levels and Neurofilament light chain concentrations, and for advanced CSF metabolomics, proteomics, and lipidomics analysis. These samples will be decided by each investigator and will be analysed as exploratory endpoint.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) score from baseline to end-of-treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Combined metabolic activators
  - OTHER: Collagen and maltodextrin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07062198
