CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07182630
Title: Investigation Of The Effects Of Anti-Tnf-Α And Non-Tnf-Α Drugs İn Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis
Official Title: Investigation Of The Effects Of Anti-Tnf-Α And Non-Tnf-Α Drugs On Aerobic Capacity, Muscle Strength, Fatigue, Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors, And Disease Activity İn Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
In RA, joint structure is damaged due to destructive inflammation in the synovium. This condition negatively affects the patient's level of physical activity. As the patient becomes more immobile, their muscle mass and strength decrease and their aerobic capacity declines. One of the drug groups used in the pharmacological treatment of RA is anti-TNF-α drugs. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of anti-TNF-α and non-TNF-α drug treatments on aerobic capacity, muscle strength, fatigue, cardiorespiratory risk factors, and disease activity in RA patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The basic principle in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is to prolong the period of remission in patients. Even if complete remission is not achieved, improvements in symptoms and clinical findings enable patients to maintain their functional capacity at a certain level, which is important for their quality of life. To this end, a multidisciplinary approach involving exercise therapy, pharmacological treatment, and psychological support is applied. The primary goal of pharmacological treatment is to intervene in inflammatory pathways. While there are studies in the literature on the relationship of these pharmacological agents with other disease-related mediators and the clinical course of the disease, no studies have been found that examine the relationship between aerobic capacity, which is one of the basic indicators of the patient's functional level, and fatigue, cardiorespiratory risk factors, and quality of life, which are related to aerobic capacity. Based on the results of the study, the aim was to compare the effects of anti-TNF-α and non-TNF-α drugs on aerobic capacity, fatigue, muscle strength, cardiovascular disease risk factors, and disease activity in RA patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Oxygen Consumption

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07182630
