CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04413747
Title: Yoga Pranayama Adjuvant to Treat Burden COVID-19
Official Title: Yoga- Based Breathing for Vagus Nerve Stimulation as Home-care Adjuvant Treatment Against Burden COVID-19
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
COronaVIrus Disease or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome -CoV-2 or COVID-19, mortality occurs mainly from immunological behavior or by suicide after healing . In both cases, the causal link is coronavirus within the host response. The rationale of use of deep yoga breathing as adjuvant treatment to COVID-19 disease , is linked to the mechanical action to stimulate the vagus nerve through scalene and sternocleidomastoid muscles function of which the continuity of action bring to modulate upto suppress, the inflammatory reflex and pro-inflammatory cytokines overproduction and contextual lowering of the sympathetic stress response as a first cause of sleep and late mental disorders which can increase the annual suicide rate. An easily breathing medical Yoga protocol has been developed to test a cost-effective care provision, training, contact tracing and mass efficacy testing.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
COronaVIrus Disease or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome -CoV-2 or COVID-19, pandemic threatens patients, societies and healthcare systems around the world. Morbidity and lethality have a direct link with the early vicious circles triggered by an acute microcirculation endotheliopathy, a correlated coagulopathy, up to late hypoxic damage of multi organ tissue The host immunity determines the progress of the disease , its lethality and the need of care intensity. The clinical course of the infection consist of three stage of which only the third -which intervenes in a low incidence of patients - need of hospitalization for severe hyperinflammatory syndrome including acute respiratory failure, while first and the second or moderate pulmonary involvement, might manage and monitoring within a homecare program during quarantine. Actually, the rough mortality in Italy is - at the current date - 7.6 % with an expected death of 0.004 of the whole population. The late lethality - still little known - from COVID-19 is to be correlated with mental disorders from stress response emerging from the first three COVID-19's stages and which result in a significant increase in suicides that is estimated at 30% more than expected of 7.4 deaths for 100,000 residents. This estimate can be considered as stage 4 of the disease or post COVID-19 mortality. In this scenario, mortality of COVID-19 is by intensity response of "the host " and in the meantime, a cutoff for homecare, hospitalization and time-related stress disease. Lines of evidence reports that direct-indirect stimulation of vagus nerve bring to the modulating of pro-inflammatory cytokines with effective systemic anti-inflammatory effect and has shown antidepressant effects in chronic treatment resistant depression. Because the vagus nerve is linked to brain regions important in anxiety regulation (locus coeruleus, orbitofrontal cortex, insula, hippocampus and amygdala), this pathway is involved in perceiving various somatic and cognitive symptoms that characterize anxiety and mental disorder disorders. On the basis of all these reasoning we plan to introduce a medical based-yoga deep breathing for activation of vagus nerve by scalene and sternocleidomastoid muscles function during breathing, as an adjuvant of care of the 1-2 and 4 stages of the COVID-19 disease to counteract the cumulative incidence of mortality and better outcome. Medical yoga protocol has been developed and designed to test a cost-effective care provision, training, contact tracing and mass efficacy testing.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mortality
  - Mortality-suicide

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: morning Yoga-based breathing support
  - BEHAVIORAL: pre_lunch Yoga-based breathing support
  - BEHAVIORAL: pre_dinner Yoga-based breathing support

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04413747
