CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04099381
Title: Safety and Efficacy of the Transfusion of UCB in Patients With an ASD Depending on the Degree of HLA Compatibility.
Official Title: Protocol for Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of Transfusion of Umbilical Cord Blood in Patients With a Diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder Depending on the Degree of Tissue Compatibility of the Donor and the Recipient
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Autism is one of those disorders in Autism spectrum disorders (ASD), which characterized by social interaction abnormalities, impaired verbal and non-verbal communication, and repetitive, obsessive behavior, while the therapeutic effect of current treatments remains limited progress.

The possible reason for ASD is neural hypoperfusion and immune dysregulation. The Human Umbilical Cord Blood Mononuclear Cells (hUCB-MNCs) have been shown to have the ability to modulate the immune response and enhance angiogenesis, suggesting the novel and promising therapeutic strategy. In this study, the safety and efficacy of hUCB-MNCs infusion will be evaluated in patients with Autism with regarding to HLA compatibility.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) are heterogeneous neuro-developed disorders. Autism is the most common disorder of the diseases characterized by dysfunctions in response to social interaction and communication, as well as the presence of repetitive and stereotyped behaviors. Recent reports of a sharp increase in the number of children with autism. The exact etiology of autism remains unclear. Compliance, the definition of effective treatments for autism is particularly difficult.

Although it has been understood, it can be a question of immune dysregulation. Examination of the inflammatory cytokines, dysfunction of the immune system and the immune system. The Human Umbilical Cord Blood Mononuclear Cells (hUCB-MNCs) have been shown to have the ability to modulate the immune response and enhance angiogenesis, suggesting the novel and promising therapeutic strategy. Our study suggest that infusion of cord blood mononuclear cells will affect Autism.

This protocol was developed on the basis of the results of the previously approved protocol of the center NCT03786744 (Transfusion of allogeneic cord blood samples in patients with autism spectrum disorders), which showed high efficiency in the rehabilitation of patients. The present protocol is intended for revealing the dependence of the clinical effect on the degree of tissue compatibility of umbilical cord blood samples and the recipient.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants with non-serious and serious adverse events.
  - The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS2).
  - Autism Treatment Evaluation Checklist (ATEC).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: ASD CB-MNC infusion low level HLA compatibility.
  - BIOLOGICAL: ASD CB-MNC infusion high level HLA compatibility.
  - OTHER: Standard therapy.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 14 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04099381
