CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05760664
Title: Exercises Directed To Dynamic Stiffness Of The Thoracolumbar Region And Performance Of Amateur Runners
Official Title: Exercises Directed To Dynamic Stiffness Of The Thoracolumbar Region And Performance Of Amateur Runners: Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 99
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Worldwide, the number of amateurs runners is growing exponentially, with consequent increase in musculoskeletal injuries. Although prevention and treatment by myofascial release has shown some evidence over the years, many issues remain. However, this evidence is based on studies that are not randomized controlled trials. Thus, issues associated with prevention and treatment strategies and their effects have not yet been fully explored by researchers. Objective: Contribute to the formation of basic knowledge and understanding of the impact of exercises aimed at the fascial system (fascial fitness®) on the dynamic stiffness of the thoracolumbar region and on the performance of amateur runners. Methods: This project tests a randomized, double-blind (evaluator and patient), parallel clinical trial in three groups comparing the effects of fascial fitness®, kinesiotherapy and placebo for a dynamic stiffness of the thoracolumbar thoracolumbar region and for the performance of amateur runners. Participants will be randomly allocated to receive a 6-week fascial fitness® program, either kinesiotherapy or placebo (detuned ultrasound). Outcome measures will be used before interventions, 3 and 6 weeks after randomization. Interventions will be cared out twice a week for six weeks. Primary outcomes will be the dynamic stiffness of the thoracolumbar region and the time to complete the 5 km run. As secondary outcomes form the ability to maintain static posture in three different postures, the pressure pain threshold, the electromyographic activity of the latissimus dorsi muscle, the quality of movement patterns and heart rate variability in the 5 km run. To analyze whether fascial fitness® or kinesiotherapy or placebo will mediate changes in outcome variables, multivariate analysis of variation will be used.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dynamic stiffness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group Experimental/Fascial Fitness
  - OTHER: Group Sham/Static stretching exercise
  - OTHER: Control Group/Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05760664
