CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06377306
Title: Identifying Periods of High Training Load Considering the Menstrual Cycle Phases in Elite and Non-elite Female Athletes
Official Title: Identifying Periods of High Training Load Considering the Menstrual Cycle Phases in Elite and Non-elite Female Athletes Using Measures of Strength, Fatigue, Injury, Psychological Parameters, Serum Circulating Metabolites and the Intestinal Microbiome
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Despite a rise in the number of women participating in competitive sports, there remains a gender gap within sport and exercise science literature. Studying females involves potential "noise" through the change in hormone concentrations during the different phases of the female menstrual cycle (MC) which can potentially affect physiological parameters, thereby making study design and interpretation of findings difficult. Longitudinal data on the acute and chronic combined effects of training load and MC phases on circulating female hormones in elite and non-elite female athletes is lacking.

The investigators aim to characterize and track the potential effects of training load and MC phases on performance, anthropometric measures, sport emotions, intestinal microbiome, serum metabolites and injury prevalence in elite and non-elite female athletes.

200 competitive premenopausal female athletes will be recruited. In a longitudinal observational design, each participant will be followed for 1 year, and tested at three time points. At each point, data will be collected on two occasions reflecting distinct phases of the MC.

Finding the possible relationship between the MC phases, training load and performance or specific bio-markers for training load are of utmost importance and can assist professionals to identify periods of high load and over-training, thus preventing injuries and training adjustment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the current investigation is threefold:

1. To evaluate the prevalence of menstruation and menstrual related issues among elite and non-elite female athletes.
2. To identify physical- and bio-markers holding information about training load among elite and non-elite female athletes, using sets of performance measures, hormonal responses, metabolites in the blood and intestinal microbiome
3. To track and characterize the association of training load with a variety of performance (e.g., force, flexibility, endurance etc) and anthropometric measures, sports emotions and affect, rate of perceived exertion (RPE), and injury prevalence in women with different training status (elite and non-elite).

Methods Participants will be tested at three distinct time points that will reflect the different training loads (low, moderate, high) during a year of follow up.

Elite athletes will be tested at: 1. low load phase (baseline); 2. Moderate (training phase prior to competition); 3. High (after training camps or during competitions period).

Testing for each phase will be scheduled for at least two weeks after the beginning of the phase and/or when at least 50% of the duration of the phase is completed. This is to allow for accumulation of training load and phase fatigue or recovery.

Since non elite athletes usually do not follow a periodized training program they will be tested at three time points during the year. The Investigators will similarly aim that these time points will reflect different training loads (low, moderate, and high).

Study description Elite athletes will be recruited through elite athletes' coaches and unions and advertisement using flyers and social media. Non-elite athlete will be recruited through advertisements at Wingate institute and social media.

They will be asked to arrive to a meeting at Wingate institute in which they will receive an explanation about the study by the authorized physician and will sign an informed consent form.

After enrollment, each athlete in the elite group (and coach in the case of an athlete that is part of a team) and non-elite group will meet with one of the investigators to go over their yearly training plan to characterize past and present training history and to establish training phases and schedule individual testing sessions.

The menstrual status of each athlete will be considered when designing the testing schedule, (see blood tests below).

During each of the three assessment periods (low, moderate, high), the athletes will perform the following tests mentioned in study procedures. The Study procedures will be done in addition to the routine follow-up of each athlete.

Study procedures Questionnaires

Participants will be asked to fill the following questionnaires:

Questionnaire 1 -medical history, women health, and physical activity Questionnaire 2- Food frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) Questionnaire 3- Psychological aspects of competition Questionnaire 4- A wellness questionnai

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stool Microbiome
  - Serum metabolomics
  - VO2max
  - Countermovement jump
  - Flexibility

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Effect of training loads and sport performance level on health and sport performance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06377306
