CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07267468
Title: Effectiveness of an mHealth Intervention, Based on Rehabilitation and a Personalised Nutrition Plan, in the Recovery and Improvement of Dysphagia in Patients Diagnosed With Stroke
Official Title: Effectiveness of an mHealth Intervention, Based on Rehabilitation and a Personalised Nutrition Plan, in the Recovery and Improvement of Dysphagia in Patients Diagnosed With Stroke
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 74
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy of an mHealth intervention as a complement to usual clinical practice for the improvement and recovery of dysphagia in patients who have suffered a stroke. The main question it aims to answer is:

\- Does the mHealth intervention improve the recovery of dysphagia in post-stroke patients compared to usuALCARe alone?

Researchers will compare patients receiving the mHealth intervention plus usuALCARe to see if the combined approach leads to better dysphagia outcomes, reduced negative consequences (e.g., malnutrition, pneumonia), and improved quality of life compared to usuALCARe alone.

Participants will be recruited and:

* Receive a diagnosis and usuALCARe for post-stroke dysphagia.
* Be assigned to either the mHealth intervention group (using a smartphone/tablet app for information and follow-up) or the control group (usuALCARe only).
* Be followed up to assess dysphagia recovery, reduction in negative outcomes (like aspiration pneumonia, dehydration), and changes in quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability globally, and is associated with negative complications and increased socio-health costs. Among the complications derived from a stroke is dysphagia, defined as difficulty swallowing, which is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Up to 80% of patients who have a stroke have difficulty swallowing. Furthermore, this is more pronounced in older adults, as the oropharyngeal swallowing response is affected in this population. Dysphagia is a significant predictor of negative outcomes such as malnutrition, dehydration, tracheobronchial aspiration, pneumonia, and death derived from pneumonia, low mood, and depression, etc. These consequences reduce the perception of quality of life for patients with dysphagia. Early intervention and the continuity of this intervention at home reduce the negative consequences of dysphagia. Currently, the majority of the population owns a smartphone or tablet and uses mobile applications (apps) in their daily lives to communicate, seek information, etc. Mobile technology can be a useful support tool for health professionals, facilitating information and follow-up for post-stroke patients with dysphagia and empowering patients and family members in managing their health. The general objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of an mHealth intervention, as a complement to usual clinical practice, for the improvement and recovery of dysphagia in patients who have suffered a stroke.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dysphagia Improvement and Recovery
  - Type of texture
  - Volume allowed when swallowing
  - Acceptable viscosity when swallowing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mHealth intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07267468
