CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02806609
Title: Effect of Muscle Pain in Late Cold Water Immersion, Muscular Recruitment, Postural Control Dynamic and Sleep Quality
Official Title: Effect of Muscle Pain in Late Cold Water Immersion, Muscular Recruitment, Postural Control Dynamic and Sleep Quality in Soccer Athletes: Randomized Study and Blind
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Objective: To evaluate the effect of cold water immersion in elayed onset muscle soreness, muscle recruitment, dynamic postural control and quality of sleep in young soccer players.

Methods: The sample will consist of 28 soccer players between 18 and 21 years of the same football club and with the same routine practices and games. At first athletes will respond to the IC and will be submitted to the test of a repetition maximum. After three days the athletes will analysis of muscle recruitment by electromyography and dynamic posture control through the force platform both during the time of shooting, moreover, will respond to scale the quality of sleep the previous night and one on pain, then they are instructed to perform a fatigue protocol for the quadriceps and then will be randomized to one of four intervention groups: cold water immersion, submersion in water at room temperature, or active recovery control. The same APPRAISAL be remade into three new moments, 24, 48 and 72 hours after the fatigue test.

Hypothesis: The variables will be considered: Pain intensity in the quadriceps muscle, quality of sleep the night after intervention protocol, electromyographic analysis of the rectus femoris, vastus medialis oblique and vastus lateralis at the time of shooting, as well as postural control when the shot off.

It is intended to establish the best way of recovery of late quadriceps muscle pain and contribute to the clinical practice of active recovery or rest in young soccer players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The size and power of the sample was raised with use of sample size calculation, the Power and Sample Size program with a 95% confidence interval, alpha level of 5% and power of 80%, considering the mean and standard deviation of data DOMS study the Effects of Cold Water Immersion after Rugby Training on muscle Power and Biochemical Markers. Thus, the sample was set at 48 volunteers, 12 distributed to each of the four groups.

Participate in the study 28 soccer players, aged between 16 and 21 years, male, with training at least 5 times a week, no complaints of musculoskeletal pain or history of muscle injuries in the past six months, hired a same club with the same demand for training and competitions.

Exclusion criteria will be observed vascular problems, allergy to cold, surgery of the lower limbs in the past six months, athletes in viral states (such as colds or flu).

These will be randomized into four groups: cold water immersion (N = 7) immersion in water at room temperature (n = 7), active recovery (n = 7) and control (N = 7).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - visual pain scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cold water immersion, with 10 degrees, for 10 minutes
  - OTHER: immersion in water at room temperature
  - OTHER: active recovery - running
  - OTHER: rest in the chair

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 21 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02806609
