CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06046755
Title: Nutritional Intervention-induced Weight Loss During the Oncological Treatment of Obesity-related Breast Cancer
Official Title: Evaluation of Changes in the Methylome and Prognosis of Obesity-related Breast Cancer After Nutritional Intervention-induced Weight Loss During the Oncological Treatment
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 220
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Obesity could become the first evitable cause of breast cancer in the near future. Due to the relatively slow rate of development in this field, greater efforts must be applied in this area. The HYPOTHESIS of this work is that "a therapy to lose weight in breast cancer women with obesity during the oncological treatment could contribute to slowing carcinogenesis, and to improve the response to the chemotherapy, survival and prevent future recurrences by erasing deleterious epigenetic marks". A group of breast cancer women with obesity (n=90) will be treated to lose weight during the oncologic treatment with a low calorie-ketogenic diet or a group educational intervention program of healthy lifestyle. The reversibility of the obesity-related breast cancer epigenetic signatures (EPIC array and pyrosequencing) and other molecular features (QRTPCR, ELISA assays) in blood leukocytes and plasma and the progression of disease will be compared with an obesity (n=30) and normalweight (n=30) group under conventional anticancer therapy. A matched-group of tumor-free women (n=60) with obesity will be also treated to lose weight with the same nutritional interventions and compared with tumor-free women with normal weight (n=30) in order to evaluate the potential preventive function of weight loss therapies on cancer-related odds. The outcomes of this project will directly benefit overweight and obese patients from healthcare systems, and also to have an economic value supporting pharmaceutical and food industry companies in the design of innovative treatments, useful biomarkers and preventive tools.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity itself is considered the second leading avoidable cause of cancer, after smoking (Renehan and Soerjomataram, 2016;Islami et al., 2019). The worldwide obesity epidemic has shown no signs of abating, better understanding of the mechanisms underlying obesity-associated cancer is urgently needed with the aim to find new therapeutic targets to counteract the obesity-related cancer in general and breast cancer in particular. The increased morbidity and mortality of obesity-related cancer are mostly attributed to dysfunctional adipose tissue. Therefore, targeting the dysfunction of adipose tissue provides a promising strategy for cancer prevention and therapy.

Breast cancer (BC) is the most common female cancer worldwide and the second common cause of cancer-related death in women. In 2018, around 2 million new cases of BC were diagnosed represented 15% of deaths of the 10 most common cancers (Bray et al., 2018). By 2030 cancer is expected to surpass cardiovascular disease being the prevailing cause of death among all age categories, contributing to a 45% increase in the number of malignancies diagnosis during the next 10 years. This is due to the emergence of the increased prevalence of risk factors, mainly diabesity (diabetes mellitus and obesity) in both developed and developing countries (Christodoulatos et al., 2019).

Risk factors for breast cancer include excess weight and metabolic disorders, which have been linked to a poor prognosis of this disease (Bousquenaud et al., 2018;Kliemann et al., 2019;Le et al., 2019). Thus, the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF) has concluded that healthy lifestyles may help to prevent up to 70% of cancer cases. These include healthy diet eating, regular physical activity, healthy weight, and avoiding smoking and alcohol drinking (Clinton et al., 2019). Obesity is associated with a greater tumor burden in postmenopausal women diagnosed with breast cancer and with a higher degree of tumor. In addition, obesity and overweight are linked to a worse prognosis and an increase in breast cancer death rate. In fact, recently in a work carried out by our research group (Crujeiras et al., 2012), it was found in a homogeneous population in Spain that the prevalence of obesity among breast cancer patients was significantly higher than the prevalence observed among women of the general Spanish population. This increase in prevalence was especially evident in women with postmenopausal breast cancer (Crujeiras et al., 2012). However, although there is epidemiological evidence of the relationship between obesity and cancer, the molecular mechanisms of this relationship is not well known.

Obesity and cancer mechanisms: Adipose tissue secreted factors, inflammation, oxidative stress, epigenetics.

There are several hypothesis that were proposed to be involved in the relationship between obesity and cancer. Among them, the most of the recent studies are being focused on the effect of the dysfunctional adipose tissue observed

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight loss
  - Fat mass in kg
  - Fat free mass in kg
  - Visceral fat mass in kg
  - DNA methylation levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Very low calorie ketogenic diet (VLCKD)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group educational intervention program (IGOBE)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06046755
