CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06287840
Title: Canadian Bone Strength Development Study
Official Title: Canadian Bone Strength Development in Children With Type 1 Diabetes Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 204
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The goal of this project is to learn about differences in bone development between children with and without type-1 diabetes (T1D). The main questions this study aims to answer are:

1. Assess how and when sex-specific bone developmental trajectories in the leg and arm will differ between children with T1D and control cohorts relative to the critical period of rapid skeletal growth in puberty. It is hypothesized that children with T1D will have inferior bone development, particularly lower gains in bone strength.
2. Assess why bone trajectories differ between T1D and control cohorts by identifying the role of body composition, site-specific muscle force and physical activity on differences in bone properties in female and male children with and without T1D. It is hypothesized that children with T1D will have lower gains in lean mass, muscle force, number of daily bone impacts and minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity and will be associated with inferior gains in bone development.
3. Assess why T1D may impair sex-specific bone development by exploring the role of disease-related factors (e.g., duration, glucose control, hormones and markers of bone turnover) and fracture history on bone trajectories of children with T1D. It is hypothesized that longer exposure to T1D, poorer glucose control, alterations in hormones, lower bone formation markers and higher history of fracture will be negatively associated with bone trajectories of children with T1D.

Participant's physical growth, bone growth, muscle strength, physical activity and nutrition habits will be assessed and followed up annually for up to 4 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Canadian Bone Strength Development Study is a multi-site project examining differences in bone development between children with and without type-1 diabetes. Research for this study will be conducted at the University of Saskatchewan, University of Calgary, The Hospital for Sick Children (SickKids) and The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO). 204 children (50% female) will be included. Participants will make 4 annual visits to the laboratory. During each laboratory visit, anthropometric measurements (e.g., height and weight), bone strength and microarchitecture, muscle strength, nutrition and physical activity will be assessed. Investigators will compare between group differences in bone growth trajectories using multilevel models.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Trabecular Thickness (μm)
  - Bone Strength (Failure load)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06287840
