CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02396524
Title: Hockey Fans in trening (Hockey FIT): A Pilot Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Hockey Fans in trening (Hockey FIT): A Pilot Pragmatic Randomized Controlled Trial of an Exercise and Healthy Living Program for Middle-aged, Overweight and Obese Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
The Hockey Fans in trening (Hockey FIT) program aims to improve overweight men's physical fitness, eatinGHabits and health-related lifestyle choices through a lifestyle modification program in collaboration with two Ontario Hockey League teams. In this pilot pragmatic randomized controlled trial, the investigators plan to explore the potential for Hockey FIT to reduce a clinically important amount of weight, increase physical activity levels, and lead to improvements in other health-related outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the United Kingdom, the Football Fans in trening (FFIT) program was developed to encourage men to lead a healthier lifestyle through a sport-related medium. FFIT is a gender-sensitized, weight loss and healthy living program developed for delivery to overweight and obese men through professional football clubs. Published results from FFIT show that the program was able to actively recruit and engage men and for the men who participated, sustained weight loss and positive lifestyle change was observed (Hunt et al., 2014).

This study will use a two-arm, pilot pragmatic randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. The investigators will conduct the study in conjunction with two Ontario Junior A Hockey Clubs. Following assessment of eligibility and baseline measurements, men will be individually randomized (1:1; stratified by club) to either the intervention group (receiving the Hockey FIT program) or to the comparison group (usuALCARe wait-list control). The comparison group will be offered to start the Hockey FIT program after a 12-week delay. All men (both intervention and comparison groups) will receive publicly available healthy eating and physical activity materials at baseline. Measurements will be taken at baseline and 12 weeks (both groups) and again at 12 months (intervention group only).

The results of this study will be used to inform a fully-powered RCT where the primary objective will be to determine whether, compared to the usuALCARe wait-list control group, the Hockey FIT group will lose weight (at least 5% weight loss from baseline) at 12 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight loss (absolute and percentage)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Hockey FIT Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02396524
