CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03536871
Title: Exercise and Nutritional Supplementation
Official Title: Exercise and Nutritional Supplementation for Aging and Sedentary Lifestyles
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
To understand the effects of a novel dietary supplement when used in conjunction with a healthy lifestyle exercise program and to define biomarkers that are specific to sarcopenia. A primary aim in the present study is to determine whether a relationship exists between positive changes in body composition through increases in lean mass and reductions in body fat following oral supplementation of naturally occurring food components in combination with exercise. The purpose of the present study is to examine the effects of a multi-nutrient supplement in combination with an endurance and resistance based exercise intervention in a cohort of older adult men with varying degrees of sarcopenia as compared to younger male controls (McMaster/CIHR/Exerkine project). A sub-purpose nested within the study is to provide serum and muscle samples for use in an aging/sarcopenia biomarker discovery study taken at pre-intervention for the young and older men (Buck Institute/Astellas project).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present study is a randomized double-blind placebo controlled repeated measures design, with sampling of the cohorts on multiple occasions. Upon obtaining informed consent participants will be randomized into one of six groups:

Healthy younger males - n=20; Healthy older males - placebo n=10, supplement n=10; Sarcopenic older males, placebo, n=20, supplement n=20;

Take home resistance trening program The older adult male groups will be provided with a progressive resistance trening program which will use exercise bands (Therabands®, Akron, Ohio) and consist of six upper body and six lower body exercises, which will be performed three times per week for 12 weeks without supervision at home. Each session will consist of active warm-up (5min), resistance trening with elastic tubing (45min), and cool down (5min). Briefly, the resistance exercises will be performed using elastic tubing for chair squats, hip flexions, leg extensions, leg flexions, ankle dorsiflexion, wall push-ups, back rows, shoulder abductions, triceps extensions, and forearm flexions. Ankle plantar-flexions and abdominal curl-ups will be performed using body weight as resistance. Each participant will be given an exercise instruction booklet and a set of five elastic tubes offering different resistances. Prior to beginning the program trened staff will meet with participants and will teach them how to properly perform exercises in addition to determining the starting elastic tubing size. Furthermore, participants will perform one set of each exercise during weeks 1 and 2, two sets of each exercise during weeks 3 and 4, and three sets of lower body and two sets of upper body exercises during the remaining weeks. Participants will be instructed to move to the next larger tubing size when they can perform 12 repetitions with good exercise form during their last set. This progression will be monitored by the project staff mid way through the study over the phone.

Study products Study products will be provided by Infinit Nutrition Canada (Windsor, Ontario) to all older male subjects, however the young males will only act as baseline controls. The composition of the study products is displayed above in the general experimental design. Both products are similar in taste and appearance and provide an energetic value of ∼200 kcal per serving in a volume of 200 mL. Participants will be asked to consume 1 serving daily of the study product throughout the 12-wk intervention period. Participants will consume their serving at approximately the same time of day, but preferably before breakfast. Participants will be instructed to consume the supplement as aromasingle bolus within 5-10 min. Subjects will also also be provided an omega-3 supplement (or placebo, if they are assigned to the placebo arm) and be instructed to consume 2 teaspoons at the same time as their nutritional supplement. Participants will be instructed to record product intake in a diary to check compliance. To maintain th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Composition
  - Muscle Strength
  - Functional Outcomes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: multi-nutrient supplement
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03536871
