CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04420273
Title: Targeted Melanoma Detection With Skin Self-Examination During COVID-19 Restricted Physician Access
Official Title: Targeted Melanoma Detection With Skin Self-examination: Leveraging the Mammogram Encounter
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to reduce melanoma mortality by improving early detection of melanoma with skin self-examination (SSE) among people who self-identify as being at risk and seek care for a concerning mole. Because women are more likely than men to perform SSE, women who are engaged in health promotion by having a recent screening mammogram are the focus of this research. Self-management of melanoma detection with SSE depends on ready access to dermatologists when a concerning mole is detected. In March 2020, the Illinois stay at home order (COVID-19) prohibited non-essential health care, including screening mammography and dermatology office-based care, and both are expected to remain limited until fall 2020. This submission explores a) the effectiveness of targeted melanoma detection (TMD) among women, who identify their risk of having a melanoma, learn to perform SSE, and perform SSE, and b) the effectiveness of adhesive patch-based home sample collection for genomic analysis to rule out melanoma in moles identified by women (who received the intervention) as concerning will be explored.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed work will assess the effectiveness of targeted melanoma detection (TMD) with SSE education delivered remotely to women who had a screening mammogram. The effect of TMD with SSE education will be assessed with a randomized control trial among women served by Northwestern Medicine in rural, suburban and metropolitan communities. Women who identify concerning moles will choose among three options: a) watch the mole to see if the border, color or diameter of the mole changes b) send a picture of the mole to the PI for consideration of mole self-sampling, or c) make an appointment with my healthcare provider to check the mole. As required a physician will supervise women, who will perform non-invasive mole self-sampling with non-invasive adhesive patches for genomic analysis of the concerning pigmented lesion (mole). If the genomic analysis suggests that the concerning mole may be a melanoma, then the recommendation will be to have the mole biopsied.The effectiveness of acquired samples suggestive of melanoma will be examined by the obtaining the pathology reports of biopsied moles. Health care providers' (HCPs) clinical/pathologic assessment of concerning moles will be identified in the Northwestern Medicine electronic health record (EHR) system.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants Who Completed SSE at Specified Time Points
  - Number of Participants Who Identified Concerning Moles at Specified Time Points

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SSE educational intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active control:Healthy Living

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04420273
