CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04672746
Title: Peer-delivered Brief Motivational Interviewing Via Instant Messaging Interaction in Reducing the Drug Abuse Among Youth
Official Title: The Medical Peer-delivered Intervention of Brief Motivational Interviewing Via Instant Messaging Interaction in Reducing the Drug Abuse Among Youth in Hong Kong: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 134
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This is a two-arm, parallel-group, randomized controlled trial with an allocation ratio 1:1, by comparing the 12-month drug abuse reduction between the youth drug abusers who are individually randomized to participate in the intervention group receiving medical peer-delivered intervention of interactive brief motivational interviewing via instant messaging communication and those in the control group receiving general health information.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction Drug abuse is a worldwide problem especially among youth. Due to easy access to a wide range of illicit drugs via multiple approaches in Hong Kong, growing drug abuse is exposing and spreading among the youth. According to the Central Registry of Drug Abuse Report in Hong Kong, 87.3% of drug abusers reported the first abuse of drugs at ages of 25 or below. The comparison of the Central Registry of Drug Abuse between 2014/15 and 2017/18 showed that the number of students claiming to have used drugs has gone up by 23 percent compared to the last survey, and 81% of them started to use drugs at an age younger than 15-year. The early age of first drug use is strongly associated with the risk of developing a substance use disorder in later life. Youth who persistently abuse substances often experience an array of problems, including academic difficulties, health-related problems (including mental health), poor peer relationships, risky sexual behavior, the likelihood of having blood-borne diseases, and involvement with the juvenile justice system. Additionally, there are harmful consequences for family members, the community, and the entire society. The statistics above alarm that youth drug abuse in Hong Kong is becoming a major problem and can not be overlooked.

The combination of medical treatment and counselling is the most common treatment for drug abusers. However, more than half of the youth drug abusers reported never attempting to quit, only 12.2% of youth drug abusers attempted to seek help, and more than 75% did not accept medical treatment as they did not think they were addicted. Although many non-pharmaceutical interventions have been applied, a meta-analysis found that the existing non-pharmaceutical interventions showed insignificant effectiveness in helping youth drug abusers to change their behaviour. One of the major reasons for the failure to assist youth drug abusers to change was that the patient education method may lead the youth abusers resistant to accept the intervention. Previous research has confirmed that the recovery from drug abuse is influenced by the users' intention to change, which is determined directly by their perceptions of anti-drug and their perceived self-efficacy to change. While, drug-abusers' attitudes, social influences, and demographic characteristics have more indirect effects on recovery from drug abuse. Another reason may be that standard interventional content may not be able to meet the personal needs of drug abusers. In addition, the meta-analysis also showed that individual interventions with more than one session had a stronger effect, while previous brief interventions provided insufficient sessions to support the behavior changes among youth abusers. In addition, according to qualitative interviews conducted for youth drug abusers, adolescents were reluctant to seek help from sources that they believed would be judgmental, lacked expertise, personal information exposed or would inf

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in drug consumption at 12 months comparing to that at baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brief MI interaction via instant communication
  - BEHAVIORAL: General health information

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04672746
