CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06164847
Title: Effectiveness of the Adherence for Exercise Rehabilitation in Older People (AERO) Program in People with Osteoporosis
Official Title: Effectiveness of the Adherence for Exercise Rehabilitation in Older People (AERO) Program to Improve Adherence in People with Osteoporosis in a German Context: a Randomized Parallel, Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this pilot study is to investigate the effect of an evidence-based adherence promoting intervention on exercise adherence of patients with osteoporosis. For this reason, a randomized controlled pilot trial with an intervention period of three months will be conducted.

Question I:

To which extent does an adherence-promoting intervention (AERO) have an effect on adherence to long-term exercise programs in patients with osteoporosis compared to conventional standard care with home-based exercise therapy?

Objective II:

Does the AERO Intervention influence fall risk factors such as functional lower extremity strength and fear of falling compared to conventional standard care plus home-based exercise therapy in patients with osteoporosis? Patients will be randomized to two groups: an intervention and a control group. Both groups will receive instructions for a home exercise program (HEP) during six physical therapy (PT) sessions.

The intervention group will receive a HEP and additionally the so-called AERO (Adherence for Exercise Rehabilitation in Older people) intervention within 6 PT-Sessions. The AERO program is a feasible intervention for boosting the exercise adherence of older people. The AERO intervention is an evidence-based adherence promoting intervention approach to help patients adhere to an exercise program.

The control group will receive six PT sessions as "standard care". In regular clinical practice in Germany "standard care" for people with osteoporosis include measures such as home exercise programs, mobilisations, soft tissue techniques, or training with gym equipment. This will be delivered based on each PT clinical reasoning with no additional motivation for adherence to the exercise program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
"Osteoporosis is a disease which causes the bones to become porous, weak and fragile. The result: a higher risk of broken bones, known as fragility fractures. Pain, fear of falling as well as reduced physical and social activity are also known complications that immensely impact the quality of life of patients with osteoporosis.

A common treatment goal in osteoporosis is the reduction of falls and fractures. Next to medication and dietary changes physical activity plays an important role in managing osteoporosis. The effectiveness of physical activity in people with osteoporosis has already been established. Strengthening exercises targeting the lower extremities have shown the largest effect for the bone mineral density (BMD) measured at the neck of the femur. These results are also enclosed in the German Osteoporosis Guideline: enhancing strength, coordination, and balance by promoting regular physical activity as part of the prevention and basic treatment plan for osteoporosis.

To achieve these goals, exercise needs to be executed thoroughly for a prolonged period of time and therefore treatment adherence to these exercise programs is crucial. Adherence itself is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as: ".... 'the extent to which a person's behavior corresponds with agreed recommendations from a healthcare provider." People with osteoporosis often have problems to adhere with any exercise program prescribed. About 50% of the participants of exercise programs quit these programs after six months. Rodrigues et al., analyzed 54 studies using exercises and reported adherence rates between 51% and 100%.

Multiple reasons, which are being referred to as barriers (e.g., lack of time, family priorities, monetary issues) are proposed as being linked to non-adherence. Therefore, measures that promote adherence towards these regimens are needed to ensure the long-term effects and benefits of exercise programs. It is crucial that patients conform to the recommendations made by the health care providers. The best exercise program is unsuccessful if it is not being followed.

Based on the literature and a previous review conducted by our team, only a few studies were found that looked at ways for improving adherence in individuals with osteoporosis. However, none of these studies investigated adherence as a primary outcome but only as a secondary outcome in regard to a specific exercise program.

One study identified by the authors through manual search was the Adherence for Exercise Rehabilitation in older people (AERO) intervention. Although not targeted to subjects with osteoporosis, this evidence-based intervention was created to enhance Adherence for Exercise Rehabilitation in older people. However, this program has only been implemented in United Kingdom using other populations. Thus, the main objective of this project will be to determine whether an adherence enhancing intervention (AERO intervention) would improve the exercise adherence 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Exercise adherence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: AERO Program
  - OTHER: Standard Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06164847
