CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03983213
Title: The Comprehensive Assessment in Children After Surgical Treatment of Patellar Recurrent Dislocation.
Official Title: The Clinical, Radiological, Isokinetic Assessment With Gait Analysis in Children After Surgical Treatment of Patellar Recurrent Dislocation.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 31
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The aim of this prospective study is to assess extension apparatus function of the knee based on clinical, radiological, isokinetic and gait analysis data in patients after surgical treatment. There will be used physical examination, Lysholm-Tegner and Kujala scale for clinical assessment. Merchant and lateral X-ray pictures will be analysed for patellar position verification along with isokinetic and gait evaluation to produce conclusions referring to efficacy of the treatment. All subjects included in the study were treated with mpfl reconstruction. Follow-up longer than 2 years in all cases, about 45 patients included.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Recurrent patellar dislocation occurs mostly in adolescents. Recently medial patellofemoral ligament reconstruction has become treatment of choice in most cases. There is still insufficient literature to assess the operative treatment results according to functional testing.

The aim of this prospective study is to assess extension apparatus function of the knee based on clinical, radiological, isokinetic and gait analysis data in patients after surgical treatment. There will be used physical examination, Lysholm-Tegner and Kujala scale for clinical assessment. Merchant and lateral X-ray pictures will be analysed for patellar position verification along with isokinetic and gait evaluation to produce conclusions referring to efficacy of the treatment. All subjects included in the study were treated with mpfl reconstruction with gracilis tendon harvesting. Follow-up provided is longer than 2 years in all 45 cases planned to enroll. All subject are to be mailed and invited to check-up visit including analysis of parameters mentioned above. Soon after data collection text of the publication will be made. The results will be discussed with recent literature and conclusions will be made.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dislocation recurrence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: mpfl reconstruction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03983213
