CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06805968
Title: Effect of Exercise on Smokers
Official Title: Acute Effects of High Intensity Aerobic Exercise on Respiratory Function and Cognitive Status in Smoker Healthcare Workers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
When we look at the literature, although 202 results are found when "high intensity training" AND "aerobic" is written in the PUBMED database, 27 to 86 results are found when "high intensity training" AND "cognitive" and "high intensity training" AND "respiratory" are written and searched. 5 results are found when "high intensity training" AND "smoking" is searched, but there is no study investigating cognitive and respiratory functions, and no results are found when "high intensity training" AND "smoker" is searched. As far as is known, there is no study investigating the acute effect of high intensity aerobic exercise on respiratory functions and cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke. We aim to contribute to the literature with this original aspect of our study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary objective: The primary objective of the study is to investigate the acute effects of high-intensity aerobic exercise on respiratory functions in special education personnel who smoke.

Secondary objective: The secondary objective of the study is to investigate the acute effects of high-intensity aerobic exercise on cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke.

Study questions

* Is there an acute effect of high-intensity aerobic exercise on respiratory functions in special education personnel who smoke?
* Is there an acute effect of high-intensity aerobic exercise on cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke?

Study Hypotheses:

H0: There is no acute effect of high-intensity aerobic exercise on respiratory functions in special education personnel who smoke.

H1: There is an acute effect of high-intensity aerobic exercise on respiratory functions in special education personnel who smoke.

H2: There is no acute effect of high-intensity aerobic exercise on cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke.

H3: High-intensity aerobic exercise has an acute effect on cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke.

H4: High-intensity aerobic exercise has a greater acute effect on respiratory function and cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke than low-intensity training.

H5: High-intensity aerobic exercise has a less acute effect on respiratory function and cognitive status in special education personnel who smoke than low-intensity training.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Smoking dependence level measurement
  - FVC Measurement
  - FEV1 Measurement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Exercise + Placebo
  - OTHER: Low Intensity Exercise + Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06805968
