CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05840380
Title: Instrumental Soft Tissue Mobilization in Patients With Low Back Pain
Official Title: The Effect of Graston Technique on Pain, Proprioception, Flexibility, and Disability in Patients With Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is caused by strain of the ligaments or muscles around the vertebral column or a musculoskeletal system formed due to compression of the nerves coming out of the spinal cord is a system nuisance.The process that begins as acute pain become chronic with prolongation of life, limit physical function and negatively affecting the quality of work, loss of workforce and health care It is an important health problem that causes an increase in expenditures. Thirty patients (mean age; 38.46±9.03 years) with CNLBP were included in the study. The patients have randomly divided into two groups Graston technique (GT) and control. Graston was applied three times a week for four weeks in addition to the exercise program in the GT group, while only the exercise program was applied to the control group. Pain intensity (Visual analog scale), pressure pain threshold (algometer), proprioception (digital inclinometer), flexibility (sit and reach test), disability (Oswestry disability index), and quality of life (Short form-36) were evaluated at the beginning and end of the study.This study aims to investigate the effect of the Graston technique added to exercise on pain, proprioception, disability, flexibility, and quality of life in individuals with chronic non-specific low back pain (CNLBP).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is caused by strain of the ligaments or muscles around the vertebral column or a musculoskeletal system formed due to compression of the nerves coming out of the spinal cord is a system nuisance.The process that begins as acute pain become chronic with prolongation of life, limit physical function and negatively affecting the quality of work, loss of workforce and health care It is an important health problem that causes an increase in expenditures.The most load-bearing region of the spine in the movement system is the lumbar region. from mechanical stresses, functional loads, occupational and sportive It is the area most affected by trauma. In recent years, studies have shown that manual therapy methods can be used to reduce chronic low back pain.

shows that it is a viable treatment option in reducing Instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization (Instrument Assisted Soft Tissue Mobilization, IASTM), is a popular method that can be used for myofascial restriction. is a treatment method. Reducing pain in the area of IASTM pathology, increasing range of motion (ROM), improving motion function and is used to give a mobilizing effect.In the light of studies in the literature, patients with chronic non-specific low back pain Instrumental soft tissue mobilization to be applied will reduce pain, joint range of motion, flexibility, functionality and quality of life positively is thought to develop.Thirty patients (mean age; 38.46±9.03 years) with CNLBP were included in the study. The patients have randomly divided into two groups Graston technique (GT) and control. Graston was applied three times a week for four weeks in addition to the exercise program in the GT group, while only the exercise program was applied to the control group. Pain intensity (Visual analog scale), pressure pain threshold (algometer), proprioception (digital inclinometer), flexibility (sit and reach test), disability (Oswestry disability index), and quality of life (Short form-36) were evaluated at the beginning and end of the study.This study aims to investigate the effect of the Graston technique added to exercise on pain, proprioception, disability, flexibility, and quality of life in individuals with chronic non-specific low back pain (CNLBP).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Pressure pain threshold
  - Flexibility
  - Proprioception
  - Disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: instrumental soft tissue mobilization

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05840380
