CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06803134
Title: Effect of Kinetic Control Retraining on Neck Proprioception and Functional Outcome in Patients With Cervical Radiculopathy
Official Title: Effect of Kinetic Control Retraining on Neck Proprioception and Functional Outcome in Patients With Cervical Radiculopathy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of kinetic control retraining on neck proprioception and functional outcome in patients with cervical radiculopathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cervical radiculopathy (CR), which is a normal result of degenerative changes such as cervical disc herniation and bone hyperplasia, is characterized by neck pain and radiating pain from the neck to the shoulder. Neck pain has a major physical, psychological, and socioeconomic impact, as it is the fourth most frequent cause of disability, preceded of low back pain, depression, and arthralgia. In fact, up to 50-70% of the entire population will experience (at least) one episode of neck pain clinically important throughout their life.

Prolonged or recurring stress exposure, pain catastrophism, and fear-avoidance behaviors can trigger variable responses to pain thresholds" intolerance depending on the magnitude of the individual stress response.

Regular physical exercise is a key factor for the prevention of many chronic diseases. Physical exercise (PE) can be used as a primary non-pharmacological clinical tool because it can improve antioxidant capacity, reduce oxidative stress and inflammation and increase energy efficiency. Depending on the volume, the intensity and the frequency of exercise, acute or chronic biochemical and physiological responses are induced. Once movement meets control, they can regain the choices lost in the presence of pain and give people the optimal choice in how they move, these choices are lost with movement impairment. So, the movement value is a central theme in the physical therapy profession and functional concepts which build on movement therapy. These concepts are built on kinetic control approach. This study may add missing information to the existing literature and suggests directions for the effect of kinetic control retraining on neck proprioception and functional outcome in patients with cervical radiculopathy.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of cervical proprioception using the cervical range of motion (CROM) device
  - Assessment of deep neck flexors (DNFs) strength by craniocervical flexion test (CCFT) using pressure biofeedback unit (PBU)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Selected physical therapy program
  - OTHER: Kinetic control retraining

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06803134
