CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06121739
Title: Child and Adolescent Mental Health Literacy for Primary Schools Teachers. A Multicomponent Intervention
Official Title: Participatory Design and Feasibility of a Multicomponent Intervention to Improve the Well-being of Elementary School Children After the COVID-19 Pandemic
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 105
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Child mental health (CMH) is crucial for lifelong well-being. Early prevention and intervention are vital for public health, yet Chile faces a high prevalence of CMH issues, particularly in children aged 4 to 11. Schools play a key role in addressing these problems, but there's a lack of coordination within the systems (Schools and Health Centers). This project aims to enhance children's mental health and the school community through a biopsychosocial approach, emphasizing social support.

The intervention consists of two parts:

1. Developing an online CMH literacy program for primary school teachers in Public Educational Establishments (EEPs). It's designed through collaboration with stakeholders, focusing on the specific needs of participating schools.
2. Enhancing the coordination of the CMH network in Valparaíso, involving community, health, and education stakeholders in two neighborhoods. This will be done by using "ECO Barrio Solidario" program and aligning it with local health initiatives.

The project spans two years and focuses on four EEPs in Valparaíso. In the first year, the literacy intervention is constructed in partnership with each school, including program objectives, methodology, and scope. An online platform with educational videos will be created. The "ECO-Barrio Network" will connect with local agencies involved in child MH. In the second year, the intervention will be implemented in four of the eight recruited schools, while the other four serve as a control group. Subsequently, the remaining four schools will receive the intervention. Evaluation will consider acceptability, feasibility, and effectiveness, assessing faculty CMH knowledge, timely research, and reduced wait times for healthcare and child protection services.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This proposal aims to build "school communities" based on Public Schools (PS), with the goal of promoting children's mental health (MH) and detecting early MH issues in students, providing them with initial support and coordinated referrals for treatment.

To achieve this, a participatory multicomponent intervention is proposed to promote the MH of children attending basic education. The components of this grant are: 1) a Child Mental Health (CMH) Literacy program for PS teachers, which will be constructed in a participatory manner with them and other key stakeholders; and 2) the coordination of the local network of child and adolescent mental health care, including various levels of complexity (community, primary care, and specialized care). This network is based on the ECO-BARRIO SOLIDARIO strategy with adaptations according to the new socio-sanitary context.

Given the nature of a pilot project that seeks to evaluate the feasibility of this intervention initially, it is proposed to implement it in two neighborhoods of Valparaíso, with a random selection of 8 PS with primary education in each of these neighborhoods. After the program's implementation, the initial effectiveness of the CMH literacy component will be evaluated with the teachers.

The process of participatory construction of the CMH Literacy program will be developed during the first 12 months of the project. It will involve working with representatives of the academic staff of these EPs (teachers, para-teachers, directors, and others), parents, students, directors of the Local Education Service (SLEP) of Valparaíso, and representatives of the ECO-Barrio network.

Through working groups and individual interviews with key stakeholders, a survey of objectives, methodology, and contents of the CMH Literacy program will be conducted. Due to the health situation resulting from the COVID-19 Pandemic and the current development of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), an asynchronous and synchronous online program is proposed. This program will be based on recorded video educational capsules and discussion groups with CMH specialists, respectively. There will be an evaluation at the beginning and at the end of the course to measure acquired knowledge and the level of satisfaction with the methodology and content, among other factors. The course will be free and certified by the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Valparaíso. Certification will be automatic for those who fulfill all the requirements on the online platform, which will be accessible from computers or mobile phones. The total duration of the course should be between 3 to 4 months.

Parallel to the construction of the CMH Literacy program for teachers, the "ECO BARRIO SOLIDARIO" strategy will be implemented in one of the neighborhoods with modifications according to the new health and contextual scenario. This strategy will be called the "ECO-Barrio Network." The ECO-Barrio Network strategy is feasible to rep

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Teachers' level of knowledge about infant mental health
  - Feasibility of the intervention assessed by the proportion of teachers who complete the workshop
  - Satisfaction assessed by a Likert Survey
  - Rate of accuracy for referral of children

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Child Mental Health Literacy Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 22 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06121739
