CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06374342
Title: Bone Substitutes Outcomes - Post Market Follow-up
Official Title: Safety and Clinical Performance Assessment of Bone Substitutes Used for Bone Voids Filling - A Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 425
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
A Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up (PMCF) Study to collect clinical data on safety and performance of all TEKNIMED Bone Substitute range of products: CERAFORM, TRIHA+, NANOGEL, and all their private labels.

TEKNIMED bone substitutes are legacy products, some marketed for more than 20 years. Their performance and safety have already been demonstrated by Post-Market Surveillance and previous clinical studies. The current Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up study aims to confirm these claims by collecting data in a "real-life" setting.

The study is a retrospective and prospective global, single arm, non-controlled, multicentric, prospective observational study. Patients will be followed as per local standard medical care of the sites.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is admitted that:

* Surgeons are often concerned by bone void filling and they can choose between synthetic bone substitutes or bone grafts of animal or human origin.
* Due to their chemical composition similar to bone tissue, synthetic bone substitutes are an interesting alternative to autografts and allografts which present some inconvenient (quantity to sample, infection of sampling site…).
* Bone substitutes are bioresorbable and replaced by bone during the healing process (bone remodelling).
* Nowadays, bone substitutes represent a common and efficient procedure to treat surgical or traumatic osseous defects. They are indicated and used in various pathologies and types of surgery, but they always have the same intended use: to fill a bone void.
* Bone substitutes are also used in spine surgeries for cage filling and/or posterolateral fusion.

TEKNIMED has developed several bone substitutes currently used in various types of surgery. Due to their increasing use, there is a need of real-life safety and efficacy data on these products.

This retro-prospective study is performed to assess the safety and performance of TEKNIMED bone substitutes in their current clinical use.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Successful bone repair

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Bone defect
  - DEVICE: Spine fusion
  - DEVICE: Cage filling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06374342
