CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06004193
Title: Holiday Season Weight Change During Islamic Holidays
Official Title: Holiday Season Weight Change During Islamic Holidays and Effect of Exercise on Body Weight and Body Composition
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The study involved 30 regular exercisers and 33 non-exercisers. Food records were collected five times: before the holiday season, before Ramadan, during Ramadan, during Ramadan Feast, and after Ramadan Feast, including the Eid al-Adha period. Anthropometric measurements were taken before and after holidays: initially before Ramadan and again after Eid al-Adha. Physical activity was recorded for both groups: once before Ramadan for non-exercisers and twice (on exercise and rest days) for exercisers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to determine the changes in nutrient consumption during the holiday season and to assess the changes in body weight, body composition, and blood pressure of exercising and non-exercising individuals at the end of this season. In the United States of America, the holiday season is the period between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day. In Turkey, the holiday season is defined as the period between the Feast of Ramadan and the Feast of Sacrifice. A total of 30 individuals who regularly exercise and 33 who do not exercise participated in the study. In this study, 3-day food consumption records were taken from the participants five times; before the holiday season, before Ramadan, during Ramadan, during Ramadan Feast, after Ramadan Feast, and during the Eid al-Adha period. The anthropometric measurements of the participants were measured before and after the holidays. The first measurement was taken before Ramadan, and the second was taken after Eid al-Adha. Physical activity was recorded in the pre-Ramadan period, once for non-exercising participants, and twice for exercising participants, on exercise and rest days.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body weight
  - Body fat percentage
  - Dietary intake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06004193
