CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04421157
Title: Exercises in Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Two Different Exercises in Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis: A Single-blind Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of two different exercises in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. In total, 28 subjects with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis were randomly divided into two groups: Schroth (n = 14) and stabilization group (n = 14). The Schroth group received Schroth exercises in addition to traditional rehabilitation, and the stabilization group received core stabilization in addition to traditional rehabilitation for 10 weeks. The outcome measures were based on Cobb angle, angle of trunk rotation, spinal mobility, cosmetic trunk deformity, muscle strength, and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a progressive growth disease with unknown etiology, characterized by a three-dimensional deformity of the spine (frontal translation, sagittal modification, and torsion of the spinous processes on the concave side of the scoliotic curve on radiographs).

In patients with AIS, in addition to curve progression there are many problems commonly occur such as; muscular imbalance, functional limitations, altered posture, gait deviations, reduced flexibility of the spine, back pain, negative physico-social, body image effects, and in severe cases pulmonary symptoms. The asymmetry of the trunk and pelvis are affected related to the shape and angle of scoliosis, and the weight distribution position changes depending on the shape and the Cobb angle of scoliosis. To deal with these complications and more, various treatment approaches have been proposed for AIS, including exercise, bracing, casting, traction, biofeedback, surgery, and simple observation to prevent, correct or halt the progression of the deformity. Conservative treatment methods including physiotherapy and bracing are accepted in Central Europe.

In literature, exercises are recommended to decrease progression, to improve spine and thoracic cage flexibility, muscle strengths, and elasticity, to correct postural behavior, and neuro-motor control, spine stability. In general, traditional exercises (TE) including postural training, stretching, and strengthening exercises for spinal musculature, respiratory exercises have been used for many years for scoliosis. Except for the traditional exercises, there are several exercise concepts including Schroth, Side Shift, Dobomed methods... etc. Schroth exercises are asymmetric scoliosis-specific postural exercises that aim to improve the curve, function, posture, self-image, and pain. Schroth exercises target strength and endurance training of the back, abdominal, and leg muscles. Also one of the aim of Schroth exercises is to improve motor control of the posture by repeating corrective movements with progressively less feedback. Schroth exercises are the most studied scoliosis exercises but there are limited randomized controlled studies on Schroth exercises.

Recently general physiotherapeutic exercises including, Core stabilization (CS) exercises, Pilates have been used in the conservative treatment of idiopathic scoliosis. CS exercises are described as therapy techniques that improve postural control, and functional stability through increasing neuromuscular control, the strength of trunk stabilization muscles, the endurance of postural muscles around the spine, the balance between pelvis and spine. However, limited studies are determining CS exercises' effect on patients with AIS. In a study CS exercises found to be more effective in reducing pain and rotational deformity than traditional exercises in the conservative rehabilitation of AIS.

A recent systematic review showed that therapeutic exercise had bee

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cobb's angle

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Schroth Exercises
  - OTHER: Core stabilization Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04421157
