CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01839864
Title: Utilizing a Promotora Model for Rural Adult Hispanics Diagnosed With Metabolic Syndrome: A Clinical Trial
Official Title: Utilizing a Promotora Model for Rural Adult Hispanics Diagnosed With Metabolic Syndrome: A Clinical Trial
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The study aims are to test whether the use of promotoras significantly impacts the health attitudes, health seeking behaviors, and patient confidence in self-managing health of rural Hispanic adults who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. Specifically, the study is designed to address four areas of inquiry: 1) identification of patient attitudes involving: a) trust in medical providers and in the health care system, b) procedural fairness in treatment, c) provider and patient communication patterns, d) potential cultural bias in treatment, and e) healthy lifestyle behavior adoption/maintenance, 2) selected clinical indicators of metabolic syndrome (blood pressure, height/weight/BMI, blood glucose, hemoglobin A1c, and cholesterol), 3) the cultural competence of medical providers from the perspective of both the provider and the patient, and 4) patient self-management confidence scores.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The following research questions will be investigated in this study:

1. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the metrics associated with metabolic syndrome to a greater extent than a standard care model only?
2. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the attitude of trust in medical providers and the health care system to a greater extent than a standard care model only?
3. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the attitudes associated with comfort with seeking care in the health care system to a greater extent than a standard care model only?
4. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the perception of cultural bias in regard to treatment as compared with patients using the standard care model only?
5. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the attitudes associated with feelings of procedural fairness in health care treatment to a greater extent than a standard care model only?
6. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the Patient Activation Measure (PAM) score over time as compared with patients utilizing only the standard care model?
7. For adult rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the doctor-patient communication score over time as compared with patients utilizing only the standard care model?
8. For rural Hispanic patients who have been diagnosed with metabolic syndrome, does adding the services of a promotora to a standard care model significantly change the perception of the cultural competence of providers as compared with patients experiencing the standard care model only?

The proposed study utilizes a randomized clinical trial design to assess the efficacy of combining community health worker/ promotora services plus standard clinical care versus a standard clinical care model only for rural Hispanic patients diagnosed with metabolic syndrome. This design has been selected because: 1) it best protects against possible confounding, 2) there are no ethical issues with the study as all participants receive at a minimum the current standard of care for metabolic syndrome, 3) three years is enough time to assess results, and 4) sufficient staffing is a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Patient Activation Measure from baseline to six months and six months to one year

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Promotora plus standard physical screening exam , hemoglobin A1c levels, lipid panels, fasting glucose, height, weight, BMI, complete blood count

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01839864
