CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05734586
Title: Screening for Sarcopenic Dysphagia and the Implementation of Measures to Prevent Its Complications in Geriatric Patients [DYSPHAGING-PILOT]
Official Title: Feasibility Study of Screening for Sarcopenic Dysphagia and the Implementation of Measures to Prevent Its Complications in Geriatric or Institutionalized Patients Aged ≥ 70 Years.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 102
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenic dysphagia is described as a swallowing disorder caused by a loss of muscle mass and strength, sarcopenia. It induces chronic complications like micro-inhalations and the worsening of chronic undernutrition, according to a vicious circle. Awareness of the high prevalence of sarcopenic dysphagia and its serious consequences among elderly people with disabilities and hospitalized patients is recent, which explains the low rate of screening in the population concerned. In this context, methods of prevention, evaluation and intervention of sarcopenic dysphagia adapted to the most exposed population are needed.

Two European learned societies have developed recommendations that include increased awareness of swallowing disorders, the use of screening scores, preventive measures, diagnostic standardization, and implemented interventions (rehabilitation, textural adaptation, etc.). In order to respect these recommendations, a pedagogical sheet, entitled DYSPHAGING was elaborated within our unit in a multiprofessional way in 4 steps (1 - Screen; 2 - Protect; 3 - Confirm; 4 - Rehabilitate).

This feasibility study aims to evaluate the rate of completion and the conditions for implementing steps 1 and 2 in hospital and institutional care units.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sarcopenic dysphagia is described as a swallowing disorder caused by a loss of muscle mass and strength, sarcopenia. It induces chronic complications like micro-inhalations and the worsening of chronic undernutrition, according to a vicious circle. Awareness of the high prevalence of sarcopenic dysphagia and its serious consequences among elderly people with disabilities and hospitalized patients is recent, which explains the low rate of screening in the population concerned. In this context, methods of prevention, evaluation and intervention of sarcopenic dysphagia adapted to the most exposed population are needed.

Two European learned societies have developed recommendations that include increased awareness of swallowing disorders, the use of screening scores, preventive measures, diagnostic standardization, and implemented interventions (rehabilitation, textural adaptation, etc.). In order to respect these recommendations, a pedagogical sheet, entitled DYSPHAGING was elaborated within our unit in a multiprofessional way in 4 steps (1 - Screen; 2 - Protect; 3 - Confirm; 4 - Rehabilitate).

This feasibility study aims to evaluate the rate of completion and the conditions for implementing steps 1 and 2 in hospital and institutional care units.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of complete achievement of steps 1 and 2

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: EAT-10 (Eating assessment Tool) screening questionnaire
  - PROCEDURE: Protective measures for the upper airways

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05734586
