CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06203301
Title: The Relationships of Resistance Exercise, Walking, Myokine Secretion, Sarcopenia, Muscle Loss, Quality of Life, and Predictors in Cancer Patients Receiving Chemoradiotheray
Official Title: The Relationships of Resistance Exercise, Walking, Myokine Secretion, Sarcopenia, Muscle Loss, Quality of Life, and Predictors in Cancer Patients Receiving Chemoradiotheray
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Cancer is the first most common cause of death in Taiwan. The application of surgery and chemoradiotherapy are used for treatment of patients with cancer. However, loss of muscle mass, low muscle strength, low physical performance, and sarcopenia are induced during chemoradiotherapy, consequently increased the risk of hematological toxicity and nonhematological toxicity, decreased quality of life and survival rate. It was reported that skeletal muscle can secretion of myokines, which contribute to muscle synthesis, growth, repair, or atrophy. Investigators suggest that detection of blood concentration of myokines and sarcopenia-related predictors can early detection potential individuals who are susceptibility to sarcopenia in cervical cancer patients receiving chemoradiotherapy. Also, resistance exercise was demonstrated to improve muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, and sarcopenia. Investigators suggest that resistance exercise can prevent cervical cancer patients from sarcopenia and improve quality of life through regulation the concentration of myokines. However, there was no study has been investigated their relationships. Therefore, investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial study to estimate (1) the effect of resistance exercise, walking on regulation myokine secretion, improving skeletal muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, sarcopenia, and quality of life in cancer receiving chemoradiotherapy; (2) myokine level, muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, and sarcopenia incidence in cancer patients before and after receiving chemoradiotherapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cancer is the first most common cause of death in Taiwan. The application of surgery and chemoradiotherapy are used for treatment of patients with cancer. However, loss of muscle mass, low muscle strength, low physical performance, and sarcopenia are induced during chemoradiotherapy, consequently increased the risk of hematological toxicity and nonhematological toxicity, decreased quality of life and survival rate. It was reported that skeletal muscle can secretion of myokines, which contribute to muscle synthesis, growth, repair, or atrophy. Investigators suggest that detection of blood concentration of myokines and sarcopenia-related predictors can early detection potential individuals who are susceptibility to sarcopenia in cervical cancer patients receiving chemoradiotherapy. Also, resistance exercise was demonstrated to improve muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, and sarcopenia. Investigators suggest that resistance exercise can prevent cervical cancer patients from sarcopenia and improve quality of life through regulation the concentration of myokines. However, there was no study has been investigated their relationships. Therefore, investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial study to estimate (1) the effect of resistance exercise, walking on regulation myokine secretion, improving skeletal muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, sarcopenia, and quality of life in cancer receiving chemoradiotherapy; (2) myokine level, muscle mass, muscle strength, physical performance, and sarcopenia incidence in cancer patients before and after receiving chemoradiotherapy.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - physical functional performance
  - muscle strength
  - muscle mass
  - the incidence of sarcopenia
  - effectively improve their quality of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: resistance exercise and walking

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06203301
