CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05790863
Title: Effects of Low-volume HIIT Versus MICT on Physical Performance in Older Adults With Possible Sarcopenia
Official Title: Effects of Low-volume High-intensity Training Versus Moderate-intensity Continuous Training on Physical Performance in Older Adults With Possible Sarcopenia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Background: Sarcopenia is an age-related geriatric syndrome characterized by progressive loss of muscle mass and function. Before the diagnosis of sarcopenia, a "possible sarcopenia" stage has been proposed recently, characterized by low muscle strength or poor physical performance, even with normal muscle mass. The definition of "possible sarcopenia" emphasizes the importance of early intervention. Due to the lack of effective pharmaceutical treatments, exercise is recommended as the most available intervention for sarcopenia. High-intensity interval training (HIIT), a time-efficient aerobic training, has gained increasing popularity for its benefits in physiologic outcomes such as muscle strength and physical functions in other populations. However, the benefits of HIIT have not been well-studied following older adults with possible sarcopenia. In the present study, we aim to investigate the effects of a 7-week HIIT and moderate-intensity continuous aerobic training (MICT) on physical performance in older individuals with possible sarcopenia. We hypothesize that HIIT will confer physical benefits over MICT (i.e., traditional endurance exercise) and will be generally well-tolerated in older adults.

Method: The participants will be randomly allocated into the HIIT or MICT group (1:1 ratio). The participants will receive the training 3 times per week over seven weeks. HIIT consists of 5 bouts of interval training intensity with 1-minute-high intensity (76-90% HRmax) and 1-minute recovery per session (total 15 minutes with warm-up and cool-down). MICT will adopt an intensity of 65-70% HRmax training that lasts less than 30 minutes per session (total 25 minutes with warm-up and cool-down). Evaluation will be performed at baseline, after 4 weeks, and 7 weeks of the intervention. The primary outcomes include 10-meter walking test and the five-time chair stand test. The secondary outcomes include grip strength, the functional stretch test; the Exercise Enjoyment Scale and the Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale for affective valence.

Discussion: This is the first study to investigate the effects of low-volume HIIT on physical performance and affective valence in older adults with possible sarcopenia. This study will provide critical evidence to guide early prevention and intervention of exercise regimens for possible sarcopenia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in time of the The 5 repeated sit-to-stand test after 7 weeks of intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Ergometer cycling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05790863
