CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02045355
Title: Effects of Fish or Meat Consumption in Elderly
Official Title: Effects of Fish or Meat Consumption on Sarcopenia and Mobility in Elderly After Hip Fracture
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Health effects of fish consumption have been demonstrated in epidemiological studies and in controlled intervention studies in a number of different population groups, however, randomized controlled studies on the effect of fish consumption in elderly are sparse. Many studies have focused on n-3 fatty acids instead of fish as a food and therefore, many health effects have only been related to the effect of n- 3 fatty acids. The elderly are a heterogeneous population group and therefore difficult to study. In order to reduce heterogeneity, it is advisable to focus on elderly with specific needs. Elderly who experienced a hip fracture can serve as a model for an advanced ageing process, as these patients typically experience a huge inflammatory response, immobilisation and a reduction in muscle mass. Increased fish intake is believed to have effects towards inflammation and a reduction in muscle mass. Therefore, we want to test whether increased fish intake can have positive health effects in elderly who experienced a hip fracture.

Main hypothesis:

Increased fish intake (salmon, cod, pelagic fish), in comparison to meat, will increase mobility, muscle strength and mobility in frail elderly.

Objectives

1. To evaluate the health effects of fish consumption in frail elderly The effect of a dietary intervention with fish on mobility, muscle mass and strength in elderly who experienced a hip fracture has not been shown before.
2. To demonstrate the feasibility of dietary intervention in elderly We want to show that a dietary intervention with fish or control meals is feasible in elderly. The meals (4 portions of fish per week or control portions of meat) will be delivered to their homes.

Description of work and role of participants This is a randomized clinical trial (RCT) on the effect of fish consumption on mobility in elderly who experienced a hip fracture. Elderly who experienced a hip fracture but were able to walk without support by a person before the fracture, will receive, after being randomized to two groups, fish or meat to be used in cold or warm meals at 4 days per week for a period of 16 weeks. Measurements will be taken at baseline (when patients have left the rehabilitation center), after 4 weeks and after 16 weeks. Measurements at 4 and 16 weeks after inclusion will be at their homes or in the outpatient clinic.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in New Mobility Score (NMS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Fish intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02045355
