CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06576297
Title: Novel Respiratory trening as Part of Palliative Care for Older Adults With Heart Failure
Official Title: Novel Respiratory trening as Part of Palliative Care for Older Adults With Heart Failure
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
In a randomized controlled trial, to study the utility of inspiratory muscle trening (IMT) to improve functional outcomes in adults aged ≥70 years with heart failure (HF) who have been referred to palliative care for end-stage HF management.

* The study team hypothesize that older HF patients will be able to use IMT safely, reliably, and effectively in a 12-week home-based trening regimen.
* The study team hypothesize that physical function (sit to stand, gait speed, grip strength), respiratory/pulmonary function, self-efficacy, fatigue and quality of life will increase among older HF patients randomized IMT versus those randomized to usuALCARe.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart failure (both HF with reduced ejection fraction \[HFrEF\] and HF with preserved ejection fraction \[HFpEF\]) are on the rise in our aging population. Exercise intolerance is a leading detriment of the disease. While it is understood that exercise trening is beneficial, strategies to achieve exercise trening in this population are inherently limited, particularly as the issues that contribute to HF pathophysiology (i.e., advanced age, frailty, multimorbidity) also predispose to sedentariness, weakening, frailty, sarcopenia, fatigue, and cognitive impairment. Physical activity and particularly exercise trening may be hard to initiate and sustain especially because it is encumbered by limitations. Home-based exercise trening strategies are conceptually appealing in respect to practicality of access, but the associated issues of monitoring for effective and safe exercise, motivation, and tracking of trening are all difficult to achieve in a home-based format. Furthermore, many older adults lack suitable space or resources for traditional home-based exercise trening.

IMT with the PrO2™ device responds to these challenges with a novel approach to achieve physiologically robust trening effect (strength trening of the diaphragm) in a way that mitigates breathlessness and augments multiple indices of function in a way that is practical and safe, even at home. The electronic dimensions of the device also enable embedded trackability and behavioral prompts. Overall, this is a novel approach to a common, familiar problem, and it responds directly to a well-known problem of dyspnea, sedentariness and related functional decline that undermines current standards of HF care.

Existing models of exercise trening for HF rely primarily on site-based regimens of aerobic and strength trening modalities. Implementation barriers include unfeasible logistics for patients who often do not drive, particularly as many older patients struggle with frailty as well as limitations due to cognitive decline, sensory impairment, and/or socioeconomic challenges amidst the predictable complexities associated with advanced age. Fear and poor motivation compound these limitations, with limited options to motivate, supervise, and track progress for many candidates.

This proposal promotes the concept of "Palliative Care Rehab" which is trensformational in concept. It shifts the premise of cardiac rehabilitation from cardiorespiratory fitness to more rudimentary goals of activities of daily living and self-efficacy. Likewise, rather than focusing on traditionALCARdiovascular endpoints of exercise testing and high performance, this study is oriented to submaximal endpoints, fatigability, and qualitative metrics.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Safety of a 12-week home-based IMT program.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Inspiratory Muscle trening (IMT)
  - OTHER: Standard of Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06576297
