CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03035552
Title: CTICU Pacifier Activated Music Player and Mother's Voice
Official Title: Randomized Controlled Trial to Improve Oral Feeding Outcomes in Infants With Complex Congenital Heart Disease Using Pacifier Activated Device-Training With Mother's Voice
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 61
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine if intensive training of Non-Nutritive Suck (NNS) using contingent positive reinforcement with mother's voice can improve the feeding outcomes of infants with congenital heart defect (CHD) at high risk for oral motor problems.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized controlled trial to Improve Oral Feeding Outcomes in Infants with Complex Congenital heart disease using Pacifier Activated Device-Training with Mother's Voice Specific Aims Infants with complex congenital heart disease (CCHD) have high rates of delayed or impaired oral feeding skills, associated with other neurodevelopmental problems such as worse motor and language outcomes in early childhood. The acquisition of efficient suck strength and patterns is essential to promote later optimal oral feeding. Therefore, ineffective non-nutritive suck (NNS), one of the earliest feeding milestones, can result in later maladaptive oral motor skills or even oro-sensory aversions. Evidence-based interventions are lacking for CCHD infants hospitalized in the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit (CTICU) to improve early oral feeding patterns and promote acquisition of later developmental milestones. NNS training (as opposed to simply offering a pacifier) safely improves oral feeding strength and rate in other high-risk populations, such as preterm infants, even when they have suffered severe neural insults. This type of training uses operant conditioning with positive stimuli to reinforce learning and establishment of functional pathways between lower and higher order neural networks. Furthermore, NNS training is associated with acquisition of essential developmental milestones in the first year. The investigators propose the following hypothesis: Intensive NNS-contingent training using reinforcement with mother's voice can improve the oral feeding outcomes of infants with CCHD. They further hypothesize that establishment of optimal NNS in the first 6 months can improve feeding and developmental outcomes by one year of age.

To test this hypothesis, the investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in CCHD infants hospitalized for surgical repair. Because the proposed intervention has been demonstrated to only have positive effects in other high-risk infants, the study will use a wait-list design: CCHD infants who do not receive their intervention before surgery will receive it after, so that the entire cohort will eventually benefit from the intervention. The intervention will utilize a Pacifier Activated Music Player (PAM) with a sensor detecting changes in suck pressures and patterns, and a speaker contingently delivering mother's voice, in infants 0-6 months in the CTICU. Quantitative oral feeding metrics before and after the intervention, as well as, immediately after discharge will be used to measure efficacy. Secondly, to assess the impact of NNS training on developmental milestone acquisition, a standardized feeding and neurodevelopmental assessments of all trial infants at 12 months of age in the Follow-Up clinic will also be conducted. Randomization will account for differences in CCHD diagnoses known to impact outcomes. The study design will control for the type of surgical procedure as a proxy for severity of illness and exposur

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oral feeding Efficiency

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pacifier activated music player

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 0 Months to 6 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03035552
