CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05156216
Title: Comparative Effect of Two Educational Videos for People With Knee Osteoarthritis (vidEO)
Official Title: Comparative Effect of Two Educational Videos for People With Knee Osteoarthritis - Disease and Impairment Discourse Versus Empowerment and Participatory Discourse: vidEO - An Online Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 589
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Education is an important part of knee osteoarthritis management. The aim of education is to help people with knee osteoarthritis make the best choices for them in terms of their treatment and lifestyle behaviours. Traditional education that describes the condition simplistically in terms of the joint damage and describes the cause of osteoarthritis solely with respect to loading through the joint can lead to activity avoidance and pessimism about the future progression of symptoms. An alternative is to provide the information about knee osteoarthritis management with the aim of giving hope for the future and building motivation and confidence to be physically active. This study will compare two educational videos that cover the same topics but with a contrasting 'discourse'. The experimental video has an 'empowerment and participatory' discourse, while the comparator or control video has a typical 'disease and impairment' discourse. The experimental video minimises mention of joint damage and instead corrects misconceptions about knee osteoarthritis, addresses common barriers to physical activity and incorporates behaviour change techniques such as social learning and modelling of desired behaviours. In this randomised controlled trial, people who report a history of knee problems consistent with knee osteoarthritis will complete questionnaires to determine their self-efficacy for managing knee osteoarthritis pain and their fear of movement. The participants will also be asked about their expectations for the future, their level of motivation to be physically active, and their knowledge about knee osteoarthritis. Participants will then be allocated one of the videos and asked to watch it before repeating the questionnaires.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Self-efficacy for managing pain from osteoarthritis
  - Kinesiophobia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Patient education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05156216
