CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05412667
Title: Investigation of TWK10 Administration on the Effects of Amino Acid Absorption
Official Title: Investigation of TWK10 Administration on the Effects of Amino Acid Absorption
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The most common problem among sports people is that no matter how much protein food or products they eat, their sports performance cannot be improved, resulting in failure to achieve breakthroughs in sports performance. The cause of the trouble is digestion and absorption problems. The key is intestinal problems. If gastrointestinal function is maintained in a healthy state, then exercise performance must be maintained at a considerable level. Therefore, how to choose the source of protein in the diet is one of the most concerned issues of the sports crowd. Although past studies have confirmed that the essential amino acids in animal protein can be absorbed and utilized better than plant protein, plant protein can be broken down into easily digestible peptides and amino acids by pepsin. Promote the metabolite pool in the large intestine and the amino acid balance of the host in the small intestine. Recent studies have pointed out that the proteases and peptidases in lactic acid bacteria can provide free amino acids for the best growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of bacteria, and can increase the distribution of amino acids in the blood, the speed of muscle synthesis and the content of branched chain amino acids. However, the mechanism of action of Lactobacillus plantarum on protein digestion and amino acid absorption in the host is still unclear. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore the effect of supplementing sports lactic acid bacteria TWK10 in human experiments to effectively improve the amino acid bioabsorption rate of plant protein supplements. 40 subjects were randomly divided into 2 groups, each with 20 people (male and female): (1) pea protein without TWK10 (placebo), (2) TWK10 group (TWK10). The two groups of subjects were supplemented with test samples for 28 consecutive days and performed paired sports trening 3 times a week. Before and after the intervention, the samples were subjected to exercise testing, blood and fecal sample collection, body composition analysis, and muscle mass analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Amino acid
  - Muscle composition
  - Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP)
  - Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP)
  - Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: TWK10
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05412667
