CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06674798
Title: School-based e-Health Non-Communicable Disease (NCD) Prevention Program
Official Title: School-based e-Health Non-Communicable Disease (NCD) Prevention Program to Improve Awareness in Adolescents From Urban Pakistan
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 272
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The goal of this sequential mixed method study is to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of a school-based eHealth-NCD prevention program intervention to improve adolescents' knowledge, attitude, and practices regarding NCDs and associated risk factors. It aims :

1. To identify barriers and facilitators associated with implementing a school-based eHealth intervention to improve the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of secondary and higher secondary school students in Pakistan regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors.
2. To explore the stakeholders' perceptions regarding the design and content of the School based eHealth NCD prevention Program to improve the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of secondary and higher secondary school students in Pakistan regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors.
3. To assess the feasibility and effectiveness of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program in secondary and higher secondary school in Karachi.
4. To evaluate the effectiveness of the school-based eHealth NCD prevention program in significantly improving the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of secondary and higher secondary school students in Karachi, Pakistan, regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors, as compared to a control group not receiving the intervention.
5. To explore the perceptions of students regarding the usefulness acceptability and task technology fit of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention Program in improving the knowledge, attitude, and practices of Pakistani Higher Secondary School students regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors.

Researcher aim to evaluate the effectiveness of the school-based eHealth NCD prevention program in significantly improving the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of secondary and higher secondary school students in Karachi, Pakistan, regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors, as compared to a control group not receiving the intervention.

Participants of intervention group will attend health-promoting sessions delivered by trained facilitators, with each session lasting 30 to 40 minutes. There will be a total of six health-promoting sessions be focused on the leading risk factors associated with NCDs as reported by different studies such as physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and overweight, obesity, harmful alcohol consumption and tobacco use will be conducted in the classroom for the intervention group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A sequential mixed methods design is used to allow a more robust exploration, validation, and explanation of the complex factors surrounding the implementation and effectiveness of a school-based eHealth NCD prevention program for currently enrolled grade 9-12 students in Karachi. The project progresses from initial exploration (qualitative exploration phase) to validation (quantitative phase) and deeper understanding (qualitative explanation phase), enhancing the study's overall rigor and validity. The qualitative exploration phase is based on an adaptation of the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) and Task Technology Fit Model (TTFM).

Before starting the study, permission is obtained from the pertinent authorities at the provincial and district education departments, as well as from school principals. Consent will be sought from parents, while assent will be obtained from secondary and higher secondary school students. Scheduling of data collection will be coordinated with school administrators to ensure a suitable time. Trained data collectors will be responsible for gathering data on the school premises using interview-based questionnaires.

QUALITATIVE EXPLORATORY PHASE By starting with the exploratory qualitative phase, the study aims to explore the perceptions of secondary and higher secondary school students regarding the usefulness, acceptability, and task technology fitness of a school-based eHealth NCD prevention program in improving the knowledge, attitudes, and practices. A total of four FGDs (two groups of students and two groups of teachers) with eight participants each and at least ten key informant interviews (five from school administrators and five from parents) will be conducted. Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research (COREQ) guidelines will be used to analyze all qualitative data. The data will be audio-recorded, compiled, translated into English, and then analyzed using manual thematic analysis and Qualitative Solutions and Research International (QSR) NVivo version 10 for thematic-content analysis. All interviews and FGDs will be transcribed in English. Commonalities and differences across the data will be identified and clustered around thematic sections. Verbatim quotes will be added to complement the themes. This initial phase will yield rich contextual insights that can inform the design and content of the program.

QUANTITATIVE PHASE - INTERVENTION The subsequent quantitative phase will build upon the findings from the qualitative exploration phase, allowing for the systematic assessment of the program's feasibility and effectiveness in significantly improving the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of secondary and higher secondary school students in Karachi, Pakistan, regarding NCDs and their associated risk factors, as compared to a control group not receiving the intervention, using a clustered randomized controlled trial design. This sequential approach allows the researchers to utilize qualitati

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To assess feasibility (Recruitment rate) of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program
  - To assess feasibility (Retention Rate) of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program
  - To assess feasibility (treatment fidelity) of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program
  - To assess effectiveness of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program in improving the knowledge among secondary and higher secondary school students regarding the NCDs and their associated risk factors.
  - To assess effectiveness of the School-based eHealth NCD prevention program in improving the attitude among secondary and higher secondary school students regarding the NCDs and their associated risk factors.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: School-based eHealth NCD Prevention Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06674798
