CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06579898
Title: The Effect of Progressive Resistance Exercise Training (PRET) on CVRF in Adults With ID.
Official Title: The Effect of Progressive Resistance Exercise Training (PRET) on Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Adults With ID.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Thanks to improved healthcare, the life expectancy of people with ID is increasing and is approaching that of the general population. Several studies have shown that most cardiovascular disease (CVRF) risk factors are as common or even more common in people with ID than in the general population. The guidelines of the American College of Sport Medicine (ACSM) state that a resistance training (RT) programme can can effectively reduce CVRF if performed at a high intensity. A secondary benefit of RT is the increase in muscle strength and muscle mass that can reduce and can improve the ability to perform activities of daily living (ADL), also two common problems in people with ID.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study has a repeated time series design with one study group. The study period will last one year and is divided into a 12-week baseline period, a 24-week intervention period (PRET programme), and a 12-week follow-up period. The PRET programme will take 24 weeks and consists of two sessions per week, with at least 48 hours between the sessions. The intervention will be led by experienced physiotherapists and physical activity instructors employed by the care providers. All instructors take part in a training prior to the study. In this training, the intervention protocol and exercises will be discussed and practiced ensuring that the intervention is delivered according to the protocol. Every session consists of seven exercises (RESID) to train all large muscle groups. The programme is in accordance with the ACSM guidelines and characterised by four mesocycles. Each mesocycle consists of six weeks of training. After each mesocycle the training intensity will increase gradually, and within each mesocycle the weights will be adjusted in a way that the intensity remains equal. Training intensity will be measured by the percentage of the heaviest load one can lift for one repetition (% of 1RM). In the first mesocycle, participants are introduced to the resistance exercises and familiarised to the training protocol. They will learn to perform the exercises safely and with good posture. During mesocycles 2, 3, and 4, the number of repetitions will be gradually decreased while the training intensity will be gradually increased until vigorous intensity is reached in the fourth mesocycle (80% of 1RM). The resting time between sets will depend on the training intensity and varies between 30 seconds and 2 minutes. The instructors will register attendance, training intensity, performed number of sets and repetitions, and the weights used for each exercise in a log.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycated Haemoglobin
  - Systolic blood pressure
  - LDL cholesterol
  - Waist-hip ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Progressive resistance exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06579898
