CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03707067
Title: Compression Garments for Recovery in Modern Pentathletes
Official Title: The Effects of Made-To-Measure Compression Garments on the Recovery of Performance and Markers of Muscle Damage and Inflammation in Elite Modern Pentathletes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Aims To assess the efficacy of made to measure, high pressure compression garments (CG) for facilitating the recovery of strength, muscular power, and physiological markers of muscle damage following fencing, when compared a sham treatment

Rationale for study design

The results of a recent meta-analysis have informed the design of this study. The conclusions of the meta-analysis were that CG are most effective for the recovery of:

* Force and power performance following eccentric/plyometric exercise
* Maximal force production, at least 24 hours post-exercise (for example in strength and power athletes undertaking resistance training programmes)
* Additionally, the recovery of high-intensity cardiovascular performance may also be enhanced by the used of CG, when tested 24 hours following exercise which incurs metabolic stress Accordingly, the current study was designed to investigate the effects of CG of intense, competitive sparring following fencing sessions, held at the British Modern Pentathlon training base at the University of Bath.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The efficacy of compression garments (CG) for recovery will be assessed in 10 elite modern pentathletes, using a crossover design. Athletes will complete each of two different recovery interventions immediately after each of 2 identical 3 hour fencing sessions, in a random order. Sessions will be separated by at least 2 weeks, standardising training in the lead-up to control for training-load and fatigue. A two-way (4 time-points x 2 conditions) crossover trial will be conducted to assess differences in performance tests following fencing ("sparring"), conducted before and after sparring, then 12 hours and 36 hours afterwards. In addition, 3200 m running performance will be assessed the afternoon before and at 12 hours and 36 hours after the fencing session.

All testing will be carried out at the British Modern Pentathlon base at the University of Bath. One month before testing, athletes will familiarised with strength testing using a strain-gauge (MIE Medical Research Ltd., Leeds, UK). Participants will be seated on a plyometric box, starting from a flexed position of 90 degrees, as measured with a goniometer, before taking the best of three attempts of maximal knee flexion. All other measures to be taken form part of the athletes' regular performance monitoring tests. Body composition will be assessed, including height and body-mass, as well as waist, hip thigh, calf, ankle and gluteal circumferences. All limb measurements will be taken from the right side, in accordance with guidelines set by the International Society of Anthropometry and Kinanthropometry (ISAK). Skinfold measurements will be taken according to the ISAK 8 site protocol by a level 1 anthropometrist. Athletes will be fitted for custom fitted (CF) CG (stockings), after taking real-time 3D images using the manufacturer's proprietary, digitised method (Isobar Compression Ltd., Manchester, UK).

In the afternoon before fencing begins (12 midday), 3200 m running performance will be timed using a stopwatch on a 400 m running track (8 laps). Fencing sparring will commence at 5 p.m. the same day, preceded immediately by the other performance measures and physiological tests. Following athletes' individual warm-ups, maximal leg strength will be assessed, as well as vertical jump performance (maximal force and maximum height from the best of 3 attempts) using a force plate (Kistler 3-Component Force-Link, New York, USA). Maximal grip strength will also be assessed (Takei Digital Hand-Grip Dynanometer 4001, Takei Scientific Instruments Co., Niigata-City, Japan). Soreness (200 mm visual analogue scale) and swelling at the mid-thigh skinfold site will also be recorded (spring loaded tape measure - Lafayette Instrument Co, Lafayette, Ind, USA). Muscle damage will be quantified with creatine kinase analysis (CK), and inflammation quantified with C-reactive protein (RX Daytona, Kearneysville, West Virginia, USA) from venous blood samples taken from the arm at baseline and at each time-point th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal isometric voluntary contraction strength for knee extension (change in Newtons compared to baseline)
  - Lower body reactive strength (jump height/contact time in m/s) following a drop from a 0.6 m box onto a force plate (change in m/s compared to baseline)
  - 3200 m run time trial performance (change in seconds compared to baseline)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Compression garments
  - OTHER: Sham recovery drink

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03707067
