CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06845475
Title: Effect of Shock Wave Therapy on Myofascial Pain Syndrome in Adolescent Athletes
Official Title: Effect of Shock Wave Therapy on Myofascial Pain Syndrome in Adolescent Athletes
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine the effect of extracorporeal shockwave therapy on pain, neck range of motion, and functional activity in adolescent athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Myofascial pain syndrome is a syndrome characterized by pain and accompanying muscle spasms, referred pain patterns, stiffness, and restricted range of motion caused by trigger points on constricted fibers of muscles and/or fasciae. Myofascial pain syndrome is the most common reason for back pain, shoulder pain, tension-type headaches, and regional pains such as facial pain.

Myofascial trigger points (MTrPs) are understood as the morphological correlate of the myofascial pain syndrome (MPS), an acute or chronic muscular pain condition affecting a single muscle or a group of muscles. Active MTrPs are spontaneously painful, while latent MTrPs are only painful upon pressure. MTrP stimulation can also cause referred pain and the characteristic local twitch response.

The main goal of MPS treatment is to break down the vicious circle of "spasm - pain - spasm" and release trigger points. Various physical therapy modalities such as trigger point injection, stretching-spray technique or ultrasound (US), heat packs and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), and extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT), are used for the treatment of MPS. These modalities inactivate the trigger point with their thermal and mechanical effects.

Due to the lack of research area of extracorporeal shock wave therapy on myofascial pain syndrome on upper trapezius in adolescents' athletes, so the purpose of the study is to know impact of the extracorporeal shock wave therapy on myofascial pain syndrome on upper trapezius in adolescents' athletes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assessment of pain level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Designed physical therapy program
  - OTHER: Extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06845475
