CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03686293
Title: A Personal Microbiome-dependent Glucose Response in Healthy Young Volunteers
Official Title: A Personal Microbiome-dependent Glucose Response in Healthy Young Volunteers: a Meal Test Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 31
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Individuals eating identical meals present high variability in post-meal blood glucose response making comparisons challenging. This study evaluates in 40 healthy and fasted participants whether the postprandial glucose response upon a standardized breakfast is dependent on gut microbial richness. Gastric emptying rate, intestinal transit time, insulin, appetite hormones and measures of the intestinal microbiome and fermentation will also be analyzed in the context of postprandial glucose metabolism.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Elevated blood glucose levels constitute a major risk factor for pre-diabetic and diabetic patients. Postprandial glucose tests have been used for decades to monitor and compare glucose responses. Yet, individuals eating identical meals present high variability in post-meal blood glucose response making comparisons challenging. A recent landmark study showed that the inter-individual variation of postprandial glucose responses was associated with multiple person-specific factors including faecal microbiome factors. Gut microbial richness has for a long time been considered a hallmark of gut health and stability. Furthermore, microbial richness has been associated with colonic transit time, which together with the gastric emptying rate appear to be major determinants of the initial glycaemic response to carbohydrate-containing meals. Therefore, the aim of the study is to investigate whether postprandial glucose responses are associated with gut microbial richness, as well as secondary measures including gastric emptying rate, intestinal transit time and gut microbial composition and fermentation.

In an acute-meal study, 40 healthy fasted participants will consume a standardized breakfast including one tablet of paracetamol (for estimating gastric emptying rate) and 300 mL of juice.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postprandial plasma glucose at 60 min as a function of gut microbial richness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Standardized breakfast

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03686293
