CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07272941
Title: Mindfulness-Based Intervention for Pediatric Mild Traumatic Brain Injury
Official Title: Multisite Randomized Clinical Trial: Mindfulness-Based Intervention for Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (MBI-4-mTBI)
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 362
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Formal MBIs, such as Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), have been shown to increase resiliency and teach affect regulation. However, these formal interventions may not be suitable for acutely concussed youth as they are costly, not easily accessible (trained therapists are needed), and require commitment from parents and children for in-person weekly meetings and at-home practice of learned skills for 8 to 16 weeks. Further, MBSR programs may not be readily accessible immediately after a concussion. With the increasing use of mobile phones and tablets in youth, mobile health offers a powerful platform for mental health interventions. Advantages of app-based interventions include constant availability, greater access, tailored content, lower cost, immediate delivery, and increased service capacity and efficiency. Therefore, the anticipated benefit is to show the efficacy of a pragmatic and low-cost intervention and reduce barriers to care through a novel, innovative and accessible MBI treatment program. This will have both a benefit to public health and expand our understanding of the impact of MBIs on pediatric recovery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study has two groups: (1) experimental group: usual care plus early introduction of the app-based MBI; and (2) control group: usual care plus early introduction sham application, including the cognitive math game called 2048. Usual care in both groups refers to the recommended return to physical and cognitive activity 24-48 hours post-injury. To maintain valid results, participants will be "blinded" to their intervention. (i.e., during the informed consent process, the study will be referred to as the App-based Intervention study with the purpose of evaluating two app-based interventions). Although only one group will receive the MBI intervention, both groups will be receiving usual care instructions, which involves the early return to cognitive and physical activities. Therefore, both groups will be receiving a beneficial intervention with the experimental group receiving the additional MBI that is being assessed. For both groups, Treatment Coaches will be assigned to each participant. Coaches will maintain regular communication with patients. Their role will be to encourage and assist participants throughout the study duration through a standardized question-and-answer protocol. Additionally, to increase adherence to the intervention, participants will complete a motivational interview at 2 weeks. After 4 weeks, all participants will be offered the MBI program for an extra period of 4 weeks. The control group will have the possibility at that time to crossover and start the intervention if desired.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory™ version 4.0

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Based Intervention (MBI)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Sham

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07272941
