CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04317326
Title: "Post-acute Pickwick Study" (Postacute-Pick-2020)
Official Title: "Mid- and Long-term Effectiveness of Positive Airway Pressure in OHS After an Acute-on-chronic Hypercapnic Respiratory Failure"
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
We propose to carry out a large multicentric, multinational, randomized controlled trial with two phases (two sequential randomized controled trials) to answer two questions: 1) Should hospitalized patients with recently diagnosed OHS be discharged from the hospital on an auto-titratable NIV treatment until the diagnosis of OHS is confirmed in 3 months? 2) Is the long-term effectiveness of outpatient titrated CPAP non-inferior to titrated NIV in ambulatory patients with OHS 3 months after hospital discharge? Clinical practice, multicenter open-label controlled randomized clinical trial with preset allocation rate (1:1) with two parallel-groups conducted in centers from Spain, France, Portugal and USA. The study will have two phases with two randomizations. The first phase will be a superiority study and the second phase will be a non-inferiority study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives: First phase (medium-term): To evaluate the medium-term (3 months) efficacy of automatically adjusted noninvasive ventilation (NIV) treatment versus "life style modifications" treatment in obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) after an episode of acute-on-chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure. The main outcome will be a composite that includes hospital resource utilization (hospital and ICU admissions and emergency department visits for any cause) and all-cause mortality. Key secondary outcomes will include incident cardiovascular events (new hypertension diagnosis or initiation of anti-hypertensive treatment, atrial fibrillation, hospitalization for nonfatal myocardial infarction or unstable angina, percutaneous coronary interventions, nonfatal stroke or transient ischemic attack or for acute heart failure episode, and cardiovascular death), blood pressure, arterial blood gases, clinical symptoms and quality of life. Second phase (long-term): Evaluate the long-term efficacy (36 months) of manually titrated NIV treatment versus manually titrated CPAP treatment in OHS after 3 months of an episode of acute-on-chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure, with a composite outcome of hospital resource utilization (hospital and ICU admissions, emergency department visits) and all-cause mortality analyzed as the primary outcome. Incident cardiovascular events, blood pressure, arterial blood gases, clinical symptoms and quality of life will be the main secondary outcomes.

Methods: Prospective, multinational, randomized open-label controlled trial with two parallel arms: 1,110 hospitalized patients with newly diagnosed OHS with acute-on-chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure treated with invasive or noninvasive mechanical ventilation who survive hospitalization and available for hospital discharge will be randomized to either automatically adjusted NIV (555 patients) or "life style modifications" (555 patients) for three months. Subsequently, both automatically adjusted NIV and "life style modifications" arms will be re-randomized to polysomnographically adjusted CPAP or to polysomnographically adjusted NIV groups to complete 36 months of follow up. The first phase of the proposal is a superiority study and the second phase is a non-inferiority study. The primary outcome and its components will be analyzed by a mixed-effects model with negative binomial. A mixed-effects Cox model will be used for hospital resource utilization, new cardiovascular events and overall survival. Other secondary outcomes such as repeated measures derived from the arterial blood gases (i.e. PaCO2, PaO2, pH, calculated bicarbonate), blood pressure, health-related quality of life tests and Epworth Sleepiness Scale during the follow-up will be analyzed by a linear mixed-effects model.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Medium-term composite hospital resource utilization-mortality
  - Long-term composite hospital resource utilization-mortality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: "Lifestyle modifications" group (Control)
  - PROCEDURE: Automatic NIV
  - PROCEDURE: CPAP treatment group
  - PROCEDURE: NIV treatment groups

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04317326
