CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05831982
Title: Exercise and Nutrition Intervention for Frail Older Patients
Official Title: The Effect of a Complex Person-centered Exercise and Nutrition Intervention for Frail Older Patients on Functional Decline, Quality of Life and Readmissions - A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 119
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of a person-centered training and nutrition intervention six month after discharge in acutely admitted frail old medical patients on physical function. Secondly, to evaluate the effect on frailty, quality of life, health literacy, nutrition, readmissions, death and consumption of home care costs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Evidence on how to improve physical function and avoid unnecessary readmissions for frail hospitalized older medical patients is not established as yet. In Denmark, the few studies performed have not succeeded in showing a significant difference in physical function or quality of life, due to sector barriers, low compliance and uni-dimensional interventions and none of the studies addressed readmissions and or described a patient-centered approach.

This research project will address this serious individual and societal challenge by testing and evaluating a person-centered complex intervention with emphasis on the patients´ own focus and goals. To increase the probability of developing a successful intervention with the patient in focus we have completed two qualitative studies with patients and health professionals. The primary results from these studies indicate that the pedagogical approach of the involved healthcare professional is important for establishing a good relation. Patients had a desire of being more active, but after four week only a minority had their own expectations fulfilled. Furthermore, the patients expressed that social relations had the potential of increasing adherence to training sessions. Furthermore, a citizen's panel has been established, and possible elements important for the intervention were discussed on behalf of their own experiences with the healthcare system. The results of these qualitative studies and the latest evidence contributed to the development of the current intervention study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Person-centered strength training and nutrition intervention
  - OTHER: Standard training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05831982
