CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03175289
Title: Expiratory Muscle Strength Training in Improving Bulbar Function and Quality of Life in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
Official Title: The Impact of Expiratory Muscle Strength Training on Bulbar Function and Well Being of Individuals With Head and Neck Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 49
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This randomized clinical trial studies how well expiratory muscle strength training works in improving bulbar function and quality of life in patients with head and neck cancer. Expiratory muscle strength training may help to strengthen the muscles involved in breathing and swallowing and may allow improved breathing, airway safety, swallow function, and quality of life in patients with head and neck cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Investigate the impact of a prophylactic targeted exercise program, expiratory muscle strength training (EMST), on swallowing function and well-being of individuals on head and neck cancer (HNC).

II. Determine the impact of EMST on objective respiratory measures of individuals with HNC.

III. Determine the relationship between mean dose across the swallowing muscles (oral tongue and supra-hyoids, base of tongue, superior, middle and inferior pharyngeal constrictors, proximal esophagus)/dose on each muscle and the swallowing functional outcomes from aim 1.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care comprising of written patient education materials focusing on oral care, signs/symptoms of dysphagia/aspiration, and trismus. Patients participate in a therapy session conducted by a speech pathologist over 30 minutes once per week for 6 weeks during chemoradiation therapy. Patients also perform prescribed exercises at home daily for 3 sets of 10 repetitions.

ARM II: Patients receive standard of care comprising of written patient education materials focusing on oral care, signs/symptoms of dysphagia/aspiration, and trismus. Patients participate in a therapy session conducted by a speech pathologist over 30 minutes once per week for 6 weeks during chemoradiation therapy. Patients perform prescribed exercises at home daily for 3 sets of 10 repetitions. Patients also participate in an EMST session over 30 minutes comprising of 5 sets of 5 repetitions daily for 5 days per week for 6 weeks during chemoradiation therapy.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Airway safety during swallowing assessed using the Penetration-Aspiration Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Best Practice
  - OTHER: Educational Intervention
  - OTHER: Exercise Intervention
  - OTHER: Expiratory Muscle Strength Training
  - OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 78 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03175289
