CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05955976
Title: Characteristics of Hoffa Adipose Tissue and Intramuscular Adipose Tissue in the Quadriceps Muscle
Official Title: Study to Compare the Characteristics of Hoffa Adipose Tissue and Intramuscular Adipose Tissue in the Quadriceps Muscle
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Over the last few years, it has been suggested that Knee Ostheoarthritis (KOA) incidence and progression could potentially be related to skeletal muscle characteristics. In particular, weakness of the quadriceps muscle would be a key determinant of KOA. However the mechanisms underpinning the influence of skeletal muscle in the pathophysiology of ostheoarthritis (OA) are poorly understood.

Crosstalk between skeletal muscle and structures around and in the joint is of interest. In physical deconditioning and aging, it has been reported that skeletal muscle can be replaced by adipose tissue. Several factors involved in the development of OA but also of adipose tissue may be involved in these muscular changes. Of interest, in patients with KOA, quadriceps weakness is an ubiquitous clinical finding. Infiltration of adipose tissue in skeletal muscle has been shown to affect muscle strength and mobility and be linked to cartilage volume loss and the occurrence/progression of KOA.

The main objective of this study is to compare the characteristics of the Hoffa tissus and the intamuscular fat (IMF) tissus in the quadriceps muscle in patients with gonarthrosis requiring total knee prosthesis.

This is a single-centre study based on a collection of surgical waste and is categorized as Research Not Involving Human subjects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Comparison between Hoffa tissue and intramuscular fat tissue (quadriceps): adipose tissue size differences
  - Comparison between Hoffa tissue and intramuscular fat tissue (quadriceps): lipid levels
  - Comparison between Hoffa tissue and intramuscular fat tissue (quadriceps):fibrotic tissue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: BIOPSY

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05955976
