CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06140862
Title: Ankle Spine Syndrome "RAFFET Syndrome II
Official Title: Ipsilateral Calf Muscle Weakness Induces Contralateral Radiculopathy , Where is the Clinical Biomechanics? "Part I"
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
A case series aimed to describe a new clinical condition for the first time in the medical literature called Ankle Spine Syndrome or "RAFFET Syndrome II". This syndrome was reported in 6 patients (2 males and 4 females) out of 1000 patients with a history of chronic ankle injuries affecting their calf muscles' strength throughout the last 3 years. The patients suffered from unresolved CLBP with radiculopathy contralateral to their calf muscle atrophy (i.e., an ipsilateral calf muscle weakness induces contralateral lumbar radiculopathy) that did not respond to physical therapy or any medication for long.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There is a large body of research performed to investigate the etiology of contralateral radiculopathy. However, limited information exists to determine its incidence, underlying pathomechanics, and strategies for management. Therefore, this case series aimed to describe a new clinical condition for the first time in the medical literature called Ankle Spine Syndrome or "RAFFET Syndrome II". This syndrome was reported in 6 patients (2 males and 4 females) out of 1000 patients with a history of chronic ankle injuries affecting their calf muscles' strength throughout the last 3 years. The patients suffered from unresolved CLBP with radiculopathy contralateral to their calf muscle atrophy (i.e., an ipsilateral calf muscle weakness induces contralateral lumbar radiculopathy) that did not respond to physical therapy or any medication for long. Open and closed chain strengthening exercises for the calf muscle were performed. The strengthening exercises include; double leg calf raise (i.e., straight and bent knees), single leg calf raise (i.e., straight and bent knee), seated calf raise, and wall sit calf raise. The patients' long-term back pain and function resolved greatly. By including lumbar stabilization exercises, core trening, and myofascial release therapy, the symptoms resolved completely. Furthermore, with a follow-up after 6 months of a tailored home exercise program, the clinical outcome measures still resolved completely.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) known as Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: calf muscle strengthening and streching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06140862
