CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03237975
Title: BEYO Project to Promote Sense of Coherence and Self-care of Elderly People With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: A Strengths-based Intervention Based on Salutogenic Theory to Promote Sense of Coherence and Self-care of Elderly People With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 132
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
1. Objectives of the Project

   The BEYO project is designed based on the middle range theory of self-care of chronic illness and salutogenic theory. The aim of this project is to facilitate self-care behaviours of community-dwelling elderly patients with type 2 diabetes through promoting SOC, and accordingly improve their health outcomes, including promoting quality of life and reducing diabetes-related emotional distress.
2. Content of the Project

BEYO is a group-based consultation project. Each group contains 1 facilitator, 1 assistant and 8 elderly patients. 5 weekly sessions are provided to let patients receive health knowledge, discuss problems and experiences, explore available resources and build up goals and solutions. Each session lasts for 40 minutes. Session 1 aims to build social network among group members and introduce group goals and tasks. Session 2-4 covers six topics based on the Chinese guideline for type 2 diabetes released by Chinese diabetes society: (i) healthy dietary, (ii) exercise and activity, (iii) taking medication, (iv) blood glucose monitoring, (v) reducing risks for complication, (vi) healthy coping with mental stress. These middle sessions execute a common session flow to construct an action plan utilizing patients' resources and strengths to achieve the client-centered goal. Session 5 aims to review the process, summarize effective solutions, and set up plans for the future. One-week, one-month and three-month telephone follow-ups are delivered to help patients solve problems encountered during implementing the action plan and evaluate their self-care, SOC and other health outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Overall aims The aim of this study is to develop and evaluate the effects of a strengths-based group intervention called Be the Expert for Your Own (BEYO) among elderly patients with type 2 diabetes to facilitate their SOC and self-care, and accordingly improve their health outcomes.
2. Study Design This study is designed to be a mixed method research incorporating both quantitative and qualitative components. A two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted to assess the effects of a strengths-based group intervention compared with routine health education on SOC and self-care of elderly people with type 2 diabetes. The theoretical framework for BEYO program is based on salutogenic theory proposed by Antonovsky (1987). Qualitative study will be conducted at the end of the program to explore patients' experience about BEYO and the mechanism through which BEYO can facilitate self-care, in terms of what component and how.

2\. Be the Expert for Your Own (BEYO) program

1. Overview The BEYO protocol consists of 5 structured sessions among intervention facilitator and 8 type 2 diabetes patients.The common flow for structured sessions contains 7 steps. Rationale and aims for designing each step are described as follows.

   Step 1 - "Health education" As supported by the middle range theory and results from integrated review, knowledge acquisition is essential among patients with chronic disease to perform reflective, sufficient and reasoned self-care actions with a pattern. This step aims to equip patients with basic knowledge and essential skills to manage their disease.

   Step 2 - "Discuss self-care experience and identify deficit" This step aims to collect basic information about clients' experience of performing self-care in each specific area and identify major problems they encounter in this process. This step facilitates information exchange and experience sharing among clients and provides reference for intervention facilitator about clients' basic situation. Besides, giving enough opportunity to describe the problem makes it easier to redirect the conversation later if attendees restart talking about the problem.

   Step 3 - "Describe exceptions" One of the central beliefs for SFT is that there are always exceptions to problems. There are always times and situations when the problem occurs less or when the client feels like successfully managing even a slight part of the problem. After identifying self-care deficit, clients are asked to describe these exceptional times in this step to help them find out skills, resources, and strengths at their disposal. The close attention for exceptions improves clients' sense of self-mastery and their ability to plan further steps.

   Step 4 - "Identify the strengths" On the basis of review and analysis for exceptions, it is the right time to list out and summarize clients' strengths revealed in these exceptions. This step lays a foundation for establishing solutions later, for that de

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - the Chinese version of the Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities measure (SDSCA)
  - Short form of the sense of coherence questionnaire (SOC-13)
  - the Chinese version of the Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities measure (SDSCA)
  - Short form of the sense of coherence questionnaire (SOC-13)
  - the Chinese version of the Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities measure (SDSCA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Be the Expert for Your Own (BEYO)
  - OTHER: Routine health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03237975
