CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05979480
Title: The Effects of Growth Hormone Treatment Discontinuation in Adults on Metabolic Profile, Body Composition and Quality Of Life (GAMBOL Study)
Official Title: The Effects of Growth Hormone Treatment Discontinuation in Adults on Metabolic Profile, Body Composition and Quality Of Life
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Background Growth hormone (GH) is a hormone produced by the pituitary gland which sits at the base of the brain. In adults, GH plays an important role in keeping the bones and muscles healthy, and in regulating the levels of sugar and fat in the body. Growth hormone deficiency (GHD) is a condition where the pituitary gland does not make as much GH as the body needs. The most common cause is damage to the pituitary gland due to tumours (growth), surgery or radiotherapy. In the UK, around 1 in 10,000 adult people have GHD. If left untreated, adults with GHD may experience tiredness and low mood, develop weaker bones, have increased body fat and high cholesterol.

Research has shown that treatment with daily GH injections can improve the symptoms experienced by patients with GHD, but the beneficial effects of GH treatment have only been studied over a short period of 4 to 12 months. In the UK, most adults with GHD are prescribed with GH indefinitely. Some adult patients, who have been on GH treatment for a long time, have wondered what would happen if they stopped taking GH. Will their symptoms come back or not? At the moment, there is no research evidence that clearly answer this question. Hence, a systematic investigation is urgently needed to examine what happens when adult patients with GHD stop taking GH.

Aims The main aim of this study is to establish if it would be feasible to conduct a robust and systematic study called a randomised control trial (RCT), to compare the effects of continuing and stopping long-term GH treatment in adult patients with GHD. This study will: (1) assess whether patients taking GH injection, would agree to take part in a study involving stopping their GH injection and being monitored over a period of time and (2) whether patients would be willing to stop or continue their GH injections by chance (random selection) if accepted in the study.

Methods

This project includes three separate studies:

* Phase 1: Online national survey of UK GHD specialists treating adult patients with GHD.
* Phase 2: Feasibility study involving two groups of adult patients with GHD who have been receiving GH treatment for at least 5 years. Patients will be recruited from two GHD specialist centres in Birmingham. One group (intervention) will include 20-25 patients who are willing to stop taking GH treatment for 2 years. The second group (control) will include 20-25 patients who wish to continue their GH treatment and are willing to undergo monitoring for 2 years. The monitoring will involve blood tests and completing quality of life questionnaires every 6 months, and measurements of body fat, muscles mass and bone mineral density at the beginning and at the end of the study.
* Phase 3: Face-to-face or telephone interviews with 10-16 patients to explore in detail their experiences of participating, completing and/or withdrawing from the study.

Patient and Public Involvement A patient and public advisory group has helped design this proposal and will be involved throughout the research project. The group will review the study protocol, help develop the necessary information resources for participants and assist with interpretation of the results.

Dissemination The results of the study will be submitted for publication in medical journals in the field of GHD. The results will also be presented at the Pituitary Foundation meetings and at local, national and international conferences. Members of the patient and public advisory group will also help in sharing the information about the study with the wider public through relevant charities and social media.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. BACKGROUND

   Growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in adults is caused by decreased secretion of growth hormone (GH) from the pituitary gland (1, 2). This condition is usually caused by a tumour, surgery and/or radiotherapy involving the pituitary gland (3). Adults with GHD present with a constellation of several non-specific features including low mood, poor general well-being, reduced bone mineral density (BMD), increased body fat, increased cholesterol level and reduced exercise capacity (3, 4, 5). Treatment with recombinant human growth hormone (GH) injection has been proven, in short-term studies, to improve the wide spectrum of health issues associated with GHD (6).

   In the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends treating adult patients with GHD with GH until peak bone and muscle mass have been achieved (estimated to be at around the age of 25 years) (7) . For adults over 25 years old, the prescribing of GH treatment is based on the NICE criteria which requires patients to: a) have severe GHD, defined as peak GH response of less than 9 mU/litre during a GH stimulation test; b) have a perceived impairment of quality of life (QoL), as demonstrated by a score of at least 11 in the 'Quality of Life - Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency Assessment' (QoL-AGHDA) questionnaire; c) be receiving appropriate treatment for any other pituitary hormone deficiencies. The UK population of adult patients with GHD receiving GH is quite unique and homogenous as they all have severe GHD and poor quality of life (QoL) prior to commencing the treatment (4). The UK is the only country in the world that offers GH to adult patients with GHD only after poor QoL scores have been confirmed by using the QoL-AGHDA questionnaire (1, 4, 6).

   In the UK, provided that a 7-point improvement (or higher) on the 25-point QoL-AGHDA scale is demonstrated during the first 9 months of GH therapy, adult patients with GHD can continue with their GH treatment long-term (7). However, it remains uncertain if the beneficial effects of GH therapy are sustained throughout adult life, as robust evidence on the risks and benefits of long-term GH treatment is limited. Furthermore, the evidence of improved QoL in adult patients with GHD having GH treatment over placebo has not been established (6). Anecdotally, clinicians report encountering patients who question the merit of continuing with long-term GH treatment. Paradoxically, the same patients are apparently reluctant to stop GH therapy due to fears of return of symptoms and uncertainty about the short-term and long-term effects of treatment discontinuation. Consequently, and in the absence of clear evidence and definitive guidance, replacement therapy with GH continues indefinitely in many adults.

   To date, the optimal duration of GH replacement therapy in adults and the consequences of treatment withdrawal have not been established. There are only few, mainly short-term, follow-up studies which, ho

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Consent Rate
  - Complete Rate
  - Withdrawal Rate
  - Adverse Events

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05979480
