CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04205279
Title: Reactive Balance Training for Fall Prevention
Official Title: Reactive Balance Training for Fall Prevention: a Comparative Study of Three Different Perturbation Devices
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The objective of this pilot study is to evaluate and compare the effect of three different perturbation based training devices on the reactive balance control among healthy young adults, healthy older adults, and neurologically impaired stroke individuals. Furthermore, the project aims to determine the feasibility and tolerability of 30-minutes of perturbation training using the SureFooted Trainer. Overall, the project directs to find out the long term effect of training on fall risk reduction and fall prevention.

This study investigates the effects of perturbation training (slip and trip) based on the principles of motor learning. Perturbations in the form of slips and trips induced by the three different types of perturbation devices will displace the center of mass outside the base of support and challenge the stability, thereby inducing a fall and demand compensatory strategies in order to prevent it. Such perturbation training would train the motor system to improve stability control and vertical limb support.

The project design aims to examine the ability of the central nervous system to mitigate the interference in stability control (if any) that is induced by opposing types of perturbations. The hypothesis of this study if supported by the results, will provide the difference in motor learning with training on three different perturbation devices. Furthermore, it would help to determine which of the three training devices is the most effective in developing defense mechanisms necessary to reduce fall-risk among community-living older adults and the neurological population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
About 34% of the community-dwelling older population experience a detrimental fall each year. Moreover, 40% of the individuals who suffer from pathological conditions such as stroke experience falls. Age-related changes and post-stroke impairments often lead to impaired balance and gait that are highly associated with falls. Most of these falls have been reported to occur during dynamic and complex activities such as walking, reaching out for objects that are a part of daily living.

There are various clinical balance tests used to evaluate the balance in individuals suffering from a stroke. However, most of the tests measure only the static balance ability while performing voluntary/ self-generated activities. Hence, these measures fail to determine the reactive balance control or compensatory strategies used to recover from unexpected perturbations. Perturbation induced by various perturbation based devices such as Activestep treadmill, a motorized, custom-designed free-sliding over-ground walkway that aims to cause a loss of balance by presenting a threat to stability, thereby, challenging the reactive balance response of an individual. This interventional paradigm has now been widely used to quality and trains reactive balance control in older adults and neurologically affected populations. Previously studied along with emerging researches and numerous ongoing clinical trials focusing on perturbation training using a treadmill and overground walking, have already indicated its effectiveness in reducing fall risk. Literature states that more than half of the elderly population did not experience any fall after the first exposure of a novel slip during over-ground walking. However, the efficacy of a newly introduced equipment, Surefooted Trainer, which is a customized, moveable slippery platform where an individual walks safely along protected by a harness, has not yet been explored. Surefooted Trainer consists of the platform which causes slip-like perturbations and obstacles which cause trip-perturbation. Further, both the Activestep and Surefooted Trainer are more compact and can be easily installed in clinical settings. While the Activestep is a treadmill based system the Surefooted Trainer is an overground walkway perturbation system. The study aims to establish feasibility and tolerability for 30 minutes of the Surefooted Trainer first and then gather pilot data for assessing the efficacy of these three perturbation training systems.

The perturbation training paradigm is based on the principle that the central nervous system adapts and learns from previous experience of perturbation and employs motor learning to prospective perturbation induced loss of balance. This helps to reduce the number of falls and improves dynamic stability in the laboratory setting which is later translated to real-life situations. The dose and intensity necessary to induce motor learning are not clearly known and therefore, the purpose of this study is to compa

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Stability gain or loss
  - Change in Limb support gain or loss
  - Change in laboratory-induced falls
  - Number of Real life falls

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental: Treadmill training
  - OTHER: Experimental: Overground training
  - OTHER: Experimental: Surefooted training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04205279
