CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05566379
Title: Mindfulness in Post Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) Dysautonomia
Official Title: Effects of a Mindfulness Intervention on Physical and Psychological Well-Being and Quality of Life in Patients With Post Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) Dysautonomia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The current pilot study will recruit participants experiencing new, returning, or ongoing symptoms related to COVID-19 illness for at least four weeks after being first infected with SARS-CoV-2. All participants will attend a virtual 6-week course entitled Mindful Awareness Practices (MAPs) created, hosted and led by expert facilitators from the Mindful Awareness Research Center (MARC) at University of California Los Angeles (UCLA). This intervention will consist of a mix of lecture, practice, group feedback, and discussion regarding mindfulness. Mindfulness is the mental state achieved by focusing one's awareness on the present while acknowledging and accepting any feelings, thoughts, or bodily sensations. The research team will collect self-reported measures of mental health symptoms, physical health symptoms, and demographic information before and after participants attend MAPs. Objective health measures will also be collected by the research team including an active stand test, a 6-minute walk, and a blood sample.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the current pilot project is to assess the feasibility and effects of a 6-week group mindfulness intervention in patients with Post Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC)-related dysautonomia.

This single-arm study uses a one group pretest/posttest design. A convenience sample of patients will be recruited from the Ahmanson-University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) COVID-19 Cardiology Specialty Clinic and UCLA Long COVID Program.

Outcomes Measures:

Once consented, eligible participants will complete a baseline demographics survey, preintervention assessments including the composite autonomic symptom scoring (COMPASS-31), outcome measures questionnaires for perceived stress, anxiety, depression, fatigue, resilience, sleep, event specific distress, well-being and quality of life. A peripheral blood collection device for evaluation of inflammatory gene expression will be performed along with an active stand test and 6- minute walk prior to the mindfulness intervention. The same measures will be collected following completion of the intervention. Additionally, a logbook of patient self-reported practice frequency will be reviewed, and a focused 3 question audio recorded interview will be conducted at the post intervention visit. At 4-week follow-up post intervention, the final set of assessment questionnaires, and a 3-question mindfulness experience survey will be collected.

Intervention:

Participants will complete a virtual group based 6-week mindfulness meditation-based intervention, Mindful Awareness Practices (MAPs), developed by Diana Winston and colleagues at the Mindful Awareness Research Center (MARC) at UCLA. In response to COVID-19 precautions participants will meet virtually for six weekly, 2-hour group sessions. The group size is estimated at 15 participants.

MAPs is a standardized intervention that has been used in several previous studies. MAPS includes presentation of theoretical framework and materials on mindfulness, relaxation, and the mind-body connection, and experiential practice of meditation. Lecture, discussion, and group process focus on solving problems concerning barriers to effective practice, working with difficult thoughts and emotions, managing pain, and cultivation of loving kindness. Written materials are provided with a summary of information covered each week. Additionally, participants are instructed to practice mindfulness exercises at home on a daily basis (5-20 minutes/day) and advised in the informal use of mindfulness in daily life. Participants will be asked to keep a self-reported log of their daily practice. Classes will be led by experienced mindfulness instructors who received specialized training at the UCLA MARC Center.

Overview:

Baseline Visit (in person): collect within 1-2 week(s) prior to the intervention.

Consent Baseline demographics survey COMPASS-31: the composite autonomic symptom score Questionnaires: perceived stress (PSS), anxiety (GAD-7), depression (PHQ 8),

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in the composite autonomic symptom score COMPASS-31 for autonomic symptoms
  - Change from baseline in Active Stand Test of hemodynamic symptom parameters, exercise tolerance.
  - Change from baseline of Six Minute Walk in hemodynamic parameters, exercise tolerance
  - Change from baseline in mean score in Health-Related Quality of Life (QOL) SF-20

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mindfulness - Mindful Awareness Practices ( MAPs)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 54 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05566379
