CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02830152
Title: Prevention of Stroke by Left Atrial Appendage Closure in Atrial Fibrillation Patients After Intracerebral Hemorrhage
Official Title: Prevention of Stroke by Left Atrial Appendage Closure in Atrial Fibrillation Patients After Intracerebral Hemorrhage: A Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 750
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) poses a particular dilemma for thromboprophylaxis. Left atrial appendage occlusion (LAAO) is a non-pharmacological approach to prevent cardiac embolism in NVAF. The risk-benefit ratio of LAAO in patients with NVAF after ICH is unknown. The aim of STROKECLOSE is to assess the effect of LAAO to reduce the incidence stroke, bleeding and cardiovascular mortality in patients with NVAF and prior ICH.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Methods/design: A multicenter prospective randomized open-label clinical trial with blinded outcome evaluation (PROBE design) and blinded safety outcome assessment. The active comparison LAAO is tested against medical therapy in a 2:1 stratified randomization.

Study population: Patients should have had an ICH within 12 months prior to enrollment and have NVAF with increased risk of stroke or systemic embolism, as indicated by a CHA2DS2VASc score \>2. In total 750 patients will be included. Active enrollment ensues over 3 years followed by 5 years follow-up and a long-term follow-up at 10 years.

Intervention and control: The intervention group will be treated by LAAO, using the Amplatzer Amulet device. Implantation requires a catheterization procedure using venous access and transseptal puncture and is guided by angiography, fluoroscopy and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) or intracardiac echocardiography (ICE). Recommended post-implant antithrombotic therapy includes aspirin (ASA) therapy for at least 6 months, with or without clopidogrel for the first 45 days after implantation. The control group will receive medical therapy, delivered according to national standards and guidelines at the treating physicians' discretion. This may include oral anticoagulation (OAC) (vitamin-K antagonists, VKA), non-VKA OAC, antiplatelet therapy or no antithrombotic therapy at all.

Main study outcomes: The primary outcome is the composite endpoint of stroke (ischemic and hemorrhagic), systemic embolism, life-threatening or major bleeding and all-cause mortality, assessed over at least two years. Secondary outcome examines various early and late safety outcome parameters.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite endpoint of stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic), systemic embolism, life-threatening or major bleeding and all-cause mortality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: LAAO
  - DRUG: Medical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02830152
