CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02687893
Title: Effect of Hypoglycemia on Sleep
Official Title: A Randomized, Three-way, Cross-over Study to Assess the Impact of Nocturnal Hypoglycemia on Sleep in Patients With Type 1 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Growing evidence provided by many observational studies has established a strong link between decreased sleep duration and poor glucoregulation. Sleep deprivation and poor sleep quality induce insulin resistance and decrease glucose tolerance in healthy individuals. However, the influence of poor sleep quality on glycemic control of patients with Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is unknown. Persistent sleep deprivation among patients with T1DM has been reported, and this sleep loss can be attributed in part to nocturnal hypoglycemia. Nocturnal iatrogenic hypoglycemia is a limitation of current intensive insulin therapies. Although severe hypoglycemia is associated with adverse events such as seizures and death, less severe nocturnal hypoglycemia has been linked to broad range of adverse consequences, both acutely and long term. Hypoglycemia stimulates the sympathetic nervous system as a stress response, leading to the stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA). This results in a counter regulatory hormone cascade, which elicits an excessive cortisol secretion, which is known to cause sleep disturbance and could impair glucose homeostasis after the hypoglycemic event. The hyperinsulinemia in T1DM patients promotes HPA hyperactivity as well, which is also associated with impaired sleep quality by leading to sleep fragmentation, decreased slow wave sleep and shortened sleep duration. Sleep disturbances due to nocturnal hypoglycemia can exacerbate HPA axis dysfunction, adversely affecting the sleep-wake cycle.

The goal of the study is to understand the impact of nocturnal hypoglycemia on sleep.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study duration is 4 weeks long, during which subjects will undergo a 1 week run-in period followed by 3 randomized weeks of observational study. During the 1 week run-in period, subjects will familiarize themselves with the CGM and the other data collection procedures. Following the run-in week, the subject will be randomized to a specific order of observation weeks. The three observation weeks are a resistance training week, an aerobic exercise week and a control week with no explicit exercise. During the observation weeks, there will be 4 interventions planned, two during both the aerobic exercise and the resistance training week. See Schematic below for details. During both the aerobic exercise week intervention visits, subjects will exercise for \~45 minutes on a treadmill and during the resistance training week, subjects will perform strength training exercises for 1-3 sets per exercise at a weight that can be lifted for 8-12 repetitions (\~60-80% of 1-repetition max). The duration of the resistance training period is expected to be \~45min. Subjects will continue to perform daily activities during each of the weeks.

During each week, the subject will wear one subcutaneous DexcomTM G4 or DexcomTM G4 Share continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system, one activity monitor- ActiGraph wGT3X-BT or ActiGraph GT9X, one insulin pump (subject's own pump) and one Samsung Galaxy S4 phone loaded with two applications- meal memory and moves. The CGM system will provide sensed glucose data every 5 minutes. The CGM data will be blinded to the patient to prevent any abrupt changes in behavior. The accuracy of the sensed data will be obtained by reference measurements of capillary blood glucose. The activity monitor will be secured on the dominant wrist and uses an accelerometer to collect movement data at a high frequency (80Hz). The activity monitor measures both motion and ambient light, this data would be used to determine the various sleep quality measures. The subject's insulin dosage information from the pump will be downloaded for data analysis purposes. The subject's daily meal intake (photographic log and note diary) and daily movement pattern information will be downloaded from the phone. During the 4 exercise intervention visits, subject's heart rate, accelerometry information from the torso and oxygen consumption measured breath by breath may be collected for data analysis purposes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean duration of time with sensed glucose less than 70 mg/dl post-exercise

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02687893
