CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03316157
Title: Exercise and Nutritional Rehabilitation in Patients With Cancer
Official Title: Exercise and Nutritional Rehabilitation in Patients With Cancer, Randomised (1:1) Unblinded Feasibility Trial of a Rehabilitation Programme (Exercise and Nutrition) Versus Waiting List Control, in Patients With Advanced Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
In patients with incurable cancer, general deterioration in their ability to walk, exercise and care for themselves is often regarded as an inevitable consequence of this. In 2015, Hospice UK published a report advocating "Rehabilitative Palliative Care".

However there is limited robust evidence on which to base this approach. Reviews of the literature show limited study numbers but do suggest that rehabilitation may be feasible for advanced cancer patients. However key components were not clear and no recommendations could be given.

This trial is designed primarily to test the feasibility of a rehabilitation programme (exercise and nutritional supplementation) in advanced cancer patients. Feasibility will be the primary outcome measure including rates of recruitment and compliance. Secondary outcome measures include impact on physical function, nutritional status, quality of life for patients and their carers. We will also assess the health economic impact by assessing patient health facility use throughout the trial.

40 patients with advanced cancer living in the community will be recruited from two hospice palliative care teams in Edinburgh. These patients will be randomised in to either the treatment arm: the rehabilitation programme plus standard care, or the control arm: standard care alone. The treatment arm will consist of an 8 week rehabilitation programme, supervised at weekly clinics by a physiotherapist and dietician.

To minimise contamination the control group will be offered the treatment at the end of the 8 weeks (waiting list control).

Measurements will be made for both groups and compared at baseline (week 0), midpoint (week 5) and endpoint (week 9). Recommendations for a larger UK wide trial will be made from the findings of this study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility of Rehabilitation programme

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: ProSure
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03316157
