CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05646173
Title: Efficacy of Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation and Electrotherapy Modalities in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Comparison of the Efficacy of Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation and Electrotherapy Modalities in Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim of our study is to compare the effectiveness of auricular vagus nerve stimulation and conventional physical therapy in patients with Chronic Low Back Pain (CBA). 60 patients, aged between 18 and 60, with persistent low back pain for the last 3 months and who voluntarily agreed to participate in the study will be included in the study. Patients will be randomly divided into two groups as conventional therapy (Group I) and auricular vagus stimulation therapy (Group II). Patient Identification Form, Oswestry Disability Index, Lumbal Region Joint Range of Motion and Mobility (Inclinometer, Modified Schober Test, Hand Finger-Ground Distance Test), muscle strength (CSMI-Cybex Humac-Norm isokinetic dynamometer and Lafayette manual muscle strength measuring device) in the evaluation of patients with CKD and endurance tests, postural control and balance assessment (BBS, Biodex Medical Systems), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Scale (PUKÖ). After the measurements on the 1st day, 15 sessions of application and the measurements will be repeated the day after the last session. A home exercise program will be created for the patients in both groups. Statistical analysis will be calculated using SPSS for Windows 22 program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is one of the common problems that 80% of people experience at least once in their lifetime. Treatment of chronic low back pain includes surgical treatment, medical treatment and conservative treatment. The aim of conservative treatment is to raise the patient to the best possible level. Evidence levels for approaches commonly used in the clinic for the treatment of chronic low back pain were generally very low to moderate. It has been stated that the success of treatment is low in patients who are taken to conventional rehabilitation in the clinic, due to the lack of personal programs and the problems caused by the lack of human resources and space.

In recent studies, it has been shown that vagal nerve stimulation modulates peripheral and central nociceptive functions and reduces pain response. As a result, it was found that the pain threshold increased and the mechanical pain sensitivity decreased.

When we look at the literature; Although there are many studies on the treatment of chronic low back pain, there are no studies on the use of vagus nerve stimulation. Vagus nerve stimulation can be used as an adjunct therapy to correct autonomic nerve dysfunction.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Disability Index (ODİ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: vagus stimülation device
  - DEVICE: Electrophysical agents
  - OTHER: home exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05646173
