CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05457439
Title: Sustainable-psycho-nutritional Intervention Program and Its Effects on Health Outcomes and the Environment
Official Title: Sustainable-psycho-nutritional Intervention Program and Its Effects on Water and Carbon Footprint, Metabolic Biomarkers, and Gut Microbiota in Mexican Population: a m-Health Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Mexico is going through a major environmental and nutritional crisis, which is related to unsustainable dietary behaviors. Sustainable diets could solve both problems together. However, in Mexico and the world, an intervention program oriented to promoting sustainable diets has not been designed. This study protocol aims to design a 3-stages, 15 weeks, sustainable-psycho-nutritional digital intervention program whose objective is to promote the adherence of the Mexican population to a sustainable diet and to evaluate its effects on dietary water and carbon footprints, metabolic biomarkers, and gut microbiota of this population. The behavior change wheel model and the guide for digital interventions design will be followed. In stage 1, the program will be designed using the sustainable diets model, and the behavior change wheel model. A sustainable food guide, sustainable recipes, and food plans as well as a mobile application will be developed. In stage 2, the intervention will be carried out for 7 weeks, and a follow-up period of 7 weeks, in a sample of Mexican young adults (18 to 35 years) randomly divided into an experimental group (n=50) and a control group (n=50). The nutritional care process model will be used. Anthropometric, biochemical, clinical, dietary, environmental, socioeconomic level and cultural aspects, nutritional-sustainable knowledge, behavioral aspects, and physical activity will be considered. Thirteen behavioral objectives will be included using successive approaches in online workshops twice a week. The population will be monitored using the mobile application that will include behavioral change techniques. In stage 3, the effects of the intervention will be assessed on the dietary water and carbon footprint, lipid profile, serum glucose, and gut microbiota composition of the evaluated population. It is expected to find improvements in health outcomes and a decrease in dietary water and carbon footprints. With this study, the first theoretical-methodological approach to the sustainable-psycho-nutrition approach will be generated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Introduction:

   The change from the traditional Mexican diet to a Western diet, generated by the nutritional transition, has not only generated a prevalence of more than 75% of metabolic alterations (obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, dyslipidemia) and in the gut microbiota of the Mexican population, but it has also generated the water and carbon footprint of their diet to be the highest in the world with more than 8,000 Liters per person per day (L p-1d-1) and 6.01 Kg CO2eq p-1d-1, respectively. This is linked to the aggravation of climate change, with increases of more than 1.0 ºC in the average atmospheric temperatures and the current water crisis that Mexico is going through, which affects 85% of the territory and has been referred to as the worst water drought in history, affecting the water supply of millions of Mexicans.

   One of the proposals for the joint solution of these problems has been the adoption of sustainable and territorial diets, which in Mexico could be carried out through the recovery of its traditional diet, both pre-Hispanic and colonized, which, prepared with low-fat culinary techniques and low content of animal products, can be considered as an appropriate option from a nutritional, cultural, economic and environmental perspective, dimensions that must be present for a diet to be considered as sustainable.

   However, to achieve the adoption of a particular diet, it is necessary to modify the eating behavior of the population. To modify both dietary and unsustainable behaviors in a population, there are multiple strategies, among which intervention programs have stood out. However, to date and both nationally and internationally, no intervention program whose objective is to promote both adequate nutrition to improve health and reduce the environmental impact of dietary behaviors, has been reported. This respecting cultural, social, economic, and psychological aspects of the population.

   Based on the above, this study protocol aims to design a three-stage 15 weeks intervention program, based on the guide to designing interventions of the behavior change wheel model, which includes both nutritional and sustainability elements, in the sense of considering unsustainable dietary behaviors of the Mexican population, in addition to taking into account their social, cultural and economic aspects. In addition to these axes, the basis of behavioral modification intervention programs is psychology. Therefore, it is proposed to design a sustainable-psycho-nutritional intervention program, whose objective is to promote the adherence of the population to sustainable diets. But, in addition, it is proposed to evaluate its effects on environmental indicators, metabolic biomarkers, and gut microbiota, as well as clinical aspects and body composition in a Mexican population sample. Because of the effectiveness of technologies use in nutritional and environmental interventions, the intervention program will be a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Gut Microbiota at week 8 and 15
  - Change from Baseline Glucose Levels at week 8 and 15
  - Change from Baseline LDL Cholesterol Levels at week 8 and 15
  - Change from Baseline HDL Cholesterol Levels at week 8 and 15
  - Change from Baseline Total Cholesterol Levels at week 8 and 15

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sustainable diet promotion through behavioral change intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05457439
