CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06886503
Title: Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Warm-up on Respiratory Variables, Physiological Indices, and 400-meter Performance in Elite Male Runners - Randomized Crossover Trial
Official Title: Inspiratory Muscle Warm-up Improves 400-meter Performance in Elite Runners - Randomized Crossover Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
A single-blind, randomized crossover design was employed in this study. Two days before the study commenced, all participants were provided with detailed information about the warm-up protocols and tests to be conducted. Participants were brought to the standardized 400m-track for measurements a total of four times, with one-week intervals, beginning two days after the initial familiarization and information session. They were required not to perform any strenuous training and avoid long travels during 24 hours before the testing sessions. They were told to abstain from food intake for 3 hours before the protocol and avoid alcohol and caffeine for at least 24 hours prior to testing to ensure controlled conditions. The participants underwent four different warm-up protocols in a randomized order: one consisting of an athletic warm-up alone and three incorporating an inspiratory muscle warm-up at varying intensities in addition to the athletic warm-up. All warm-up protocols were administered one week apart, on the same day of the microcycle and at the same time, under relevant supervision. Various measurements were conducted at specific time points to assess physiological responses within each warm-up protocol. Accordingly, MIP and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP) tests were performed at the following time points: pre-warm-up, post-warm-up (pre-run), post-400-meter sprint, and at 1, 3, and 5 minutes after the run to evaluate inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength. Additionally, the Peak Inspiratory Flow Rate (PIFR) test was performed to determine inspiratory flow rate, and the Inhaled Volume (IV) test was conducted to measure the volume of air inhaled during inspiration. To objectively assess the effects of the warm-up protocols on sprint intensity and the recovery process, blood lactate testing was conducted. Furthermore, to monitor cardiovascular responses, heart rate measurements were recorded before the run, immediately after the 400-meter sprint, and at 1, 3, and 5 minutes post-run.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Thirteen male 400-meter sprinters were included in analysis The participants' best recorded times ranged between 49.71 seconds and 51.74 seconds (Mean: 50.78±0.65 s). The required sample size was determined using\*Power software (version 3.1.9.6; Dusseldorf, Germany), with a significance level of α = 0.05, statistical power (1 - β) = 0.95, and an effect size of ƒ = 0.5 (ANOVA with repeated measures, within interaction, 4 measurements) and totaled 10 participants. Initially, 14 athletes were recruited with convenience sampling by direct contact with coaches and athletes. One athlete dropped out during the study and did not complete all the required measurements and was not included in further analyses. All the participants were highly-trained athletes specializing in 400-meter sprint competitions, training six days per week.

Participants who voluntarily agreed to participate in the study and met the inclusion criteria were included after completing the Informed Consent Form. Upon obtaining approval from the responsible researcher and research supervisor, the warm-up protocols and physiological tests outlined in the study were initiated. The four different warm-up protocols were implemented in a randomized order: athletic warm-up alone, athletic warm-up + 60% inspiratory muscle warm-up, athletic warm-up + 40% inspiratory muscle warm-up, and athletic warm-up + 15% sham (placebo) inspiratory muscle warm-up. Immediately following each warm-up protocol, participants performed a 400-meter sprint, after which the physiological tests were repeated. The athletes were blinded to the applied protocol.

Athletic Warm-Up Protocol (AW) The athletic warm-up (AWU) consisted of 15 minutes of low-intensity running (rate of perceived effort 2-4 on 1-10 Borg Scale), followed by dynamic stretching exercises targeting the upper and lower extremities. In the final phase, running drills were performed, including three progressively increasing sprint efforts over a distance of approximately 30 meters.

Inspiratory Muscle Warm-up Protocols In addition to AWU an athletic warm-up protocol, participants performed inspiratory muscle warm-up (IMW) using the POWERbreathe® Plus Blue Medium Resistance (POWERbreathe International Ltd., Warwickshire, England UK) device at varying intensities. The IMW protocol was implemented at three different intensity levels: IW60, IW40, and IWPL. In the IW60 condition, inspiratory muscle warm-up was performed at 60% of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP), while in IW40 and IWPL conditions, the intensity was set at 40% and 15% of MIP, respectively, with the latter serving as the sham protocolplacebo condition. Each protocol consisted of two sets of 30 repetitions.

MeasurementsTest Protocols Inspiratory and Expiratory Muscle Strength Test Maximal inspiratory pressure represents the highest negative intrathoracic pressure generated during inspiration, while MEP refers to the highest positive intrathoracic pressure produced by expiratory muscles und

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Running performance
  - Maximal Pressures
  - Peak Inspiratory Flow Rate
  - Peak Inspiratory Flow Rate
  - Inhaled Volume

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Inspiratory Warm-Up - 60% MIP
  - OTHER: Inspiratory Warm-up - 40% MIP
  - OTHER: Sham

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06886503
