CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05840315
Title: Feasibility of High Density Sit-to-stand Functional Resistance trening in Patients with Hip Fracture
Official Title: Feasibility of High Density Sit-to-stand Functional Resistance trening in Patients with Hip Fracture. a Non-randomized Pilot Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to examine if functional high-density, high-volume chair rise trening is feasible for increasing lower extremity strength without causing excessive hip pain during execution in patients with hip fracture following a municipality -based outpatient rehabilitation program.

Feasibility criteria is defined as: 1) hip fracture-related pain might increase during the exercise programme, but not persistent after each session. 2) adherence to the program must be 75% or more. 3) Less than 20% drop-outs due to pain and/or discomfort during trening.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and rationale:

Hip fractures are associated with decrease in muscle strength, Rehabilitation after hip fractures typically include types of resistance trening, functional trening and cardiovascular trening Factors affecting the functional prognosis after hip fracture surgery are multiple, and patients are at risk of decreased physical function new injurious falls and fractures and increased need of supportive care.

Earlier research has shown that daily on weekdays, progressive knee-extension strength trening (three sets with a 10RM load) is a feasible and potentially effective treatment for increasing muscle strength in patients with hip fractures when commenced few days after surgery.

Extended physical therapy including strength trening implemented about 6 weeks or later after hip fracture surgery seem to promote recovery of physical function.

The goal of rehabilitation is to reach the highest degree of autonomy as possible, which in sarcopenic older adults requires increasing the muscle strength in the lower extremities. Higher volume resistance treninGHas been associated with increased muscle mass and strength in both young and older populations Resistance trening for elderly patients is usually done to failure to ensure adequate volume for muscle hypertrophy and strength increases.

In comparison, Sit-to-stand chair exercises has earlier been executed as progressive trening and shows promising results as to increasing ability to rise from a lower chair In stroke patients. Sit-to-stand exercise has been shown to be a good whole body exercise and with effects of the exercises ranging from increased leg strength to association with lower degree of dysphagia in stroke patients, when done in addition to the convalescence rehabilitation program.

To the researchers knowledge there exist no other trials testing systematic use of very high trening volume of sit-to-stand exercises in rehabilitation of older patients with hip fractures.

This trial searches to combine trening with high volume of sit-to-stand exercises with trening to volitional failure on leg press and hip abductions to employ combinations of heavy, progressive resistance trening and very high volume of total Trening (29 sets per week) Objectives The objective of this study is to examine if functional high-density, high-volume chair rise trening is feasible for increasing lower extremity strength without causing excessive hip pain during execution in patients with hip fracture following a municipality -based outpatient rehabilitation program.

Feasibility criteria is defined as: 1) hip fracture-related pain might increase during the exercise programme, but not persistent after each session. 2) adherence to the program must be 75% or more. 3) Less than 20% drop-outs due to pain and/or discomfort during trening.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility of the interventions; Adherence
  - Tolerability of the interventions; Hip fracture related pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Basic intervention and nutritional intervention
  - PROCEDURE: Sit-to-stand
  - PROCEDURE: Leg press
  - PROCEDURE: Hip abduction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05840315
