CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06147726
Title: Upper Extremity Rehabilitation With Virtual Reality in Parkinson's Disease Patients
Official Title: Effectiveness of Virtual Reality Supported Upper Extremity Position Matching Exercises in Parkinson's Disease Patients
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Upper extremities are the first part of the body to be affected by Parkinson's disease. Although studies have shown that virtual reality-assisted rehabilitation methods are effective on gait and balance, studies on their use for upper extremity rehabilitation are limited. For this reason, the aim of the project is to examine whether virtual reality supported upper extremity position matching exercises, which will be specially prepared according to joint ranges of motion, will provide functional improvement in the upper extremities of individuals with Parkinson's disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor disorders. Difficulties in using the upper limbs caused by these motor impairments are common with the disease. Upper limb motor impairments in PD include slowness of movement, difficulties in performing sequential tasks and limitations in upper limb function. Studies show that the upper extremities are usually the most affected body region in the early stages of PD. Despite this, the number of rehabilitation methods that can be used for upper extremity rehabilitation is limited. Impairments in upper extremity motor function constitute a leading problem in the lives of individuals with PD by affecting their ability to perform activities of daily living. Virtual reality applications stand out as an innolvative approach in neurorehabilitation. Previous studies have reported positive effects of virtual reality on gait function and balance in PD. However, the number of studies designed with virtual reality for the upper limb is limited. Therefore, this project aims to fill the gap in the literature by examining the effectiveness of virtual reality-based rehabilitation in PD with a particular focus on upper extremity motor function and proprioception.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Action Research Arm Test
  - Proprioception Assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Upper extremity position matching exercises in virtual reality
  - OTHER: Conventional physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06147726
