CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02476240
Title: Evaluating the Influence of Externally vs. Internally Focused Exercise on Rehabilitation in Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Can Dual Task Walking Improve in Parkinson's Disease After External Focus of Attention Exercise? A Single Blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 65
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the underlying mechanism and influence of externally vs. internally focused exercise on rehabilitation in Parkinson's disease. The upcoming exercise intervention methodology will aim to meet the requirements of a 1A silver ranking level, single blind, randomized control trial according to the criterion of the Cochrane Musculoskeletal Review Group

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Parkinson's disease is a slow progressing neurodegenerative movement disorder with both motor and non-motor symptoms. The gold standard medical pharmacotherapy (levodopa) lends relief from symptoms. However, some of the non-motor symptoms are not responsive to this therapy or eventually become non-responsive, such as impaired proprioception (sensory feedback from the limbs providing awareness of one's body in physical space). Although it is unclear as to why levodopa is unable to relieve proprioception impairments, a key underlying mechanism that may be responsible is an impaired sensorimotor integration (the combination of sensory and motor information in the brain utilized to guide movements). This is not the result of corrupted input information from proprioceptors into the brain (such as muscle spindles and golgi tendon organs), but rather the downstream integration of this information in the brain. With faulty signalling through the area of the brain damaged in Parkinson's disease (the basal ganglia), deficient sensorimotor integration impairs patients' ability to rely on sensory feedback during movement. This subsequently impairs ability to automatize learned movements in Parkinson's disease and causes previously automatic movements (such as walking) to require conscious control (lose automaticity). This is problematic in instances where attention is diverted from a movement that is no longer automatically controlled, such as engaging in a conversation while walking. Without attention on the movement, motor control breaks down, leading to heightened chance of falls and injury. However, Wulf and Colleagues (2009) demonstrated that when individuals with Parkinson's disease focused externally, and greater reliance on sensorimotor integration was fostered, balance control was improved compared to when these individuals focused attention internally. This suggests that individuals with Parkinson's disease may retain ability to rely on sensorimotor integration. Therefore, by fostering neuroplasticity through the basal ganglia with the utilization of exercise, and improving ability to rely on sensorimotor integration in individuals with Parkinson's disease (by using dual task training), automaticity of movements may be improved, subsequently decreasing the risk of falling and injury. Furthermore, by improving sensorimotor integration, symptom severity might improve and disease progression may slow.

In addition to providing improvements to symptoms of Parkinson's disease, this will provide a greater understanding into the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying improvements associated with exercise rehabilitations employed for Parkinson's disease. To date, goal-directed exercises have yet to investigate the rudimentary aspects of the exercise, since no studies have directly compared identical exercise regimens while participants focus "internally" on the movements of their limbs compared to focusing "externally" on the movement of an object that i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale Part III (UPDRS-III)
  - UPDRS-III
  - Single and Dual Task Walking
  - Single Task and Dual Task Walking
  - Parkinson Anxiety Scale Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Parkinson's disease Sensory Attention Focused Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02476240
