CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03622138
Title: The Impact Integrated Data System for Quality and Outcomes Tracking of Prevention Programs
Official Title: The Impact Integrated Data System for Quality and Outcomes Tracking of Prevention Programs
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 203
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
There has been substantial progress in developing evidence-based prevention programs (EBPPs) for preventing risky behaviors and promoting positive outcomes for youth. Unfortunately, their adoption, quality implementation, long-term sustainability, and scalability in real world service settings, continues to lag far behind resulting in an inability to achieve the intended broad scale public impact. This SBIR Phase II project will build on the findings and feedback gathered from stakeholders in the Phase I project to fully develop and test the Impact implementation support system. Impact will provide an easy to use, cost- and time-efficient technology platform that is capable of (a) gathering relevant process and outcomes data in a feasible way within real-world service settings; (b) producing real-time analytics (e.g., graphical displays) and meaningful reports at the provider, service setting, and broader levels (e.g., state-wide); and (c) linking data analytics to continuous quality improvement (CQI) feedback to help providers achieve best practices and targeted youth outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Describe the objective(s) of the proposed research including purpose, research question and design, anticipated length of the entire study, hypothesis and relevant background information.

There has been substantial progress in developing evidence-based prevention programs (EBPPs) for preventing risky behaviors and promoting positive outcomes for youth. Unfortunately, their adoption, quality implementation, long-term sustainability, and scalability in real world service settings, continues to lag far behind resulting in an inability to achieve the intended broad scale public impact. This SBIR Phase II project will build on the findings and feedback gathered from stakeholders in the Phase I project to fully develop and test the Impact implementation support system. Impact will provide an easy to use, cost- and time-efficient technology platform that is capable of (a) gathering relevant process and outcomes data in a feasible way within real-world service settings; (b) producing real-time analytics (e.g., graphical displays) and meaningful reports at the provider, service setting, and broader levels (e.g., state-wide); and (c) linking data analytics to continuous quality improvement (CQI) feedback to help providers achieve best practices and targeted youth outcomes.

For this Phase II project, 3C will create three instantiations (or 'instances') of Impact, i.e., one instance for each of three EBPPs. These EBPPs explicitly target one or more mental health outcomes for youth, and provide a test of the application of Impact to a variety of service delivery models, including small group-based, universal classroom, and parent training:

1. Cognitive Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in Schools (CBITS) is an evidence-based program delivered by mental health providers in the school setting. CBITS has been shown to reduce posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, depression, and anxiety for youth in grades 5-12 as well as improve psychosocial functioning. The 10-session program teaches cognitive behavioral skills using a mixture of didactic presentations, relaxation training, and strategies to combat negative thoughts, reduce avoidance, develop a trauma narrative, and build social problem solving skills. CBITS also includes 1-3 individual child sessions and 2 optional parent sessions.
2. Social Skills Group Intervention K-2 (S.S. GRIN K-2) is an evidence-based program delivered by mental health providers in the school setting to kindergarten through 2nd grade children. S.S. GRIN has been shown to improve self-esteem and self-efficacy, as well as reduce social anxiety and, in aggressive children, reduce aggression and bullying behavior. The intervention includes 10 small group sessions, delivered in an in-person format.
3. The third EBP that will be developed and tested for this Phase II research is Strengthening Families, which has been shown to improve youth outcomes related to substance use, aggressive and hostile behaviors, and risky sexual behavi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fidelity to the Program Model

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Impact

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03622138
