CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04179370
Title: Vitamin D and Health Status of British African-Caribbean Women
Official Title: The Relationship Between Sun Exposure, Diet, Lifestyle and Bone on Vitamin D Status (25OHD) in British African-Caribbean Women Living in Southern United Kingdom
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Vitamin D deficiency remains a global public health issue (Wilson 2017). In the United Kingdom (UK). There is a lack of research looking at vitamin D status of the British African-Caribbean population. This population is particularly at risk to vitamin D deficiency due to possessing a skin type which hinders the production of vitamin D in the skin. Further, due to the geographical location of the UK, there is reduced ability to produce vitamin D due to the low sun exposure (Libon 2013 ). Our main source of vitamin D is through skin exposure to the sun. In the UK, the UV radiation is only strong enough in April-September (Wilson 2017) for the production of vitamin D to occur. In winter months, vitamin D needs to be consumed in food or supplement form. Vitamin D is essential for healthy bones and is associated with reduced risk of certain cancers and immune disorders (Wilson 2017). There is strong epidemiological evidence linking low vitamin D status with diabetes, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and some cancers (NatCen 2018).

This observational study will aim to determine the vitamin D status of British Afro-Caribbean women, as well as determine the effects of sun exposure, dietary vitamin D intake, muscular strength, lifestyle and anthropometrical (height, weight etc.) factors have on vitamin D status. The study will be conducted at the University of Surrey. The study will take place in Autumn and winter 2019/2020 and a repeat study in Spring 2020. Each participant will require two visits to the university, each session will take approximately 2 hours. The study is funded by the University of Surrey. The findings of this study may lead to strategies for improving vitamin D status in this population, as well as improving guidelines to assist darker-skinned people regarding sunlight exposure in high latitudes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction

Vitamin D deficiency remains a global public health issue (Wilson 2017). There is strong epidemiological evidence linking low vitamin D status with diabetes, cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and some cancers (NatCen 2018). The condition has a significant financial impact on the economy, therefore is of public health importance (Sturges 2018).

The British African-Caribbean population in the United Kingdom (UK) is steadily increasing (2011 UK census). Despite this, there is a lack of research looking at the vitamin D status of this population. This population is particularly at risk to vitamin D deficiency due to possessing a skin type which hinders the production of vitamin D in the skin (Libon 2013). Further, due to the geographical location of the UK, there is an even greater reduced ability to produce vitamin D due to the low sun exposure (Libon 2013).

Our main source of vitamin D is through skin exposure to the sun. In the UK, the UV radiation is only strong enough between April and September, for the production of vitamin D to occur (Wilson 2017). In winter months, vitamin D needs to be consumed in food or supplement form. Our study will look at the vitamin D status of British African-Caribbean women living in the UK in late autumn and winter 2019/2020 and compare these findings to a second sample in spring 2020. In addition, the investigators will determine which factors such as dietary intake, sun exposure and muscular strength contribute to vitamin D status. Each participant will require two visits to the university, the first session will take approximately 2 hours, while the second session will be shorter as not all measures will be repeated. The study is funded by the University of Surrey.

The findings of this study may lead to strategies for improving vitamin D status in this population, as well as improving guidelines to assist darker-skinned people regarding sunlight exposure in high latitudes.

Aims

Primary objectives:

1. Assess vitamin D status in British African-Caribbean women 18-35 and \>55 years old
2. To compare vitamin D status of participants in late autumn and winter 2019/2020 to levels in spring 2020
3. Determine the effects of sun exposure, dietary vitamin D intake, muscular strength, lifestyle and anthropometric factors have on vitamin D status

   Secondary objectives:
4. Assess level of vitamin D consumption from diet
5. Measure bone mineral density, bone mineral composition and body composition
6. Assess level of physical activity
7. Measure level of UVB sun exposure
8. Measure muscular strength and endurance
9. Assess qualitatively the attitudes and behaviours around sun exposure
10. Compare data to previously collected data on Caucasian and South Asian populations

Hypothesis:

It is hypothesised that British African-Caribbean women will have poorer vitamin D status than their Caucasian counterparts. It is assumed that those with higher sun exposure and vitamin D dietary intake

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vitamin D (serum 250HD) status
  - Change in vitamin D status
  - Bone mineral composition
  - Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) of whole body
  - Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) of femoral head

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: N/A - no intervention. Observational study.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04179370
