CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06357091
Title: ACL Reconstruction With Shark Screw® or Biocomposite-interference Screws
Official Title: ACL Reconstruction With Human Allograft Cortical Bone Screw (Shark Screw®) or Biocomposite-interference Screws - a Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the outcome of 2 different screws for Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. The main question is if the human allogeneic cortical bone screw reduces tunnel widening in comparison to conventional treatment with a biocomposite screw. Additional the re-rupture rate will be evaluated and knee scores will be recorded before surgery and after surgery. Participants will have MRI before and after surgery, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery and Computertomography after surgery, 3, 6 and 24 months after surgery. Questionnaires (Knee-scores) will be recorded before surgery, 6, 12, 24 months after surgery.

the investigators hope that with the human cortical bone screw the tunnel widening is reduced and the re-rupture rate is low

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament of the knee joint is a common (sports) injury in young adults . Depending on various patient-related factors, such an injury can be treated surgically or conservatively . Arthroscopic and anatomical reconstruction is currently considered the gold standard of surgical treatment. In this procedure, the torn anterior cruciate tendon will be replaced usually with the own semitendinosus ligament, the patellar ligament or thEQuadriceps tendon by inserting it through bone tunnels in the femur and tibia.

However, the optimal technique for fixing the graft remains unclear. Until the replacement graft has healed, the suspension of the graft remains the weak point of the overall construct . The currently common procedures are fixation by means of interference screw in the bone tunnels and distal fixation using endobuttons. These fixation methods differ only insignificantly in clinical scores, stability, or failure rate .

A frequent complication after reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament is secondary tunnel dilatation, which has been described in up to 84% of cases. The cause of this is not yet fully understood. Nakazato et al. cites a longer graft and an increased dorsolateral tibial slope. TaketomIMakes the posterior tibial slope particularly responsible for tibial tunnel widening and describes that an osteolysis process occurs due to the penetration of synovial fluid into the space between the tendon and the tunnel . Moon et al. see a negative correlation between the length of the graft insertion and tunnel dilation. The widening of the bone tunnels seem not to induce instability, but complicates a follow-up operation, e.g. a new cruciate ligament plasty in the event of rerupture following new trauma. The often up to twice as large bone tunnels make it difficult to find sufficient bone tissue to create a new tunnel. If the already existing and enlarged tunnel is reused, there is a risk of inadequate fixation and lack of incorporation of the new graft. In the revision, a two-stage procedure is often necessary, especially in the case of pronounced widening of the bone tunnel. The group postulates that with a tunnel width \&amp;amp;amp;gt;14 mm, only a two-stage procedure is possible. In a first operation, the bone tunnel must be filled with autologous or similar, and only in a second session a new reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament can be attempted.

the investigators are planning a prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind and monocentric study with 2 parallel groups to investigate an alternative fixation method in cruciate ligament surgery. This involves a screw made from allogenic bone (Shark Screw ACL®; Surgebright GmbH, A-4040 Lichtenberg, Austria) in the form of an interference screw obtained from donor cortical bone. The insertion of this bone screw is identical to the usual interference screws. This type of osteosynthesis material has already proven in other forms in fra

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - bone tunnel widening will be measured by CT and/or MRI and measured in mm

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: ACL reconstruction with Shark Screw ACL®
  - PROCEDURE: ACL reconstruction with biocomposite screw (Mecta)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06357091
