CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05489536
Title: Optimizing Gestational Weight Gain for Prevention of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in Malaysia
Official Title: A Web/Smartphone-based Lifestyle Program for the Prevention of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) in Malaysia: Optimizing Gestational Weight Gain (GWG)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20000
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Gestational weight gain (GWG) has been closely related to health outcomes, particularly in gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Pregnant women may be particularly motivated to make healthy lifestyle changes. Previous studies showed that lifestyle modification interventions (diet and exercise) may be successful in reducing GWG in high-risk women but their effects on the incidence of GDM and other adverse perinatal outcomes have been limited. The research question for the future full randomized trial is whether an optimizing healthy GWG programme focusing on lifestyle (diet and physical activity) feasible to decrease the risk of GDM in a developing country. Thus, this study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a web/smartphone-based lifestyle program in optimizing gestational weight gain (GWG) to prevent the incidence of GDM.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
General objective: To determine the effectiveness of a web/smartphone-based lifestyle program on optimizing gestational weight gain (GWG) to prevent the incidence of GDM.

Specific objectives:

1. To compare changes in the primary outcome (incidence of GDM) between pregnant mothers receiving web/smartphone-based lifestyle program (i.e. intervention group) and pregnant mothers not receiving web/smartphone-based lifestyle program (i.e. control group).
2. To compare changes in the secondary outcomes (GWG, dietary intake and physical activity) between pregnant mothers receiving web/smartphone-based lifestyle program (i.e. intervention group) and pregnant mothers not receiving web/smartphone-based lifestyle program (i.e. control group).

Study location: A total of nine (9) states are randomly selected to represent the Northern, Southern, East Coast and central regions of Peninsular Malaysia. The states are then randomly assigned to either the intervention states or control states. All maternal and child health (MCH) clinics in the top five highest populated districts are purposively selected.

Study design: This is a cluster-randomized, controlled trial (RCT), whereby states as clusters and will be randomly allocated into either intervention or control group. All pregnant women in each cluster will be included in the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of GDM

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: A web/smartphone-based lifestyle program package

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05489536
