CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01048710
Title: Treatment of Medial Compartmental Osteoarthritis Grade 1-4 With TomoFix™ Small or Conservatively
Official Title: Treatment of Medial Compartmental Osteoarthritis Grade 1-4 (Kellgren-Lawrence) or Osteonecrosis With TomoFix™ Small or Conservatively
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 148
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this prospective multicenter study is to assess whether the functional outcome measured with the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) for patients with medial unicompartmental osteoarthritis and osteonecrosis of the knee treated with open wedge high tibial osteotomy (HTO) using the TomoFix™ Small is better than the functional outcome after conservative treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee (gonarthrosis) is a common medical condition and causes pain and disability. By 65 years of age, the majority of the US population has radiographic evidence of OA and 11% have symptomatic OA of the knee. In Japan, OA of the knee is more common due to the common sitting style with maximally flexed knees and parallel position of both legs.

High Tibial Osteotomy (HTO) for knee OA is a standard procedure in orthopedic surgery. Six years ago, HTO using TomoFix™ was introduced. Because Asian people have different geometric dimensions of the tibiae, an adaptation of size and shape was necessary, and the new TomoFix™ Small was developed. Although there is widespread literature concerning osteotomy for treating knee OA, literature assessing patient outcome after open wedge HTO using TomoFix™ is rare and for TomoFix™ Small, this data is still nonexistent. Therefore, the primary aim of the present multicenter study is to evaluate patient functional outcome using the KOOS. Since a proportion of patients with the indication for HTO refuse surgery and opt to receive conservative treatment, the functional results of patients treated with HTO using TomoFix™ Small will be compared with these patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: No intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01048710
