CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04253808
Title: Feasibility of a Carbohydrate-restricted, High-fat Diet on Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Outcomes
Official Title: Feasibility of a Carbohydrate-restricted, High-fat Diet to Improve Outcomes in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Pilot Randomized Controlled Feeding Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study will test the feasibility of a carbohydrate-restricted, high-fat (CRHF) diet intervention in newly diagnosed head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients who will receive definitive radiation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Our previous observational research indicates that a pretreatment diet high in total carbohydrates is associated with increased risk of all-cause and disease-specific mortality in head and neck cancer. The purpose of this study is to conduct a single-blinded randomized controlled trial to test the feasibility of a carbohydrate-restricted, high-fat (CRHF) diet intervention in newly diagnosed head and neck cell squamous carcinoma (HNSCC) patients who will receive definitive radiation. The secondary aim is to collect preliminary data on the effect of the intervention on tumor progression, nutritional status, body composition, quality of life, and symptom burden.

Thirteen newly diagnosed HNSCC non-metastatic patients were recruited from Augusta Victoria Hospital in East Jerusalem and randomized into one of two arms; a carbohydrate-restricted, high-fat diet arm (arm A) and a regular diet composition arm (Arm B). Arm A (N=6) were provided a CRHF diet both neoadjuvantly (for 2 weeks prior to treatment) and adjuvantly (during treatment with radiation). Arm B (N=7) received standard oncologic treatment including a regular diet (50-52% carbohydrates, 30% fats, and 18-20% proteins). Feasibility outcomes, including recruitment, retention, intervention adherence, and safety were tracked weekly. Biomarkers, tumor progression, nutritional status, body composition, QOL, and symptoms were assessed at baseline, 2-weeks, and 2-3 months post-treatment. A control group (N=26) included HNSCC patients who follow the same applicable eligibility criteria and did not receive any kind of dietary intervention. Medical information were collected retrospectively from the control group patients' files. Information on demographics (age, sex, smoking status, weight, height, marital status, education, occupation, and residency), tumor site, cancer stage, treatment dose reduction, treatment break, early cessation of treatment, hospitalization, symptoms, and weight loss, were collected during treatment from arms A and B and retrospectively from the control group.

This proposed pilot/feasibility study is the first step in determining if a CRHF diet is an effective treatment modality in cancer and if providing a diet with any composition before and during treatment is more beneficial than not providing a diet at all.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility measure: Recruitment
  - Feasibility measure: Adherence
  - Feasibility measure: Retention
  - Blood Glucose
  - complete blood count (CBC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Carbohydrate-restricted, high-fat diet
  - BEHAVIORAL: Regular composition diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04253808
