CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04332757
Title: Postpartum Exercise and Return to Fitness: Optimise Readiness for Military Mums (PERFORM)
Official Title: The Efficacy of a Post-Partum Physical Development Programme on Occupational Physical Performance and Musculoskeletal Health
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research is to investigate the effectiveness of a personalised physical training programme in returning servicewomen to fitness following childbirth. The idea behind the program is to target core and pelvic floor muscles, along with whole body strength and endurance to help servicewomen return to work safely and in a physically fit condition. The study will monitor the response to training using the following measures: urogynaecological measures (e.g., pelvic floor strength, prolapse, urinary incontinence), military specific fitness tests, musculoskeletal health (e.g., muscle and bone mass \& function) and mental health and wellbeing.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In an independent groups study design, the aim was to investigate the efficacy of a postpartum physical development programme on core reconnection (i.e., pelvic floor function, core strength/stability and urogynaecological measures), occupational physical performance, musculoskeletal health, and psychological health/wellbeing in servicewomen. Given that policy guidance is urgently needed regarding the safe return of servicewomen to functional occupational fitness, the aim of our proposed research is to inform the appropriate physical preparation of servicewomen in the postpartum period.

Participants at selected sites around the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst will receive usual care/no formal intervention (acting as a control group \[CON\]) and participants at different sites around Army Headquarters will receive usual care and additionally complete an 18-week phased physical development (rehabilitation and training) programme between weeks 6 and 24 postpartum (acting as the intervention group \[INT\]). If recruitment numbers are low at the main sites (Aldershot and Tidworth) we will seek to recruit participants to INT from Bulford, Middle Wallop, Larkhill and Marlborough Lines for INT and to CON from Sandhurst, Odiham, Pirbright, Keogh, Minley, Deepcut as well as locations outside of the named INT sites. The geographical separation of sites was deemed to be important for maintaining differences between intervention and control group activity.

The investigators have designed a phased 18-week physical development programme to train both rehabilitative and performance enhancement elements of physical preparation. The rehabilitation element of the programme will specifically target pelvic floor function and core strength and stability (known collectively as Core Reconnection training) from weeks 6 to 24 postpartum, and the training element of the programme will contain resistance and high-intensity interval training (HIIT) from weeks 12 to 24 postpartum

The aim of this research is to investigate the effectiveness of a tailored rehabilitation and physical preparation programme for postpartum women on:

1. Occupational fitness performance;
2. Female health assessments (i.e., urinary incontinence, pelvic floor strength);
3. Musculoskeletal health;
4. Psychological health and wellbeing.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Performance Change Between 12 and 24 Weeks Postpartum

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Training intervention.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04332757
