CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04687228
Title: Evaluating Body Acceptance Programs for Young Men
Official Title: Evaluating Body Acceptance Programs for Young Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 137
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
While eating disorders in males are often overlooked, up to 7 million men in the United States will experience an Eating Disorder in their lifetime. Critically, men are less likely to seek treatment for an Eating Disorder compared to females. Therefore, prevention programs that target male-specific Eating Disorder risk factors prior to the development of an eating or appearance-related disorder are crucial in reducing eating disorders in this population. Preliminary work by our group established the initial efficacy of a novel program, the Body Project: More than Muscles (MTM) compared to assessment-only control. This study will replicate and extend this research by comparing MTM to a time and attention-matched control used in previous eating disorder prevention work, media advocacy (MA).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Although often overlooked, Eating Disorders in men are a serious and deadly public health problem, affecting up to 7 million men in the United States. Efficacious, promulgated Eating Disorder treatments largely remain unknown, particularly for males. Over recent decades, men have faced increasing social pressures to obtain an unrealistically lean and muscular physique, which have contributed to body dissatisfaction and unhealthy eating and weight control behaviors among men, including symptoms of both Eating Disorders and muscle dysmorphia (body image disturbance characterized by the unhealthy pursuit of muscularity. Despite the impairment and distress associated with these conditions, males are less likely to seek treatment than females, in part due to stigma. Importantly, for those men who do seek help, existing treatments are targeted mostly towards females, rarely address male-specific risk factors, and are ineffective for over 50% of patients. Thus, well-accepted, easily replicable preventative programs that target male-specific Eating Disorder risk factors prior to disorder onset are critical to reduce the public health burden and disparities associated with eating disorders in men.

Research supports that for men, pressures from media, friends, partners, and family to pursue a lean, muscular body can lead to body-ideal internalization -- the belief that one's self-worth and value are defined by physical appearance. This can lead to dissatisfaction with muscularity and body fat, which in turn, contributes to eating disorder and muscle dysmorphia-related attitudes and behaviors. Thus, targeting internalization of the lean, muscular ideal portrayed in media culture would be important for reducing both Eating Disorder and muscle dysmorphia symptoms for men.

While studies have targeted body-ideal internalization in groups of women using dissonance-based interventions, until recently, no programs had been developed to address internalization of the lean, muscular body ideal for men. Our group recently developed and evaluated the Body Project: More than Muscles (MTM) in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to target eating disorder and muscle dysmorphia risk factors in body-dissatisfied men. Results demonstrated significantly greater decreases in body-ideal internalization, dietary restraint, drive for muscularity, bulimic symptoms (e.g., binge eating, self-induced vomiting, laxatives, fasting, and/or excessive exercise), and muscle dysmorphia symptoms for men in the MTM intervention compared to assessment-only controls, both pre- to post-intervention and at 1-month follow-up. Further, body-ideal internalization mediated intervention outcomes for bulimic and muscle dysmorphia symptoms, supporting that the intervention's effects were exerted through reducing internalization of lean, muscular ideal images portrayed in media.

While initial results for MTM are promising, prior to disseminating this program to a wider audience, the present study will

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q)
  - Muscle Dysmorphic Disorder Inventory (MDDI)
  - Eating Pathology Symptom Inventory-Clinician Rated Version (EPSI-CRV)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: More than Muscles (MTM)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Media Advocacy (MA)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04687228
