CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07428928
Title: Effects of Play Based Neural Mobilisation Activities on Hand Grip Strength and Dexterity in Cerebral Palsy Children
Official Title: Effects of Play Based Neural Mobilisation Activities on Hand Grip Strength and Dexterity in Cerebral Palsy Children
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The study design will be a Randomized control trial. The data will be collected from Acme Medical complex and Rehab cure clinic. The study will be completed in 10 months after the approval of synopsis. The sampling technique will be non-probability convenient sampling. Sample size is 16 calculated by epitool. Group A will receive Routine Physical therapy with play based neural mobilization activity method and Group B will receive Routine Physical therapy with baseline treatment. Diplegic cerebral palsy girls and boys included with age limit 6-12 years and without history of injury 1 year, Patients who cannot obey commands will be excluded. Hand dynamometer and pegboard test will used as outcome tool. Single blinding will be used. Data Analysis will be done on Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 23.00.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Examining the UL's hand grip strength is arguably the best method to determine its overall consistency. Everybody's everyday life depends on their upper limbs. For people to function at their best, a number of sensorimotor factors are required, including hand grip strength. Dexterity is a manual skill that requires quick synchronization of voluntary gross and fine movements. It is built on a number of abilities that are developed via education, practice, and experience. It is commonly known as the "ability to use the hand in daily activities based on the anatomical integrity, sensation, coordination, strength, and dexterity." Both manual dexterity and grip strength are necessary for work-related tasks as well as play, leisure, and self-care activities. Neural mobilization (NM), a treatment approach used to treat patients with musculoskeletal disorders, has demonstrated promise in lowering pain and enhancing functionality. Combinations of joint motions that facilitate the gliding or tensioning of neural tissue make up NM, which can be carried out actively by the patient or passively by the healthcare provider. It is thought to promote axoplasmic flow, neural vascularity, and nerve gliding in relation to surrounding tissues, all of which lead to better neural functioning and, ultimately, better motor and sensory performance. The aim of study is to determine the effects of play based neural mobilization activities on hand grip strength and dexterity in cerebral palsy.

The study design will be a Randomized control trial. The data will be collected from Acme Medical complex and Rehab cure clinic. The study will be completed in 10 months after the approval of synopsis. The sampling technique will be non-probability convenient sampling. Sample size is 16 calculated by epitool. Group A will receive Routine Physical therapy with play based neural mobilization activity method and Group B will receive Routine Physical therapy with baseline treatment. Diplegic cerebral palsy girls and boys included with age limit 6-12 years and without history of injury 1 year, Patients who cannot obey commands will be excluded. Hand dynamometer and pegboard test will used as outcome tool. Single blinding will be used. Data Analysis will be done on Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 23.00.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand Dynamometer for hand grip strength
  - Pegboard test for Dexterity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: neural mobilization which include ulnar, median and radial nerves mobilisation by a play activity called "Simon says" in addition to the routine physical therapy treatment.
  - OTHER: Regular physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07428928
