CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06473181
Title: The Impact Of Core Stability Exercises On Standing , Functional Balance And Gait In Diplegic Cerebral Palsy Children
Official Title: The Impact Of Core Stability Exercises On Standing , Functional Balance And Gait In Diplegic Cerebral Palsy Children
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The term of "core stability" explains the capacity to control the position and movement of the central portion of the body. Core stability training targets the muscles deep within the abdomen that attach to the spine, pelvis and shoulders, that help in the preservation of proper posture and provide the basis for movements of extremities in a coordinated manner. The aim of core stability training is to achieve the optimal physical ability tom the normal state of the spine in daily activities, in addition to developing the endurance and coordination of these core stability muscles.The Core stability may help to improve dynamic balance and muscle coordination between lower and upper extremities, as well as reducing injury risk and muscle imbalances . Core stability exercises have a positive effect on reducing pain, activating deep abdominal muscles, elevating the stability of lumbar spine and improving physical function in patients . The stability of the lumbo-pelvic region is crucial to provide a foundation for movement of the upper and lower extremities, to support loads, and to protect the spinal cord and nerve roots . The core muscles stabilize the spine and trunk during movements such as jumping, running, and throwing .

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral palsy (CP) could be a cluster of disorders that have an effect on the event of movement and posture,inflicting activity limitation, and nonprogressive disturbances that occurred within the developing fetal or child brain.The main therapeutic goals for children with CP are the performance of functional activities and walking.

Children with CP have a limitation with activities due to the existing impairments in independent walking, climbing stairs, running, or walking over uneven surface .Functional limitation of children with CP may have various degrees due to loss of axial control with an imbalance of their movement .Balance has been defined as the elements of postural control that allow a child to safely perform everyday tasks . Poor balance control is one of the most contributing factors for poor gait and reaching movement because the maintenance of stability is critical to all movements . Children with CP have defects in postural mechanisms, including righting and equilibrium reactions, antigravity mechanism, proximal stability, and postural fixation . Diplegia is amongst the most widely recognized clinical subtypes of Cerebral Palsy (CP). It is used when the motor impairment is milder in the upper limbs than the lower limbs. Most children have major weakness in the trunk and hypertonic limbs .Diplegia is characterized by increased muscle tone with difficulty in relaxing. Active movements are slow and stiff with abnormal patterns. Lower limbs are more affected than upper limbs. Head and neck are unaffected but there is weakness and limited rotation of the trunk . Children with CP may experience a range of functional limitations as a result of loss of trunk control and movement imbalance. Balance is defined as the postural control elements which enable a child to safely execute daily tasks.Because maintaining stability is necessary for all movements, low balance control is one of the extreme common causes of unsafe walking or reaching function . So core stability training is preferred to maintain position and movement of body core. Stability training involves the abdomen muscles and pelvic and shoulder muscles, which maintain postural alignment and allow movements of extremities. Postural control is mainly for motion and depends on these muscles for stability and endurance. Components of core stability include strength, endurance, balance,nd the related activity of the back, abdominal, and pelvic muscles . The core muscles act like one block to keep the body stable during static state and with extremity motion . CP children lack the ability to distribute the load, that is, body weight, appropriately during static balance and transfer the body weight adequately from one supporting limb to another during dynamic balance tasks . Children with diplegic CP are characterized by impairment of motor control in the lower extremities more than in the upper extremities.

Statement of the problem This study will be conducted to answer the followi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pediatric balance scale
  - Gross motor function classification system
  - Modified Ashworth scale
  - Weight-Height scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core stability exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 10 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06473181
