CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06032104
Title: Feasibility and Colorectal Benefits of Pulses Supplementation
Official Title: Feasibility of Pulses Supplementation in Healthy Adults: A Feeding Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Beans are a forgotten staple food that shows promise in improving health. The goal of this study is to look at how bean supplementation affects metabolic and bowel health. In the long-term, the investigators believe this research will lead to a better understanding of the impact of beans on bowel health. The investigators also hope that this research study will help us understand ways to improve human diet and prevent colon cancer in the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Investigators are seeking adults planning for a standard of care colonoscopies (part of the participant's usual care). As part of this feeding study, a participant will be randomly assigned to either two weeks of a dry bean smoothie that the investigators will provide in addition to the participant's usual diet or continue with participant's usual diet without the bean smoothie (including the food and drink guidelines for the colonoscopy) 2 weeks before or after the participant colonoscopy.

Participants' involvement in this research will also include 2 research visits plus a visit on the day of their scheduled standard-of-care colonoscopy (each research visit will be 30-60 minutes in length, scheduled close to 2-4 weeks prior to the colonoscopy, day of the colonoscopy, as well as 2-12 weeks after the colonoscopy, depending on participant availability. The investigators expect about 25 people aged 35-75 to participate in this research.

Participation in this study will involve collecting breath tests, fecal (stool) samples, 8 Teaspoons of blood, clinical data, and participant questionnaire data. At the time of colonoscopy, the investigators will also sample the mucosa lining of the bowel and remnant (leftover or discarded) tissue from an intestine biopsy obtained as part of the participant's clinical care. Participants will be asked to sign a separate HIPAA authorization form to allow the investigators to collect information from participant's medical records. This information will become part of the research data.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Compliance with the bean smoothie intervention
  - Tolerance to the bean smoothie intervention
  - Effect of the bean smoothie intervention on serum biomarkers of health
  - Change in fecal abundance of microbiome genes with bean smoothie intervention
  - Change from baseline in the fecal and serum metabolome with bean smoothie intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dry beans
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Usual diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06032104
