CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00438672
Title: Corticosteroid Injection for Common Upper Extremity Problems
Official Title: Corticosteroid Injection for Common Upper Extremity Problems
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to compare the effectiveness of a steroid injection to a placebo (inactive substance) in the treatment of lateral elbow pain, deQuervain's tendonitis, or base of the thumb carpometacarpal (CMC) arthritis. We are also trying to identify which personality factors and mindsets influence perceptions of elbow, wrist and hand pain. We hope to enroll 213 subjects in this study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pain at the origin of the extensor carpi radialis is an extremely common problem. Most patients are between 35 and 55 years of age. This problem has been referred to as tennis elbow, but fewer than 10% of patients with this problem play tennis, and it is not a common problem among professional tennis players. The problem is most commonly called lateral epicondylitis in spite of the fact that pathology specimens show no evidence of an inflammatory process. Instead, tissue necrosis and other findings suggestive of a degenerative process are seen. Previous clinical trials have noted improvement in 80% of patients in one year, even in placebo groups, suggesting that this is a self-limited rather than a progressive disorder.

de Quervain's tenosynovitis and carpometacarpal (CMC) arthritis are also very common upper extremity problems. In de Quervain's tendonitis, inflammation in the first dorsal compartment of the wrist causes tenderness and chronic pain in the radial styloid region when forming a fist or using the thumb. CMC arthritis, most common in women 40-70, causes pain at the base of the thumb. Descriptions of the severity of this condition can range from stiffness to disability, and are associated with complaints of discomfort with pinching and gripping.

These are frustrating conditions, particularly for active people. As a consequence, varied treatments are used routinely in spite of limited scientific support. These treatments can be costly, some have risks, and all of them may reinforce the idea that there is a quick fix or miracle cure. Physicians and patients alike favor quick, direct treatments, but these are not always available. In the absence of effective treatment, the role of the physician is to encourage adaptive behaviors based upon an understanding of the nature of the illness.

Lateral elbow pain, de Quervain's tenosynovitis and CMC arthritis are extremely common and not all patients seek a physician's advice-many develop adaptive behaviors and manage well on their own. Our research unit has taken interest in studying psychological factors that may be associated with coming to the doctor and poor adaptation to symptoms and dysfunction. These are certainly a factor in the treatment of these conditions.

A condition that is extremely common; is painful and disabling; and has no clear etiology, pathophysiology, or cure represents a tempting market for products and devices claiming to offer relief. The marketing and application of these devices reinforces patient's desires for a quick fix, miracle cure. It also tends to take advantage of people with less adaptive health behaviors. Conscientious use of treatments in this setting requires strong evidence of their safety and efficacy.

Injection of corticosteroids is a common treatment for lateral elbow pain, de Quervain's tenosynovitis and CMC arthritis. Injections are delivered into the origin of the extensor carpi radialis brevis, into the first dorsal compartment of the wrist or i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) Questionnaire
  - Visual Analog Scale for Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Placebo Injection
  - DRUG: Steroid (dexamethasone) Injection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00438672
