CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05998083
Title: The Effectiveness of Purposeful Exercises in Children Diagnosed With Special Learning Disabilities
Official Title: Investigation of the Effect of Purposeful Balance and Coordination Exercises on Attention and Quality of Life in Children Diagnosed With Special Learning Disabilities.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to examine the effect of purposeful balance and coordination exercises on attention and quality of life in children diagnosed with special learning disabilities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study was planned as a randomized controlled trial, and children aged 7-17 who were diagnosed with "Special Learning Disability" in a special education center in Kocaeli-Darica were included as a sample. Children were divided into experimental and control groups by randomization. In addition to the individual trening program they received from the special trening center, the experimental group was given goal-oriented balance and coordination exercises for 8 weeks, 2 days a week for 40 minutes. The control group continued only the individual trening program. All participants and their parents were informed about the study, and an informed consent form was obtained from the participants and their parents. In order to collect data from the participants; "Leisure Time Activity Questionnaire for Children" to determine physical activity levels, "Quality of Life Assessment Questionnaire for Children" to determine their quality of life, "Bruininks-Oseretsky Motor Proficiency Test 2 short form" to evaluate motor skills, "Burdon Attention Test" to measure attention level used. These tests and forms were repeated before starting the study and at the end of the study. Pre- and post-intervention data were statistically analyzed and compared.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - ThEQuality of Life Scale for Children (QoL-C)
  - Leisure Activity Questionnaire for Children (CPAQ)
  - bourdon attention test
  - bruninks oserertsky engine proficiency test-2(BOT-2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise
  - OTHER: control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 15 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05998083
