CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01513252
Title: Long-term Effects of Interventional Strategies to Prevent Cognitive Decline in Elderly.
Official Title: A 2-years Extension Study of MAPT Trial : Evaluation of the Long Term Effects of Interventional Strategies to Prevent the Decline in Cognitive Functioning in Frail Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1028
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The MAPT PLUS study is a two-year extension of follow-up of the patients included in the MAPT preventive study, after completion of the interventions. Subjects in the four groups of the MAPT study will be prospectively followed. MAPT is a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled study, using a 4-group design with 3 treatment groups (omega 3 alone, multi-domain intervention alone, omega 3 plus multi-domain intervention, n=420 each) and a placebo group (n=420). The MAPT PLUS study will be an extension of the MAPT study and includes an annual follow-up for two years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The MAPT PLUS study is a follow-up of subjects initially included in an interventional study. The follow-up that we propose in this request for funding does not involve any intervention, but aims to assess the long-term effect of the interventions previously carried out during the three years of the MAPT study.

\* Description of the interventions to which subjects are exposed during the first 3 years of follow-up (MAPT study) :

In the MAPT study, subjects are randomized into 4 groups:

* V0137 CA group: 2 soft capsules of V0137 CA once a day (2 x 400 mg/day);
* Multi-domain intervention group (nutrition, physical activity, cognitive stimulation, social activities) + placebo, 2 soft capsules once a day ;
* Multi-domain intervention group (nutrition, physical activity, cognitive stimulation, social activities) + V0137 CA, 2 soft capsules once a day ;
* Placebo group: 2 soft capsules of placebo once a day. \* Description of the multidomain intervention : The multi-domain intervention consists of collective trening sessions and a yearly personalized preventive consultation which aims to detect risk factors (sensory disturbances, difficulty in walking, nutritional disturbances, vascular risk factors) and to set up management in collaboration with the general practitioner.

The collective sessions take place in groups of 6 to 8 subjects. In the first month, two sessions a week are scheduled, and in the second month, one session a week. The first two months correspond to the intensive programme. Each session comprises 1 hour of cognitive trening, 45 minutes of information on physical activity and 15 minutes of dietary advice. From the third month, sessions are held monthly and aim to consolidate the key messages and to stimulate adherence to the programme. The sessions are shorter (1 hour review of one of the domains of the intensive programme). " Booster " sessions (2 hours) are delivered at 12 and 24 months after the first sessions of the intensive programme. Twenty-minute individual interviews also take place every 6 months with the leader of the trening sessions (6 interviews in the course of 3 years).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gröber and Buschke test (spontaneous delayed recall score)
  - Cognitive and functional performance (Gröber and Buschke test-spontaneous delayed recall score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Gröber and Buschke test

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01513252
