CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02528630
Title: Progressive Strength in Hand Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Progressive Resistance Strength Program on Hand Osteoarthritis: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Background: Hand osteoarthritis (OA) is highly prevalent, affecting 55-70% of the population over 55 years with an age-related progressive increase. The OA of interphalangeal (IF) and carpometacarpal joints may have varying degrees of deformity associated with pain, decreased of grip and pinch strength, decreased range of motion and functional impairment. Systematic reviews and meta-analyzes have shown the beneficial effect of exercise for lower limb OA, however for hand OA exercise is still used based on recommendations based on clinical experience and low quality studies, not allowing a conclusion about the effects of exercise in pain, function and strength in hand OA patients.

Objective: assess the effectiveness of progressive resistance strength training program on pain, function and strength in hand OA patients.

Methods: diagnostic of hand OA according to American College of Rheumatology of at least 1year, age over 50 years, both genders, pain in IF joints between 3-8 cm on a 10-cm numerical pain scale (NPS). Sixty patients who meet the eligibility criteria were randomized into exercise group (EG) and control group (CG). Both groups performed a session regarding joint protection and energy conservation before randomization. The EG performed a progressive resistance strength training program for intrinsic muscles of the hand for 12 weeks. The outcome measures were NPS; Australian/Canadian (AUSCAN) Hand Osteoarthritis Index and Cochin Hand Functional Scale for hand function; grip and pinch strengthening using the Hydraulic Hand Dynamometer and a pinch gauge dynamometer and satisfaction with the treatment using a Likert scale. A blinded evaluator performed the evaluations at baseline, 6 and 12 weeks after treatment baseline.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Progressive resistance strength training program
  - OTHER: Joint protection and energy conservation advice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02528630
