CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06370884
Title: Intestinal Microbiota Transplantation in Patients Undergoing Colon Resection
Official Title: An Open-Label, Pilot Clinical Trial To Test The Safety And Feasibility Of Intestinal Microbiota Transplantation In Patients Undergoing Colon Resection
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This is a single-center, open-label study for safety and feasibility of IMT in patients undergoing colonic surgery. After consent, individuals of the ages of 18-75 with a history of diverticulitis or sigmoid colon cancer will be enrolled to have a feeding tube placed at the time of surgery and receive IMT solution on postoperative day 2-3 (at least 48 hours following IV antibiotics) with the subsequent removal of the feeding tube. Prior to administration of IMT, recipients will be screened for inclusion/exclusion criteria, interviewed for medical history and medications, and consented. Additionally, prior to undergoing IMT, baseline blood and fecal samples will be collected. The use of a nasogastric feeding tube has specifically been chosen over colonoscopic introduction of the IMT. This is because colonoscopy introduces increased intraluminal carbon dioxide and pressure as well as mechanical stress on the colon in the setting of a newly created bowel anastomosis, which may contribute to the potential risk of anastomotic disruption. The nasogastric feeding tube will be placed while the patient is under anesthesia under direct visualization to minimize any risk of bowel perforation, albeit very low. The study will specifically utilize a 10F 43" Corpak feeding tube (Halyard Health, Alpharetta, GA). Patients will be monitored while in-patient in person. Following discharge, they will undergo follow-up either by phone, video or in-person visit, or via online survey of symptoms and chronic medical conditions potentially related to IMT, beginning on the day following discharge through post-operative day 14, and then monthly up to 6 months post- IMT to screen for SAEs and AEs. Screening for SAEs and AEs will be done using a symptom questionnaire as well as by asking patients during our interview. Fecal samples will be collected from participants on months one, three and six post-IMT to assess for changes in recipient microbiome (engraftment kinetics).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluate safety of IMT in patients undergoing colon surgery
  - compare fecal microbiota prior to and after IMT

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: IMT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06370884
