CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07438587
Title: Comparative Effects of Cadence Training vs Elliptical Training in Cricketers
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Cadence Training vs Elliptical Training on Pain, Power and Endurance Among Cricketers With Pattelofemoral Pain Syndrome
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFP) is a frequent cause of anterior knee pain in sportspeople, especially those playing some sport that involves high-impact and rapid changes of direction and frequent lower-limb loading such as in cricket. The stress of patella is augmented by the activities and results in pain and functional performance decline. Strategies of rehabilitation which minimize the stress on the knee joints and maximizes strength, power and endurance are required. Elliptical training offers a low-impact aerobic alternative with negligible patellofemoral loading whereas cadence training highlights a controlled movement frequency and ideal movement patterns which may alleviate stress on the joints and increase neuromuscular coordination.

To compare the effects of cadence training versus elliptical training on pain, power, and endurance among cricketers with patellofemoral pain syndrome. It was a randomized clinical trial involving 48 cricketers aged between 18 35 years with positive patellofemoral compression test and at least 2 3 years of playing experience. The individuals were randomly divided into two groups (n = 24 each) and Group A was allocated to the cadence training and Group B to elliptical training. The sessions were conducted over six weeks with each session taking 45 minutes three times a week. The pre- and post-intervention measures were Vertical Jump Test (power), Wall Sit Test (endurance), and Numeric Pain Rating Scale. The paired, Wilcoxon, Mann Whitney and independent t tests were used to analyze the data and compare the within and between-group differences.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - VERTICAL JUMP TEST
  - WALL SIT TEST FOR ENDURANCE

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: cadence training
  - PROCEDURE: elliptical training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Weeks to 35 Weeks
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07438587
