CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05627804
Title: Effects of Normobaric Hypoxia and Different Exercise Modes on Blood Glucose Regulation in Overweight Adults
Official Title: Effects of Normobaric Hypoxia and Different Exercise Modes on Blood Glucose Regulation in Overweight Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Obesity is a major global health issue and a primary risk factor for metabolic-related disorders. While physical inactivity is one of the main contributors to obesity, it is a modifiable risk factor with exercise training as an established, non-pharmacological treatment to prevent the onset of metabolic-related disorders, including obesity. Exposure to low-oxygen availability (hypoxia) via normobaric hypoxia (simulated altitude via reduced inspired oxygen fraction), termed hypoxic conditioning, in combination with exercise has been increasingly shown in the last decade to enhance blood glucose regulation and decrease body mass index, providing a feasible strategy to treat obesity.

However, findings from studies investigating the potential for hypoxia to augment the exercise training response and subsequent metabolic health are equivocal. Notably, there is a lack of information regarding the optimal combination of exercise variables and hypoxic severity to enable an individualized and safe practice of exercising in a hypoxic environment.

In the present randomized, single-blind, cross-over study, the investigators will investigate the effects of single-bout of different exercise modes under moderate hypoxia (FiO2, 16.5%).

The investigators hypothesize that all exercises combined with hypoxia improve glucose homeostasis in overweight individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the present randomized, single-blind, cross-over study, participants will be exposed to moderate hypoxia (oxygen level 16.5%) during three different exercises (low-intensity cycling, sprint interval and functional exercises). Participants will be randomly assigned to each exercise condition (computer-generated randomization plan), separated by a washout period (5-7 days). To accomplish this, participants will exercise in an environmental chamber in which oxygen concentration of the ambient air and, as such, oxygen levels can be closely controlled and monitored.

Participants are required to attend the laboratory 8 times. These visits are including pre-exercise screening, baseline blood sampling, body composition screening and exercise in altitude conditions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oral glucose tolerance test (glucose)
  - Oral glucose tolerance test (insulin)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low-moderate intensity exercise
  - OTHER: Sprint interval training
  - OTHER: Functional exercise
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05627804
