CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05478200
Title: Development of a Tele-Physiotherapy Tool for the Early Management of Muskuloskeletal Pain in People With Visual Impairement (TeleEDxPhysio)
Official Title: Development of a Tele-Physiotherapy Tool for the Early Management of Muskuloskeletal Pain in People With Visual Impairement (TeleEDxPhysio)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 128
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Chronic NonSpecific Low Back Pain (CNSLBP) is a common musculoskeletal condition often resulting in physical inactivity and disability. CNSLBP is associated with a large number of social and health costs, being one of the most important health problems worldwide. Although Therapeutical Exercise (TE) has been shown to be effective in increasing physical activity tolerance, physical fitness, strength, self perceived quality of live, pain tolerance, and overall physical activity participation levels in persons with CNSLBP, pain-release-passive therapy modalities are significantly more commonly used in clinical settings at present. On the other hand, the use of tele-assistance platforms PTAs has been gaining importance in the treatment of CNSLBP patients, especially in the use of semi-directed TE programs. However, current PTAs are not accessible for the visually impaired, a group that is at greater risk of suffering from sedentary lifestyles, restricted mobility and musculoskeletal pain due to postural or gait changes. The main hypothesis of these study is that a semi-directed TE and health education programm, in people with and without visual impairment, achieves better results in movement capacity, functional recovery, strength and compared to passive analgesic treatment in patients with CNSLBP. In a second objective, we will assess the efficacy and usability of a new PTA accesible tool for the follow-up of patients with CNSLBP who are visually impaired.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION Chronic non-specific low back pain (CNSLBP) is self-defining, as it is a long-lasting low back pain for which the exact cause is unknown in most cases. CLBP is a disease that causes pain and disability). It has a high social impact, as it often causes unemployment and early retirement, representing a major threat and burden to health, society and the economy. CNSLBP is associated with a high burden of direct costs, such as treatment costs (consultations, hospitalisation, medication, diagnosis, and emergency services) as well as indirect costs (lost or reduced productivity, etc. It is estimated that 5% of chronic patients consume 75% of the total cost of care for this disease and it is one of the main causes of temporary disability and permanent disability. The total number of DALYs (number of years lost due to illness, disability) associated with CNSLBP in Europe amounts to 10,731,256.71 according to the 2019 global burden of disease study, and is expected to increase, especially in Western Europe. Currently, CNSLBP is considered a health priority, which does not directly impact on the risk of death but has a high impact on quality of life.

There are a myriad of therapeutic options for the treatment of CNSLBP. Undoubtedly, those that have demonstrated the best results are all active modalities. Therapy modalities with a more passive character also have a proven analgesic efficacy, but their effect does not last over time. Studies reveal similar effects when different active therapy modalities are compared, such as walking, Pilates, abdominal exercises, analytical or functional strength exercises, stretching, among others. However, to date, we have not found a protocol that integrates the best exercises of the different modalities in the optimal workloads.

HYPOTHESIS The hypothesis put forward in this project is that a programme based on semi-directed therapeutic exercise and health education, in people with and without visual impairment, achieves better results in movement capacity, functional capacity, strength and body constitution, compared to a treatment based on passive analgesic techniques, in patients with CNSLBP.

GENERAL AND SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES The overall objective of this project is to compare the impact of a semi-directed therapeutic exercise and health education programme in CLBP patients, with and without visual impairment, compared to passive analgesic treatment.

The specific objectives to be achieved are:

1. To quantify the difference in scores on the OSWESTRY LOW BACK DISABILITY QUESTIONNAIRE (ODI), between the group of patients receiving the exercise programme (group A) and the passive analgesic treatment (group B).

   The degree of disability generated by the CLBP will be compared in both groups at the beginning and at the end of the intervention. This will allow us to create a structured recommendation on the best intervention model for the treatment of these patients.
2. Quantify what are the main difference

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Low Back Disability Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: physical exercise
  - OTHER: Manual therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05478200
