CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06721923
Title: Continuous vs Bolus Protein (Protein Regimen Outcomes) in Critically Ill Children (Kids In Distress)
Official Title: Continuous Versus Bolus Dietary Protein and Nutrition Status in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit: Pilot Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The goal of this intervention study is to evaluate the difference in nutrition status markers (weight and muscle mass) when giving dietary protein by continuous or bolus delivery in critically ill children ages 1-11y.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Primary: Bolus protein delivery will lessen the decline in mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) z-score by 0.5 standard deviation in critically ill children aged 1-11y after 1wk. Ultrasound will correlate to MUAC.

Secondary: Bolus protein delivery will provide more (grams per day) than when provided continuously, therefore it is more likely to meet the minimum estimated needs.

Participants will have daily nutrition intake data collected, and undergo body composition measures (weight, MUAC and ultrasound of the upper thigh muscle) at day of enrollment, and MUAC/Ultrasound on follow up days 3, 5, 7 and 14 after the intervention started.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Daily screening and research advertisement posters will identify patients that may be eligible and interested in the study, this will be performed by the unit dietitian, research assistant or the physician/fellow (intensivist-trainee).The clinician dietitian who is the primary contact for the research study will not be involved outside the usual standard of care for patients in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). The following research steps will be completely by an established research team that is not directly involved in bedside care. Upon meeting inclusion criteria (age 1-11 years, expected length of stay \>72h and enteral nutrition (EN) terminating in the stomach), informed consent will be presented verbally and in writing to the guardian present at bedside only if appropriate to approach the family during the early days (\<48h) after admission. The research assistant or clinical nurse leader will review the project scope and any risks associated with participation with the family within 24-48 hours of admission if appropriate from a social and emotional viewpoint. For families that English is a second language, an interpreter will be used to provide information about the study and the consent details. Consent in escrow will be used for families admitted within traumatic circumstances where approaching research consent could cause undue stress to the guardians at bedside. The research team will have up to 14-days after admission to obtain written consent for the patients' data to be included in study analysis. Consent will be obtained or denied within 24 hours of presenting the study, or within 72 hours for deferred consent, after the formal conversation happens. All eligible patients will undergo non-invasive anthropometric assessment by trained professionals within 72 hours after admission to meet Assessment 0 criteria. Patients will be allocated into one of two intervention arms (continuous which is standard of care, or bolus) for supplemental protein delivery. We will allocate patients based on a blinded computer-generated draw utilizing block stratification for every 10 participants. Regular audits every 5 patients will allow evaluation of completed data so if one group appears to have more follow-up time points, the investigators will consult with the study team to determine whether temporary assignment into the underpowered group is required. Patients will be completely de-identified by research staff once data collection is complete to ensure no retrospective opinions or details are layered onto the result while data is being analyzed. Third-party statistician support will be sought out to further limit bias. Significant clinical changes, such as additional mechanical life support, will be noted to help enhance understanding and rationalize results when outcomes are discussed.

The intervention will begin after being prescribed the initial goal rate for continuous EN, this typically happens within the first 72-96 hours after ad

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mid-upper arm circumference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dietary protein

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Year to 11 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06721923
