CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05831774
Title: IO Vancomycin in TSA
Official Title: Intraosseous vs. Intravenous Vancomycin Administration in Total Shoulder Arthroplasty: Changing the Paradigm
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to compare two different antibiotic regimens and techniques during total shoulder arthroplasty.

Primary Objective: Comparable levels of vancomycin will be found in bone, soft tissue, and systemic samples between patient groups.

Secondary Objective: Compare 30 day and 90 day post-operative complication rates (infection) between the control (standard IV administration of vancomycin) vs the interventional group (intraosseous administration of vancomycin). The investigators hypothesize that there will be no difference in complication (infection) rates between groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, controlled trial. 20 patients in each treatment arm: 20 patients will be given IV vancomycin, 20 patients will be given IO vancomycin. This sample size is based on previous studies examining vancomycin concentration in tourniquetless primary total knee arthroplasty between IO vs IV \[12,13\].

Once the participant has been enrolled, they will be randomized into either the control group or the experimental group by an excel-based software program prior to their procedure.

Control - Standard IV administration of vancomycin

1\) Patients will receive the Houston Methodist Hospital orthopedic surgeon's standard of care pre-operative antibiotic regimen for primary total shoulder arthroplasty patients. This includes IV abx (typically ancef or cefepime and vancomycin) will be started in the pre-operative period approximately 1 hour prior to incision (vancomycin dose weight-based at approximately 15mg/kg \[6,7\] generally 1000-1750mg in 500mL NS).

Intervention - Intraosseous (IO) administration of vancomycin

1. IV antibiotics (per physician's standard of care): Typically ancef or cefepime is started in pre-op within 1 hour of incision
2. IO vancomycin is administered in the OR after sterile prep and draping has occurred (500mg in 100-150mL NS).
3. Injection will take place into the proximal humerus

All patients in both groups will be monitored during the surgery and immediately post-operatively for adverse injection reactions (i.e. Red Man Syndrome) as this is the standard of care.

All patients (IV and IO) will otherwise follow identical post-operative protocols (including post-operative antibiotic administration)

Intra-Op Sample Collection

Samples will be taken from the following locations at the following times:

Systemic Sample - Start of Case A vancomycin blood level will be drawn by the anesthesiologist staff (CRNA, MD) at the start of incision and should occur simultaneously with the final soft tissue sample collection below Soft tissue sample - Synovium Start A small soft tissue sample will be taken from the synovium upon entering the shoulder joint. This sample will only be taken if it is readily available for the surgeon to gather.

Bone Sample - Bone from Humeral Head After the humeral neck is cut with the "cookie cutter" instrument a portion of humeral head/neck will be removed and placed in a separate specimen jar (remainder of head will be sent to pathology as usual).

Soft Tissue Sample - Synovium End A small soft tissue sample will be taken from the synovium prior to initiation of wound closure. This sample will only be taken if it is readily available for the surgeon to gather.

Systemic Sample A vancomycin blood level will be drawn by the anesthesiologist staff (CRNA, MD) at the time of initiation of closure and should occur simultaneously with the final soft tissue sample collection above

Data Variables to be Recorded Age (calculated from DOB), date of surgery, discharge d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Systemic Levels of Vancomycin
  - Vancomycin Levels in the Initial Deltoid
  - Vancomycin Levels in the Humeral Head
  - Levels of Vancomycin in Synovium
  - Levels of Vancomycin in Labrum

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Intervention - Intraosseous (IO) administration of vancomycin
  - DRUG: Control - Standard IV administration of vancomycin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05831774
