CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03798002
Title: Neuro-muscular Exercise Training Verses Quadriceps Training in Mild to Moderate Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Neuro-muscular Exercise Training Verses Isolated Quadriceps Training Program in Patients With Mild to Moderate Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
A randomized controlled trial in which Neuro-muscular exercise training and Isolated quadriceps training program would be applied on patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis by using different tools and changes would be examined pre and post intervention .The participants fulfilling inclusion criteria would be randomly allocated to two groups. Both groups received different protocols and will be assessed on data collection tool on their first and last visit by using Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS), The Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Timed Up and Go test (TUG test), 30sec chair stand test,6min walk test (6MWT).Participants of both groups will be pre-tested before the application of interventional programs and post-tested after the application of respective intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The knee joint is a complex modified hinge joint with the greatest range of movement. Three bones come together to form the joint, which are the femur, tibia, and patella. Osteoarthritis, commonly known as wear-and-tear arthritis, is a condition in which the natural cushioning between joints, cartilage wears away. The bones of the joints rub more closely against one another with less of the shock-absorbing benefits of cartilage. The rubbing results in pain, swelling, stiffness, decreased ability to move and, sometimes, the formation of bone spurs.

Osteoarthritis is widespread among physically active individuals . The quadriceps weakness commonly associated with osteoarthritis of the knee is widely believed to result from disuse atrophy secondary to pain in the involved joint. However, quadriceps weakness may be an etiologic factor in the development of osteoarthritis. Several studies have indicated that Physical modalities for the treatment of knee pain in patients with osteoarthritis include physical therapy, exercise, weight loss, and the use of braces or heel wedges. High- and low-intensity aerobic exercises are equally effective in improving functional status, gait, pain, and aerobic capacity in persons with knee osteoarthritis water-based and land-based exercises reduce knee pain and physical disability and aerobic walking, quadriceps strengthening, resistance exercise reduce pain and disability.Several proptocols are available for management of knee joint osteoarthritis. These protocols include Neuro motor training exercise and isolated quadriceps training program. Neuromotor training is basically combination of three parts warming up, a circuit program, and cooling down. Main principle of Neuro-motor training is to improve sensorimotor control and compensatory functional stability.\[3\]Patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis pain, stiffness, flexibility and decreases range of motion is a common clinical finding. Flexibility is an important component of fitness needed for most desirable musculoskeletal functioning and maximizing the performance of physical activities. Flexibility is a biomechanical property of the body tissues and it determines the range of motion possible without injury at a joint or group of joints. Decrease range of motion has been shown to predispose a person to several musculoskeletal overuse injuries and considerably affect a person level of function.Changes in joint appearance/ joint deformities be one of the more commonly established causes of osteoarthritis. The target in treating patients with OA should be the safest possible intervention, with the best pain relief and prevention of further functional disability. Neuromotor training is also one of the treatment option related to physical therapy in reducing knee pain with home plane exercises to gain required ROM and resume function. Time up and go test (TUG test).the tug is internationally accepted functional dynamic test of balance with known reliability and v

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - WOMAC Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Neuro-muscular exercise training Group
  - OTHER: quadriceps training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03798002
