CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03739658
Title: Acute Effects of Two Different Trainings on Balance and Performance in Young Footballers
Official Title: Acute Effects of Cognitive Based Neuromuscular Education and Game Based Education on the Balance and Performance of Healthy Young Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 49
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate the acute effect of two different training on the balance and performance of healthy young football players. Cognitive-Based Neuromuscular Education (CBNE) will be applied to one group and Game Based Education (GBE) will be applied to the other group. In addition to study groups, there will also be a control group. Individuals will be randomly placed in groups. Sociodemographic data will be recorded at the beginning for all athletes. Then the first measurements of dynamic balance and performance will be taken. Star Balance Excursion Test will be used to assess the dynamic balance. Measurements shall be taken in 8 directions including anterior (A), anterolateral (AL), lateral (L), posterolateral (PL), posterior (P), posteromedial (PM), medial (M) and anteromedial (AM) for the right and left sides. Performance will be evaluated by Speed Dribbling test. After the first measurements, two study groups will be trained. The control group will spend this time relaxing. After the trainings, the final measurements will be taken.

Purposes The primary purpose; The aim of this study was to investigate the acute effect of CBNE and GBE on dynamic balance and performance in healthy young football players.

Secondary objectives; The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between dynamic balance and performance in healthy young football players.

hypotheses H0: In healthy young soccer players, CBNE and / or GBE has no acute effect on balance.

H0: In healthy young soccer players, CBNE and / or GBE has no acute effect on performance.

H1: CBNE and / or GBE have an acute effect on balance in healthy young football players.

H2: CBNE and / or GBE have an acute effect on performance in healthy young football players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Balance
  - Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 20 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03739658
