CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00485043
Title: Effects of Modified T'ai Chi on Symptoms in Older Adults With Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Modified T'ai Chi Exercise on Physical Function, Pain, and Stiffness in Older Adults With Lower Extremity Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of TC for Arthritis on physical function, pain, and stiffness in older adults with knee/hip OA. Two hypotheses were tested:

1. Individuals in the TC group will demonstrate greater improvements in physical function compared to control group participants.
2. Individuals in the TC group will demonstrate greater decreases in pain and stiffness compared to control group participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Exercise is considered a vital component of osteoarthritis (OA) treatment. T'ai Chi (TC) is a unique exercise intervention with low-velocity movements. Few studies have addressed the effects of TC on arthritis symptoms and function. TC for Arthritis was modified specifically for people with OA and consists of a standardized set of forms.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a low-dose TC for Arthritis on physical function, pain, and stiffness in individuals with OA.

Twenty-seven older adults with OA (mean age-81.3 years) completed an 8 week non-randomized controlled pre-post test quasi-experimental design study of TC for Arthritis. Physical function, pain, and stiffness were measured at baseline and 8 weeks for the TC and control groups using the WOMAC™ 3.1 Index. Qualitative data from interviews and participant observations were analyzed in order to understand the participants' expectations and experiences with TC.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - physical function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Modified T'ai Chi: T'ai Chi for Arthritis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00485043
