CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00519922
Title: A Study of the Effectiveness of Different Types of Exercise for People With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Efficacy of Kinesthesia, Balance and Agility Exercise trening as Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This pilot study will test the testing and exercise trening protocols for a larger study that is in the desing phase and may be modified based on the findings of this study. Two exercise groups will be compared; one is a stadard treatment group using leg strength exercises that are commonly employed in therapy clinics. The other group will do balance and agility type exercises, but no specific strength exercises. These "KBA" exercises are increasingly common in therapy clinics, but very little research has been conducted on their effectiveness in treating knee osteoarthritis symptoms. Participants in this study will complete three short paper and pencil tests at the beginning and end of the study (8 weeks of exercise) as well as a leg strength test, a leg endurance test, two short walking tests, and a stair climb/descend test. One of the paper and pencil tests will be taken every two weeks in an effort to see how quickly changes to symptoms might occur. The exercise programs will be conducted 3 afternoons per week (Mon-Wed-Fri) and will be lead by an ACSM certified instructor.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Radiographic knee OA is present in an estimated 37% of Americans over the age of 60, representing more than 13 million people. Current medical, non-surgical knee OA treatments focus primarily on symptomatic relief and have met with limited, temporary success. Various therapeutic exercise prescriptions have been used to help ameliorate knee OA symptoms and improve function. Leg strength trening is most commonly used. However, recent evidence suggests that shorter programs of kinesthesia, balance and agility (KBA) techniques may result in more rapid symptom relief and functional improvements in comparison to traditional therapeutic exercise. These early benefits could potentially lead to greater long term exercise adherence.

In a case study of an elderly female patient with dynamic knee instability related to OA, physical therapists reported success with a combination of KBA trening and traditional therapeutic exercise. These findings need to be verified in a controlled clinical trial. This pilot study will help determine the proper testing and exercise trening methods for a larger clinical trial, and will indicate if KBA trening done without concurrent strength trening is a viable intervention.

Research Hypothesis: Among men and women age 50 and over with Kellgren and Lawrence (1957) Grade 2 or higher symptomatic tibiofemoral OA in one or both knees, an 8-week, 3-day per week kinesthesia, balance \& agility (KBA) exercise program - designed to increase dynamic neuromuscular knee stability - safely and effectively changes physical function more effectively than standard leg strength trening

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - WOMAC Osteoarthritis Scale; Function subscale change pre to post intervention - KBA vs. standard strength trening

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kinesthesia, Balance, and Agility (KBA) Exercise
  - OTHER: Standard LE Strength trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00519922
