CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05375513
Title: SYNERGIC-2 Trial (SYNchronizing, Exercises and Remedies to GaIn Cognition@home)
Official Title: A Home-based Personalized Multidomain RCT from the Canadian Therapeutic Platform for Multidomain Interventions to Prevent Dementia (CAN-THUMBS UP)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 275
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
In Canada, 1,700,000 adults are at risk of dementia, half of them with MCI,representing one of the largest groups at risk for an incurable disease. Epidemiological evidence suggests up to 40% of dementia cases might be preventable by targeting modifiable lifestyle and cardiovascular factors. Given that current treatments cannot modify the disease, prevention is critical. SYNERGIC-2 offers a "personalized multidomain intervention" that combines physical and cognitive training, sleep, diet, and vascular-metabolic interventions in individuals with MCI to synergistically enhance their overall brain health including cognition and contributes to maintaining their independence. Importantly, interventions will be provided at home using an existing virtual platform reducing delivery complexity and expanding the accessibility to a wider population, thus decreasing potential inequities. Improving older adults' brain health and achieving even a modest two-year dementia incidence delay will have a projected saving of $218 Billion in Canada's healthcare system over 30 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Epidemiological evidence suggests up to 40% of potential dementia cases might be preventable by targeting modifiable lifestyle and cardiovascular factors; given that current treatments cannot modify the disease, prevention is a critical aspect. SYNERGIC-2 is the first large Canadian clinical trial using a 12-month home-based personalized multidomain lifestyle intervention to improve cognition in 550 older adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), a pre-dementia state. These personalized at-home interventions target 5 domains with tailored physical exercise, cognitive training, diet recommendations, sleep interventions, and vascular risk factor management and are all delivered using a digital platform. Specifically, SYNERGIC-2 will be conducted with participants in their homes using video-conference meetings to test participants and to coach them 1-on-1 through the interventions on a web-based digital platform. The effect of these combined interventions on cognition will be compared to an online-educational program Brain Health PRO (BHPro). Both interventions are part of CAN-THUMBS UP, the interventional platform of the CCNA related to Canada Dementia Research Strategy; and constitutes Canada's contribution to the World-Wide-FINGERS Network. Importantly, these interventions have been selected because there is evidence that they synergistically enhance overall brain health including cognition and contributes to maintaining independence for individuals at risk for developing dementia.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in global cognition assessed using the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) with 13 items (ADASCog-13)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PMI@Home
  - OTHER: Brain Health Pro

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05375513
