CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05156697
Title: ACTivating Fat OXidation Through Capsinoids
Official Title: The ACTivating Fat OXidation Through Capsinoids (ACTIFOX) Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Prior evidence suggests that capsinoids ingestion may increase resting energy expenditure (EE) and fat oxidation (FATox) in humans, although whether they can modulate those parameters during exercise conditions remains poorly understood. Investigators aimed to determine the effects of dihydrocapsiate (DHC) ingestion on EE and FATox during an acute bout of aerobic exercise at FATmax intensity (the intensity that elicits maximal fat oxidation \[MFO\] during exercise) in overweight/obese men.

A total of 24 sedentary overweight/obese men participated in this randomized, triple-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. On the first day, participants underwent a submaximal exercise test in a cycloergometer to determine their MFO and FATmax intensity during exercise. After 72 hours had elapsed, the participants returned in 2 further days (≥ 72 hours apart) and performed a 60 min steady-state test (SST, i.e., cycling at their FATmax, constant intensity) after ingesting either 12 mg of DHC or placebo; these conditions were randomized. Respiratory gas exchange was monitored by indirect calorimetry. Serum markers concentrations (glucose, triglycerides, and non-esterified fatty acids), skin temperature, thermal perception, heart rate and perceived fatigue were assessed as secondary outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study protocol and design have been approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee of the University of Granada (n°839/CEIH/2019) and the Servicio Andaluz de Salud and adhered to the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki as revised in 2013.

Participants were asked to confirm having commuted to the research center by car, bus, tram, or motorcycle, having slept, as usual, having refrained from stimulant beverages within 24 h, and having avoided any moderate or vigorous physical activity within 24 h and 48 h (respectively).

METHODS SUMMARY

Briefly, in the first visit, sociodemographic and lifestyle data were registered, and medical screening was performed, blood samples were collected, and anthropometry and body composition measures were taken. On the second visit, the MFO during exercise and cardiorespiratory fitness (peak volume of oxygen consumption, VO2 peak) were respectively assessed through a submaximal exercise test coupled to a maximal effort test. On visits third and fourth, participants performed a 60 min steady-state exercise bout on a cycle ergometer at FATmax intensity (i.e., at the intensity at which MFO is elicited) after having ingested either 12 mg of DHC or placebo. The conditions (DHC or placebo) on visits 3 and 4 were randomized. The washout period between visits 3 and 4 was ≥72 h. Of note, all exercise tests took place at a strictly controlled temperature of 22-23 ºC, given that environmental temperature largely influences EE and FATox.

EXTENDED METHODS

MEDICAL SCREENING, SOCIODEMOGRAPHIC DATA COLLECTION, AND ANTHROPOMETRY AND BODY COMPOSITION ASSESSMENTS:

On the first visit, participants arrived at the research center at 08:00 h, in fasting conditions (8 h). Participants were informed about the study protocols details and gave their oral and written informed consent to participate in the study. Sociodemographic data and data related to participants´ dietary habits (including pungent consumption), appetite, physical activity levels, sleep, and other lifestyle habits were recorded by questionnaires (some of them filled at home). Afterward, a medical doctor conducted an anamnesis to ensure that each participant was in suitable physical conditions to participate in the study and to practice exercise. Next, participants underwent an electrocardiogram in resting conditions, which was conducted by an expert medical doctor. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were also measured with an automatic sphygmomanometer (Omron M2; Omron Healthcare, Kyoto, Japan). These measurements were repeated on 3 consecutive occasions and the average systolic and diastolic blood pressure were calculated. Only participants presenting a non-risk medical history and normal electrocardiogram were allowed to participate in the study. Blood samples were collected from the antecubital vein in the morning (8.00-9.00 am), with subjects sitting and in resting conditions. Blood samples were collected in serum Vacutainer Tubes® (Vacutainer® SST™ II Advan

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in energy expenditure (kcal/day) by indirect calorimetry (CPX Ultima CardioO2 system)
  - Change in fat oxidation (g/min) by indirect calorimetry (CPX Ultima CardioO2 system)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Capsinoids + Exercise
  - OTHER: Placebo + Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05156697
