CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05420116
Title: "Program "Cerdanya on Fitness" to Improve the Lifestyle of People With Obesity in Cerdanya (CF).
Official Title: Pilot Study of the " Cerdanya on Fitness" Program to Promote the Physical Exercise, Healthy Nutritional Habits and Psycho-emotional Well-being of Obese People in Cerdanya. Pilot Study of the "Cerdanya on Fitness" Program to Promote Physical Exercise, Healthy Nutritional Habits and Psychoemotional Well-being of People With Obesity in Cerdanya.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
To evaluate the effectiveness of an intervention program called "Cerdanya on fitness" based on the prescription of physical activity, healthy nutritional habits and the promotion of positive mental health, adapted to people with obesity to improve their lifestyle and psychoemotional wellbeing

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Previous phase:Presentation of the protocol to doctors and nurses of the primary health care center.

Phase 1: After being informed about the study and the possible risks, all patients who give their written informed consent will undergo.

-1) 4 weeks of screening to determine eligibility to enter the study. Referral of patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria to enter the Cerdanya on fitness program by the nursing consultation.

Phase I protocol data collection (physical activity scale, positive mental health scale, Mediterranean diet scale, sociodemographic variables will also be collected week 0) Patients who meet the eligibility requirements will be randomized in a non-blinded fashion. (control group and research group) (5 weeks)

weeks 1-2: Initial assessment of physical fitness and dietary habits in the intervention group (blood test- stress test- anthropometry)

week 3-39: Implementation of the intervention (nutritional, physical activity and psychosocial) to the intervention group. The control group will continue with the usual nursing controls in the primary care center.

40-41 week: Final evaluation of the physical condition and eating habits of the intervention group (blood test, stress test, anthropometry): Final data collection of the control and intervention group (physical activity scale, positive mental health scale, Mediterranean diet scale).

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline of frecuency and intensity of pysical activity
  - Change from baseline mediterrainian diet on 14 points on the scale of adherence to the Mediterranean diet.
  - Change from baseline of positive mental health on 39 points of the Positive Mental Health Scale
  - Change from baseline of the BMI of participants. Weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m^2
  - Change from baseline of watter percentage with a bioimpedance scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cerdanya on Fitness

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05420116
