CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03432715
Title: Wellness Champions for Change
Official Title: Approaches to Enhancing Wellness Policy Implementation in Schools to Promote Healthy Behaviors and Prevent Obesity
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2773
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The Wellness Champions for Change (WCC) study aims to reduce pediatric obesity among students who attend schools in Maryland by training teacher and student-led wellness teams to increase opportunities for physical activity and healthy eating at school.

The study uses a cluster randomized design to allocate 6 schools (3 elementary, 3 middle) in 5 school systems to one of 3 arms: "A" (teacher and student training), "B" (teacher training only), and "C") (delayed teacher training/control). Approximately 36 3rd/6th graders and their caregivers ("evaluation cohort"), 15 4th/7th graders ("student leaders"), and 20 teachers from each school will be recruited in the spring before the intervention. All schools will identify a teacher "Wellness Champion" who will coordinate intervention activities. In "A" and "B" schools, wellness champions will attend a training to learn how to build a wellness team and create more opportunities for students to make healthy choices. In "A" schools, student leaders ("Student Wellness Champions") will meet weekly during lunch with a health educator to receive training as peer leaders and help the Wellness Champion with wellness initiatives. Student leaders in "B" and "C" schools will receive a monthly general Adolescent Health Curriculum. To assess the impact of the teacher and student-led interventions, the evaluation cohort will be followed for 2.5 years, with measures including: anthropometry (height/weight), 7-day accelerometry (physical activity), and validated questionnaires to assess healthy eating. Student leaders will be followed for 1.5 years to assess the impact of their participation, with measures including: anthropometry, 7-day accelerometry, validated questionnaires to assess healthy eating, and validated questionnaires and focus groups to assess leadership/advocacy skills. Teachers will complete validated questionnaires to investigate their perceptions of the school environment, classroom practices, and role modeling skills. Prior to data collection and analysis, participants will be assigned an identification number, and all documents linking participant information to identification numbers will be locked/ password-protected.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The long-term goal of this project is to create health promoting school environments that support healthy growth and development of children in order to prevent obesity. The approach for creating health promoting school environments involves the school-level implementation of existing Local Wellness Policies (LWPs). Implementation science suggests that policy implementation may occur through diffusion ("letting it happen"), dissemination ("helping it happen"), or implementation ("making it happen"). Since LWPs were initially mandated in 2006, most school systems have relied on a diffusion or dissemination approach to LWP implementation, leading to limited implementation on the school-level. We propose a school-level LWP implementation strategy ("making it happen") that relies on educating/training teachers and students to be wellness champions. Through this proposed study, the impact of a school-level intervention to enhance LWP implementation (WCC) and the added benefit of training students to be wellness champions (WCC-students, "WCC-S") on student-level outcomes \[diet, physical activity (PA), and obesity\] will be examined through a randomized controlled trial.

Objectives are presented at the student and student wellness champion level:

Student Objectives:

Aim 1: To determine the impact of a school-based intervention ("Wellness Champions for Change" (WCC)) to enhance implementation of LWPs, on health behaviors (diet and PA) and weight status of elementary and middle school students through a randomized controlled trial.

Hypothesis 1: WCC will have a positive impact on health behaviors of students, compared to control.

Aim 2: To examine the added impact of a student-led school-based intervention ("Wellness Champions for Change-Students" (WCC-S) on health behaviors (diet and PA) and weight status of elementary and middle school students through a randomized controlled trial.

Hypothesis 2: WCC+WCC-S will have a greater impact on health behaviors of students, compared to WCC and control.

Aim 3: To examine factors in the home and school-neighborhood environments that moderate the impact of WCC/WCC-S on health behavior (diet and PA) and weight status change of elementary/middle school students.

Hypothesis 3: Students living in a moderately health-promoting home and school-neighborhood environment will experience a greater change in health behaviors when exposed to WCC or WCC+WCC-S compared to students in high or low health-promoting environments.

Aim 4: To examine the reach and fidelity of WCC and WCC-S when disseminated via eXtension through an online continuing education credit model for teachers and a toolkit for students.

Hypothesis 4: WCC and WCC-S dissemination schools will experience positive changes in LWP implementation.

Student Wellness Champion Objectives:

One part of our study involves developing a Student Wellness Champions curriculum (WCC-S group) to train 5th and 8th graders in diverse schools across Maryland to make poli

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Overweight/obesity
  - In-school diet behaviors
  - Minutes per day in Moderate-Vigorous Physical Activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Student Wellness Champions
  - BEHAVIORAL: Teacher Wellness Champions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03432715
