CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05737992
Title: The Effect of Exercise in Water on Functional Fitness in People With Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: The Effect of of High Intensity Interval Training in Water on Functional Fitness in People With Parkinson's Disease: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial study is to learn about the effect of aquatic exercise in parkinson's patients. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* What is the effect of exercise in water on balance in parkinson's patients?
* What is the effect of exercise in water on muscle strength in parkinson's patients?
* What is the effect of exercise in water on flexibility in parkinson's patients? Parkinson's patients in this study will do some functional tests. One group of them will do exercises in water 3 times weekly for 8 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative movement disorder characterised by the motor symptoms bradykinesia, tremor, rigidity, and postural instability. These are commonly associated with non-motor disturbances, neurobehavioural symptoms and reduced quality of life.

Exercise is currently recommended as an additional strategy to manage PD-induced disability and is a key component of rehabilitation programs for people with PD.

Aquatic exercise is another form of non-conventional exercise that has been growing in popularity in the context of neurorehabilitation.16 The aquatic setting offers specific mechanical advantages due to the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic principles of buoyancy, viscosity and drag.

Due to its ability to enhance functional mobility whilst also being enjoyable,aquatic exercise has become a very popular form of physical training in the management of neurodegenerative disorders.

Recent studies suggest that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is promising for promoting neuroplasticity in human PD, with short training time and reduced burden. Biomarkers for neuroplasticity such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurodegeneration (including neurofilament light chain ((NfL) and α-synuclein) may play a role, but their response to HIIT is not well-investigated.

The aims of this study are to investigate the effects of HIIT exercises in water on balance, muscle strength, flexibility and gait speed in PD patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of changes of Balance
  - Rate of changes of Flexibility
  - Rate of changes of Muscle Strength
  - Rate of changes of Gait Speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise in water

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05737992
