CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06243107
Title: Promoting the Application of Tai Chi to Improve the Fatigue in Cancer Patients
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Tai-Chi in Cancer Patients Improves Fatigue, Mood, Sleep, Quality of Life and Heart Rate Variability
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 68
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Cancer patients often experience Cancer-Related Fatigue (CRF) due to surgeries, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy. CRF does not improve with sleep or rest and not only affects daily activities but can also significantly reducEQuality of life. Therefore, finding ways to alleviate fatigue is crucial for cancer patients. Literature indicates that exercise has demonstrated effectiveness in reducing fatigue. Qigong/Tai Chi, based on movement, is a traditional Chinese mind-body practice falling within the range of low to moderate-intensity aerobic exercise. There is no consistent consensus on the effectiveness and frequency of Qigong/Tai Chi for CRF in different cancer patients. Hence, this study aims to investigate through empirical nursing procedures whether "the practice of Qigong/Tai Chi by cancer patients can improve participants' fatigue. Researchers hope that the results of this study can serve as a reference for future clinical applications in alleviating fatigue among cancer patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cancer has consistently ranked as the leading cause of death in Taiwan since 1982. Cancer patients undergo a series of medical treatments, including surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Apart from the disease itself, the medical procedures associated with cancer often bring significant physiological, psychological, and emotional stress to the patients. Furthermore, Cancer-Related Fatigue (CRF) is the most common and persistent discomfort experienced by cancer patients. CRF is a prolonged subjective feeling of fatigue or exhaustion that does not improve with sleep or rest. Over 50% of cancer patients report that fatigue reduces participants' physical activity, affects participants ability to perform tasks, and disrupts participants' daily lives, ultimately leading to a diminished quality of life. Among non-pharmacological approaches to managing CRF, exercise has garnered the most research support and demonstrated efficacy. Despite potential limitations on exercise capacity due to the disease, studies have shown that patients, particularly during the initial diagnosis, surgery, or during radiation and chemotherapy, can alleviate CRF and improve participants' overall health through exercise.

Traditional Chinese Exercise and Health Preservation involves using techniques that regulate the mind, breath, and body to promote sufficient qi and blood circulation, unobstructed meridians, and harmonized organ functions. It is a traditional health preservation method aimed at enhancing physical fitness and preventing diseases. Tai Chi, a form of TCEHP, is simple to learn, with minimal space requirements. Through an evidence-based approach and a comprehensive review of two articles, it was found that intervention with Tai Chi for a duration of over 8 weeks, with at least 180 minutes per week, effectively alleviates fatigue in breast cancer and lung cancer patients. It also demonstrated positive effects on fatigue levels in head and neck cancer patients undergoing concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). Given our institution's diverse cancer patient population, primarily comprisinGHead and neck, breast, and gastrointestinal cancer patients, Researchers plan to proceed with the fourth and fifth steps of the evidence-based practice to apply the evidence to patients and evaluate the care outcomes.

Therefore, the objectives of this study are as follows:

To promote the evidence-based application of Tai Chi for cancer patients to improve fatigue.To promote the evidence-based application of Tai Chi for cancer patients to improve sleep quality.

To promote the evidence-based application of Tai Chi for cancer patients to alleviate anxiety and depression.

To promote the evidence-based application of Tai Chi for cancer patients to enhancEQuality of life.

To promote the evidence-based application of Tai Chi for cancer patients to assess its impact on heart rate variability.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - brief fatigue inventory

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Tai-chi

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06243107
