CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06574841
Title: Effect of Blood Flow Restriction on Pain Perception, Grip Strength and Nerve Conductivity in CTS Patients.
Official Title: Effect of Blood Flow Restriction on Pain Perception, Grip Strength and Nerve Conductivity in Patients With Carpal Tunnel Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the effect of blood flow restriction (BFR) on pain perception, grip strength and nerve conductivity in patients suffering from carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). The main question it aims to answer is:

Does performing blood flow restriction training decrease pain, improve grip strength and does not alter nerve conduction velocity in patients with (CTS)? The participants will be divided into two groups to be compared: Patients in the control group will receive the conventional physical therapy program only. In contrast, participants in the experimental group will receive blood flow restriction (BFR) training in addition to a conventional physical therapy program (which includes an orthotic device, tendon, and nerve-gliding exercises).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Blood flow restriction (BFR) entails a training technique that partially limits arterial blood flow and completely restricts venous blood outflow within the active musculature during physical activity (Patterson SD, Hughes L, Warmington S, et al.). This method is thought to have begun in the 1970s through Dr. Yoshiaki Soto's Kaatsu resistance training. By restricting the outflow of blood from the limb, the resulting lack of oxygen creates conditions that stimulate muscle growth through cellular signaling and hormonal changes, resembling the effects of higher-intensity training with increased resistance (Wortman RJ, Brown SM, Savage-Elliott I, Finley ZJ, Mulcahey MK). Emerging studies indicate that Exercise-induced hypoalgesia (EIH) delineates a transient decrease in pain sensitivity subsequent to physical activity (Hughes, L., \& Patterson, S. D. (2020)). Moreover, research indicates that individuals diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) typically exhibit reduced grip strength (Sasaki T, Makino K, Nimura A, et al). Furthermore, acute application of submaximal blood flow restriction (BFR) for approximately \~ 5 minutes does not influence the magnitude or timing of H wave responses (Mendonca, G.V., et al).

Thus, the investigators hypothesized that performing blood flow restriction training will decrease pain, improve grip strength and does not alter the nerve conduction velocity in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Electromyography to evaluate median nerve abnormalities specifically within the wrist, assessing their severity, and ruling out other conditions that may imitate carpal tunnel syndrome.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Blood Flow Restriction training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 55 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06574841
