CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01499992
Title: Rehabilitation of Reconstructed Shoulder Rotator Cuff
Official Title: Rehabilitation of Reconstructed Shoulder Rotator Cuff : Optimizing Physical Therapy Dosage and Effect of Aquatic Physical Therapy - A Randomized, Factorial Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study to define the optimal rehabilitation for clients with full thickness rotator cuff reconstruction, with two goals: 1. Finding the optimal physical therapy dosage in enhancing post-operative outcomes of shoulder pain, shoulder joint range of motion, shoulder muscle strength, upper extremity function; and 2. Finding the effect of aquatic physical therapy in enhancing the post-operative outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Measurement devices:

Biodex: Biodex system is a muscle strength testing and rehabilitation instrument used in the testing and rehabilitation services for shoulder, elbow, wrist, hip, knee and ankle. Modes of operation for exercise and testing include isokinetic, passive, isometric, isotonic, and reactive eccentric. Patients are tested for their muscle performance for the required number of repetitions in the required mode. The muscle performance is measured by calculating the average peak torque (in Nm) and analyzed across the group of patients.

Goniometer: A manual devise used to measure joint range of motion. Visual Analogue Scale: A scale with 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain, and 10 being severe pain.

Measurement procedure:

All the subjects posted for surgery will be tested prior to and again 6 weeks following surgery for:

Shoulder Pain is measured using a visual analog scale. Shoulder Range of motion is measured using a standard goniometer. Shoulder Muscle performances are measured using Biodex.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Standard physical therapy program PLUS aquatic physical therapy
  - OTHER: standard care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01499992
