CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03381378
Title: Vitamin D and Hand Grip Strength at 5 Years in Odense Child Cohort
Official Title: Analysis of Associations Between s-25OHD and Hand Grip Strength at 5 Years in Odense Child Cohort
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 881
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
This study will encompass an analysis of an eventual association between vitamin D status (maternal during pregnancy, at birth or at 5 years) and hand grip strength at 5 years in children from Odense Child Cohort. Odense Child Cohort is a large-scale, prospective, population-based, follow-up study. Mothers and their children born from January 2010 to December 2012 and resident in the Municipality of Odense, Denmark, are followed from early pregnancy up to adulthood. Data is obtained from questionnaires and medical records and venous blood samples were drawn and stored at a biological bank.

Low muscle strength in children has been linked to adiposity, cardiovascular disease and metabolic risk factors and low muscle strength in adolescence has been shown to be a risk factor of early adulthood mortality. There are not many studies on muscle strength in small children. There is some evidence of vitamin D concentrations in the blood having a positive correlation to upper body muscle strength in adolescent girls.

Hypovitaminosis D defined as serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D \<50nmol/L was evident in 27,8% of the pregnant women and 47,7% of the new-born children in Odense Child Cohort.

Animal studies have shown an effect of vitamin D on regulation of muscle function and development. Studies on humans adults have shown that vitamin D deficiency can lead to myopathy. Myopathy in children as a result of hypovitaminosis D is not well-studied.

Given the high prevalence of hypovitaminosis D, mild or severe vitamin D-associated myopathy may be prevalent in preschool children.

The objectives of this study are 1) to create reference values and determine predictors of hand grip strength at five years, 2) to analyze the associations between vitamin D at different time points and hand grip strength at 5 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background The hand grip test has previously been used to study muscle strength in children (1). The test has also been found to be a reliable alternative in population-based studies to the gold standard isokinetic dynamometry (2).

There is not much research on hand grip strength in preschoolers and no consensus about which variables explain the variance in the normal distribution (3-5).

S-25-hydroxyvitamin D (s-25OHD) \<50 nmol/L is prevalent in Denmark particularly in the winter due to the lack of ultraviolet B exposure and insufficient dietary intake (6). Vitamin D deficiency can lead to vitamin D-associated myopathy before developing actual bone disease (7). Little is known about vitamin-D-associated myopathy in children. Given the high prevalence of hypovitaminosis D, vitamin D-associated myopathy may be prevalent in preschool children.

The main objectives of this study were to: 1) establish a normative data-set of hand grip measurements for five-year-old children and determine which variables (during pregnancy, at birth and current) are associated to hand grip strength at five years of age and 2) investigate the association between vitamin-D-status (at 5 years, at birth, in early and in late pregnancy) and hand grip strength at the age of five.

Methods As many 5-year old children from Odense Child Cohort (OCC)as possible will be included during the study period (January 2016-June 2017). Expected number of children investigated by study completion is 1200. The exclusion criteria are multiple birth, preterm birth (GA\<259 days), chronic disease and missing hand grip data at five years.

Questionnaires, blood samples for s-25OHD analysis and examinations of height, weight, skinfold thickness and 5-year hand grip measurement data will be needed for this study. When available, questionnaire data will be validated using medical records.

Blood samples Blood samples were obtained from mothers during early and late pregnancy, from offspring cord at birth and from the children at 5-years. The blood samples were stored at -80o C. S-25(OH)D2+3 analyses will be performed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) as previously described (8, 9)

Explanatory Variables Child sex, age, height, weight, Body mass index (BMI), triceps skinfold and subscapular skinfold will be examined as continuous variables and examination season, vitamin D supplements, parents' education, ethnicity, mother's parity, smoking during pregnancy, birth weight, birth length, organized sports, physical activity compared to peers, motor skills compared to peers and child choice of free time activities as categorical variables.

Primary association The primary exposure is 5-year s-25OHD and the primary outcome is hand grip strength at five years. A Sub-analysis split by sex will be done.

Other associations

* S-25OHD in early and late pregnancy and chord s-25OHD and hand grip.
* Prediction of myopathy defined as hand grip \<10th percentile vs. \>10th percentile.

Sta

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand Grip Strength at 5 years

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03381378
