CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05578365
Title: Online Pilates in Individuals With Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effects of an Online Pilates Protocol in Individuals With Chronic Low Back Pain: Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the Pilates method, performed online, in individuals with chronic low back pain. This is a randomized controlled trial consisting of two arms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is one of the main causes of disability in the world, and physical inactivity is associated with its development. In this sense, Pilates can be used both in the treatment and preventively for this symptomatology. Thus, the aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of the Pilates method, performed online, in individuals with chronic low back pain. This is a randomized controlled trial involving men and women between 18 and 60 years of age with a history of non-specific chronic low back pain and a minimum pain intensity equal to 3 points on the numeric pain scale. Research participants will perform a pre-intervention (EV1) and post-intervention (EV2) assessment, both online. Pain sensation, functional performance, kinesiophobia and perception of global change will be the outcomes evaluated through the following instruments: Numerical Pain Scale, Roland Morris Questionnaire, Tampa Scale for kinesiophobia and Patient Global Impression of Change Scale. Participants included in the study will be randomized into two groups with separate interventions, both lasting eight weeks: online Pilates group and control group. The control group will receive information about self-management of low back pain, pain education, and changes in lifestyle habits; the Pilates group, besides having access to the same information as the control group, will undergo 16 Pilates sessions performed online (2 times/week). The statistical analysis will be done through the independent t test and the Mann-whitney test to investigate the differences between the groups (Pilates online x control), while the paired t test and the Wilcoxon test will be applied to evaluate the effect of the time variable (Pre x Post), considering a significance level of 5%.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain sensation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pilates method
  - OTHER: Pain education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05578365
