CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06007794
Title: Correlation Between Ultrasound-assessed Quadriceps Muscle Mass and Baseline Whole-body Densitometry Muscle Index in the Post-cancer Population (JUMP Research II)
Official Title: Correlation Between Ultrasound-assessed Quadriceps Muscle Mass and Baseline Whole-body Densitometry Muscle Index in the Post-cancer Population (JUMP Research II)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Therapeutic advances in oncology have transformed the prognosis of cancer patients, placing a significant number of them either in a context of recovery or in prolonged remission close to a chronic disease. Thus, the reconquest of a life after cancer becomes possible but raises many challenges for the patient, his entourage, the medical profession and our society. One of the major challenges is the detection and management of treatment side effects for all patients. In addition to the standard organic assessment (glycaemia, creatinine, liver test, blood count), we are mainly interested in muscle deconditioning and cognitive impairment, which are particularly disturbed in these populations. After the evaluation day, patients are referred to the most appropriate structures (Adapted physical activity, sports for health, and rehabilitation at Henry Gabriel Hospital).

JUMP research is part of axis 2 of the 2021-2030 cancer plan: "Limiting sequelae and improving quality of life", through sheets 1 (research) / 6 (access and quality) / 7 (prevention). This leads to the concrete implementation on the territory of adapted care channels in the city: medical structure, physiotherapy, Adapted Physical Activity (APA) structures, associative structures; which makes it possible to develop and strengthen the city-hospital link. Finally, it allows the patient to take ownership and get involved in the project, allowing in the future to make them truly active in they care and to advise and motivate their peers.

This non-interventional research is classified as "research involving human subjects", class 3 .

The objective of this research is to evaluate the impact of cancer on the musculoskeletal system and to test ultrasound as a clinical examination for the detection of sarcopenia in this population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Analyze the correlation between muscle mass (thickness) of the quadriceps (rectus femoris) assessed in axial sections by ultrasound and the reference muscle mass index (Appendicular Lean Mass (ALM)/height²) assessed by DEXA

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: JUMP group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 74 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06007794
