CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05749172
Title: Effects of 8-weeks Strength Training on Strength Program, Power and Agility in Traceurs
Official Title: Effects of 8-weeks Strength Training on Strength Program, Power and Agility in Traceurs. A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The goal of this Randomized controlled trial was to examine effects of 8-weeks strength training program on strength, power and agility in traceurs. The main question it aims to answer is:

• To determine the effects of 8-weeks strength training program in traceurs. Participants were a given consent form and after subjects read and sign the informed consent, they were included in study according to eligibility criteria. 2 groups were included in study, Strength Group with parkour routine training was applied on group A and the control group, group B was provided with parkour routine training. Outcome was measured through different outcome measure tools.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The parkour is a physical activity that contains exceptional technique applications and requires a major number of jumps. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of 8-week strength training on strength program, power, and agility in traceurs (parkour practitioners). Officially incorporated as a sport in the UK in 2017 but born in France almost 30 years ago. Parkour consists of practitioners finding a route through predominantly urban terrain, mastering various physical and psychological skills to overcome obstacles in the most efficient, effective way possible.

A randomized controlled trial will be performed in which total 16 traceurs will be observed for 8 weeks. The data was collected from Pakistan Parkour \& Free running Academy in Quetta, Balochistan. Participants would be randomly divided into two balanced groups. One group was provided with parkour training sessions, and the other group was provided with both strength and parkour training sessions. The participants, who have done strength training along with the parkour trainings, apply 4 sets of strength training exercises with 10 repetitions determined from ACSM two days a week, with a minimum of 72 hours between these days. The control group was applied only two hours of parkour training for two days a week.

Aim of study was to observe effects of strength training in vertical jump heights at the end of the 8-week strength trainings comparison to the control group and that of the strength training. This study aids in learning of the vertical jump heights by including strength training programs with routine trainings, which is a central parameter for successful performance in traceurs, can enable the coaches and athletes to prepare a better training.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vertical jump (power)
  - Agility t-test
  - Dynamic strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Strength group
  - OTHER: Controlled group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05749172
