CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05707104
Title: Pilates and Plyometric Training on Physical Performance of Volleyball Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Pilates and Plyometric Training on Physical Performance of Volleyball Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Volleyball is one of the famous games which is used in order to enhance and increase physical and game oriented skills in athletes and players. The main goal of athletic training and sports participation is to enhance athletic performance. Different types of training regimes (Pilates and Plyometric) are used on athletes to increase their physical performance. As volleyball is the game of power agility as well as speed. Physical fitness is one of the important parameters of this game. So, Pilates training strengthens the deep core muscles and improves movement, efficiency and muscle control. And plyometric training is to increase the power of subsequent movements using both natural elastic components of muscle and tendon and the stretch reflex. The aim of this study is to compare the effects of Pilates and Plyometric, on physical performance of volleyball players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a Randomized Clinical Trial that will be conducted at Pakistan Sports Board and Coaching Centre, Lahore. Participants of the study are 38 that will be randomly allocated into 2 groups. The group A will perform Pilates three times per week for 6 weeks and group B will follow Plyometric training three times per week for 6 weeks. Participants of both groups will follow their regular warm up regime and nutrition plans. All participants will undergo a pre and post treatment test via Functional movement's screen test (FMST), vertical-jump test (VJT), 30m sprint test, sit and reach test. The data will be analyzed via SPSS version 21.

Key Words: Performance; Pilates; plyometric; sprint; volleyballVolleyball is one of the famous games which is used in order to enhance and increase physical and game oriented skills in athletes and players. The main goal of athletic training and sports participation is to enhance athletic performance. Different types of training regimes (Pilates and Plyometric) are used on athletes to increase their physical performance. As volleyball is the game of power agility as well as speed. Physical fitness is one of the important parameters of this game. So, Pilates training strengthens the deep core muscles and improves movement, efficiency and muscle control. And plyometric training is to increase the power of subsequent movements using both natural elastic components of muscle and tendon and the stretch reflex. The aim of this study is to compare the effects of Pilates and Plyometric, on physical performance of volleyball players.

This will be a Randomized Clinical Trial that will be conducted at Pakistan Sports Board and Coaching Centre, Lahore. Participants of the study are 38 that will be randomly allocated into 2 groups. The group A will perform Pilates three times per week for 6 weeks and group B will follow Plyometric training three times per week for 6 weeks. Participants of both groups will follow their regular warm up regime and nutrition plans. All participants will undergo a pre and post treatment test via Functional movement's screen test (FMST), vertical-jump test (VJT), 30m sprint test, sit and reach test. The data will be analyzed via SPSS version 21.

Key Words: Performance; Pilates; plyometric; sprint; volleyball

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vertical jump test
  - Sit and reach test
  - 30m sprint test
  - ILLINOIS AGILITY TEST

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pilates Exercises
  - OTHER: plyometrics exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05707104
