CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05240495
Title: Work-focused Versus Generic Internet-based Interventions for Stress-related Disorders
Official Title: Work-focused Versus Generic Internet-based Interventions for Employees With Stress-related Disorders - a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 182
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Objective The aim of the current study was to evaluate the efficacy of an internet-based cognitive-behavioural intervention for stress-related disorders integrating work-related aspects (W-iCBT), compared with a generic iCBT and a waitlist control group (WLC).

Method In this trial, 182 employees, mainly employed in the healthcare, IT or educational sector, who fulfilled the criteria for a stress-related disorder, were randomized to a 10-week W-iCBT (n=61), generic iCBT (n=61) or WLC (n=60). Self-rated questionnaires on perceived stress, burnout, exhaustion and other mental-health and work-related outcomes were administered pre- and post-treatment, and at a six- and 12-months follow-up.

Results Compared to WLC, participants of the W-iCBT and iCBT showed equal and significant reduction on the primary outcome (SMBQ) from pre to post assessment (d=1.00 and 0.83 respectively) and at the six months follow-up (d=0.74 and 0.74). Significant moderate-to-large effect sizes were also found on the secondary health and work-related outcomes. The W-iCBT was the only group who exhibited significant effects on work ability and sickness absence. Sickness absence was 445 days (7.29 days per participant) lower compared to the WLC and 324 days (5.31 days per participant) compared to the iCBT intervention. However, no significant differences were found on work experience or long-term sick leave.

Conclusion The work-focused and generic iCBT interventions proved to be superior and equally effective compared to the control condition in reducing chronic stress and several other mental health related symptoms. Interestingly, effects on work ability and sickness absence were only seen between the work-focused iCBT intervention and the WLC. These preliminary results are promising, as they provide further evidence that treatments that integrate work-aspects has great potential in accelerating both recovery and reduce sickness absence due to stress-related disorders.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction Work is an important part of life, contributing to both health and wellbeing for many employees. However, in recent years, stress-related disorders have received more attention, with an increasing prevalence within the working population. For example, every fourth employee within the European union has experienced stress during most of their working day. Long-term exposure to stressors, such as job strain or interpersonal conflicts, without sufficient recovery, can lead to a dysregulation in the allostatic system, "allostatic load", which constitutes the fundamental features in the development of chronic stress or stress-related disorders. The major diagnostic systems, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) and International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10 and 11) includes sections regarding stress-related disorders. However, the DSM and ICD systems lack an established terminology and criteria for stress induced fatigue and exhaustion. Consequently, the diagnosis "Exhaustion disorder" (ED) was introduced in the Swedish version of the ICD-10 in 2005. ED is manifested by symptoms of extensive mental and physical fatigue, lack of initiative and endurance and prolonged recovery after mental or physical effort. Later international publications have suggested that ED is not an exclusive Swedish condition. Few studies have been published regarding the prevalence of ED, but in a recent study, based on physician-based diagnosis in 3406 participants, 4.2% reported ED.

In addition to stress-related disorders and well-known health implications, such as coronary artery disease, lowered immune functioning, anxiety, depression and insomnia, chronic stress have been associated with impaired work functioning and problems in work participation such as sickness absence and long-term sick leave. In Sweden, for example, stress-related disorders accounted for one fifth of all sick leave during 2019. Decreased work participation is problematic as it has direct effects on people's well-being and leads to immense costs for society. For instance, the total estimated annual costs for work-related stress observed in seventeen OECD countries is considerable, ranging from US $221 million to $187 billion. Given these rising costs, it is not surprising that many policy makers view stress as a major public health issue and are seeking advice on the types of interventions that may be effective.

During the last decades, psychological interventions have been developed in order to increase the individual's psychological resources and resilience to stress. Evidence suggest that stress management interventions are effective in reducing stress in the working population. These results apply to controlled studies targeting general and milder forms of stress-related ill health. However, considering clinical samples, interventions has been less successful, with small effect sizes.

Traditionally, psychological

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Shirom-Melamed Burnout Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Internet-based Cognitive-behavioural therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Work-focused Cognitive-behavioural therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05240495
