CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04022798
Title: Management of LBP With Radiculopathy.
Official Title: Randomized Controlled Trial of Effectiveness of Neural Mobilization in the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain With Radiculopathy.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study is to determine the effectiveness of Neural mobilization(NM) technique compared with lumbar stabilization exercise (LSE) and Radial Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy (rESWT) in the physical therapy management of chronic low back pain (CLBP) with radiculopathy. Subjects will be randomly assigned into two groups. Group A (NM, LSE and rESWT) and Group B (LSE and rESWT).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized clinical control trail will be conducted in the North West area of Saudi Arabia.

Patients diagnosed to have CLBP with radiculopathy aT3 different hospitals in Saudi Arabia will be recruited for this study.

Participants will be randomly assigned into treatment or control group. Before starting of the study, the author will designe the treatment and control group treatment program and instructed the treating physiotherapists in their implementation. An ethical approval was approved by the ethics committee of the University of Tabuk- Saudi Arabia. Participants in each group will receive 12 treatment sessions of 45 minutes each, 2 days a week for 6 consecutive weeks.

For each group, a menu of a lumbar stabilization program was designed. This program included 8 levels of exercise ( single leg knee to chest stretch, double leg knee to chest, supine piriformis stretch, supine hamstring stretch, lower trunk rotation stretch, lumbar rotation stretch, pelvic tilt, pelivic tilt with alternative legs). Exercises were tailored for each individual ability and, if possible, progressed at each session which would last approximately 30 minutes. Each single exercise was repeated many times based on the patient's clinical condition. All sessions were provided by physiotherapists. After finishing of session of lumbar stabilization program, a shock wave therapy was applied for each participant in a prone position over the region of low back pain (Figure 2 ).

Only participants in the treatment group were receive neural mobilization technique. This includes the following: sciatic neural mobilization technique (Figure 3), slump neural mobilization technique (Figure 4) and self neural mobilization (Figure 5 ).

OUTCOME MEASUREMENT TOOLS:

There were three outcome measures as following: pain, disability and lumbar spine range of motion. Subjected were tested three times as following: at the baseline (0 week), at the mid of treatment (3 weeks) and finally at the end of treatment (6 weeks).

* Pain Pain was assessed by using NPRS, where 0 represented no pain and 10 represented the worst pain possible, to indicate the intensity of pain in the lower back (Jensen et al., 1994). Disability Disability was measured by using the Modified Oswestry Disability Questionnaire (MODQ) which is a self-rating questionnaire used to evaluate functional physical disability (Rajfur, et al., 2017).
* Lumbar flexion range of motion Lumbar flexion range of motion was measured by using modified Schober method (Philadelphia Panel Members, 2001).

DATA ANALYSIS:

A simple descriptive statistical analysis was adopted to describe the patient specific demographic characteristics with respect to outcomes parameters. Within group and between groups comparison was analyzed using Anolva and Scheffes' post-hoc tests by using SPSS 20.0.

Work Plan:

Roles and responsibilities :

1\. Principal Investigator-is responsible for the following:

1\. The management and integrity of the research d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Pain is being assessed using NPRS
  - Change in Disability is being assessed using the Modified Oswestry Disability Questionnaire
  - Change in Lumbar flexion range of motion is being assessed using modified Schober method

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise, manual therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04022798
