CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07085325
Title: CSIMEMPHIS: Long-term Follow-up of Medulloblastoma Survivors That Received Craniospinal Irradiation
Official Title: CSIMEMPHIS: Long-term Follow-up of Medulloblastoma Survivors That Received Craniospinal Irradiation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 184
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The study is being done to learn more about the long-term health and well-being of participants treated for medulloblastoma. The study is to decide which evaluations focusing on therapy-related lasting effects (or toxicities) should be considered.

Medulloblastoma outcomes have improved with contemporary therapies including modern neurosurgical techniques and risk-adapted radiotherapy and chemotherapy regimens. However, survivors remain at risk for long-term health problems such as neurocognitive deficits, hearing loss, impaired cardiorespiratory fitness and physical performance, cardiac and neuroendocrine dysfunction, musculoskeletal conditions, and infertility.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is initially a cross-sectional timepoint serving as the baseline for prospective follow-up to evaluate health outcomes in a population of childhood medulloblastoma survivors treated with contemporary therapy, including both photon and proton Craniospinal irradiation (CSI).

Participants will be invited to enroll on both SJLIFE and this protocol. This study will utilize the St. Jude Lifetime Cohort (SJLIFE) infrastructure to comprehensively evaluate 5-year survivors of childhood medulloblastoma treated with radiation therapy on or according to SJMB12, including those treated with differing doses and modalities of CSI. Insights gained on late effects will inform long-term surveillance and may identify novel outcomes, guiding future studies. Participants and their parents/guardians will also be asked to complete surveys that assess patient-reported outcomes.

There will be two cohorts of participants - CSIMEMPHIS (all participants who meet initial eligibility criteria) and BRAINatomy2. To be eligible for the Brainatomy2 cohort, survivors must be able to tolerate non-sedated MRI and must not have a history of clinically significant PFS. Recruitment of these patients will be led by staff in Radiation Oncology.

All study participants undergo the SJLIFE comprehensive set of medical evaluations that target overall health and function as well as possible treatment-related toxicities. CSIMEMPHIS participants will undergo testing tailored to medulloblastoma treatment and follow-up. All participants will undergo fMRI at the CSIMEMPHIS visit. For those eligible for BRAINatomy2, the BRAINatomy2 investigational fMRI will be prioritized and all others will undergo the CSIMEMPHIS investigational fMRI.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To describe and compare the long-term health outcomes among medulloblastoma survivors treated with radiation therapy on or according to the SJMB12 protocol with varying craniospinal doses, chemotherapy regimens, and radiation modalities.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07085325
