CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06298201
Title: E-Based Physical Exercise in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis and Comorbidity
Official Title: Investigating of Effects of e-Based Physical Exercise in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis and Comorbidity
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Background: Physical exercise (PE) improves symptoms and quality of life in patients with multiple sclerosis (pwMS). Comorbidity is prevalent among pwMS and may contribute to disease progression. Integrating and sustaining PE is challenging and E-based PE solutions have been proposed as a tool to support the integration of PE into daily life.

Aims: To assess the effect of e-based PE in addition to usual care in pwMS on clinical outcome and the levels of inflammatory, metabolic, and neurodegenerative mediators. Furthermore, to determine whether PE plays a role in the modification of comorbidities with a focus on vascular comorbidity and related risk factors, i.e., type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Method: This study will be prospective with longitudinal follow-up of pwMS with and without comorbidities. The physical activity of pwMS will be measured at baseline and after six months by accelerometers. In a randomized controlled trial (RCT) patients will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either usual care or usual care plus an e-based PE program. The exercise program consists of resistance training with resistance bands targeting the lower extremities, including leg press, knee extension, hip flexion, hamstring curl, and hip extension. The sessions will enable participants to engage in group exercises from their homes through a secure online platform, supervised virtually by physiotherapists. The primary endpoints are walking capacity using the 6-meter walk test and the NEDA-3 scale, focusing on the absence of clinical relapses and disease progression, as indicated by an increase in the Expanded Disability Status Scale score and the absence of new disease activity on MRI (including new T2 lesions or enhancing lesions). Secondary outcomes will encompass measures of quality of life and fatigue, as well as levels of potential biomarkers like neurofilament light chain in blood and cerebrospinal fluid.

Conclusion: This study will contribute to the rehabilitation and improved quality of life of pwMS particularly of patients with comorbidities. The potential for e-based PE at home to encourage sustained exercise engagement among pwMS will be evaluated, offering a significant contribution to the field of digital healthcare solutions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). MS is a potentially disabling disease and occurs as a consequence of immune attacks on myelin and nerve fibers and may lead to neuronal damage (neurodegeneration) and consequently to the clinical accumulation of neurological disability. Over the last two decades, the age-specific prevalence of people with MS (pwMS) has increased, and aging may amplify the risk of comorbidities and conversion to a progressive disease course. Emerging evidence underscores the high prevalence of comorbidity in pwMS, evident even at the time of MS diagnosis. Comorbidities can lead to delayed MS diagnosis, accelerated disease progression, and diminished efficacy and safety of MS treatments, subsequently increasing mortality. Vascular comorbidities, in particular, are prevalent among MS patients, with risk factors including type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), obesity, hyperlipidemia and hypertension.

Physical exercise (PE) is advocated as an effective treatment for at least 26 chronic diseases, including MS. In pwMS, PE has been shown to positively modulate peripheral inflammatory markers such as Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF alpha), interferon-gamma, Interleukin-4, interleukin-10, etc., and to reduce the rate of relapse. PE directly enhances muscle strength and cardiorespiratory fitness, as well as walking speed, endurance, and balance in MS patients. Furthermore, reductions in fatigue, symptoms of depression, and improvements in cognitive dysfunction and quality of life have been associated with PE in MS patients.

Despite the clear benefits of PE for MS patients, a significant proportion drop out or fail to maintain an active lifestyle post-rehabilitation. This tendency is a serious challenge for integrating and sustaining PE in the daily lives of individuals with MS. Consequently, the effectiveness of electronic health devices, or digital healthcare tools, in addressing the challenge remains an important area of interest. The effectiveness of new technology in MS rehabilitation, including telerehabilitation, has shown promising results in improving fitness, gait, balance, and upper limb function, often equaling or exceeding traditional methods.

It may be concluded that PE represents an effective therapeutic strategy for pwMS, however, further research is required to investigate PE's long-term impact on managing pwMS with comorbidities.

Study design This protocol delineates a prospective, longitudinal randomized controlled trial (RCT) aimed at evaluating the effects of an e-based PE intervention at home in addition to usual care on the disability progression of pwMS, both as an independent factor and in the context of comorbid conditions. Furthermore, an aim is to assess associations between PE and levels of inflammatory, metabolic, and neurodegenerative mediators and as well as clinical status, in pwMS with or without comorbidities.

Participants The

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6-meters' walk test
  - "no evidence of disease activity" (NEDA-3) score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: E-Based Physical Exercise Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06298201
