CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05627102
Title: Structural and Functional Changes in Supraspinatus Tendinopathy Thtough Percutaneous Electrolysis and Neuromodulation Combined Therapy. A Single-blinded Randomized clínical Trial.
Official Title: Structural and Functional Changes in Supraspinatus Tendinopathy Thtough Percutaneous Electrolysis and Neuromodulation Combined Therapy. A Single-blinded Randomized clínical Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The supraspinatus muscle tendinopathy show a big impact, however, there is a lack of awareness about the options of the physiotherapist treatment. It is necessary to do studies about effectiveness of therapeutic percutaneous electrolysis and neuromodulation. This technique enables treatment of the tendinopathies. To analyze the effectiveness of therapeutic percutaneou electrolysis and neuromodulation in the treatment of supraspinatus muscle tendinopathy. Single center randomized controlled trial, parallel treatment design. A specialist physician will be diagnosed the supraspinatus muscle tendinopathy. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive treatmen for 4 weeks: percutaneou electrolysis and neuromodulation associated with eccentric exercises or conventional treatment of Physiotherapy with the same eccentric exercises. Both interventions were performed under ultrasound guidance with a portable ultrasound (General Electric LogicE). Data will be collected by a blinded evaluator.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Eccentric exercises of the supraspinatus muscle were performed in 3 sets of 10 repetitions. Participants were asked to perform the exercise program on an individual basis twice every day for 4 weeks. The eccentric program consisted of 3 exercises, focusing on the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and scapular muscles. Participants were asked to do a normal abduction (concentric phase) and a slow return to the initial position (eccentric phase) included first the concentric phase, and the eccentric phase was slowly conducted. The exercise program was taught by a physiotherapist in the first session and monitored in the subsequent sessions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The intensity of shoulder pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental Group
  - OTHER: Conventional group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05627102
