CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05297279
Title: OMEGA - Dietary Intervention - COPD Trial
Official Title: OMEGA - Dietary Intervention - COPD Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
A randomized controlled trial of a food delivery dietary intervention targeting increased omega-3 intake to determine whether dietary modifications can improve Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) outcomes and attenuate the adverse effects of particulate matter on respiratory health.

Investigators believe that study results will comprehensively address the impact of an evidence-based nutrition intervention on COPD health and provide a framework for dietary intervention within other chronic diseases disproportionately impacting susceptible, low-income populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
COPD is a leading cause of death in the US with low-income individuals experiencing increased prevalence and morbidity. Poor dietary intake is also prevalent in low-income communities and has been associated with adverse outcomes in populations with respiratory disease. Data generated from the investigators Johns Hopkins NIH/EPA funded Environmental Health Disparities Center was instrumental in showing that poor dietary patterns, and in particular low omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid intake, are prevalent in a low income population with COPD. Low omega-3 intake was associated with poor respiratory outcomes and exacerbated the adverse effects of indoor air pollution exposure on respiratory symptoms. Accordingly, diet likely represents an important modifiable risk factor in low income individuals with COPD.

Investigators proposed a 12-week (3 months) randomized controlled intervention trial of a home food delivery dietary intervention targeting increased omega-3 intake to determine whether dietary modifications can improve COPD outcomes and attenuate the adverse effects of particulate matter (PM) on respiratory health. Willing participants with low omega-3 intake assessed during the screening visit will have 1:1 randomization to one of the treatment arms. Outcomes will be assessed monthly and dietary intake will be assessed at 3 months. After the 12-week (3 months) intervention, participants will be followed for an additional 3 months to assess sustainability of the intervention. Participants will be part of this study for 6 months.

The proposed research represents new lines of investigation to test a dietary intervention aimed at: (1) improving respiratory health, and (2) protecting against adverse effects of environmental exposures in low-income adults with COPD.

Investigators will also explore barriers and facilitators of the intervention in order to optimize the sustainability of future implementation strategies.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in COPD health status as assessed by the COPD assessment test
  - Change in COPD health status/health-related quality of life as assessed by the Clinical COPD Questionnaire health-related quality of life questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home delivery Omega-3 rich Food
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary Motivational Coaching
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home delivery Food

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05297279
