CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06540287
Title: Molecular Optimization Via Exercise (MOVE)
Official Title: An Observational Study of Aging Biomarkers in Older Elite Athletes Compared to Non-exercising Healthy Older Adults.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
This study is to investigate characteristics of muscle, blood, and urine samples from older adults (ages 65-80) who are either sedentary or athletes performing at an elite level for their age. This observational study will include bio-specimen collection, as well as physical and cognitive function testing and body composition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will enroll a total of 80 subjects-20 of each gender for each cohort. Participation in the study involves 3 visits that must take place within 12 weeks. Optional l follow up visits may be completed at 12- and 24- months after completion of the main study.

The first visit is a screening and enrollment visit. At this visit, informed consent will be obtained and a detailed medical history, screening blood sample collected, and physical assessment will be performed (including, but not limited to vital signs, resting ECG, body composition). Additionally, an exercise history interview will be performed to assess for cohort eligibility. Participants will be familiarized with testing equipment during the screening visit and will perform the Astrand-Rhyming submaximal bicycle test. A short physical function testing battery will be performed, including the short physical performance battery, 6 minute walk test, grip strength, 1 rep max leg press, and leg press fatigue testing.

The second visit will include maximal exercise testing, quality of life assessment, and cognitive function testing. Participants will be allocated into their cohort at this visit.

The third visit will include thigh muscle sample collection via needle biopsy and blood sample collection.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle cellular aging - spatial transcriptomics
  - Muscle cellular aging - single cell transcriptomics

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Observational

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06540287
