CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03181282
Title: Physical Therapy and Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson Disease
Official Title: Physical Therapy and Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 31
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
While deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) is commonly used to reduce tremor, muscle stiffness, and bradykinesia in people with Parkinson disease (PD), preliminary studies suggest balance may worsen and falls may increase after STN-DBS. Walking speed, known to be reduced in PD, typically improves after surgery; however, other important gait qualities may not improve. Given the potential for worsening balance and gait and increasing falls after surgery, it is imperative that researchers explore interventions that complement the positive effects of STN-DBS and delay worsening of balance and gait.

Physical therapy (PT) is reported to be effective in improving balance and walking in people with PD. However, there have been no studies to investigate how individuals with STN-DBS respond to PT. As such, it is unclear if exercise in the post-DBS population is safe, feasible, and effective. The purpose of this study is to examine the safety, feasibility, and efficacy of PT in people with PD with STN-DBS.

The investigators hypothesize that PT will be safe and feasible for people with PD with STN-DBS. Further, the investigators hypothesize that those assigned to PT group will demonstrate improvements in balance and gait while those assigned to the control group will demonstrate no change or a decline in balance and gait.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Deficits in balance and gait may lead to falls, fall-related complications, and physical inactivity in people with PD. These negative effects are thought to lead to a 'malignant' form of PD in which there is reduced quality of life and increased risk for mortality. While people who have had STN-DBS often experience reductions in tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia, surgical management of PD may not be effective in ameliorating impairments in balance and gait. In fact, investigators have reported that DBS may worsen balance, which may accelerate an individual's decline toward 'malignant' PD. To this end, recent studies indicate physical activity levels did not increase after STN-DBS. This finding should not go unnoticed as physical activity may have a disease modifying effect, slowing the progression of motor disability. As of 2011, approximately 70,000 people with PD have undergone DBS, with the annual number of DBS procedures for PD totaling between 8,000-10,000. In addition, investigators are now studying the effects of STN-DBS in people with early PD. The procedure appears to be safe and effective in this population, which will increase the number of surgical candidates. With the number of people with PD expected to double to more than 8 million by 2030, the number of those receiving DBS is expected to substantially increase.

Given the expected rise in STN-DBS procedures and potential for worsening of postural instability and gait deficits, there is a clear need for interventions that prevent these negative complications of STN-DBS.

Physical therapy, delivered using various treatment approaches (e.g. treadmill training, balance training), is effective in reducing postural instability and improving spatiotemporal gait characteristics among individuals with PD who do not have DBS. To our knowledge, there are no studies to date that assessed the impact of PT for those with PD who have DBS. In fact, the current standard of care following STN-DBS does not include PT. Current care post-DBS includes pharmacologic management and monitoring of DBS settings, which are optimized based on Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor subsection (UPDRS III) scores. Despite the introduction of substantial changes to neural activity in areas of the brain governing movement with DBS, formal movement training or assessment of functional mobility and safety are not provided after surgery. As such, patients may not experience significant improvements in postural stability and gait following surgery, and may be at increased risk for falls, fall-related complications, and development of a sedentary lifestyle. Physical therapy is a personalized intervention that can be used to address specific movement impairments that remain even when patients are on optimal regimens of medication and DBS. There is an urgent need to determine if PT is effective in improving postural stability and gait performance over time following STN-DBS. If the intervention is safe and feasi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety & Tolerability]

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03181282
