CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06316583
Title: Clinical Study on Dry Needling for Primary Dysmenorrhea and Its Preliminary Correlation With Acupoints
Official Title: Clinical Study of Dry Needling on Myofascial Trigger Points Treatment for Primary Dysmenorrhea and Preliminary Investigation of Its Relevance to Acupoints
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Primary dysmenorrhea refers to menstrual pain not caused by pelvic organic lesions, commonly seen in young women, significantly affecting patients' quality of life. Dry needling therapy targeting myofascial trigger points for primary dysmenorrhea has been preliminarily applied in clinical settings. However, related research is limited with questionable quality, hindering its widespread clinical application. Furthermore, is there a connection between myofascial trigger points in dry needling and acupuncture acupoints in terms of selection and mechanism of action? Could this be a new interpretation of acupuncture theory? These are important questions that have garnered widespread attention. This study employs a randomized patient-blinded controlled design, enrolling primary dysmenorrhea patients aged 18 to 30 years. They are randomly divided into three groups: the trigger point dry needling group, traditional acupuncture treatment group, and trigger point sham needle (placebo) group. Changes in pain levels, quality of life scores, inflammatory factor levels, and local blood flow before and after treatment among the three groups are observed. The aim is to assess the therapeutic effects of dry needling trigger points and acupuncture treatments on primary dysmenorrhea and explore their potential mechanisms of action. By comparing the differences and similarities between dry needling trigger points and acupuncture treatments in terms of acupoint selection, treatment effects, and potential mechanisms of action, this study seeks to preliminarily explore the feasibility of integrating trigger point theory into the meridian 'acupoint' theory, laying the foundation for a modern interpretation of acupuncture

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Using a single-center, randomized, single-blind study design, 150 eligible subjects were randomly divided into three groups: placebo group (pseudo-acupuncture trigger point group), TrP-DN treatment group, and traditional acupuncture treatment group. Compared with the placebo control group (trigger point sham needle group), the study evaluated the effects of TrP-DN and traditional acupuncture treatment on pain, quality of life, and long-term prognosis of PD patients. The study also observed their effects on inflammatory factors and local uterine blood flow, exploring the possible mechanisms of TrP-DN and traditional acupuncture treatment for PD.

Further observations were made on the differences and similarities between conventional TrP-DN and traditional acupuncture treatment in terms of point selection, treatment effects, and their effects on inflammatory factors and local uterine circulation. The study aimed to explore the relationship between the trigger point theory and the theory of meridians and acupoints, providing a research basis for integrating TrP-DN into traditional acupuncture theory.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - mean intensity of pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: TrP-DN and Acupuncture

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06316583
