CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06114576
Title: Effects of Biofunctional Orange Juice on Cardiometabolic Risk Markers
Official Title: Effects of Orange Juice Enriched With Vitamin D3 and Encapsulated Probiotics in High Cardiometabolic Risk Individuals
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The effects of orange juice enriched with vitamin D3 and encapsulated probiotics (Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota and Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG) compared to conventional orange juice on several cardiometabolic and anthropometric parameters in individuals at risk of cardiovascular disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial aims to evaluate the effects of the consumption of orange juice enriched with vitamin D3 and encapsulated probiotics (Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota and Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG) compared to conventional orange juice in 50 high cardiometabolic risk volunteers. The participants must be overweight/obese with either prediabetes, and/or hypertension, and/or hyperlipidemia, and will be divided and randomly assigned into 2 groups of 25 individuals each. Participants will consume 250 ml of either orange juice enriched with vitamin D3 and encapsulated probiotics (Lacticaseibacillus casei Shirota and Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus GG) or conventional orange juice daily for 8 weeks as an addition to their usual dietary intake. Participants will be asked to maintain their usual physical activity during the intervention period. At the beginning of the study and at 8 weeks, blood samples will be collected after 12 hours of fasting. Two-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed using a continuous glucose monitoring system at the beginning and at 8 weeks. Anthropometric measurements will be performed at the beginning and every week for 8 weeks. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) and central aortic blood pressure will be measured at the beginning, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks of intervention. Fecal samples will be collected and analyzed to study gut microbiome compositob at the intervention's beginning and at 8 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in blood glucose concentrations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Orange juice enriched with vitamin D3 and encapsulated probiotics
  - OTHER: Conventional orange juice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06114576
