CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06697457
Title: Comparison of the Effectiveness of Different Exercise Types in Individuals with Chronic Neck Pain
Official Title: Comparison of the Effectiveness of Dynamic Isometric, Static Isometric and Craniocervical Flexor Exercise Training in Individuals with Chronic Neck Pain
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of craniocervical flexion, static and dynamic isometric exercise training applied with a conventional physiotherapy program in individuals with chronic neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Neck pain is a significant musculoskeletal problem that is frequently encountered in society. Pain that cannot be diagnosed with a specific pathology is called "nonspecific" and pain that continues for more than three months is called "chronic pain". Chronic nonspecific neck pain has negative effects on function and quality of life. The importance of the exercise approach in the treatment of neck pain is quite great. Craniocervical flexion and static isometric exercises are frequently used in individuals with chronic neck pain. However, there are very few studies that include dynamic isometric exercises. The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of craniocervical flexion, static and dynamic isometric exercise training applied with a conventional physiotherapy program in individuals with chronic neck pain. The intervention groups of the study are deep cervical flexion exercise training, dynamic isometric exercise training and static isometric exercise training and electrotherapy group. The craniocervical flexion exercise training group will receive deep cervical flexor muscle training with Pressure Biofeedback, the dynamic isometric exercise group will receive exercise training with Thera-band, and the static isometric exercise group will receive neck isometric exercises. The electrotherapy group will receive hotpack, tens, and ultrasound applications. At the beginning and end of the study, pain, disability, posture, muscle strength, endurance, range of motion, and body awareness will be assessed in all individuals.TENS (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) will be applied to all groups for 20 minutes with a TENS device at a strength of 10-30 mA and a frequency of 80 Hz. A pair of surface electrodes will be placed on the painful area of the neck. The intensity of TENS will be adjusted according to the patient's sensory thresholds so that they are not disturbed by a numbness sensation. After TENS, continuous ultrasound will be applied to the cervical region to produce thermal effects. The intensity will be 1.5 W/cm² and the duration will be 5 minutes. Hotpack will be applied to the trapezius muscle for 10 minutes. Chin tuck exercise will be applied to the cervical region.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Assesment
  - Pain Assesment
  - Disability Assesment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Craniocervical Flexion Exercise Group
  - OTHER: Conventional Treatment Group
  - OTHER: Dynamic Isometric Exercise Group
  - OTHER: Static Isometric Exercise Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06697457
