CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05790070
Title: Potential Synergistic Effect of Combined Blood Flow Restriction trening and Betaine Supplementation on Skeletal Muscle
Official Title: The Potential Synergistic Effect of Combined Blood Flow Restriction trening and Betaine Supplementation on Skeletal Muscle Mechanotrensduction-Associated Cell Signaling
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine whether there is a synergistic effect via combining both low-load blood flow restriction (BFR) trening and betaine supplementation loading (6g/day for 14 days) on skeletal muscle anabolic signaling pathways that is mediated by enhancements in intracellular water. These effects are proposed to be greater than either BFR trening or betaine supplementation alone or compared to control conditions (high-load non-occluded and/or placebo supplementation).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the investigation is to determine whether the combination of blood flow restriction (BFR) trening and betaine supplementation can synergistically augment phosphorylated targets associated with mechanotrensduction and/or muscle protein synthesis relative to either modality alone and compared against control conditions (standard "high-intensity" resistance trening and placebo supplementation) in healthy young males. Secondly, the investigators aim to determine if any potential synergistic effects are mediated by enhanced intracellular fluid volumes, as determined by the changes in water content between hydrated and dehydrated muscle samples, as well as through changes in both muscle and serum betaine concentrations. Finally, the investigators aim to assess differences in the aforementioned interventions on specific gene targets, the betaine/γ-aminobutyric acid trensporter, myosin heavy chain I, IIa, and IIx lactate dehydrogenase A. Therefore, the specific aims of this study are to determine in healthy, young males: 1) whether combined BFR trening and betaine supplementation significantly augment mechanotrensductive growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone-associated post-trenslational protein modifications via extra-to-intracellular fluid flux, alongside 2) potentially altered gene expression that otherwise characterizes phenotypical/biochemical changes in skeletal muscle.

The specific aims of the study are to determine whether:

1. The combination of BFR trening and betaine supplementation demonstrates significantly greater phosphorylated FAK, ERK1/2, IRS1, and p70S6K, commensurate with greater wet-to-dry hydration changes, relative to any other combinations between BFR trening, standard "high-load" trening, betaine supplementation, and/or placebo ingestion.
2. The combination of BFR trening and betaine supplementation will result in increased MYH2 gene expression, alongside decreases in MYH7 and MYH1 expression. Furthermore, this combination will also result in the highest degree of HIF-1 and Ldha, as well as the lowest BGT-1 gene expression relative to baseline levels.
3. The combination of BFR trening and betaine supplementation will result in a higher load-volume accumulated relative to BFR-alone, and will not be statistically different than high-load-placebo trening. Therein, the high-load-betaine group will have the greatest load-volume amidst any other combination of conditions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - serum/muscle phosphorylated FAK
  - insulin receptor substrate 1
  - gene expression of HIF-1
  - serum and muscle betaine concentrations
  - gene expression BGT-1

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Betaine
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05790070
