CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05990062
Title: Improving Prosthetic Arms for Amputee: A Better Fit and More Functionality
Official Title: The Advancement of a New Variable-Compliance Socket and Frame System for Transradial Amputees to Optimize Socket Fit and Upper Limb Function
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This research and development will improve upon and investigate the potential validity of an innovative new transradial socket and harness design (the KSH system) that offers an alternative to standard hard sockets and rubber liners with a hybrid polymer and textile-based design derived from advanced athletic shoe technology. The project consists of designing, custom fitting and evaluating the function and comfort of the this new novel system. The study will take place in 3 phases; Phase 1, five experienced Veterans with transradial arm amputations will be recruited to provide guidance and to assist with the design and development. Experienced end-user Veterans and Clinical staff will work together to assist with design, develop the fitting process and working with engineers on the design of a completely digital fitting device for measuring the residual limb and locating bony prominences of the limb to inform the socket design. Phase 2, testing and assessment, the design and process validation will take place with the five Veteran upper transradial arm amputees Phase 3, an additional 20 Veterans with transradial arm amputations will be recruited and fit with the KSH system and undergo a series of evaluative tests. Veterans will perform a series of static and dynamic tasks to evaluate function, comfort and load bearing failure. The primary goal of this study is to improve upon the current preliminary prototype and to test it with a broader population of potential users to help advance the engineering and design, and to learn the potential to fit a range of Veterans with transradial amputations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Acceptance of prosthetic arms has long been a problem for clinical prosthetics, and recent studies indicate that recent advancements have done little to improve usage. Objections related to the fit and comfort of prosthetic arms remain the main reasons cited for the disuse of the devices, numbering nine of the top ten reasons cited for abandonment in a survey study. By addressing the literal point of pain for these users, the investigators hope to increase use and acceptance, allowing existing devices to have more positive impact on Veterans' lives. The breathability of composite sockets has been an acknowledged problem nearly since their development by the VA in the 1940s. Indeed, while the VA successfully developed a breathable composite socket very early on, it was quickly abandoned after it was discovered that the breathable composite recreated the problems with odor and cleanliness with leather sockets that the composites had been developed to solve. Industry leader Otto Bock discovered the same thing when it developed a porous silicone liner decades later. While VA and civilian providers were successful in replacing leather sockets with composites through the innovations in composites and other materials following World War II. Prosthetic clinics used to employ leatherworkers skilled in the art of making custom sockets and braces out of these traditional materials, but these services have disappeared along with the Veterans demanding them, and the workers capable of delivering them. By taking advantage of the benefits of the advanced materials and construction techniques that have replaced leather in the athletic shoe industry over the last seventy-five years, the investigators hope to restore much of the comfort and fit of these extinct socket designs, while at the same time delivering the improvements that have been delivered by the athletic shoe industry and advances in design and manufacturing over the same period. Lim design is working on a textile based prosthetic socket; however, the approach differs from the investigators': 1) The Lim design is not intended or currently suitable for upper limbs; 2) While a textile design, the Lim design cannot dynamically change in volume through the range of motion and constrains motion similar to any other socket once it has been adjusted; 3) The textile design of the Lim socket is nether breathable nor wicking and is designed to be used with silicone and/or gel liners, hence suffers from the same deficiencies with respect to heat and moisture management as traditional sockets. Lim Innovations and Ossur have publicly stated that they do not intend to pursue further innovations in the upper limb market. These frank admissions make it clear that the development of orphan devices for Veterans, must become the responsibility of the VA, whose goals for serving Veterans are sometimes in contrast with and not limited to the constraints of large and profitable markets. VA in collaboration with small compa

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Static tensile load bearing capacity to reach A-50-pound load on an industrial scale
  - Elbow range of motion in flexion/extension
  - Donning/doffing prosthesis
  - Power in Watts generated on rowing machine
  - Strokes per 10-minute period

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: K-Socket-Harness

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05990062
