CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07024940
Title: Short-term Effects of Caffeine and a Multi-ingredient Pre-workout on Exercise Performance
Official Title: Acute Effects of Coffee, Anthocyanin-Caffeine Supplement and Placebo on Exercise Performance Markers
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The investigators are conducting a study to see how a commercial pre-workout supplement, coffee, and water affect how well people perform. The study is conducted across four visits. The first visit is to assess the participants, and the next three visits are for testing. Each participant will drink a randomly assigned beverage 45 minutes before testing. Throughout the study, the participants will complete three testing days-each at least three days apart-so they can try all three drinks. The first test is the Wingate test, where the participants pedal as fast as they can for 30 seconds against a set resistance. The second test is a 1-mile treadmill run/walk on an incline, where the participant tries to complete the distance as fast as possible. The third test measures reaction time using light-up buttons to see how quickly a participant responds by touching them. These tests will help determine if any of the drinks improve performance. The results can help people choose the best drink for their workouts or races.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is being conducted to evaluate how a commercial pre-workout supplement with multiple ingredients and coffee affects how people perform during exercise testing. The study takes place over 4 separate lab visits. The first lab visit is an assessment for each participant to help define the population to be tested. Then, three testing visits will be identical in design but will differ in the intervention given to the participant. Each participant will consume the pre-workout, coffee, and a placebo in a randomized order. At the beginning of each visit, the participant will consume their assigned beverage. The participants will then start a warm-up after 30 minutes of consuming the assigned beverage. After the 10-minute warm-up, the participant will rest for five minutes before conducting the testing. In the testing visits, participants will conduct a 1-mile treadmill run, in which the participant will determine their speed using a 1% incline. This allows the participant to control the speed, allowing them to try as hard as they can. The next test will be a Wingate cycle ergometer test. The test contains a 20-second warm-up followed by a three-second period where the participant will pedal as fast as they can until the test begins, then they will do an all-out effort for 30 seconds. The participant will then conduct an agility reaction time test to measure any benefits the interventions may have on cognitive function.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in anaerobic power measured by a 30-second all-out effort on a cycle ergometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ethiopian Coffee
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Supplement
  - OTHER: Water (Placebo)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07024940
