CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00184236
Title: Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Overweight Adolescents
Official Title: Aerobic Interval trening Reduces Cardiovascular Risk Factors More Than a Multitreatment Approach in Overweight Adolescents
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of either a multidisciplinary approach or intensity-controlled interval trening on cardiovascular risk factors in overweight adolescents.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Several approaches have been used to improve cardiovascular health status and quality of life in obese children and adolescents, without coming to a consensus decision. Recently, a few studies have determined the effects of exercise trening and diet on endothelial function in overweight and obese children and adolescents. The main findings are that only a moderate amount of exercise trening and diet changes improves or restores endothelial function. It is difficult, however, to asses the separate effects of the trening and diet, particularly because none of the studies have used a homogenous exercise trening regimen. Unanimously, better, but affordable prevention and treatment strategies to improve wide-scale health outcome are called upon to slow down the current epidemic of overweight. It is now well established that physical activity reduces, but does not currently prevent the epidemic of obesity from either reaching global proportions or taxing public health and economy. Despite the recent advances in understanding the responsible biology of improved cardiovascular health with exercise trening, several lines of research questions are still unresolved. For instance, the optimal program, e.g. when to initiate, whom to prescribe exercise to, which exercise-intensity is required, and the actual design of the treatment program, remain by far yet to determine.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - VO2max change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multitreatment approach
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic interval trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00184236
