CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04500366
Title: GERAS Frailty Rehabilitation at Home During COVID-19
Official Title: GERAS Frailty Rehabilitation at Home: Virtual Bundled Care for Seniors Who Are Frail to Build Strength and Resilience During COVID-19
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is keeping people apart, which can take a toll on physical and mental health. Many healthcare professionals are concerned vulnerable seniors may become deconditioned, which substantially increases risk of health complications and need for hospitalization. To address the immediate impact of COVID-19 policies (i.e., physical distancing, reduced access to care), the GERAS Frailty Rehabilitation model will be adapted to be delivered remotely in the homes of vulnerable seniors. The investigators' aim is to understand how to best build resilience among vulnerable seniors in the community through at-home rehabilitation services (socialization, exercise, nutrition, and medication support).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
During this unprecedented time of COVID-19, many healthcare professionals are concerned that vulnerable seniors who are housebound and isolated will become deconditioned resulting in functional losses in mental status, continence and ability to complete activities of daily living. Total inactivity in seniors can result in a 10-20% decrease in muscle strength per week (1 -3% per day). Loss of muscle strength may quickly convert a vulnerable older adult who was ambulatory into a bedridden state. This will affect the health of seniors and increase demand on healthcare systems. An innovative model to deliver frailty rehabilitation services remotely is urgently needed to: 1) increase access to specialized services 2) provide added supports for seniors discharged from the hospital who are in need of rehabilitation and 3) build resilience in seniors to prevent re-hospitalization or institutionalization. Therefore, to address the immediate impact of COVID-19 policies (i.e., physical distancing and reduced access to care), the GERAS Frailty Rehabilitation model will be adapted to be delivered remotely in the homes of vulnerable seniors. This proof-of-concept, randomized control trial aims to understand how to best build resilience among vulnerable seniors through at-home rehabilitation services using socialization, exercise, nutrition, and medication support.

The short-term immediate goals for this RCT are to help vulnerable seniors who are isolated because of physical distancing measures to build strength and resilience throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. The major deliverables are 1) the adaptation of an in-person program to virtual delivery 2) the piloting of a care pathway with inter-disciplinary professionals that can be expanded to reach a larger number of individuals.

The long-term goal of the study is the seamless implementation of a new model for multimodal Frailty Rehabilitation that closes the care gap in rehabilitation for frail seniors in the immediate and foreseeable future.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical Function
  - Change in Mental Health

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Socialization
  - BEHAVIORAL: Virtual Group Exercise
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Nutrition Consult and Protein Supplementation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Medication Review

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04500366
