CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06089863
Title: Rehabilitation Program on Genetic and Degenerative Ataxia
Official Title: Evaluation of the Effect of PAMPERO Rehabilitation Program in Collaboration With Patient Partner on the Symptom Intensity, Activity, and Quality of Life on Genetic and Degenerative Ataxia
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Cerebellar ataxia is a pathology linked to the lesion of the cerebellum or the afferent and/or efferent cerebellar pathways. The aetiology can be an acquired cerebral lesion, following a chemical poisoning or a genetic degenerative lesion (for example : Friedreich's ataxia, spinocerebellar ataxias, etc.). As reported by the latest estimate available, genetic degenerative cerebellar ataxias affect approximately 6,000 patients in France (Orpha.net). Symptoms suffered by ataxic patients are : problems and gait disorders along with difficulties in coordination resulting in ataxia, uncoordinated movements.

These symptoms cause a decrease in the quality of life on patients with spinocerebellar ataxia. The symptoms improvement linked to the cerebellar syndrome is based on rehabilitation that can be supplemented by use of technical aids. Current scientific knowledge confirms that intensive rehabilitation by physiotherapy and occupational therapy in patients with degenerative ataxias improves cerebellar symptoms. Nevertheless, the choice rehabilitation technique stay at the appreciation of the therapist.

From the observation, the investigators have designed an intensive multidisciplinary rehabilitation program, called PAMPERO, with partner patients member of two genetic degenerative ataxia patient organisations. This 5-weeks program has been used in clinic during 3 years on 28 patients. It appears to be the only one in France.

The preliminary results show a positive effect on ataxia symptom. Nevertheless, the duration of the benefice over time and the effect on the quality of life stay unknown.

However, the quality of life is mainly affected by the participation restriction due to the risk of falling. The most frequent complaint from partner patient is the diminution of the social interaction resulting of the incapacity to move without risk.

The present protocol aimed at evaluating the Rehabilitation Program in collaboration with partner patient on the symptom intensity, activity and quality of life on genetic and degenerative ataxia.

This PAMPERO program's effect will be assessed by comparing the difference of Intensity of symptom measured by to Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA) at inclusion and 3 months after the end of rehabilitation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PAMPERO program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06089863
