CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05211596
Title: Deaf Weight Wise: Community-engaged Implementation Research to Promote Healthy Lifestyle Change With Deaf ASL Users
Official Title: Deaf Weight Wise: Community-engaged Implementation Research to Promote Healthy Lifestyle Change With Deaf American Sign Language Users in Western and Central New York State
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 85
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the Deaf Weight Wise Implementation Study is to study with diverse partners the approaches and strategies that lead to successful implementation of Deaf Weight Wise (DWW), an evidence-based healthy lifestyle intervention for use with Deaf adult American Sign Language (ASL) users. The implementation hypothesis is that diverse community organizations will successfully implement DWW with their constituents.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Little is known about health or health promoting interventions in Deaf communities nationally or worldwide. Deaf individuals comprise understudied and medically underserved populations. Access to health services, research, and health information is confounded by communication and literacy barriers. One of the challenges of health research with deaf people is creating survey instruments and interventions that are culturally and linguistically appropriate. The original Deaf Weight-Wise Study (2012-2014) by this study team of the Rochester Prevention Research Center (RPRC): National Center for Deaf Health Research (NCDHR) was the first adequately powered randomized trial of an evidence-based healthy weight/lifestyle intervention to be carried out in Deaf people. Deaf Weight Wise is based on the University of North Carolina's Weight Wise program and represented a pioneering effort to collect new health information and develop intervention tools in a very understudied and underserved minority group. Deaf Weight Wise 2.0 (2017-2019) was built on this research team's experience with the original Deaf Weight Wise trial for ages 40-70, and was an adaptation of the original Deaf Weight Wise curriculum to suit ages 21-70. DWW 2.0 also evaluated the additional component of a one-to-one individual counseling intervention delivered remotely over videophone (like Skype/Zoom) in addition to the group intervention format.

This new Deaf Weight Wise implementation research proposed here will allow this study team to work with community partner organizations, to train them to implement DWW at their own sites. This will fulfill the goal of disseminating DWW broadly to Deaf communities. The study team will conduct research to study the process of implementation of DWW at each site. This advances DWW along the translational spectrum to ensure that DWW is not only a research project, but becomes a sustainable, community-based program.

The study team will conduct an implementation-effectiveness Type 3 research design that is plan, execute and evaluate in collaboration with partners. The study team will adapt and implement DWW with partner organizations at various sites in central and western NY. Each phase of this study, including selection of the intervention topic (obesity and healthy lifestyle), design of study procedures, and development of the informed consent and data collection processes, are based on direct input and feedback from Deaf research team members and Deaf community members.

All aspects of this research will be conducted via virtual video communication platforms.

Screening and enrollment is conducted in American Sign Language by Deaf sign-fluent research staff. Informed consent is an ASL video followed by discussion, question and answer, and check for comprehension in ASL by Deaf sign-fluent research staff. Following informed consent, subjects will have data collection appointments at baseline (pre-intervention), 6-months after baseline (post-interv

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Implementation of the Deaf Weight Wise Intervention at Partner Sites
  - Delivery of the Deaf Weight Wise Intervention As Intended
  - Number of Participants Who Did Not Receive the Intervention at Their Partner Site Because of Site Barriers and/or COVID Restrictions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Deaf Weight Wise intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05211596
