CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04777981
Title: (CBDRA60) to Prevent or Reduce Symptoms of COVID-19 and Prevention of Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection PASC
Official Title: Efficacy of Cannabidiol in Combination With Red Algae (CBDRA60) to Prevent or Reduce Symptoms of COVID-19 and Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection PASC
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), presents a major threat to human health. SARS-CoV-2 is highly infectious and is associated with extensive morbidity and mortality. Our study shares important features with other clinical trials using supplements or other widely available medications (e.g., Ascorbic Acid, Zinc, Vitamin D, Vitamin C). Our study shares two important elements with these previous studies, including:

1. The use of adaptive and cost-effective study design methods,
2. The testing of prophylactic supplementation using known, natural substances that have demonstrated safety and limited side effects.

The focus of this study is to use a supplement that combines Cannabidiol and Gigartina Red Algae in creating "CBDRA60", a sublingual tablet, which is hypothesized to help reduce the duration of symptoms in patients diagnosed with the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The rationale and design of our trial (N=60), is as follows: 60 individuals newly diagnosed with COVID-19 infection will be randomized to one of two groups. They will either receive CBDRA60 (30mg CBD, 30mgRA / 60mg combo; 2x/daily with food or 120 mg total) or a placebo in a 1:1 ratio. The study duration will be 5 weeks. The primary outcome for newly diagnosed individuals is the prevention of disease progression which leads to hospitalization. The secondary outcome is a reduction in symptom severity scores.

COVID-19 patients with weakened innate immune systems may be susceptible to more severe disease and higher mortality. An impaired host immune response may lead to higher SARS-COV-2 viral load and subsequent overactivation of the adaptive immune system that results in cytokine release syndrome. CBD and Gigartina Red Algae can modulate both the innate and adaptive immune responses, have anti-viral activity and thereby can suppress the consequent hyperinflammatory response.

Viral infection activates a pathological inflammatory response to combat the pathogen and limit its spread. Viral pathogens, such as the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronaviruses (SARS-CoV), and other viruses (such as HIV), have been linked to many human and animal diseases. Advancements in research over the past decade, has led to a better understanding of SARS-CoV biology and the mechanism by which this family of viruses, the coronaviridae, infect and enter the host cells (refs). SARS-CoV-2, a unique type of coronavirus, inhibits host defense by invadinGHost cells, replicating, and infecting numerous tissues. Severe COVID-19 is associated with a cytokine storm, acute respiratory distress and consequent multiple organ pathology that can be fatal. This depictive storm is a result of increase in circulating levels of various proinflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-1 TNF-α as well as interferons (IFN-I; IFNα and IFNβ).

CBD CBD is a non-psychotropic cannabinoid that has a broad spectrum of well-established anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. For example, CBD administration in a murine model of lung injury, reduces lung inflammation through inhibition of immune cell cytokine production and suppression of leukocyte infiltration. Our premise is that similar CBD-induced effects would be highly applicable and hugely beneficial to mitigating the acute respiratory distress syndrome observed in COVID-19. Published evidence also indicates that CBD can inhibit viral replication. Red algae (Rhodophyta) are known for their potent anti-viral properties, non-toxicity and for being well tolerated in humans. Rhodophyta contain several sulfated polysaccharides that exhibit high antiviral activity against enveloped viruses, including important human pathogens such as herpes simplex virus (HSV), human cytomegalovirus, dengue virus and respiratory syncytial virus. Sulfated polysaccharides can exert their anti-viral effects through interacting with the external glycoprotein of the virion envelope preventing attachment of the virus to cell surface receptors. Red algae also contain mannose specific lectins that specifically interact with viral envelope glycoproteins including the spike glycoprotein specific to SARS-CoV2 to inhibit viral entry.

It is our premise that by using a safe and tolerable dose of the formulated CBDRA60 sublingual tablet, participants could either be protected from viral infection of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19) or in subjects that are already infected, CBDRA60, could prevent virus attachment, mitigate virus-induced inflammation and avoid a cytokine storm, enabling a faster recovery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The trial is a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial with a total of 60 participants located in the state of Michigan. Patients will be randomized to CBDRA60 supplement or placebo.

All participants will be newly diagnosed as positive for SARS-CoV2 (assessed using a PCR test).

Each participant will be randomized to either CBDRA60 or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. The study duration for each participant will be 5 weeks, including taking the supplementation (active or placebo for 28 days). Of the 60 participants, 30 participants will receive CBDRA60 and 30 participants will receive the placebo. The infected individuals will be followed to assess disease progression defined as the need for hospitalization.

For participants receiving the CBDRA60 supplementation, it aims to reduce

1. The need to be hospitalized and
2. Self-reported disease severity and resolution over 5 weeks Participants will self-report symptom severity and disease progression through weekly questionnaires. For each specified COVID-19 related symptom (fever, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, diarrhea), participants will report one of the following 3 options: none (score of 0), mild (score of 1), moderate (score of 2) or severe (score of 3) except for new loss of taste or smell which will be assessed using a binary score (0 = no loss of taste/smell, 1 = loss of taste/smell) in accordance with the HHS guidelines (Sep 2020 document). The total disease severity score will be the average across all potential symptoms. The escalation protocol for any participants that experience symptoms that are more than mild or continue to progress will be directed to contact their primary care physician or their appropriate emergency care facility.

Supplementation Daily sublingual tablet containing 30mg Cannabidiol and 30mg Red Algae, a total of 60mg per dose. Participants will take 2 tablets per day, sublingually and with food, taken approximately and at least, 8 hours apart, daily for 28 days. Participants will be mailed a supply of pills by an overnight courier service.

Control subjects will receive daily oral placebo tablets of identical appearance and taste containing no CBDRA60.

Study procedures Recruitment Participants will be recruited across Michigan via social media; community advocacy groups and equity initiatives; flyers and electronic communications distributed in healthcare centers, COVID-19 testing centers, and other avenues. Recruitment will primarily be conducted remotely and prospective participants will be asked to complete a web-based HIPAA-secure screening survey by the MB Clinical or VSafe system. Screen-eligible participants will be contacted by phone by research staff to complete the screening process using on-line consent forms.

Baseline and follow-up Participants will receive messages as a reminder to take study pills. 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Decreased hospitalization

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: CBDRA60 supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04777981
