CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04957589
Title: VLCD & Adjuvant Exercise Effect in Overweight Diabetic Men
Official Title: The Effect of a Very Low Calorie Diet (VLCD) With and Without Concomitant High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) on Muscle Protein Synthesis (MPS) in Middle-aged Overweight Diabetic Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia is defined as the incremental age-related loss of skeletal muscle in humans which generally begins from forty years old. It is associated with an overall reduction in quality of life and increased morbidity and mortality. Patients with type two diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are particularly at risk of developing sarcopenia, partly due to the condition and also due to the common incidence after or during middle age. A promising recently-investigated and effective conservative approach to T2DM is through very low calorie diets (VLCD). Some studies have shown that the diabetic status of some patients can be reversed through VLCD. However, VLCD will theoretically result in an acceleration of sarcopenia. This presents as a limiting factor for the implementation of VLCD in this at-risk patient group. Skeletal muscle tissue is encouraged to grow in size or be maintained through two means - an increase in circulating protein breakdown products, or through resistance exercise (RE). Additionally, RE has been shown to increase the body's sensitivity to insulin, the main hormone which controls circulating glucose levels and is frequently impaired in T2DM, as well as temporarily decreasing glucose levels. The precise mechanism by which these happen is not fully understood yet. In this study, the effect of a VLCD is used, alongside one form of exercise (high intensity interval training, HIT), in overweight, middle-aged male patients with T2DM. 10 patients are to be recruited into each group (control/VLCD-only and VLCD with HIT) at our centre. Patient weight, markers of muscle protein synthesis, glucose levels and changes to blood vessels will be investigated before, during and after across a six week timeframe. Investigations will include muscle and fat biopsies, blood samples, ultrasound scans, strength testing and deuterium oxide (D2O) isotope ingestion for later non-invasive body fluid sample mass spectrometric analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Very low calorie diet (VLCD) is increasingly being utilized to improve cardio-metabolic outcomes in overweight/obese individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), but concerns regarding its association with skeletal muscle mass losses persist, especially in middle-aged/older individuals, who are already at risk of accelerated sarcopenia. This is particularly relevant in people at risk of developing diabetes due to the rising incidence and prevalence of diabetes among older patients as well as accelerated sarcopenia in diabetes compared with non-diabetes. Given that low skeletal muscle mass and function is linked to mortality, frailty, and adverse cardio-metabolic outcomes, increased understanding of the mechanisms of VLCD-induced muscle atrophy, and novel strategies to overcome this is crucial to optimize healthy ageing. Alongside nutrition, physical activity is another key driver of muscle protein synthesis, with habitual physical activity required to maintain muscle mass. A number of studies have shown that even short-term muscle disuse (or reduced use in the form of reduced ambulation (e.g. 2 weeks of \<1500 steps/day) or limb immobilization causes muscle wasting. Exercise has also been shown to improve metabolic control by increasing muscle glucose uptake during muscle contractions via insulin-independent mechanisms, and also by increasing skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity following physical activity. HIT has been shown in a number of studies to improve both cardiovascular and metabolic function in a variety of cohorts. Therefore, this study aims to quantitatively determine whether HIT helps prevent a major physiological detrimental effect of VLCD.

This study will randomise volunteers to:

1. VLCD ("Lighter Life" meal replacement product, total 600 calories (kcal)) alone (200kcal free allowance) (N=10)
2. VLCD and HIT (200kcal free allowance) (N=10) This will be undertaken in overweight and obese patients (BMI=27-50kg/m2) of male gender and between the ages of 35-65 years. Based on a power calculation derived from recently-published trial data utilising VLCDs and with MPS as the primary outcome, a minimum of 8 participants per group would be sufficient, with a further N=2 per arm (an increase in 25%) implemented to account for drop-outs.

The study will aim to recruit (to allow for potential non-completion) 10 subjects per group. Volunteers would undergo detailed physiological and metabolic investigations before and after interventions

1. Skeletal muscle mass, function and protein metabolism
2. Vascular function (microvascular perfusion, macrovascular blood flow and endothelial function)
3. Cardio-metabolic status (glucose handling, cardiorespiratory function, central blood flow parameters)
4. mechanisms regulating changes in glucose handling and muscle protein turnover It is anticipated that HIT may ameliorate VLCD-induced reductions in skeletal muscle mass and function, by boosting the molecular signals which involve the retention o

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Protein Synthesis (MPS)
  - Muscle Protein Breakdown (MPB) (3MH)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Very Low Calorie Diet
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04957589
