CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00287586
Title: Testosterone Replacement in Older Men and Atherosclerosis Progression
Official Title: Effects of Testosterone Replacement on Atherosclerosis Progression in Older Men With Low Testosterone Levels
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 308
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
As men grow older, their testosterone levels decrease with age. One-third of men, 70 years of age or older, have low testosterone levels. It is known that short-term testosterone replacement is safe, and can increase muscle strength and physical function, but the risks of long-term testosterone replacement in older men with low testosterone levels are incompletely understood.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by thickening of the artery walls, and the narrowing of the blood vessels as cholesterol is deposited in the lining of the arteries. It is the major cause of cardiovascular disease including ischemic heart disease (heart attacks) and stroke. Although, historically, there has been a widespread perception that higher levels of testosterone might increase the risk of atherosclerosis, the evidence from research does not support this. In observational studies, higher testosterone levels have been correlated with more favorable cardiovascular risk factors, and supplementation with testosterone to bring older men into the normal range for healthy younger men appears to improve several cardiovascular risk factors, and may slow the progression of atherosclerosis.

The primary purpose of this study is to look at the effects of testosterone replacement on the progression of atherosclerosis in older men. This study is also being done to find out whether replacement with testosterone in older men with low testosterone levels improves their health-related quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Although short-term administration of testosterone in replacement doses is relatively safe, the risks of long-term testosterone administration in older men remain poorly understood. The two major areas of concern include the potential for increased risk of atherosclerotic heart disease and exacerbation of a pre-existing, subclinical prostate cancer. There is a widespread perception that testosterone supplementation adversely affects plasma lipoprotein profile and increases the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease; this premise is not supported by data. Thus, the long-term consequences of testosterone supplementation on the risk of atherosclerosis progression remain unknown. While supraphysiological doses of testosterone and non-aromatizable androgens frequently employed by body-builders undoubtedly decrease plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels, physiologic testosterone replacement in older men has been associated with only a modest or no decrease in plasma HDL-cholesterol. Cross-sectional studies of middle-aged men find a direct, rather than an inverse, relationship between serum testosterone levels and plasma HDL-cholesterol concentrations as well as an inverse correlation between serum testosterone levels and visceral fat volume. Testosterone supplementation of middle-aged men with truncal obesity is associated with a reduction in visceral fat volume, serum glucose concentration, blood pressure, and an improvement in insulin sensitivity. All of these changes are associated with lower risk for atherosclerosis. These data suggest that serum testosterone levels in the range that is mid-normal for healthy young men are consistent with an optimal cardiovascular risk profile at any age, and that testosterone concentrations either above or below the physiologic male range may increase the risk of atherosclerotic heart disease. Studies in a low density lipoprotein (LDL)-receptor deficient mice provide compelling evidence that testosterone retards early atherogenesis, and that testosterone effects on atherogenesis are mediated through its conversion to estradiol by the action of aromatase enzyme that is expressed in the vessel wall. The effects of testosterone replacement on cardiovascular risk in humans have never been directly examined. Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to examine directly the effects of testosterone replacement on atherosclerosis progression in men by measuring common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA IMT) and coronary artery calcification (CAC) by multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), two independent measurements of generalized atherosclerosis.

The second objective of this study is to determine whether physiologic testosterone replacement of older men with low testosterone levels improves health-related quality of life. Aging-associated decline in physical, sexual, and cognitive functions contributes to diminished quality of life in older men. Although the pathophysiology of impairm

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change From Baseline in Common Carotid Artery Intima-Media Thickness (IMT)
  - Change From Baseline in Coronary Artery Calcium Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Gel (Androgel)
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00287586
