CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04427488
Title: The Effect of Exercises Performed According to Circadian Rhythm in Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: The Effect of Exercises Performed According to Circadian Rhythm in Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disease characterized by partial insulin deficiency or insulin resistance in peripheral tissue. Type 2 diabetes, which has a very high prevalence worldwide, is a socially serious health problem. Exercise has beneficial effects on the glycemic profile, such as decreased glycemic hemoglobin (HbA1c) level, increased maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max) and improved insulin sensitivity in diabetes patients. When the literature is examined, it is seen that exercise is also effective in improving metabolic health. Although the metabolic benefits of exercise have been shown, there is no study of which type of exercise is more beneficial in what time of day in individuals with Type 2 diabetes. Circadian rhythm plays an important role in clarifying this issue because the circadian rhythm is impaired in the glucose metabolism of individuals with type 2 diabetes.The aim of this study is to investigate which exercise is more effective in which time period for individuals with Type 2 diabetes

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION: Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disease characterized by partial insulin deficiency or insulin resistance in peripheral tissue. Type 2 diabetes, which has a very high prevalence worldwide, is a socially serious health problem. Complications seen with the disease negatively affect human health. Physical activity and regular exercise are shown in the first place with pharmacological treatment and diet approaches in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. Exercise has beneficial effects on the glycemic profile, such as decreased glycemic hemoglobin (HbA1c) level, increased maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max) and improved insulin sensitivity in diabetes patients. When the literature is examined, it is seen that exercise is also effective in improving metabolic health. Although the metabolic benefits of exercise have been shown, there is no study of which type of exercise is more beneficial in what time of day in individuals with Type 2 diabetes. Circadian rhythm plays an important role in clarifying this issue because the circadian rhythm is impaired in the glucose metabolism of individuals with type 2 diabetes.

AIM: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of structured exercises given in accordance with the circadian rhythm of individuals with type 2 diabetes.

METHOD: 30 people with Type 2 diabetes in accordance with the criteria for inclusion in the Department of Endocrine and Metabolism Diseases of Medipol University Hospital in Istanbul will be included in this study. Individuals who have been diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes between the ages of 35-65, who have body mass index between 25 and 30, who have HbA1c value\> 6.5%, who have fasting blood glucose\>126 mg/dl, who have Type 2 diabetes between 5-10 years, who have inactive physical activity, who independently can walk and volunteer to exercise for at least 3 days a week will be included in our study. Type 1 diabetes individuals, diagnosed with Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults (LADA), having diabetic Ketoacidosis coma, orthopedic or surgical problems to prevent walking and exercising, foot ulcers, individuals have any neurologıcal problem and individuals with cardiac, pulmonary or systematic diseases that will cause contraindications will not be included in the study. Blood sample evaluations, circadian rhythm evaluation, 6-minute walking test, 30-second sit to stand test, quality of life assessment with Ferrans\&Powers Quality of Life Index of the individuals included will be carried out at the beginning of the study (T0) and at 6 (T1), 12 (T2) and 18 (T3) weeks after the study started Participants will be divided into two groups, morning (MC) and evening chronotypes (EC), according to their circadian rhythms. In both groups, there was a 6-week control period in which the participants continued to their routine treatment and did not perform any specific exercises. In the MC group, exercises were applied in the morning hours for the first 6 weeks and in the evening h

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c evaluation
  - Fasting glucose evaluation
  - HDL (high density lipoprotein) evaluation
  - LDL (low density lipoprotein) evaluation
  - Total cholesterol evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Morning Chronotype group
  - OTHER: Evening Chronotype group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04427488
