CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07314957
Title: Impact of Lifestyle on Health maintenance: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: The Role of Lifestyle in Maintaining Health: Biological, Psychological and Social Responses of the Organism to Lifestyle
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study aims to evaluate the impact of public health interventions on changes in healthy lifestyle habits over time and their subsequent effects on health outcomes. The investigators hypothesize that exposing at-risk populations to structured physical activity programs, education on healthy nutrition, promotion of the Mediterranean diet, and workshops focused on strengthening psychological resilience will lead to improvements in anthropometric, oxidative, metabolic, and psychological parameters. Anthropometric and laboratory measures will be collected at multiple time points throughout the study. The longitudinal follow-up will span 12 months. It is anticipated that sustained adherence to healthy lifestyle behaviors will result in positive lifestyle changes and enhanced health-related quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Contemporary lifestyle patterns are characterized by a fast pace of life, exposure to stressful stimuli, and unhealthy habits. Physically inactive adults who are exposed to stress, smoke, and have poor dietary habits are at increased risk of developing metabolic syndrome, oxidative stress, overweight, hormonal imbalance, insulin resistance, impaired mental health, and lower health-related quality of life.

Studies confirm that lifestyle is one of the most influential modifiable factors in disease development. This study aims to evaluate whether a structured lifestyle intervention, including supervised physical exercise, adherence to a healthy diet, and stress-resilience training, can improve metabolic health, reduce oxidative stress, and enhance mental health and quality of life in adults with overweight, compared to a control group receiving standard lifestyle advice. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: supervised lifestyle group with exercise , Mediterranean diet education , stress-resilience and support; and control group receiving standard lifestyle recommendations. Participants in the experimental groups will engage in regular physical activity, follow a Mediterranean diet, participate in psychological resilience-building workshops and support groups, and attend weekly individual and group sessions, followed by a 12-month follow-up period.

The study will assess anthropometric measures (body weight, waist and hip circumference), metabolic parameters (blood glucose, HbA1c, cholesterol, HOMA-IR), oxidative stress markers (AGEs), hormonal responses (cortisol, thyroid hormones), mental health, perceived stress, and quality of life. Participants will wear smart bracelets to monitor daily activity, steps, heart rate, and sleep. Measurements will be taken at baseline, immediately after the 12-week intervention (3 month), and during follow-up at 6, and 12 months.

The investigators hypothesize that the structured lifestyle intervention combining physical activity, Mediterranean diet education, and stress-resilience training will lead to significant improvements in metabolic, oxidative, and psychological health outcomes compared to standard lifestyle advice.

The scientific findings gained from this study may significantly contribute to understanding the effectiveness of lifestyle interventions in preventing chronic diseases associated with unhealthy lifestyles. The findings from this study are expected to provide insights into effective lifestyle interventions for at-risk populations, ultimately benefiting both individuals and communities. These interventions can improve the effectiveness of programs aimed at preventing the development of metabolic and chronic diseases, thereby enhancing overall health and quality of life. In addition, the results are anticipated to contribute to evidence-based public health policies and inform strategies for the prevention and management of chronic non-communicable diseases.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mediterranean diet adherence
  - Physical Activity
  - Sleep Hygiene
  - Perceived Stress
  - Healthy Days (Physical and Mental Health)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intervention of physical activity
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mediterranean Diet Education
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral: Stress-Resilience Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07314957
