CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07494084
Title: Sleep Loss and Circadian Misalignment - Mechanisms of insulin Resistance
Official Title: Sleep Loss and Circadian Misalignment - Mechanisms of insulin Resistance
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of timed cortisol release or differently timed cortisol rhythms on insulin resistance in both men and women undergoing sleep restriction. Chronic sleep loss is highly prevalent, affecting 1 in 3 adults in the US. Chronic sleep loss causes stress which induces insulin resistance and leads to obesity and type 2 diabetes. Many factors contribute to sleep loss including shift work, environmental disturbances, sleep/circadian disorders and comorbid medical and mental health conditions. Sleep loss increases the stress hormone cortisol in the evening and decreases daytime testosterone. Examining these hormones in a controlled laboratory environment under different sleep schedules may help researchers find solutions for adults experiencing negative health consequences related to chronic sleep loss.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sleep loss causes stress, induces insulin resistance (IR) and leads to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D). Sleep loss is highly prevalent, affecting 1 in 3 adults in the USA. Many factors contribute to sleep loss including extended work hours, night shift work, environmental disturbances, sleep/circadian disorders and comorbid medical and mental health conditions. Sleep loss induces changes that typify the autonomic stress response, increases the stress hormone cortisol in the evening, and decreases daytime testosterone. The investigators discovered that preventing cortisol and testosterone from changing during sleep loss, by means of a dual-hormone clamp, stabilizes metabolism and mitigates (reduces by 50%) the induction of IR. This finding unequivocally identifies cortisol and testosterone signaling to be major pathways by which sleep loss imbalances metabolic processes and triggers IR - a critical pathogenic factor for T2D. These hormonal pathways are now prime candidates for developing mechanistically informed methods to avert IR and its devastating consequences, because no other putative pathway has been verified experimentally in humans. While groundbreaking, prior findings were only in men, and actions of cortisol and testosterone could not be separated because both were manipulated together. The next step is to characterize the distinct role of cortisol signaling and its metabolomic consequences in both sexes to unveil common and sex-dependent underlying pathways. This approach is logical because IR is induced in both sexes by increasing evening cortisol, whereas IR is induced in men by decreasing testosterone, and in women by increasing testosterone.

Night shift work misaligns the timing of behavioral rhythms with the endogenous circadian rhythm, which interferes with the homeostatic regulation of sleep and often leads to sleep loss. Circadian misalignment (CM) itself induces IR, triggers metabolic changes that are observed metabolomically, and harms health. Combining CM from simulated night shift work with experimental sleep loss induces IR to a 2-fold greater extent than sleep loss alone. These findings explain why night shift workers, which comprise 10-15% of the entire workforce, are at elevated risk for developing T2D and other metabolic disorders. Whereas IR from sleep loss relates to alterations in the shape of the cortisol rhythm (an increase in evening cortisol which flattens the diurnal cortisol slope), IR from CM in night shift workers relates to misalignment of the timing of the central cortisol rhythm to peripheral signals that follow shifted behavioral cycles. The investigators hypotheses are that (a) sleep restriction and CM induce IR through changes in the shape and timing of cortisol rhythms, respectively; and (b) downstream 24-hour metabolomic and endocrine signatures characterize the putatively sex-dependent underlying metabolic and other pathways. The investigators will examine the induction of IR and the res

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - insulin resistance-Minimal Model (Mi)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Metyrapone And Hydrocortisone
  - DRUG: Dextrose
  - DRUG: insulin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07494084
