CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03002090
Title: Defining the Functional Role of Iron in Aerobic Training and Physical Performance
Official Title: Defining the Functional and Metabolic Role of Iron in Aerobic Training and Physical Performance
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 109
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Iron deficiency is known to negatively impact physical performance, attention, and time spent doing physical activity. As a result, an iron deficient person must expend more energy to complete the same amount of work as someone who is healthy. Another interesting relationship has been observed between exercise training and iron status in that women who participate in exercise training often have higher rates of iron deficiency than sedentary women. ID is commonly treated using daily iron supplementation. However, it is currently unknown whether participating in regular exercise somehow impacts the effectiveness of iron supplementation. Iron deficient women who participate in exercise programs may potentially benefit less from iron supplementation than those who do not. Another common treatment for the symptoms of iron deficiency is the traditional Chinese herbal treatment, Ba-Zhen-Ke-Li (BZKL). While studies have shown that BZKL impacts expression of some iron-related proteins and increases endurance performance in rats, no studies have examined the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron markers or physical performance in humans. This study will compare the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron status and physical performance with that of ferrous sulfate supplementation. The Cornell research team will achieve these objectives in collaboration with colleagues at Kunming Medical University (KMU) in Kunming, China. A double-blind, randomized, placebo controlled study will be conducted by a Cornell graduate student at KMU. The subjects will be healthy women, age 18-26 years, attending KMU. Blood samples will be collected and analyzed for measures of iron).

Subjects will be randomly assigned to receive 50 mg of ferrous sulfate (10 mg of elemental iron), 6mg of BZKL, or an identical placebo pill twice daily for 8 weeks. Subjects will be further randomly sub-divided to receive aerobic exercise training or no training during the 8-week supplementation period. At weeks 4 and 8, subjects will perform the same series of tests as was performed at baseline. The investigators hypothesize that: 1. the women who train and received iron will have smaller improvements in iron status than those who do not train 2. The women who receive iron and train will have greater improvements in physical performance than those who train and do not receive iron, and 3. The women who receive BZKL will improve their iron status or physical performance more than those who receive placebo.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Despite the overall improvements in malnutrition in the Chinese population, iron deficiency (ID) and iron deficiency anemia (low iron and low hemoglobin, IDA) are still widely prevalent in China. According to recent studies, the prevalence of anemia in Chinese women of childbearing age is 20% and can be as high as 30% in rural areas, with 85% of anemia cases resulting from ID. Diabetes, heart disease, and obesity are also highly prevalent in China - though the Chinese government is taking actions against these epidemics, often via interventions promoting physical activity. Iron deficiency without anemia (IDNA) can impair adult physical performance and lowers time spent doing voluntary physical activities. However, iron supplementation intended to alleviate IDNA may be less effective in those who are physically active, suggesting an intricate, but currently undefined, relationship between iron status, exercise, and physical performance capacity. A combined analysis of iron status, exercise training, and physical performance in Chinese women could illuminate interactions between these factors and their role in diabetes and obesity reduction.

One common treatment for the symptoms of iron deficiency is the traditional Chinese herbal treatment, Ba-Zhen-Ke-Li (BZKL). While studies have shown that BZKL impacts expression of some iron-related proteins and increases endurance performance in rats, no studies have examined the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron markers or physical performance in humans. This study will compare the efficacy of BZKL in improving iron status and physical performance with that of ferrous sulfate supplementation.

Significance and Specific Aims:

The goal of the proposed research is to clarify the relationship between iron status, physical performance, and aerobic exercise training. By conducting an iron intervention study in combination with an exercise training program, the investigators can examine the modifying effect of iron status on the physical performance changes from aerobic exercise training as well as the modifying effect of participation in aerobic exercise in maintenance of iron status. To achieve this goal, a randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial will be conducted with Chinese collegiate women.

The proposed work will be organized along three specific aims:

Aim I: To determine how changes in iron status, alone or in combination with exercise training, influence physical performance. Hypothesis: Subjects who both improve iron status and receive exercise training will show improvements in physical performance greater than the additive improvements resulting from either treatment alone. This result would suggest iron replete individuals benefit more from exercise training than those who are iron deficient.

Aim II: To determine how aerobic exercise training affects the maintenance of iron homeostasis. Hypothesis: Subjects participating in exercise training will show smaller improvements in i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of serum ferritin in µg/L
  - Concentration of soluble transferrin receptor in mg/L
  - Concentration of hemoglobin g/L
  - Concentration of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein in g/L
  - Concentration of C-reactive protein in mg/L

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Iron trained
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Iron Untrained
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BZKL Trained
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BZKL Untrained
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo Trained

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 26 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03002090
