CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06694012
Title: Osaka Cardiometabolic Epidemiological Study: Ohtori Study Part 2
Official Title: Osaka Cardiometabolic Epidemiological Study: Ohtori Study Part 2
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 2000
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between body fat distribution measured by CT scan and related risk factors with the risk of incident metabolic and cardiovascular disease in a prospective cohort study of Japanese men and women. The investigators will also investigate novel risk factors for metabolic and cardiovascular disease using molecular weight-based metallomics analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is on the rise worldwide and is the most important risk factor for lifestyle-related diseases, including type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, hyperuricemia, and chronic kidney disease. In addition, it has been reported that the distribution of fat is more important than the total amount of fat in the body, and the importance of visceral fat accumulation in the abdomen has been reported.

Although visceral fat accumulation and insulin resistance have been reported to be important upstream factors in the development of lifestyle-related diseases, the major target organs of insulin are not only adipose tissue, but also extremely important tissues such as muscle and liver, and ectopic fat accumulation in these tissues has attracted attention. However, there are few prospective cohort studies that have evaluated fat accumulation in adipose tissue, liver, and muscle simultaneously.

It has been reported that Japanese people have more visceral fat than Caucasians in the United States, even at the same body mass index level, and are at high risk for type 2 diabetes, so research on Japanese people is of great importance.

In addition, the role of trace elements in the body is attracting attention. In this cohort study, the investigators will also examine the relationship between trace elements in the body and the prevalence and incidence of lifestyle-related diseases.

The purpose of this study is to establish a prospective cohort study that evaluates visceral fat, subcutaneous fat, intrahepatic fat accumulation, and intramuscular fat using computed tomography imaging and to clarify the relationship with lifestyle-related diseases such as type 2 diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, hyperuricemia, and chronic kidney disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Type 2 diabetes is diagnosed based on the results of a fasting blood glucose test and medication history.
  - Hypertension is diagnosed based on the results of blood pressure measurement and medication history.
  - Dyslipidemia is diagnosed based on the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines.
  - Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed based on the Joint Interim Statement published in Circulation. 2009 Oct 20;120(16):1640-5.
  - Hyperuricemia is defined based on fasting serum uric acid levels and the use of oral medication.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06694012
