CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05334524
Title: Kinesiotaping With and Without Combined Chain Exercises in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Kinesiotaping With and Without Combined Chain Exercises on Pain, Range of Motion and Quality of Life in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Knee osteoarthritis is a major public health issue because it causes chronic pain, reduces physical function and diminishes quality of life. Aging of the population and increased global prevalence of obesity are anticipated to dramatically increase the prevalence of knee osteoarthritis. Knee osteoarthritis is characterized by complex multifactorial joint pathology and is the most common form of joint disorder in the world. Chronic knee osteoarthritis leads to marked weakening of the quadriceps femoris muscle, which is the extensor and stabilizer of the knee and atrophy of this muscle result knee pain and functional impairment. Quadriceps muscle weakness and atrophy have been reported to contribute to functional impairment and pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis and quadriceps strengthening can be achieved through open kinetic chain exercises and close kinetic chain exercises. Close kinetic chain exercises are modeled as, in which a movement in a joint simultaneously produces movements in other joints of the extremity. Open kinetic chain exercises and close kinetic chain exercises form the combined chain exercises. Kinesiotaping with these exercises to improve the patients suffering with knee osteoarthritis. The aim of this study will be to compare the effects of kinesiotaping as an adjunct to combined chain exercises compared with only kinesiotaping on pain, range of motion and quality of life in the management of individuals with knee osteoarthritis.

This study will be randomized control trial. Patients will be recruited into two groups by simple random assignment. Non probability consecutive sampling technique will be used. Data will be collected from patients of grade 2 knee osteoarthritis patients by using NPRS for pain, Goniometer for ROM and SF-36 for quality of life will be used before and immediate after the treatment. Those who will meet the inclusion criteria will be recruited. Group 1 will be treated with kinesiotaping and combined chain exercises and the Group 2 will be treated with only kinesiotaping on knee OA patients. Total intervention will be given for four weeks for three sessions per week.The subject attended physical therapy and kinesiotaping will assess for pain, range of motion and quality of life at baseline and after 4 week of intervention. After collecting data from defined study setting, data will be entered and analyzed by using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) for Windows software, version 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NPRS
  - Goniometry
  - SF-36 Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: kinesiotaping with combined chain exercises
  - OTHER: kinesiotaping

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05334524
