CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03756740
Title: The Effectiveness of Telerehabilitation Modalities in Physical Therapy in the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Telerehabilitation Modalities in Physical Therapy in the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain (LBP), a common disorder, causes disability, functional decline and high health care costs. Patient care programs include specific exercises for promoting function and improving health. Self-practice and adherence to treatment are important for treatment success and better outcomes. Telerehabilitation (TR) might improve patient symptoms, compliance to treatment and reduce patient symptoms, however, its effectiveness in treating LBP, still needs further investigation.

The overall aim of this study will be to examine the effectiveness of combining telerehabilitation within physical therapy treatments for patients with LBP

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will include 60 patients complaining of chronic nonspecific LBP over a 6 month period of time and referred for physical therapy treatment. They will undergo a routine physical examination and be assigned a personal treatment (manual therapy and electrotherapy) and exercise program in accordance with their condition. Participants will receive a total of 8 treatments over a 4-week period (twice a week).

The sample will be randomly divided into 2 groups: a. research group A will receive a video of the exercises via e-mails or to their cellphones; b. a control group will receive the exercises printed on paper.

The exercises will be recorded and be supplemented by a verbal explanation and instructions as to how to correctly perform the exercises. In total, there will be ten videos, found to be important and effective for LBP patients. From these videos, a physical therapist will choose the most suitable exercises for the patients after each treatment meeting (face to face). The patients will be assessed at baseline, at the end of treatment and at a 3 month follow-up telephone assessment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - Modified Oswestry Disability Index
  - Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire
  - Survey Health Form Short

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: telerehabilitation and physical therapy
  - OTHER: control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03756740
