CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06855979
Title: The Impact of Dietary Intervention on Oxidative/antioxidant Markers and Gut Microbiota in Athletes
Official Title: The Impact of Dietary Intervention Using Innovative Food with High Antioxidant Potential on Oxidative/antioxidant Markers in Blood and Gut Microbiota in Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
During intense physical exercise, there is an overproduction of reactive oxygen species, which leads to oxidative stress and reduced training and sports performance, as well as the development of chronic diseases. Eating foods with a high content of bioactive ingredients and high antioxidant potential can alleviate the negative effects caused by reactive oxygen species and improve the state of intestinal microflora.

The aim of these interventional studies was to determine whether daily consumption of foods with high antioxidant potential, including fruit and nut bars, for a period of 1 month would reduce oxidative stress in athletes during competition and positively change the intestinal microflora.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study concerns a 4-week dietary intervention. The intervention consisted of daily consumption of 1 bar weighing 50 g, containing nuts and dried fruits with high antioxidant potential. The study included a group of 50 women and men, healthy athletes (cyclists, long-distance runners and triathletes). A 3-day, 24-hour dietary interview was conducted before and after the dietary intervention. Then, using the Dieta 6.0 computer program, the energy and nutrient contents in the diet were estimated. In addition, adherence to the dietary intervention was assessed using a survey questionnaire. Before and after the dietary intervention, oxidative-antioxidant markers were determined in the blood of the subjects (oxidative stress, antioxidant potential, concentration of antioxidant enzymes: glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, catalase) using ready-made kits. Moreover, changes in the intestinal microbiome were assessed in feces before and after the dietary intervention. Additionally, height and weight were measured before and after the intervention to calculate body mass index (BMI). The study will help answer the question of whether dietary intervention using foods with high antioxidant potential can influence changes in oxidative-antioxidant markers in the blood, intestinal microbiome and body weight of study participants.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in antioxidant potential after dietary intervention
  - Change in gut microbiota after dietary intervention
  - Assessment of dietary intervention
  - Change in blood glutathione peroxidase concentration after dietary intervention
  - Change in superoxide dismutase concentration after dietary intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Food with high antioxidant potential

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06855979
