CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05694494
Title: Training- and Cost-effectiveness of an Internet-based Lifestyle-integrated Functional Exercise Program (iLiFE)
Official Title: Training- and Cost-effectiveness of an Internet-based Lifestyle-integrated Functional Exercise Program (iLiFE) on Reducing Falls, and Promoting Exercise Adherence in Community Older Fallers: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 322
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Falls are the second leading cause of unintentional injury and death around the globe. About one in every three older adults falls each year worldwide. With the aging population, the cost of treating fall-related injuries is increasing exponentially. There is a pressing need for a cost-effective fall prevention program. Ample evidence has shown the substantial standalone effectiveness of well-designed physical exercises in preventing falls. However, continuous exercise adherence is required for a long-lasting fall prevention effect. Unfortunately, adherence to an exercise program was generally only 21%. Building up the habit of doing regular exercise is thus crucial in preventing falls. Lifestyle integrated Functional Exercise program (LiFE) has been shown to be able to reduce the fall rate by 31% and maintain 64% of the participants exercising at 12 months follow-up. This proposed randomized controlled trial aims at comparing the effectiveness of an internet-based LiFE in reducing subsequent falls and promoting exercise adherence in community-dwelling older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All subjects will then be randomly assigned to receive either an internet-based therapist-led LiFE program with a home environment safety assessment (iLiFE) or attention control intervention. Randomization into block groups of four in a 1:1 ratio (the iLiFE group or the attention control group) will be generated in a password-protected excel file by independent research personnel not involved in data collection or intervention after the baseline assessment. The randomization will be concealed by the independent personnel. Research assistants who are blinded to the group allocation will conduct all the subsequent monthly surveillance and assessments at baseline and follow-up sessions. All data will also be entered and checked by the blinded research assistants. All procedures concur with the Declaration of Helsinki (2013).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - fall incidence as assessed by monthly telephone or internet follow-up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: internet-based Lifestyle-integrated Functional Exercise (iLiFE)
  - BEHAVIORAL: upper limb exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05694494
