CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04996004
Title: A Study to Learn About the Study Medicine (Called Ontorpacept or TTI-621) Given Alone and in Combination With Doxorubicin in People With Leiomyosarcoma
Official Title: A Phase I/II Study of TTI-621 in Combination With Doxorubicin in Patients With Unresectable or Metastatic High-Grade Leiomyosarcoma
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to learn about the safety and effects of the study medicine (called Ontorpacept or TTI-621) when given alone and when given in combination with doxorubicin for people with leiomyosarcoma. Leiomyosarcoma is a tumor of the smooth muscles.

This study is seeking participants who have:

* leiomyosarcoma that is advanced or has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic)
* not received prior treatment with anthracyclines (a drug commonly used in patients with some kinds of cancer, including leiomyosarcoma)
* not received more than one prior treatment for their leiomyosarcoma During the first 18 weeks of this study, participants will receive doxorubicin by IV infusion (given directly into a vein) at the study clinic every 3 weeks for a total of 6 doses. Participants will also receive Ontorpacept (TTI-621) by IV infusion at the study clinic on the same day as doxorubicin and again one week later for the first 18 weeks.

After the first 18 weeks, participants will stop receiving doxorubicin but will continue receiving Ontorpacept (TTI-621) as IV infusion every 14 days at the study clinic. They will keep receiving Ontorpacept (TTI-621) until their cancer is no longer responding to treatment.

We will examine the experiences of participants receiving Ontorpacept (TTI-621) in combination with doxorubicin in the first 18 weeks and then Ontorpacept (TTI-621) by itself after the doxorubicin is stopped. This will help us determine if the study medicine Ontorpacept (TTI-621) given with doxorubicin and then by itself is safe and effective.

Participants will be involved in the study for approximately one year, depending on how their cancer responds to the study treatment. They will have study visits about 12 times in the first 18 weeks (when the study medicine Ontorpacept is given with doxorubicin) and then every two weeks after the doxorubicin is stopped and the study medicine Ontorpacept (TTI-621) is given by itself.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This trial will be conducted in 2 phases: Phase I (dose escalation of Ontorpacept in combination with fixed-dose doxorubicin) and Phase II (dose expansion of Ontorpacept in combination with fixed-dose doxorubicin).

Phase I will enroll patients with soft-tissue sarcomas including leiomyosarcoma, undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma, myxofibrosarcoma, dedifferentiated liposarcoma, angiosarcoma or epithelioid sarcoma to evaluate escalating doses of Ontorpacept (TTI-621) administered in combination with fixed-dose doxorubicin for up to six cycles followed by Ontorpacept (TTI-621) monotherapy.

Phase II will enroll patients with high-grade leiomyosarcoma and will evaluate two dose levels of Ontorpacept (TTI-621) in combination with fixed-dose doxorubicin for up to six cycles followed by Ontorpacept (TTI-621) monotherapy.

.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs: Phase I
  - Mean Change From Baseline in Blood Pressure at 30 Minutes Post Dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1): Phase I
  - Mean Change From Baseline in Blood Pressure at 60 Minutes Post Dose on C1D1: Phase I
  - Mean Change From Baseline in Blood Pressure at 30 Minutes Post Dose on Cycle 1 Day 8 (C1D8): Phase I
  - Mean Change From Baseline in Blood Pressure at 60 Minutes Post Dose on C1D8: Phase I

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Ontorpacept (TTI-621)
  - DRUG: Doxorubicin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04996004
