CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01544647
Title: Spa Therapy in Knee Osteoarthritis (OA): Nancy-thermal
Official Title: Comparison of 2 Spa Therapy Protocols in Symptomatic Knee Osteoarthritis : a Randomised Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 283
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Non-pharmacological treatments are recommended for the management of knee osteoarthritis (EULAR or OARSI recommendations) and some thermal modalities may be effective for relieving symptoms in knee Osteoarthritis. However supporting evidence is limited and nothing is known about the advantage of one modality of thermal therapy over another.

The main objective of the study is to compare the number of patients achieving a composite response criteria associating the minimal clinically important improvement at 6 months, defined as ≥ 19.9 mm on the visual analogue pain scale and/or ≥ 9.1 points in a normalised Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis index function score and no knee surgery in 2 spa therapy protocols (a "usual protocol" and an "active protocol") in knee osteoarthritis.

The secondary objectives are:

1. To compare the efficacy of the 2 protocols at 3 months.
2. To determine the evolution of quality of life and medical care consumption
3. To describe postural abnormalities
4. To determine predictive factors to a favourable response at 3 and 6 months

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a monocentric randomised non inferiority trial comparing 2 spa therapy protocols in symptomatic knee OA.

In the first group, 4 treatments (massages, showers, mud and pool sessions) are provided 6 days a week during 3 weeks. In the second group, the same 4 treatments are provided 3 days a week during 3 weeks then patients will follow an exercise program 3 days a week during 3 week.

Data will be collected at inclusion, 3 and 6 weeks and 3 and 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite response criteria: achievement of the minimal clinically important improvement of pain VAS and/or the WOMAC score and no knee surgery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Usual spa protocol
  - OTHER: Active spa protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01544647
