CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03778554
Title: Danish Trial of Beta Blocker Treatment After Myocardial Infarction Without Reduced Ejection Fraction
Official Title: Danish Trial of Beta Blocker Treatment After Myocardial Infarction Without Reduced Ejection Fraction (DANBLOCK)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2760
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
To determine whether long-term treatment with oral betablocker therapy after myocardial infarction in patient with no heart failure reduces the composite outcome of recurrent MI, all-cause mortality, revascularisation with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass graft, ischemic stroke, incident heart failure, or malignant ventricular arrhythmia including resuscitated cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aim: To determine whether long-term treatment with oral betablocker (BB) therapy after myocardial infarction (MI) in patient with no heart failure reduces the composite outcome of recurrent MI, all-cause mortality, revascularisation with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass graft, ischemic stroke, incident heart failure, or malignant ventricular arrhythmia including resuscitated cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.

The inclusion- and event rate in DANBLOCK have been continuously assessed since the first patient was randomized in December 2018. The inclusion- and event rate have been lower than expected, in part due to COVID-19. To enhance feasibility, the decision was made by the Steering Committees to combine the data from DANBLOCK with the data from the Norwegian BETAMI (NCT03646357) and publish the primary endpoint, key secondary endpoints and most other secondary endpoints together (presented below).

The trials have similar designs, only minor differences in study entry criteria, and were, from the very beginning, coordinated with the aim of conducting sub-studies on pooled data. The primary endpoint has been harmonized without knowledge of the distribution of events. BETAMI and DANBLOCK will remain separate trials until the end of follow-up, where data from the trials will be combined and main results published together.

Intervention: BB therapy versus no therapy.

Main Inclusion Criteria: Patient that have suffered a MI, both Non-ST elevation MI and ST elevation MI and can be randomized within 14 days of MI with no signs of heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction\>40%.

Main Exclusion Criteria: Any indication or contrenication for BB treatment other than secondary prevention according to the treating cardiologist

Primary study endpoint:

• The composite of all-cause mortality, recurrent MI, revascularisation with PCI or CABG, ischemic stroke, incident heart failure, or malignant ventricular arrhythmia including resuscitated cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.

Key secondary endpoints to be included in the main publication:

* Each of the components of the primary endpoint, i.e.: All-cause mortality, recurrent MI, revascularisation with PCI or CABG, ischemic stroke, incident heart failure, malignant ventricular arrhythmia including resuscitated cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.
* To study whether oral beta-blocker therapy increases the risk of hospitalization for 2 or 3rd degree AV-block, or implantation of pacemaker
* To assess clinical outcomes linked to beta-blocker therapy in the following subgroups:

age (\> vs \<70 years), sex (men vs. women), beta-blocker dosage, STEMI vs. NSTEMI, LVEF subgroups (preserved vs. mid-range), country, hypertension and diabetes.

Other secondary endpoints are described in the Statistical Analysis Plan and under "Outcome Measures".

Other secondary objectives (for BETAMI-DANBLOCK substudies unless specified otherwise):

* To study whether oral beta-blocker therapy red

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - A composite of all-cause mortality, recurrent MI, revascularisation with PCI or CABG, ischemic stroke, incident heart failure, or malignant ventricular arrhythmia including resuscitated cardiac arrest of cardiac origin.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Metoprolol Succinate
  - DRUG: Bisoprolol
  - DRUG: Carvedilol
  - DRUG: Nebivolol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03778554
