CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04193683
Title: The Effect Of Myofascial Release Technique On Respiratory Parameters in Subjects With Short Hamstring Muscle
Official Title: The Effect Of Myofascial Release Technique On Respiratory Functions, Respiratory Muscle Strength and Endurance in Subjects With Short Hamstring Muscle
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of myofascial release technique on rib cage mobility, respiratory function, respiratory muscle strength and endurance in patients with hamstring muscle shortness.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hamstring flexibility is important to maintain activities such as walking and running in daily life. Hamstring muscle shortness, commonly seen in the community, is a risk factor for many musculoskeletal pathologies. Clinical observations have shown that the shortness of the Hamstring muscle causes spinal malalignment. This deterioration of the spine alignment may adversely affect the rib cage expansion. Moreover, considering that the optimal length of the muscles provides optimal contraction, it was found that the spinal malalignment adversely affected the effective contraction of the diaphragm by changing the position of diaphragm. A different view is that, because the fascia functions as aromasingle tissue surrounding the entire body, a restriction in the hamstring muscle can also cause a restriction in distal muscles such as diaphragm through the fascia.

There are many treatment methods used to increase the flexibility of the hamstring muscle. One of these methods is the myofascial release technique. In this technique, which targets both muscle and fascia, applying light and prolonged pressure provides the myo-fascial complex to reach its optimal length, resulting in the optimal function of the muscle. In our best knowledge, no study has evaluated the effect of myofascial release technique on respiratory parameters in patients with hamstring muscle shortness.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) at 60 minutes
  - Change from baseline Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1) at 60 minutes
  - Change from baseline FEV1/FVC at 60 minutes
  - Change from baseline Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF) at 60 minutes
  - Change from baseline Forced expiratory flow over the middle one half of the FVC (FEF25-75%) at 60 minutes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Myofascial Release Technique
  - OTHER: Sham-Ultrasound

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04193683
