CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01748734
Title: Cognitive Therapy in Reducing Depression in Patients With Cancer
Official Title: An Examination of Cognitive Therapy for Depression in Cancer Patients.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to learn about treatment of depression in people who have any type of cancer. Cognitive therapy (CT) helps improve depressive symptoms by targeting patient's thoughts and behaviors. People who are depressed tend to have more negative or pessimistic thoughts. CT helps people evaluate the accuracy of their thoughts. By encouraging patients to develop more balanced views, symptoms of depression begin to improve

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of biobehavioral/cognitive therapy for cancer patients/survivors with major depression.

II. Test for the covariation between reduction in depressive symptoms and improvements in quality of life.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo cognitive behavioral therapy comprising progressive muscle relaxation training, behavioral activation, seeking information as a coping strategy, enhancing social support, cognitive reappraisal, assertive communication, changing depressive core beliefs, goal setting and planning for maintenance, and maintenance over 1 hour once weekly sessions for 12-20 weeks, biweekly sessions for 4-6 weeks, and monthly sessions for 2-3 months for a total of 16-26 sessions.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Psychiatric diagnoses, using the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV (SCID)
  - Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSC) as a measure of depressive symptom severity
  - Beck Depression Inventory - 2nd Edition (BDI-II) used to assess the severity of symptoms of depression

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
  - OTHER: questionnaire administration
  - OTHER: counseling intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: behavioral intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01748734
