CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06402240
Title: The Pocket Skills Adjunct Project
Official Title: Feasibility, Acceptability, and Potential Efficacy of an Adjunct Digital Health Solution to Standard Dialectical Behavior Therapy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study aims to provide access to an adjunct intervention alongside standard group DBT services to examine feasibility, acceptability, and potential added efficacy of the adjunct. The adjunct intervention is an online tool based on DBT skills training and was already evaluated as a self-guided intervention. Participants will complete a baseline session and be given immediate access to the adjunct intervention. Participants will be followed for 12 weeks and complete assessments every 4 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential benefits of an optional add-on tool (i.e., an additional tool participants can use at the same time) alongside standard dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) group treatment (i.e., skills training). The adjunct tool is an online website that participants can use on any device connected to the internet and is also based on DBT.

The proposed study will be a single-arm pragmatic clinical trial aiming to recruit 30 participants over the course of 12 months. Participation in this research study includes a telephone screening visit, informed consent, and baseline assessment visit (conducted via video conferencing). Following the baseline assessment there will be three follow-up assessments completed remotely at weeks 4, 8, and 12.

The adjunct intervention is Pocket Skills 2.0, a skills training app based on dialectical behavior therapy. Participants receive access to this tool in conjunction with their start of standard dialectical behavior therapy. A member of the research team will help participants sign-in for the first time. The tool can be used in any internet browser on any device connected to the internet (e.g., computer, smartphone, tablet). Participants are expected to use the app at least twice a week.

At baseline, a brief interview is completed, along with some questionnaires online. Participants are also asked about the treatment they recently started/plan to start. The interview (40-60 minutes) will involve questions about background, treatment history, and current and past psychological symptoms, and history of substance use. The questionnaires ask a range of questions related to mood, and difficulties with functioning, among other questions. These questions should only take about 15-20 minutes to answer and should be completed within 24 hours.

Participants receive requests to complete additional questionnaires online on three additional occasions (week 4, 8, and 12). Links to the questionnaire package will be sent via email (or text) and they will involve questions about well-being as well as a chance to provide open-ended feedback on the app itself. These surveys will take roughly 15-20 minutes. After 12 weeks, participants are reimbursed for their time.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Severity of Dependence Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dialectical Behavior Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06402240
