CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03930758
Title: Preventing Diabetic Osteoporosis With Exercise
Official Title: Parameters of Exercise to Prevent Type 2 Diabetic Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The two specific aims of the study were to determine whether:

1. Greater mechanical loading of downhill exercise will increase the osteogenic index (ratio between CICP, the marker of bone formation (c-terminal propeptide of type I collagen, and CTX, the marker of bone resorption (c terminal telopeptide of type I collagen)) to a greater extent than uphill exercise that provides lower ground-reaction force;
2. Exercise after the meals will induce greater osteogenic response than exercise pefore the meals as it is known that meal eating during daytime inhibits bvone resorption markers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study addresses the problem that postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes have a higher incidence of bone breaks despite their often normal bone mineral density (BMD).

The investigators pursued two hypotheses, that:

1. 40-minute bout of downhill exercise will increase the CICP/CTX osteogenic index to a greater extent than the same amount of uphill exercise; and
2. Performing exercise one hour after the meals will be more osteogenic than exercise before the meals.

Subjects were 15 postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes, age 57.7 years, BMI 27.2 kg/m2 who were randomly assigned to two out of 5 trials:

Uphill exercise before the meals (UBM), Uphill exercise after the meals (UAM), Downhill exercise before the meals (DBM), Downhill exercise after the meals (DAM), and Sedentary, no-exercise, trial (SED). All subjects signed an informed consent approved by the University of Michigan Medical School Institutional Review Board. Subjects had their BMD measured with DXA at the outset.

Weight-maintenance meals contained 50% carbohydrate, 15% protein, and 25% fat and were provided at 10 h and 17 h. Exercise (40 minutes at 50% of maximal effort) on either uphill (+6o slope) or downhill treadmill (-6o slope) was performed either before the two meals, at 9 h and 16 h, respectively, or after the meals. at 11 h and 18 h, respectively.

Blood was drawn through an intravenous catheter from ante-cubital vein at hourly intervals between 8 and 20 h with two additional blood draws at 0 h and 6 h the next morning. Blood was treated with protease inhibitors, and plasma, frozen at -80o C, was used to measure bone markers, CICP, CTX, osteocalcin , and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase using Millipore chemoluminescen reagents, glucose by glucose oxidase, and hormones insulin, cortisol, parathyroid hormone (PTH) , and growth hormone (GH) by radio-immunoassays..

Mixed-model ANOVA was used for analysis of outcome measures where the trial procedures served as fixed variable and individual subjects as intercept variables.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - C-terminal propeptide of type I collagen
  - C-terminal telopeptide of type 1 collagen
  - Osteocalcin
  - Bone-specific alkaline phosphatase

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Behavior intervention of uphill exercise
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Dietary intervention of exercise before the meal
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Dietary intervention of uphill exercise
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Dietary intervention of exercise after the meal
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Behavior intervention of downhill exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03930758
