CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03036371
Title: Pilot Study of the Impact of Exercise on Hippocampal Function
Official Title: Pilot Study of the Impact of Exercise on Hippocampal Behavior
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this pilot study is to test the procedural aspects of the behavioral tests and the exercise components of the study. This includes establishing typical scores for anxiety patients in these behavioral tests, and administering and coaching anxiety patients in an at-home exercise regimen. This pilot study will produce the information necessary to design a larger future study including both patients and healthy control participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a pilot study to explore whether High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) aerobic exercise can improve performance on hippocampal dependent behaviors or anxiety measures . HIIT is a form of interval training that alternates short periods of high effort exercise with less intense recovery periods. Participants in this study will undertake a 6-week protocol of HIIT exercise, performed at home on a portable stepper device. Outcome measures for this study will be performance on two hippocampus-dependent behaviors and responses to mood and anxiety questionnaires.

The hippocampus is a brain structure that is involved in learning and memory, and is one of the two sites of adult neurogenesis, the process of generating of new neurons from stem cells in the adult mammalian brain. Adult neurogenesis may represent a new target for the treatment of anxiety disorders. The tests in this study consist of a picture-based memory task and a location memory task. Eligible participants will complete both game tasks. In each test, participants will sit in front of a computer and play these games using the computer keyboard or a handheld video game controller.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Percent Correct Score for the Treasure Hunt Task (THT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity Interval Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03036371
