CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05877469
Title: Effects of MAT Pilates Versus Functional Training on Mechanical Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effects of Mat Pilates Versus Functional Training on Pain, Range of Motion and Disability in Mechanical Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be a randomized clinical trial. Total 44 Subjects with mechanical low back pain will be assigned randomly by using non probability convenient random sampling in to two groups with 22 subjects in each group. Subjects in one group will be treated with mat Pilates training and the other group with the functional training. NPRS, Inclinometer and urdu version of Modified Oswestry Disablility questionair would be used to measure the outcome of pain, Range of Motion and Disability respectively. After data collection from defined study setting, data will be entered and analyzed at Riphah International University lahore.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mechanical low back pain refers to back pain that arises intrinsically from the spine, intervertebral disks, or surrounding soft tissues. This includes lumbosacral muscle strain, disk herniation, lumbar spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, spondylolysis, vertebral compression fractures, and acute or chronic traumatic injury. Repetitive trauma and overuse are common causes of chronic mechanical low back pain, which is often secondary to workplace injury. Pilates focus is improving the core strength, it trains the body as an integrated whole. Functional training involves the daily life activities that also targets on core stability and strength.

The aim of the study is to present the current state of knowledge concerning the application of pilates and functional training in terms of duration, frequency and specific exercises in the management of mechanical low back pain in terms of pain, ROM and disability improvement.

Effects of Mat Pilates and functional training on mechanical low back pain are checked individually before but their effects are not compared previously.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Modified Oswestry LBP disability index
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - Inclinometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mat pilates Training
  - OTHER: Functional Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05877469
