CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05248854
Title: Effects of Sensorimotor and Core Stabilization Exercises After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Effects of Sensorimotor and Core Stabilization Exercise Programs Following Total Knee Arthroplasty : A Randomize Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Tha aim of the study is to investigate the effects of core stabilization and sensorimotor exercise program on range of motion, proprioception, balance and functional status in patients with total knee arthroplasty. The study lasts prospective randomized controlled trial. Participants were randomly divided into sensorimotor training (SM,n=17) and core stabilization training group (CS,n=19). The exercise training program was administered for home exercise as 3-5 times a week and for a 6-week duration.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective :

To investigate the effects of core stabilization and sensorimotor exercise program on range of motion, proprioception, balance and functional status in patients with total knee arthroplasty.

Design :

Prospective randomized controlled trial

Subjects :

A total of 36 Ostearthritis patients (69.8 ± 5.1 years) who underwent unilateral knee arthroplasty. Participants were performed TKA surgery by the same physician and followed by the same therapist.

The following inclusion criteria were used: being volunteer, 50-85 age range, being diagnosed with stage 4 OA and undergoing unilateral TKA surgery. The following exclusion criteria were applied: having previous surgery history of affected lower limb, impaired hearing, vision or verbal problems, physical or mental disability, having a neurological or oncologic disease that may affect functional performance.

Patients who met inclusion criteria and were willing to join the study (n=52) were evaluated after being diagnosed with OA and before the operation at the clinic. A total 40 patients undergoing TKA surgery participated in our study and were randomly separated to the Sensorimotor Training Group (SM, n=20) and the Core Stabilization Training Group (CS, n=20). Group allocation was randomized in two blocks of 40 sealed envelopes without external marks, which were mixed and numbered from 1 to 40, containing a piece of paper with the group allocation. All participants were blinded to the treatment type. As a result, 36 patients completed the process.

Outcome Measures :

Patients were assessed on three separate occasions (presurgery, 2 weeks and 8 weeks postsurgery). The primary outcome was proprioception and seconder outcomes were range of motion, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scale (KOOS), Berg Balance Test, Timed-up \& Go test and Sit \& Stand -Up tests.

Interventions :

Participants were randomized into two intervention groups: sensorimotor training group (SM, n=17) and Core Stabilization training group (CS, n=19). Both groups were prescribed a 6-week home based exercise programme for 3-5 sessions/week between 2 and 8 weeks postsurgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proprioception

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Sensorimotor exercise training
  - OTHER: Core stabilization exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05248854
