CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06382324
Title: The Psychological Impact of Mindfulness Intervention to Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Official Title: The Psychological Impact of Mindfulness Intervention to Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery is a common procedure performed by orthopedic surgeons. Postoperatively, patients often experience pain, muscle tension, and concerns about their ability to return to sports. These factors influence the recovery and return to sports capabilities of ACL patients. According to research, only 64% of patients are able to recover to their pre-injury level after surgery, and the success rate for returning to competitive sports is only 56%. Psychological factors during the recovery process may explain this disparity. ACL injury is associated with anxiety, pain reaction, and emotional disorders, with fear of re-injury being the most common obstacle to returning to sports, accounting for 19%. A study by Lentz et al. (2015) also found no significant differences in pain assessments between individuals who were afraid of re-injury and those who were able to return to sports at six months and one year after surgery. This suggests that fear of pain may limit activity and increase the risk of unsuccessful return to sports.

Mindfulness intervention is a psychological approach that involves non-judgmental awareness and focus on moment to moment. Mindfulness practice is known to reduce stress in athletes, promote recovery, enhance athletic performance, and improve sleep quality. Good sleep quality contributes to emotional stability and physical recovery. Even short daytime naps can be beneficial for athletes. A review of 37 studies of moderate quality found that daytime napping can improve physical and cognitive performance, psychological state, and nighttime sleep.

Therefore, investigators hypothesize that integrating mindfulness practice into daytime napping may lead to improved spirit upon waking, reduce sleep inertia, and over time, potentially increase the rate of return to sports after ACL reconstruction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Electroencephalogram (EEG)
  - Electrooculography (EOG)
  - Electromyography (EMG)
  - ECG (Electrocardiography)
  - Nasal/Oral airflow

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: mindfulness practice of body scan
  - BEHAVIORAL: listening to light music

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06382324
