CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05495022
Title: The Effect of MBSR (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction) Program on Anxiety, Work-Related Emotional Burnout and Job Satisfaction in Midwives
Official Title: he Effect of MBSR (Conscious Awareness-Based Stress Reduction) Program on Anxiety, Work-Related Emotional Burnout and Job Satisfaction in Midwives
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Mindfulness; It is the state of paying attention and being aware of what is happening right now. Mindfulness, includes noticing what is happening in the present moment and the way of meeting all that is noticed.

The research will be conducted in a randomized controlled manner in order to determine the Effect of MBSR (Conscious Awareness Based Stress Reduction) Program on Anxiety, Work Related Emotional Burnout and Job Satisfaction in midwives.

Data will be collected from midwives working at Gaziantep Cengiz Gökçek Gynecology and Childhood Hospital between September 1 and December 30, 2022. Midwives who agree to participate in the study and meet the criteria will be sent and asked to fill in web-based online questionnaires (Whatsapp) prepared by the researchers through Google Forms. As a pre-test, "Descriptive Information Form", "Beck Anxiety Scale (BAI)", "Work-Related Emotional Burnout Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale (MSQ) Short Form" will be administered to midwives in the experimental and control groups. After the stress reduction program based on mindfulness was applied online by the researcher to the experimental group, 2 sessions a week for 4 weeks (1 month), a total of 8 sessions; Post-test data will be obtained by re-applying the "Beck Anxiety Scale (BAS)", "Work-Related Emotional Burnout Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale (MSQ) Short Form" scale to the experimental group and simultaneously to the control group.

The universe of the research will be composed of midwives working at Gaziantep Cengiz Gökçek Gynecology and Childhood Hospital on the relevant dates. The minimum number of individuals to be included in the sample of the study was determined by power analysis. Sample size when power analysis is done; Assuming that the method applied with 5% error level, bidirectional significance level, 95% confidence interval and 80% ability to represent the universe, would reduce the anxiety score averages (8.20±8.64) by 6 points, a total of 66 midwives (33 experimental, 33 control) calculated. A total of 80 midwives (40 experimental, 40 control) are planned to be included in the study, taking into account possible case losses (approximately 20%).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mindfulness; It is the state of paying attention and being aware of what is happening right now. Mindfulness includes noticing what is happening in the present moment and the way of meeting all that is noticed.

The research will be conducted in a randomized controlled manner in order to determine the Effect of MBSR (Conscious Awareness Based Stress Reduction) Program on Anxiety, Work Related Emotional Burnout and Job Satisfaction in midwives.

Data will be collected from midwives working at Gaziantep Cengiz Gökçek Gynecology and Childhood Hospital between September 1 and December 30, 2022. Midwives who agree to participate in the study and meet the criteria will be sent and asked to fill in web-based online questionnaires (Whatsapp) prepared by the researchers through Google Forms. As a pre-test, "Descriptive Information Form", "Beck Anxiety Scale (BAI)", "Work-Related Emotional Burnout Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale (MSQ) Short Form" will be administered to midwives in the experimental and control groups. After the stress reduction program based on mindfulness was applied online by the researcher to the experimental group, 2 sessions a week for 4 weeks (1 month), a total of 8 sessions; Post-test data will be obtained by re-applying the "Beck Anxiety Scale (BAS)", "Work-Related Emotional Burnout Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale (MSQ) Short Form" scale to the experimental group and simultaneously to the control group.

The universe of the research will be composed of midwives working at Gaziantep Cengiz Gökçek Gynecology and Childhood Hospital on the relevant dates. The minimum number of individuals to be included in the sample of the study was determined by power analysis. Sample size when power analysis is done; Assuming that the method applied with 5% error level, bidirectional significance level, 95% confidence interval and 80% ability to represent the universe, would reduce the anxiety score averages (8.20±8.64) by 6 points, a total of 66 midwives (33 experimental, 33 control) calculated. A total of 80 midwives (40 experimental, 40 control) are planned to be included in the study, taking into account possible case losses (approximately 20%).

Data Collection Form and Tools Data will be collected with "Descriptive Information Form", "Beck Anxiety Scale (BAI)", "Work-Related Emotional Burnout Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale (MSQ) Short Form".

Midwifery Initiative Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) program will be applied by the researcher to the midwives in the experimental group. Conscious Awareness-Based Stress Reduction will be applied by the researcher (S.Ö.C.) who has received training (16 hours) and has a certificate in this field. Stress reduction program based on mindfulness is planned as 2 sessions per week for 4 weeks, a total of 8 sessions. Each session is planned to last 40-60 minutes on average. Sessions will continue as individual and group sessions by determining the days when midwi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Beck Anxiety Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05495022
