CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03203967
Title: Epidural Morphine for Postoperative Analgesia After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Effect of Low-dose Epidural Morphine Combined With Single-injection Femoral Nerve Block on Postoperative Analgesia in Patients After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Single femoral nerve blockade combined with patient-controlled intravenous analgesia are used for postoperative analgesia for patients after TKA in the hospital of the investigators. Although this method provides acceptable analgesia, the incidence of opioid-associated side effects is relatively high. Low-dose epidural morphine is commonly used in postoperative analgesia after cesarean section, and the effect of single dose morphine lasts more than 20 hours, with low incidences of itching, nausea, vomiting, and respiratory depression. The investigators hypothesize that, for patients undergoing TKA, the addition of low-dose epidural morphine to single femoral nerve block and intravenous opioids can improve the postoperative analgesia, reduce the consumption of intravenous opioids and decrease opioid-associated side effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is an important therapy for patients with serious knee osteoarthritis in order to improve quality of life and relieve pain. But a large number of patients who undergo this surgery experience moderate to severe postoperative pain. Previously, the investigators used single femoral nerve blockade combined with patient-controlled intravenous analgesia for postoperative analgesia for patients after TKA. Although this method provides acceptable analgesia, the incidence of opioid-associated side effects is relatively high. Low-dose epidural morphine is commonly used in postoperative analgesia after cesarean section, and the effect of single dose morphine lasts more than 20 hours, with low incidences of itching, nausea, vomiting, and respiratory depression. The investigators hypothesize that, for patients undergoing TKA, the addition of low-dose epidural morphine to single femoral nerve block and intravenous opioids can improve the postoperative analgesia, reduce the consumption of intravenous opioids and decrease opioid-associated side effects.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent of patients with moderate to severe pain (Numeric Rating Scale pain score of 4 or higher)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Epidural morphine
  - PROCEDURE: Epidural placebo
  - PROCEDURE: Single femoral nerve block
  - DRUG: Intravenous morphine analgesia

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03203967
