CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02222532
Title: Oral Triiodothyronine for Infants Less Than 5 Months & Malnourished Children Undergoing Cardiopulmonary Bypass in Indonesia
Official Title: Tetronine (Sodium Liothyronine) for Infants & Children Undergoing Cardiopulmonary Bypass in a Middle Income Nation (OTICC Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 224
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Infants and children undergoing cardiac surgery require mechanical support for circulation called cardiopulmonary bypass. The artificial pump ensures that blood flow to the body is maintained during surgical procedure on the heart. However, the pump circulation disrupts regulation of thyroid hormone. This hormone is a critical regulator of heart and circulatory function. Deficiencies in thyroid hormone adversely affect recovery of the heart after cardiac surgery. A recent study by the principal investigator showed that supplementing patients younger than 5 months old shortened the time spent on the ventilator (breathing machine) after surgery. Populations undergoing heart surgery in developing countries such as Indonesia are different than those in the U.S. and other industrial nations. For many heart defects children undergo surgery at an older age. They are then sicker for longer periods, and are often malnourished. These older malnourished children have lower thyroid hormone levels even prior to surgery, and show dramatic further drops after surgery. Shortening time on the ventilator should improve their recovery, and also improve overall availability of resources in developing countries. The formulation of thyroid hormone provided in the U.S and given intravenous is relatively expensive. However, a much more inexpensive formulation is available in Indonesia, which can be given through a tube extending from the nose to the stomach. We propose testing this formulation made in Korea, known as Tetronine, in two vulnerable populations in Indonesia: children younger than 5 months of age, and those older than 5 months who are malnourished. All these patients will be undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass for congenital heart defects. This project will be an important collaboration between U.S and Indonesian investigators. If successful, it will have a general positive impact on care of the entire population of young children undergoing cardiac surgery in developing countries by reducing time on the ventilator and improving access to care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Methods

Study Overview and Objectives We will perform a randomized double blinded placebo controlled trial in Indonesian children under 3 years of age, who are undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass procedures for correction or palliation of congenital heart disease. The study is approved by the Ethic Committee for Medical Research National Cardiovascular Center Harapan Kita (NCCHK). Age 3 years was chosen as the cutoff, as the population \< 3 years has the highest mortality rate in Indonesia. Also, this cutoff reduces age-based population heterogeneity, which could confound the analyses. We will study two independent vulnerable cohorts within this population as previously noted.

1. Age \< 5 months
2. Age \> 5 months and \< 3 years with moderate to severe malnutrition

Moderate to severe malnutrition is defined as weight more than 15% below the predicted value for height. The predicted value will be determined using WHO clinical growth charts based on the patient gender and baseline length and weight measurements. There is no overlap in study cohorts (patients ≤ 5 months of age and patients \> 5 months of age with moderate to severe malnutrition form mutually exclusive groups). Thus, this study can be viewed as two separate, independent trials, each with an overall type I error rate of 0.05 (2-sided). The primary endpoint within each study cohort is a comparison of time to the first of death, 7 days, or extubation based on the log-rank statistic from separate Cox Proportional Hazards Models. These models will include Aristotle Score and other baseline covariates imbalanced across treatment groups. Patients will be monitored until the first of death, withdrawal of consent, or hospital discharge.

Safety Endpoints

Safety endpoints for this study include:

1. Death from any cause prior to hospital discharge
2. Death or use of mechanical circulatory life support
3. Incidence of serious adverse events
4. Incidence of unexpected adverse events
5. Incidence of any arrhythmia and specific arrhythmias

Objective 1. To establish the efficacy of Tetronine®, Dalim Biotech Korea (oral T3) in improving clinical outcome for Indonesian children age 0 to 5 months after congenital heart disease surgery associated with cardiopulmonary bypass. Eligible population: The age distribution of children undergoing cardiac surgery in Indonesia is substantially different than in the U.S. Very few patients at NCCHK less than 6 weeks age undergo cardiopulmonary bypass procedures (7/400 sequential patients 2011-12). As the The Triiodothyronine during Cardiopulmonary bypass in Infants and Children (TRICC) trial indicated benefit for T3 supplementation in U.S children under age 5 months, we will study this age group within the scope of specific aim 1 using Tetronine. This will be a single center study performed in Indonesia at NCCHK. Historical records show that approximately 170 NCCHK patients will be eligible for the specific aim 1 portion of the study within the 3 years of enrol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Intubation time

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Tetronine
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Day to 36 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02222532
