CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03917784
Title: Effect of Oral Supplementation With Curcumin on insulin Sensitivity in Subjects With Prediabetes
Official Title: Effect of Oral Supplementation With Curcumin on insulin Sensitivity in Subjects With Prediabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 142
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the effects of oral supplementation with curcumin on the insulin sensitivity in subjects with prediabetes. The half of participants will receive curcumin and bioperine in combination, while the other half receive placebo.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The therapeutic strategies for prediabetes to this day are based on the change of habits, mainly food and exercise plans. It has been advice, in specific circumstances, to grant a pharmacological regimen.

Curcumin or Curcuma Longa ((1E,6E)21,7-bis(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)-1,6- heptadiene-3,5-dione), is the main ingredient of the Hindu condiment, Turmeric, which is obtained from the Rhizome plant. In new studies, it has been documented that the oral consumption of curcumin (Curcuma longa) in pre-diabetic and diabetic patients has a positive effect as an antidiabetic agent thanks to its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antithrombotic, cardio and neuroprotective effects. In animal models, it has been shown that oral curcumin consumption is capable of increasing insulin sensitivity in liver, muscle and adipose tissue, increases glucose uptake in muscle and insulin secretion, which is reflected in the reduction of hyperglycemia, glycosylated hemoglobin, decrease of the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and decrease of serum lipids.

Curcumin has been included in the oriental diet since ancient times and is used in traditional medicine, which is why it is considered safe, since its consumption is approved by the FDA (Federal Drugs Administration). A 12g per day dose has shown no side effects in humans. Therefore, it is proposed that the consumption of curcumin in pre-diabetic patients can improve glucose tolerance and decrease insulin resistance parameters.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HOMA- IR
  - HOMA- Beta
  - Matsuda index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Curcumin
  - DRUG: Starch

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03917784
