CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00182091
Title: Effects of Growth Hormone Administration on Cardiovascular Risk in Cured Acromegalics With Growth Hormone Deficiency
Official Title: Effects of Physiologic Growth Hormone Administration on Cardiovascular Risk in Subjects With Growth Hormone Deficiency Following Cure of Acromegaly
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effects of growth hormone (GH) replacement in men and women with a history of acromegaly and who are now growth hormone deficient. We will compare them to persons with a history of acromegaly who have normal GH levels.

Acromegaly results when an area in the brain, called the pituitary, produces too much growth hormone. When an individual is cured of acromegaly, the growth hormone levels may be normal or low (that is GH deficiency). Growth hormone deficiency means the body no longer produces as much growth hormone because the pituitary/hypothalamic region was damaged by a tumor or by treatment received.

We will study the effects of growth hormone replacement on the health of the heart and blood vessels of GH deficient persons by looking to see if this therapy:

1. has effects on cardiovascular risk markers (special blood tests which indicate how healthy your heart and arteries are)
2. affects the stiffness of the arteries
3. affects your heart rate and the capacity of your heart to respond to changes in body position
4. has different effects depending on whether you are taking estrogen / testosterone.

We will assess these measures of health on one occasion in persons with cured acromegaly and normal GH levels and in persons with cured acromegaly who have GH deficiency and a contraindication to receiving GH. GH deficient individuals with no contraindication to receiving GH, will participate in the study for 12 months. Individuals with normal GH levels, or who are GH deficient and have a contraindication to receiving GH, will be asked to return for one more visit (without any interventions).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of the study is to evaluate the effects of physiologic growth hormone (GH) replacement on cardiovascular risk markers, cardiac autonomic function, arterial distensibility, body composition, and quality of life in men and women with GH deficiency following treatment of acromegaly. We hypothesize that this population will represent a newly identified group of patients for whom GH replacement will be of benefit.

Treatment modalities in acromegaly include transsphenoidal surgery and radiation therapy, which can both result in hypopituitarism. A significant subset of cured acromegalics therefore develop pituitary hormone deficiencies. Although replacement of adrenal, thyroid and gonadal hormones is routine practice, clinicians do not replace GH in this subgroup, even in profoundly GH deficient subjects, as there are no randomized studies proving benefit in this population. With the accumulation of evidence on the beneficial effects of GH replacement, this therapy is becoming standard of care in all subjects with GH deficiency (GHD), except in this acromegaly subgroup where GH has been traditionally withheld. The GHD syndrome is manifested by an increase in cardiovascular risk, which is potentially reversible with GH therapy. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in acromegalics. Although cure of acromegaly is associated with a reduction in mortality attributable to GH excess, GHD may be a contributing factor to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in this group of patients, as it is in patients with other pituitary tumors. It is therefore crucial to determine how cured acromegalics with hypopituitarism are affected by the GHD syndrome, and it is essential to study how this particular population responds to GH therapy. Because these patients typically have large macroadenomas and are treated with surgery and radiation therapy, long-term management of hypopituitarism is critical. As with all endocrine disorders, the goal of therapy is normal hormone replacement, not taking patients from a state of hormone excess to one of permanent hormone deficiency.

Cardiovascular status in acromegaly

Acromegaly is associated with a 2-3 fold increase in mortality compared to the general population. GH excess has been recognized to have multiple effects on the heart and cardiovascular system. GH excess affects cardiovascular health indirectly by increasing the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors including hypertension, insulin resistance/type 2 diabetes, and dyslipidemia. In addition, endothelial dysfunction is more prevalent in acromegaly than in normal controls. Impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilatation with exaggerated sympathetic-mediated vasoconstrictor response has been recently described in acromegalic patients. Although flow-mediated dilatation has been shown to improve in cured acromegalics, it has not been shown to return to normal. Reports on the prevalence of increased carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) are conflictin

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in High-sensitivity C-reactive Protein

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Recombinant human growth hormone
  - DRUG: Saline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00182091
