CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06217679
Title: Comparing the Effects of Different Types of Exercise on Glucose Handling
Official Title: Comparing the Effects of Different Types of Exercise on Glucose Handling and Muscle Metabolism in Young Males and Females
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the proposed study is to compare the acute effects of different types of exercise modalities on glucose handling in young, healthy males and females. The exercise modalities that will be compared include: a high intensity interval exercise (HIIE) protocol, a moderate intensity continuous exercise (MICE) protocol and a low-load, high-repetition (LL-HR) resistance exercise protocol.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of different exercise modalities (High intensity interval exercise, Moderate intensity continuous exercise, and Low-load-high repetition resistance exercise) on blood sugar control in young healthy, males and females. To test this theory, a sugar challenge (oral glucose tolerance test - OGTT) will be performed during the pre-testing visit to determine the baseline blood sugar response. An OGTT will also be performed 2 hours after each single exercise session to determine how each type of exercise affects the blood sugar response. Investigators will take multiple blood samples throughout the trial to allow us to measure blood sugar, insulin and concentrations and oxidative stress. Muscle biopsies will be taken before and after each exercise bout so that investigators can examine the underlying mechanisms that contribute to the effectiveness of the different types of exercise on blood sugar control. Investigators will also use an ultrasound to measure factors related to of cardiovascular health such as artery stress and vascular conductance during the exercise bouts. Direct benefits of this study include characterizing sex differences of blood sugar handling after single exercise sessions. This study could have direct benefits on deterring the effectiveness of different forms of exercise on blood sugar levels.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood insulin change
  - Blood glucose change
  - Blood c-peptide change
  - insulin sensitivity change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Control Oral Glucose Tolerance Test
  - OTHER: Mixed Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06217679
