CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02716493
Title: Feasibility of a 8-week Telerehabilitation Program for Patients With Thoracic Neoplasia Receiving Chemotherapy
Official Title: Feasibility of an Eight-week Telerehabilitation Program for Patients With Unresectable Thoracic Neoplasia Receiving Chemotherapy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 5
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Exercise-based rehabilitation improves physical function, fatigue and quality of life in patients with thoracic neoplasia. Consequently, the need for rehabilitation across the continuum of care in oncology is growing rapidly. However, the implementation of this type of intervention is limited because of many barriers such as patients' symptoms and poor accessibility to programs. In this context, healthcare systems should develop and implement new approaches to dispense these services. Consequently, telerehabilitation is a promising strategy to improve access and adherence to rehabilitation.

OBJECTIVES To investigate the feasibility, adherence and satisfaction of a home-based telerehabilitation program (TELERP) with real-time physiological parameters acquisition in patients with unresectable thoracic neoplasia receiving chemotherapy and to explore its effects on patients' functional capacity.

METHODS Five patients receiving chemotherapy followed an 8-week TELERP using real-time monitoring combined with interactive exercises. The TELERP included supervised (15) and unsupervised (9) strengthening and cardiovascular exercise sessions at a rate of 3 sessions/week. The feasibility of the TELERP, adverse outcomes, technical issues, program adherence and satisfaction were analysed. Prior to and after the program, a six-minute walking test (6MWT), a timed up and go (TUG) and a timed stair test (TST) were done to assess functional capacity

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of adverse events during the 8-week telerehabilitation program
  - Adherence of the participants to the 8-week telerehabilitation program.
  - Participants satisfaction with the telerehabilitation platform with the Québec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with Assistive Technology questionnaire (QUEST 2.0)
  - User satisfaction with health services received with the French version of the Health Care Satisfaction Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Telerehabilitation program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02716493
