CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02343809
Title: Diacutaneous Fibrolysis on Lateral Epicondylitis
Official Title: Effectiveness of Diacutaneous Fibrolysis on Chronic Lateral Epicondylitis. A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Diacutaneous Fibrolysis (DF) is a manual method of treatment, usually adjuvant, addressed to the mechanical pain of the locomotor system. In our clinical practice a favorable effect is observed in patients with chronic lateral epicondylitis, but there are no published studies evaluating the results of this technique.

The objective of this trial is to evaluate if DF provides a further improvement in pain intensity, pain-pressure threshold, function and pain-free grip strength, in patients with chronic lateral epicondylitis being treated with physiotherapy. For this purpose, we conduct a randomized controlled trial, double-blind (patient and evaluator) in a Public Primary Care Center.

Sixty subjects will be randomized (computer application) into three groups: Intervention Group, Placebo Group and Control Group. All the three groups receive the same protocolized treatment of physiotherapy and additionally. Additionally, the Intervention Group receives six sessions (two sessions in a week during three weeks) of real DF and the Placebo Group receives six sessions (two sessions in a week during three weeks) of sham DF. The Control Group receives the protocolized treatment of physiotherapy only.

Pain intensity (VAS), pain-pressure threshold (pressure algometry), function (DASH questionnaire) and pain-free grip strength (digital dynamometer) will be measured at baseline, after treatment period, and three months after discharge from treatment. After discharge for treatment the patient subjective opinion about their evolution will be collected through the Global Rating of Change (GROC) scale.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Actual Diacutaneous Fibrolysis
  - OTHER: Sham Diacutaneous Fibrolysis
  - OTHER: Protocolized Physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02343809
