CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03834350
Title: At Home Spirometry and Video Module Education for COPD Patients
Official Title: BREATHES: Bringing Respiratory Education for Improved Adherence and Technique Home Through E-interventions for Self-management
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The central hypothesis is that patients hospitalized for COPD who subsequently complete the at-home BREATHES Program with V-TTG skill training and SpiroPD adherence support will retain increased medication knowledge, skill, self-efficacy, and adherence that otherwise decays substantially by 30 days post-discharge. To test this hypothesis, this study proposes the following specific aims:

Aim 1: Determine the feasibility of, adherence to, and efficacy of at-home V-TTG for ongoing inhaler skill training.

Hypothesis: Participants who complete both in-hospital and at-home V-TTG will have a significantly increased likelihood of demonstrating effective respiratory inhaler technique within 30 days after hospital discharge compared to in-hospital technique

Aim 2. Determine the feasibility of, adherence to, and efficacy of at-home SpiroPD for COPD medication adherence support.

Hypothesis: Participants' use of SpiroPD (PMD Healthcare) will significantly improve their COPD medication adherence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) results in nearly 750,000 hospitalizations annually and is the third leading cause of 30-day hospital readmissions in the United States.Improving the quality of care for hospitalized COPD patients has recently become a national priority through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program. A key element of improving care quality is translating existing evidence into improved practice. Extensive evidence exists to support the efficacy of inhaled medications to control and reduce COPD symptoms and to improve patient outcomes. However, the real-world effectiveness of these medications is often limited due both to poor inhaler technique and to insufficient adherence to treatment plans. Most interventions for hospitalized patients with COPD focus on medication reconciliation, treatment optimization, and inhaler technique education prior to being discharged home. However, after discharge home, patients quickly lose inhaler technique skills, have difficulty adhering to complex regimens, and lack tools to aid adherence, such as lung function response to their treatment regimen. Interventions to reinforce skills and support adherence are needed across care transitions to reduce the risk of deleterious health outcomes.

Simple and feasible at-home interventions to provide skills training and adherence support are needed. This novel idea is to pair at-home inhaler skill training with at-home spirometry measurements to comprehensively support both medication skill and adherence. The investigator proposes testing a novel at-home self-management support program called "BREATHES" (Bringing Respiratory Education for improved Adherence and Technique Home through E-interventions for Self-management) Program. BREATHES will include two main components: first, self-directed inhaler skill training sessions through the virtual Teach-To-Goal (V-TTG) intervention the investigator developed and tested during a K23 grant and, second, a handheld lung function device to provide physiologic feedback and capture medication adherence called SpiroPD. TTG is a patient-centered strategy that uses cycles of assessment and demonstration tailored to patients' self-management needs; the investigator's research shows in-person TTG is effective for teaching inhaler technique and reduces acute care utilization. Virtual-TTG delivers the key features of TTG using virtual patient-directed lessons through novel adaptive technology that provides tailored self-assessment and training. The investigator's studies demonstrate participants' willingness to use V-TTG at-home for post-discharge booster education and show that V-TTG is effective and may be non-inferior to in-person TTG in significantly reducing inhaler misuse among hospitalized patients. However, it remains unknown whether at-home V-TTG sessions will maintain self-management skills over the longer term and how direct physiologic lung monitoring sup

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Virtual Education Module Adherence
  - Rate of SpiroPD Device Usage for At-Home COPD Self-Management
  - Inhaler Technique

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: BREATHES Program
  - DEVICE: BREATHES SpiroPD or Propeller Health

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03834350
