CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03107442
Title: Exercise and Arterial Stiffness in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
Official Title: Effects of an Aerobic Exercise Intervention Program on Arterial Stiffness and Inflammation in Women With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) have increased arterial stiffness, which leads to cardiovascular diseases (CVD) of arteriosclerotic origin, which are the main cause of mortality in these patients. Exercise is a modifiable factor that reduces cardiovascular mortality and associated risk factors in the general population. Preliminary studies suggest that exercise may improve endothelial function and lipid profile in patients with SLE. However, whether meeting the international physical activity guidelines from the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM; i.e. ≥150 min / week of moderate to vigorous intensity physical activity) can improve arterial stiffness (subclinical atherosclerosis marker) and inflammation is unknown.

The primary aim of this study is to assess the effect of an exercise program based on meeting the ACSM physical activity guidelines on arterial stiffness and inflammation in patients with SLE.

The secondary aim is to assess the effect of an exercise program based on meeting the ACSM physical activity guidelines on endothelial function, oxidative stress, as well as other cardiometabolic risk factors, physical fitness, health-related quality of life, and other psychosocial outcomes.

Our hypothesis is that meeting the ACSM guidelines will improve arterial stiffness and inflammation in patients with SLE.

The study is a non-randomized clinical trial. To minimize selection bias, participants in the intervention and control groups will be matched by age, BMI, and disease activity (SLEDAI), which are important contributors to arterial stiffness.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
2\. Design and Protocol Registration This non-randomized controlled trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov \[NCT03107442\] on 11 April 2017, before the enrolment of participants started (i.e., on 12 April), and no deviations occurred regarding the primary outcome and the secondary outcomes analyzed here.

3\. Setting and Eligibility Criteria Participants were recruited from the Systemic Autoimmune Diseases Unit of the "Virgen de las Nieves" and the "San Cecilio" University Hospitals. Women with a diagnosis of SLE according to the ACR criteria \[26\], a follow-up of 12 months, clinical and treatment stability during the previous six months, and not performing regular exercise (defined as 60 min/week of structured exercise) were included. Exclusion criteria were to have been under biological treatment in the previous six months or to need a prednisone dose of \>10 mg/day; a background of CVD in the previous year; to present contraindications to perform exercise; other associated rheumatic conditions; pregnancy; active acute or chronic infection; neoplasms; acute renal failure; cardiac or pulmonary involvement; body mass index (BMI) \>35; or not being able to read, understand, and sign written informed consent.

All participants received detailed information about the study procedures, and signed written informed consent. The Research Ethics Committee of Granada approved the protocol on 11 November 2016 (reference No.: 10/2016).

4\. Procedures A telephone screening was conducted. Potentially eligible participants were invited to a personal screening and, if included, day 1 of the baseline examination was performed. The baseline examination comprised two assessment days. On day 1, pulse wave velocity (PWV) was assessed. Thereafter, cardiorespiratory fitness testing was performed, and socio-demographic and clinical information was collected. On day 2 (i.e., between two and four days after day 1), 8-h fasting blood samples were collected between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. This article follows the TREND statement for improving the reporting of non-randomized experiments of behavioral and public health interventions (downloadable at EQUATOR Network: https://goo.gl/ZSyLrj; Supplementary Table S1) \[27\]. The funding source had no role in the study.

5\. Methods 5.1. Interventions 5.1. 1. Exercise Group To maximize transparency and replicability, the exercise program described in this manuscript follows the Consensus on Exercise Reporting Template (CERT; Supplementary Table S2) \[28\]. The patients assigned to exercise performed two 75-min sessions per week during a total of 12 weeks (i.e., 24 sessions) of moderate to vigorous intensity aerobic exercise on a treadmill (BH, Serie i.RC12 Dual, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain) from 24 April to 14 July 2017. The sessions took place in a quiet room of the "Virgen de las Nieves" Hospital, Granada (Spain).

All sessions were performed in groups of a maximum of five persons (depending on the patients' schedule preferenc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Arterial Stiffness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03107442
