CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05921747
Title: The Impact of Innovative Technology Strategies on Implementing Exercise Programs Using Fully Immersive Virtual Reality for Postpartum Women
Official Title: The Impact of Innovative Technology Strategies on Implementing Exercise Programs Using Fully Immersive Virtual Reality for Postpartum Women
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The study aims to determine the effect of traditional exercise through using fully immersive virtual reality in postpartum female with lumbopelvic pain.

This study will be single-blind randomized clinical -trial and will be conducted at Shalamar Institute of health sciences in 1 year after the approval by institutional review board. Sixty female participants with a history of lumbopelvic pain will be recruited on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Data will be collected after taking written Informed Consent from each patient. The included participants will be randomized by gold fish randomization method and allocated to two groups (A \& B) each with 30 participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lumbopelvic pain refers to self-reported pain in the lower back, sacroiliac joints, or a combination of these locations, among pregnant and postnatal women. Approximately 50% of pregnant women report lumbopelvic pain to some degree. Recent studies indicate the importance of hip extensors, pelvic floor muscle (PFM) and transverse abdominal muscle (TrAM) in the development of lumbopelvic pain.Moreover, pelvic instability, asymmetry and insufficient compression of the sacroiliac joints contribute to continuous lumbopelvic pain after delivery. In Europe every tenth women shortly postpartum and every sixth has reported similar symptoms 6 weeks later. Age, PGP during pregnancy and abdominal midline doming were associated with experiencing PGP shortly postpartum.

Studies have demonstrated the importance of choosing an optimal treatment strategy in clinical practice, and 5 subgroups of self-rated pain locations have been identified in the pelvic area. The study focused on pelvic girdle pain (PGP), or PGP in combination with lumbar pain, since these groups have been shown to have the highest impact on activity levels and health-related quality of life.

Traditional exercises that include dynamically controlling the lumbar segments and pelvic joints have been shown to result in functional improvement in patients with lumbopelvic pain. The term "core stability" is commonly used to refer to the ability of these "core" muscles to stabilize the lumbar spine and pelvic girdle during static postures and dynamic movements. A host of theories and "stabilization exercise" programs have been developed to train these muscles as a means of treating and/or preventing lower back pain (LBP). However, there is still much inconsistency and debate both in the clinical and research communities with regards to what constitutes "core stability" and a "stabilization exercise". Chronic pain is a global healthcare burden with as much as of 11% of the US population suffering from pain lasting six months or longer, and upwards of 20% in Europe. Chronic pain can lead to depression, anxiety, sleep disturbances, and impairment in cognitive tasks.

Established research supports VR(virtual relaity) as a treatment strategy for burn pain, acute pain, and experimentally induced pain. Two primary approaches afford analgesic benefits of VR: distraction therapy and immersive-ness. Distraction therapy temporarily takes attention away from pain while patients are engaged in the VR experience. In immersive VR, the user can interact with an artificial environment to treat chronic pain. In immersive VR, the user can interact with an artificial environment to treat chronic pain. One form of immersive VR is virtual embodiment. Virtual embodiment refers to the sense of owning a virtual body, from a first-person perspective, feeling the agent of the sensory feedback related to the actions of the virtual body. Through activation of somatosensory and premotor circuitry associated with the body parts th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To access intensity of Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Traditional exercise as control group
  - DEVICE: VR Intervention Group Protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05921747
