CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01585831
Title: Study of Psychological and Motor Effects of Testosterone in Adolescents With XXY/Klinefelter Syndrome
Official Title: Psychological and Motor Effects of Testosterone Therapy in Adolescents With XXY/Klinefelter Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine if testosterone replacement therapy leads to changes in psychological factors and/or motor skills in adolescent males with 47,XXY (also called Klinefelter syndrome). This study will also evaluate whether certain genetic factors of the X chromosome affect the psychological or motor features of XXY/Klinefelter syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Klinefelter syndrome (47,XXY) is the most common chromosomal abnormality in humans and occurs in approximately 1 in 650 males. Testosterone deficiency develops during adolescence in the majority of individuals with XXY. However, there are no previous studies that evaluate the psychological and motor effects of testosterone replacement therapy in adolescents with XXY.

The study researchers are interested in learning if testosterone therapy initiated in early puberty in XXY (KS) will lead to improvements in psychological and/or motor skills. They are also interested in learning if genetic variations of the androgen receptor gene or the parent-of-origin of the extra X chromosome influence the response to testosterone therapy.

Specific psychological factors to be studied include verbal and nonverbal cognitive skills, attention, executive function (organization, problem-solving skills, inhibition), anxiety, language, self-esteem, and other behavioral factors. Motor skills to be studied include gross and fine motor skills, motor coordination, and motor planning.

Participants in the study will be randomized to one of two treatment groups, receiving either testosterone gel or placebo, for 12 months. 60% of the study group will receive testosterone, and 40% will receive placebo.

The research participants, parents/caregivers, and the members of the study team will be blinded to the treatment group, and will not know whether they are receiving testosterone gel or placebo treatments.

The supervising endocrinologist for the study will not be blinded and will know which patients are in the testosterone and placebo groups. This will allow him to monitor results to determine if participants in the placebo group may develop a significant need for testosterone therapy during the study period. If this occurs, the patient will be switched to the testosterone group and will continue to be monitored in the study.

All participants will be evaluated at the beginning of the study and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Travel costs are included. Evaluations will include a combination of psychological and motor skills testing, questionnaires completed by the parent/caregiver and study participant, physical examinations, and blood draws for safety monitoring and genetic studies.

Participation in the trial will last one year and includes 5 clinic visits to the eXtraordinarY Kids Clinic at Children's Hospital Colorado in Denver.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change From Baseline on the Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System
  - Change From Baseline on the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Development - 2
  - Change From Baseline on the Conners Parent Rating Scales: DSM Attention
  - Change From Baseline on the Conners Parent Rating Scales: DSM Hyperactivity
  - Change From Baseline on the Conners Parent Rating Scales: Anxiety

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone gel 1%
  - DRUG: Placebo gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01585831
