CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04889755
Title: SibACCESS: Developing a Telehealth Intervention to Address Unmet Psychosocial Needs of Siblings of Children With Cancer
Official Title: SibACCESS: Developing a Telehealth Intervention to Address Unmet Psychosocial Needs of Siblings of Children With Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This study aims to address barriers to psychosocial care for siblings of children with cancer by piloting a group-based telehealth program for adolescent siblings of youth with cancer. The pilot trial will be preceded by a treatment development stage during which study staff will interview English- and Spanish-speaking families and psychosocial providers to assess preferences for program content, format, timing, and cultural feasibility and acceptability, while considering ideas to minimize participation barriers. Information from interviews will inform any revisions to the proposed pilot program. Then, the new SibACCESS program will be tested with a small group of families located in Massachusetts, Delaware, or Rhode Island using video-teleconferencing technology. Families will complete exit interviews to assess program acceptability and perceived benefits.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Prolonged, complicated, and intensive pediatric cancer treatment regimens challenge and disrupt the entire family. Siblings of youth with cancer are a psychosocially at-risk and underserved group. Siblings frequently report strong negative emotions, disruptions to family life, poorer academic functioning, more school absenteeism (school-aged siblings), and riskier health behaviors and poorer health outcomes than comparisons (adult siblings). Approximately one-quarter of siblings meet diagnostic criteria for cancer-related posttraumatic stress disorders. Outcomes are worse for siblings from under-represented minority groups and those with fewer socioeconomic resources. Additionally, siblings report low social support and indicate a strong desire to connect with other siblings. The need for sibling support is well established, as outlined in the recently developed evidence- and consensus-based Standards for Psychosocial Care for Children with Cancer and Their Families. Unfortunately, the Sibling Standard is among those least likely to be met within pediatric oncology programs nationwide.

SibACCESS Program Description:

SibACCESS (Acceptance, Coping, Communication, Engagement, and Social Support) targets the proposed mechanisms of sibling difficulties. The primary goal is to increase siblings' exposure and opportunities to process cancer-related cues to decrease the onset or intensification of posttraumatic stress (PTS). Treatment targets include emotional acceptance, treatment involvement, family communication (via between-session assignments), and social support (fostered by the group format).

SibACCESS is based on acceptance-based cognitive-behavioral frameworks, drawing primarily on trauma-focused CBT (TF-CBT). TF-CBT is a structured, short-term treatment that incorporates cognitive-behavioral approaches to promote recovery from trauma. It is a logical starting point for the present study for multiple reasons: (a) TF-CBT was developed specifically for children and adolescents; parent participation is recommended but not required; (b) it has been tested in a group format and using telehealth; (c) it has demonstrated effectiveness across cultural groups; and (d) it is appropriate for youth who meet diagnostic criteria for PTSD and those with sub-clinical PTS. TF-CBT has not yet been evaluated in the context of childhood cancer and may require some adaptations. Thus, SibACCESS also includes skills from Dialectical and Behavioral Therapy (i.e., self-validation of emotions, mindfulness, radical acceptance) to better address distress tolerance and acceptance of the aspects of cancer that are beyond siblings' control.

SibACCESS sessions will be facilitated remotely using Zoom. The intervention includes one pre-recorded parent webinar, one brief orientation meeting (sibling and parent), seven weekly sibling group sessions, one individual sibling session, and one individual parent session. The 30-minute parent webinar will provide a progr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Child Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptom Scale for DSM-5

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SibACCESS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04889755
