CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05586451
Title: Muscle Activation With Acute Bouts of Blood Flow Restricted Resistance Exercise
Official Title: Muscle Activation With Acute Bouts of Blood Flow Restricted Resistance Exercise Compared to High Load Resistance Exercise in Trained Versus Untrained Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Blood flow restricted (BFR) resistance exercise has been shown to improve skeletal muscle adaptations to low load resistance exercise. One of many adaptations with resistance training is neural adaptations that occur within the first few weeks of resistance training. It has been hypothesized that these neural adaptations are blunted when using blood flow restricted exercise. Therefore, the investigators propose to examine the muscle activation created by resistance exercise with different intensities with blood flow restriction and without blood flow restriction in sedentary compared to resistance-trained individuals. The investigators will recruit and completely study up to 30, previously untrained and resistance-trained, healthy, college-aged (18-40 years) males. Participants will come in the laboratory for 5 total visits. These visits will consist of a screening/familiarization visit, a strength testing visit, and 3 acute exercise visits. The acute exercise visits will consist of 2 blood flow restricted resistance sessions at different intensities and a traditional high load resistance exercise session. The 3 acute exercise visits will be randomized. The investigators will measure muscle mass (appendicular lean mass) using Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry, muscle strength and endurance using isotonic and isokinetic testing, and muscle activation using surface electromyography. The investigators will also use near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to measure the muscle tissue (oxygen) saturation index (TSI) in the vastus lateralis during exercise. Finally, the investigators will also draw blood before and after each exercise session to measure hormones, metabolites, and markers of inflammation using commercially available assays (e.g., ELISAs).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Activation Measured During Traditional High Load Resistance Exercise (HLRE)
  - Low Load Resistance Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction (LLBFR)
  - Moderate Load Resistance Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction (MLBFR)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Traditional High Load Resistance Exercise (HLRE)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Low Load Resistance Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction (LLBFR)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Load Resistance Exercise with Blood Flow Restriction (MLBFR)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05586451
