CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06580912
Title: Krill Oil for Pain in Elders
Official Title: Krill Oil for Pain and Physical Function in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic musculoskeletal pain contributes to mobility disability among older adults. Nutritional interventions, like omega-3 fatty acids, may help manage pain and improve physical function. Supplementation with krill oil may offer advantages to fish oil due to better absorption and additional nutrients. This pilot study aims to assess the feasibility of a clinical trial to determine the impact of krill oil supplementation on pain and function in older adults, informing future research.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mobility is a critical factor in the maintenance of independence and quality of life of older adults. Chronic musculoskeletal pain contributes to mobility disability disproportionately among older adults. Current treatments for pain and functional decline are often ineffective and add to heightened risks of polypharmacy in older adults. As such, nutritional interventions can play a significant role in promoting health and longevity, managing pain, and enhancing physical function in older adults. Omega (ω)-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are essential nutrients that are well recognized for their anti-inflammatory and cardioprotective benefits, as well as their analgesic and anti-nociceptive properties. Most American adults do not meet the recommendations for ω-3 intakes, particularly eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), found primarily in seafood. Due to competing pathways, an elevated ω-6 to ω-3 ratio contributes to an overproduction of pro-inflammatory eicosanoids and the development of chronic diseases. A high ω-6:ω-3 ratio is associated with higher chronic pain prevalence and increased pain severity. Additionally, ω-3 PUFAs may play a role in the preservation of muscle and physical function in older adults. Low levels of ω-3s in blood are associated with reduced muscle strength, slower gait speed, and mobility disability among older adults. Considered largely safe and cost-effective, ω-3 supplementation may be crucial to increasing the intake of these essential nutrients and achieving optimal levels among older adults. Although the use of EPA and DHA has been incorporated into several guidelines, a scarcity of data has prevented the development of strong recommendations on the use of ω-3 supplementation for the maintenance of physical function in older adults, particularly those with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Krill oil has been recently proposed as an advantageous alternative to traditional fish oil supplements, due to a greater bioavailability of EPA and DHA and additional bioactive compounds. The goal of the proposed pilot study is to assess the feasibility of a 3-month randomized controlled trial to determine the effectiveness of krill oil supplementation on pain and physical function in older adults with chronic musculoskeletal pain. The investigators will enroll 40 older adults (≥60 years) who will be randomly assigned to 4 g krill oil (1,288 mg/d EPA+DHA, 0.45 mg astaxanthin, 320 mg choline) daily or matched placebo (mixed lipids without EPA and DHA). The investigators will determine the impact of krill oil supplementation on the omega-3 index (%EPA+DHA in erythrocytes), the ω-6/ω-3 ratio, and inflammatory biomarkers in blood, and obtain preliminary evidence of its impact on pain and physical function in older adults. The findings of this pilot will inform a future fully-powered randomized controlled trial by assessing the feasibility and acceptability of krill oil supplementation among older U.S. adults 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Omega-3 Index
  - Graded Chronic Pain Scale-Revised (GCPS-R)
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC)
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)
  - 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Krill oil
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Mixed vegetable oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06580912
