CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06646380
Title: Physical Fitness, Sleep Quality, Dynamic Balance and Exercise in Aged People
Official Title: The Importance of the Interplay Between Physical Fitness, Sleep Quality, Dynamic Balance and Exercise Intervention in Aged People
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Nowadays, the sedentary lifestyles and aging related problem to well-being, have a significant impact on of physical fitness, quality of life, and sleep in elderlies. The regular exercise is of higher importance crucial for maintaining overall health and delay some ageing-related declines in physical fitness. The multicomponent training (MCT) programs, include exercises to promote endurance, strength, flexibility, and balance. The MCT are typically effective to improve physical fitness, quality of life, sleep, and balance in older populations. Notably, in visually impaired older adults, lower limb function is closely linked to fall risk. Improving the muscular strength and bone health enhances the balance and the gait. Additionally, it is possible to find associations between sleep quality, frailty, and quality of life among older adults, highlighting the interplay between sleep, physical health, and overall well-being in aging populations. Another study, highlighted that the socioeconomic status and sleep quality's influence on the prevalence of multimorbidity in older adults, underscoring the broader health implications of sleep disturbances in aging populations.

The principal objective of the current PhD research project is to assess the effects of a multicomponent training programs on critical variables such as physical fitness, sleep quality, and dynamic balance in older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To successfully close this research project and in agreement with the stablished objectives and hypothesis, a compendium of three future published articles as part of the thesis. The first article will be a review about the relationships between exercise, sleep quality, physical fitness and dynamic balance. This review article will answer the first hypothesis and objective. The second article, will be an observational research article. The data from the baseline evaluation will allow to run artificial intelligence algorithms, intending to predict the dynamic balance variance based on physical fitness and quality of sleep. This article aims to identify the variables that mostly explain the dynamic balance based on body composition and antropometrics, sleep quality and physical fitness. This article will answer to the second hypothesis and objective. The third article will be a randomized controlled trial article. This part of the research will seek to understand the effects of (8 months) multicomponent exercise training program in antropometric and body composition, sleep quality, physical fitness effects and dynamic balance.

Study design: The present project will adopt a longitudinal approach wherein volunteers will be briefed about the study objectives and protocol and were required to provide informed consent, adhering to the Helsinki Declaration guidelines. Participants were instructed to maintain normal daily life activities to prevent physical inactivity. Inclusion criteria will involve individuals over 65 years old, independent in daily activities, and without chronic diseases requiring pharmacological treatment affecting the experimental protocol, while exclusion criteria included failure to attend more than 25% of training sessions, failure to attend more than four consecutive sessions, or missing evaluation sessions. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the experimental group (EG ≈ 30) or control group (CG ≈ 30). The multicomponent training (MCT) program comprised aerobic, resistance, flexibility, and balance exercises. Sessions lasted 50 to 60 minutes, including warm-up, aerobic exercise, resistance training, balance training, and cool-down. Training intensity gradually increased over time. The experimental group will have three 60-minute sessions weekly for 32 weeks, while the control group will not participate in any exercise program, but they will maintain the daily physical activity. Both groups will be evaluated at two time points: initial assessment (M1) at the start of training and final assessment (M2) after 32 weeks. The Physical fitness will be assessed using the Rikli and Jones Senior Fitness Test. The Sleep quality evaluated by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Dynamic balance will be assessed using the Timed Up and Go Test (TUG). Additionally, body composition before and after the training program will be evaluated by bioimpedance.

Physical Fitness: The Rikli and Jones Senior Fitness Test will be used

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep Quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multicomponent Training
  - OTHER: maintenance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06646380
