CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05761171
Title: A Study of Revumenib in Combination With Chemotherapy for Patients Diagnosed With Relapsed or Refractory Leukemia
Official Title: A Phase 2 Study of SNDX-5613 in Combination With Chemotherapy for Patients With Relapsed or Refractory KMT2A-Rearranged Infant Leukemia
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This phase II trial tests the safety and best dose of revumenib in combination with chemotherapy, and evaluates whether this treatment improves the outcome in infants and young children who have leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory) and is associated with a KMT2A (MLL) gene rearrangement (KMT2A-R). Leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells, where too many underdeveloped (abnormal) white blood cells, called "blasts", are found in the bone marrow, which is the soft, spongy center of the bones that produces the three major blood cells: white blood cells to fight infection; red blood cells that carry oxygen; and platelets that help blood clot and stop bleeding. The blasts crowd out the normal blood cells in the bone marrow and spread to the blood. They can also spread to the brain, spinal cord, and/or other organs of the body. The leukemia cells of some children have a genetic change in which a gene (KMT2A) is broken and combined with other genes that typically do not interact with one another; this is called "rearranged". This genetic rearrangement alters how other genes are turned on or off in the cell, turning on genes that drive the development of leukemia. Patients with KMT2A rearrangement have higher risk for cancer coming back after treatment. Revumenib is an oral medicine that directly targets the changes that occur in a cell with a KMT2A rearrangement and has been shown to specifically kill these leukemia cells in preclinical laboratory settings and in animals. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vincristine, prednisone, asparaginase, fludarabine and cytarabine work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. This trial is being done to find out if the combination of revumenib and chemotherapy would be safe and/or effective in treating infants and young children with relapsed or refractory KMT2A-R leukemia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of revumenib administered in combination with chemotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-R) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

II. To estimate the minimal residual disease (MRD) negative remission rate of patients age \>= 6 months at enrollment with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL treated with revumenib in combination with chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of revumenib administered with chemotherapy in patients with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL.

II. To estimate the 18-month event-free survival (EFS) of patients with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL treated with revumenib in combination with chemotherapy.

III. To estimate 18-month overall survival (OS) of patients with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL treated with revumenib in combination with chemotherapy.

IV. To characterize the tolerability of revumenib given as monotherapy in patients with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the biologic activity of revumenib administered with chemotherapy in patients with R/R KMT2A-R ALL.

II. To estimate the MRD negative remission rate of patients with R/R non-infant KMT2A-R ALL treated with revumenib in combination with chemotherapy.

III. To characterize the PK of calaspargase pegol and describe associated toxicities for patients with R/R KMT2A-R ALL.

IV. To describe the anti-cancer therapies received before and after administration of revumenib by patients with R/R KMT2A-R ALL.

V. To describe the MRD negative remission rate of patients age \< 6 months at enrollment with R/R infant KMT2A-R ALL treated with revumenib in combination with chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: Patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage (ALAL), or mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) are assigned to 1 of 2 regimens, by physician discretion. Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are assigned to Regimen B.

REGIMEN A:

COMBINATION CYCLE 1: Patients receive revumenib orally (PO) or via nasogastric (NG), nasojejunal (NJ), nasoduodenal (ND) or gastrostomy tube (G-tube) every 12 hours continuously. Patients also receive "3-drug re-induction" consisting of vincristine intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, prednisone or prednisolone PO or via NG, ND, NJ, or G-tube twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 4, as well as methotrexate (MTX) intrathecally (IT) on days 1 and 8 then optionally weekly, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT. Patients who have early progressive disease may continue to Combination Cycle 2 early before fully completing cycle 1.

COMBINATION CYCLE 2: Patients receive revumenib PO or via NG, NJ, ND, or G-tube every 12 hours continuously, "FLA" consisting of fludarabine IV over 60 minutes and high-dose cytarabine IV over 1-3 hours on days 1-5, and MTX IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on day 0 then optionally on days 8, 15, and

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) for lymphoid directed chemotherapy block (Safety Phase)
  - Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) for myeloid directed chemotherapy block (Safety Phase)
  - Incidence of DLTs for lymphoid directed chemotherapy block among patients < 6 months (Safety Phase)
  - Incidence of DLTs for myeloid directed chemotherapy block among patients < 6 months (Safety Phase)
  - Minimal residual disease (MRD) negative remission rate in patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) infant KMT2A-R ALL among patients >= 6 months at enrollment (Expansion Phase)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
  - PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration
  - DRUG: Calaspargase Pegol
  - DRUG: Cytarabine
  - PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Month to 6 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05761171
