CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04431063
Title: Comparison of the Functional Outcome of Site Peroneus Longus Graft Donors With and Without Distal Stump Suturing of Peroneus Tendon Brevis on ACL Reconstruction Case in Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital in Jakarta With 24 Patient as Subject Who Will Divide Into 2 Group.
Official Title: Comparison of the Functional Outcome of Site Peroneus Longus Graft Donors With and Without Distal Stump Suturing of Peroneus Tendon Brevis on ACL Reconstruction Case .
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Injury of the Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) is one of the most common sports injuries. The incidence rate reaches 68.6 cases per 100,000 people per year. Management of ACL injuries for individuals who want to return to the level of exercise activity as before, mostly in the form of reconstructive surgery. As many as 60,000 to 175,000 cases of ACL reconstruction per year are carried out in the United States At present, many reconstructive surgeries are performed by taking tendon grafts on the patient's own body (autograft) to then be used instead of the ACL. The most widely used graft sources are Hamstring and Bone-Patellar Tendon-Bone (BPTB) grafts. Other alternative grafts are Quadriceps tendon, Fascia Lata, Iliotibial Band, and Peroneus Longus Tendon. Each graft retrieval technique has advantages and disadvantages. BPTB graft has the best tensile strength and bone union with bone, but the complications of anterior knee pain are also quite common (5-55%). Hamstring grafts and Quadriceps grafts minimize the complications of anterior knee pain, with fairly good tensile strength, but the union of grafts with bone takes longer. The loss of Hamstring tendons also causes a decrease in muscle strength in Hamstring, where Hamstring has an important role in preventing the anterior translation of the tibia Peroneus Longus Tendon graft is an alternative graft developed to minimize complications associated with graft use from the area around the knee. Peroneus Longus tendons also have tensile strength similar to Hamstring tendons.

As with other graft extracts, Peroneus Longus tendon graft is also accompanied by complications in the donor site. Possible complications arising from the loss of the Peroneus Longus tendon include ankle instability and decreased flexion strength of the 1st ray and ankle eversion. Research carried out by Bancha et al showed a reduction in flexion strength of 1st ray and ankle eversion significantly, without any instability in the ankle. Peroneus longus provides 5.5% strength for moderate dorsiflexion for ankle eversion movements, peroneus longus is the main muscle. But in other studies it is said that the use of peroneus longus graft does not interfere with the stability of the ankle and ROM. Does not even affect the functional outcome of the ankle However, in a study conducted by Bancha et al and Kerimoglu et al., The technique used for taking Peroneus Longus graft tendons did not include suturing in the distal stump of Peroneous Longus. So with this study, researchers wanted to find out whether different results would be found related to donor site complications if the technique used included suturing the distal stump of the Peroneus Longus tendon against the peroneus brevis tendon

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Preoperative hand dynamometer value
  - Three-months postoperative hand dynamometer value
  - Six-months postoperative hand dynamometer value
  - Preoperative Clark's Angle Value
  - Three-months Clark's Angle Value

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Distal Stump Suturing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04431063
