CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03872076
Title: Plyometric Exercises Versus Isometric Exercises With Theraband Elastic Band in Water Polo Players
Official Title: Efficacy of a Protocol of Plyometric Exercises in the Improvement of Quadriceps Muscle Strength Versus Isometric Exercises With Theraband Elastic Band in Federated Water Polo Players. A Randomized Pilot Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Introduction: The improvement of strength affects muscle volume, dynamic stability and sports performance in water polo athletes. Plyometric exercises can improve biomechanics, performance and the most explosive actions during sports. The work done with elastic bands will increase the effectiveness and the resistance on the isometric exercises developed.

Objectives: To evaluate the effectiveness of plyometric exercises in the increase of quadriceps muscle strength, volume and stability dynamic in female athletic of water polo players from 18 to 25 years old.

Study Design: A randomized, multicentric, single-blind clinical study with a follow-up period.

Methodology: 25 water polo players will be recruited and randomly assigned to the two study groups: experimental (plyometric exercises plus isometric exercises with elastic bands) and control (isometric exercises with elastic bands). The intervention will last for 8 weeks, with 3 weekly sessions, of 15 minutes each. The study variables will be: strength (measured with the RM test), muscle volume (using anthropometry), and dynamic stability (through the SEBT test). The analysis of normality will be carried out with the Shapiro Wilk test. In case of homogeneity of the groups, we will use parametric tests: t-student test of repeated measures (difference between evaluations) and ANOVA of repeated means (intra and intersubject effect).

Expected Results: It is expected to observe improvement in muscle strength and quadriceps volume, as well as dynamic stability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline maximum strength in quadriceps after treatment and at month

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03872076
