CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07033338
Title: The Effect of Occupational Activities and Finger Exercise Program on Hand Grip Strength and Activities of Daily Living in Elderly Individuals With Dementia: Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: The Effect of Occupational Activities and Finger Exercise Program on Hand Grip Strength and Activities of Daily Living in Elderly Individuals With Dementia: Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
As people age, cognitive functions, muscle mass, and hand strength tend to decrease. Reduced hand grip strength in the elderly can make it harder for them to perform daily tasks such as buttoning clothes, pulling zippers, or opening doors. These difficulties can lead to a reduced quality of life and increased need for assistance and institutional care. Activities of daily living (ADL) are a key indicator of an older adult's ability to live independently.

This study aimed to examine whether an occupational activities and finger exercise program helps improve hand grip strength and the ability to perform daily tasks among older adults with mild dementia. The program includes hand and finger exercises combined with creative and functional tasks such as sewing, painting, and using tools. Supporting physical and cognitive function through such activities may help improve the independence and well-being of elderly individuals living in institutions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study was planned as a randomized, parallel-group experimental design. It was conducted in Konya Dr. İsmail Işık Nursing Home. Fifty randomly selected individuals who were over 65 years of age, not bedridden, and who agreed to participate voluntarily were included in the study.

Pre-tests After the individuals included in the study group were informed about the study and gave their consent, pre-test applications (information form, Barthel Index, and hand and finger grip strength measurement) were performed. The hand and finger grip strength measurements and data collection were performed by an independent physiotherapist who was experienced in this field. The measurements and data collection were performed in the rooms of elderly individuals with dementia who stayed in a private room, while others were evaluated in a separate room.

Post-tests Post-tests (Barthel Index and hand and finger grip strength measurements) were carried out at the end of the 8th week by the same independent physiotherapist. The post-tests were also performed in the rooms of elderly individuals who stayed in a private room, while the others were in a separate room.

Intervention A pastime activities and finger exercise program was applied to the experimental group 3 times a week for 8 weeks. At the end of the program, post-test evaluations for hand grip strength and daily life activities in both the experimental and control groups were performed simultaneously. The data obtained as a result of the measurements - numbers, percentages, mean, minimum and maximum values - were analyzed using the independent groups t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, Wilcoxon test, and Shapiro-Wilk test for normal distributions. Ethics committee approval and institutional permission have been obtained for the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measurement of hand and finger grip strength in elderly individuals using digital dynamometer
  - Activities of Daily Living (ADL) - Standardized Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Occupational Activities and Finger Exercise Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07033338
