CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06282900
Title: Pain and Screen Addiction in University Students
Official Title: Pain and Screen Addiction: The Relationship Between the Number of Pain Areas and Screen Addiction and Various Screen Used in University Students: A Cross-Sectional Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 255
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
One of the most important factors why young people spend inactive time is the time they spend in front of the screen. Sedentary screen time refers to time spent using a screen-based device, such as a computer, television, smartphone, or tablet while being sedentary in any environment. The last decade has seen a disturbing increase in the amount of time young people spend in front of screens. Research shows that musculoskeletal disorders in the hand, wrist, arm, and neck occur at a high rate due to long-term and repetitive use of the smartphone, one of the electronic devices. People with musculoskeletal pain often complain of more than one area of pain.

The primary purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between university students' use of various screen-based devices, the time they spend in front of the screen, and the number of painful areas they report on the body. Our secondary aim is to evaluate the relationship between pain, and screen time, and physical activity level.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
University is also an important year in individuals' lives because it is a period in which they gain autonomy and have more control over their own lives and behaviors. It is known that adult individuals have a decrease in their physical activity due to their work lives and responsibilities. For this reason, the increase in sedentary life has also become evident in early adulthood.

Sedentary living is associated with many health risks independent of physical activity, and physical activity directly affects health status. Since a large portion of the world's population is physically inactive, physical inactivity is considered a public health problem rather than an individual problem.

One of the most important factors why young people spend inactive time is the time they spend in front of the screen. Sedentary screen time refers to time spent using a screen-based device, such as a computer, television, smartphone, or tablet while being sedentary in any environment. The last decade has seen a disturbing increase in the amount of time young people spend in front of screens.

Most studies on screen addiction have focused on smartphone use. Smartphone addiction is positively associated with repetitive overuse of joints, leading to inflammatory changes in healthy joints. It can also affect proprioceptors in muscles and ligaments due to the postural problems it creates. Research shows that musculoskeletal disorders in the hand, wrist, arm, and neck occur at a high rate due to long-term and repetitive use of the smartphone, one of the electronic devices.

People who experience localized pain often report pain in other areas as well. Having pain in one area increases the risk of developing pain in other areas. Reporting more than one area of pain worsens the prognosis and increases the possibility of the current problem becoming chronic.

People with musculoskeletal pain often suffer from more than one site of pain, and compliance with standard definitions of widespread pain often excludes the majority with more than one site of pain.

The primary purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between university students' use of various screen-based devices, the time they spend in front of the screen, and the number of painful areas they report on the body. Our secondary aim is to evaluate the relationship between pain and screen time, and physical activity level.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Investigating the use of screen-based devices
  - Musculoskeletal system evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: University students

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06282900
