CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06049186
Title: CRD vs. Met in Patients With Obese PCOS Infertility
Official Title: Comparison of Live Birth Rates Between Calorie-restricted Diets and Metformin Interventions Prior to Ovulation Induction Therapy in Patients With Overweight/Obese Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Combined With Infertility
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 406
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common gynecological endocrine disease and a major cause of anovulatory infertility in reproductive-aged women. From 2010 to 2020, it was found that the prevalence of PCOS in reproductive-aged women in China reached 7.8%, an increase of 65% over 10 years ago. Many of them are overweight or obese. Weight loss including diet modifications can significantly reduce reproductive and metabolic disorders of PCOS and is recommended as a first step in the treatment of overweight or obese women with PCOS. Many weight loss programs have been proposed, including calorie-restriction diet (CRD) intervention. Whether CRD intervention prior to ovulation induction therapy could improve live birth rates in overweight/obese PCOS women has not been illustrated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common gynecological endocrine disease and a major cause of anovulatory infertility in reproductive-aged women. Rotterdam criteria state the definition of PCOS is that women must present with two of the following three signs/symptoms-hyperandrogenism, chronic anovulation/oligomenorrhea, and polycystic ovaries-in the absence of other diseases that promote these symptoms. From 2010 to 2020, it was found that the prevalence of PCOS in reproductive-aged women in China reached 7.8%, an increase of 65% over 10 years ago. Many of them are overweight or obese. Weight loss including diet modifications can significantly reduce reproductive and metabolic disorders of PCOS and is recommended as a first step in the treatment of overweight or obese women with PCOS. Many weight loss programs have been proposed, including calorie-restriction diet (CRD) intervention. Whether CRD intervention prior to ovulation induction therapy could improve live birth rates in overweight/obese PCOS women has not been illustrated. This research is aimed to evaluate whether CRD intervention prior to ovulation induction could promote reproductive health in overweight or obese PCOS women with fertility requirements and provide an evidence-based nutrition advice for clinical practice.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Live birth during the period of ovulation induction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CRD
  - DRUG: Metformin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06049186
