CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06994871
Title: Effects of Different Exercises on Intrahepatic Lipid in Patients With Metabolic Dysfunction-associated Steatotic Liver Disease
Official Title: Effects of Aerobic or Resistance Exercise, or Both on Intrahepatic Lipid in Patients With Metabolic Dysfunction-associated Steatotic Liver Disease: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 186
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This is a single-center, randomized, parallel controlled study to explore the effects of aerobic exercise, resistance exercise or aerobic combined resistance exercise on liver lipid in patients with MASLD, consisting of a 12-week core study followed by a 12-month extension phase.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was a single-center, randomized, parallel controlled clinical study. It conducted a 12-week exercise intervention for patients with MASLD, aiming to explore the effects of different exercise patterns for patients with MASLD. All subjects were randomly assigned to aerobic exercise, resistance exercise or aerobic combined resistance exercise groups. The liver lipid content was evaluated by MRI-PDFF values at baseline and 12 weeks after intervention. Liver function was evaluated by liver transaminase at baseline and 12 weeks after intervention. The degree of liver fibrosis was evaluated by MRE, LSM value and FIB-4 index at baseline and 12 weeks after intervention. The changes of body weight and body fat before and after the intervention were evaluated by Inbody-770, and the changes of muscle mass before and after the intervention were evaluated by DXA. The effects of different exercise methods on metabolic indexes were evaluated by the changes of blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin, insulin and blood lipid before and after the intervention. In addition, after the exercise intervention, this study plans to conduct a 12-month long-term follow-up.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes of intrahepatic triglyceride contents

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise
  - OTHER: Resistance exercise
  - OTHER: combined exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06994871
