CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06491277
Title: The Effect of Ankle Floss Band on Football Players
Official Title: The Effect of Ankle Floss Band Application on Balance, Proprioception and Performance
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
There is no study in the literature investigating the effects of ankle stimulation with the flossband soft tissue technique on balance and proprioception. The impact of flossband use on flexibility and static and dynamic balance in the lower extremities requires further research. It is likely that flossband, which has been found to enhance sports performance, also affects balance, proprioception, and performance. More research is needed to evaluate the benefits of flossband use on body movements and motor control. Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of flossband on balance, proprioception, and performance, given its known impact on sports performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: The aim of the study is to investigate the effects of exercises with flossband on balance, proprioception, and physical performance in the ankle.

Materials and Methods: Thirty-six football players were included in the study. As this was a serial group design the same football players were included in both the study group and the control group. There was a 72-hour break between the interventions for the study group and the control group. The study began with the study group. The study group received Flossband application while the control group received foam roller bandage application. The same exercises were conducted alongside both interventions. Measurements were taken before and after the interventions and exercises. Ankle dorsiflexion range of motion was evaluated using the weight-bearing lunge test, static balance using a smartphone application, dynamic balance using the Y-balance test, and proprioception using the joint position sense test. Additionally, the hop test was used to assess jumping performance.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight Bearing Lunge Test
  - Static Balance Assesment
  - Dynamic Balance Test
  - Proprioseptive Evaluation
  - Triple Hop Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Flossband
  - OTHER: Controlled Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06491277
