CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05707481
Title: Impact of Clinical Pharmacist-Led Intervention on Management of Diabetic Hypertensive Patients in Eastern Nepal
Official Title: Impact of Clinical Pharmacist Led Intervention on Management of Diabetic Hypertensive Patients.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 92
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Diabetic-Hypertensives are at a higher risk of premature microvascular and macrovascular complications than diabetes alone. Proper lifestyle management, diet, disease monitoring, and medication adherence is essential in achieving desired therapeutic outcomes, preventing complications and improving those patients' Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL). Pharmacists are the most accessible healthcare professionals to the public and have a crucial role in optimizing treatment outcomes in patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Experimental trials' demonstrating the potential roles of pharmaceutical services is scarce in the literature, particularly in developing countries of south Asia. Therefore, the investigators plan to conduct a prospective-interventional trial to determine the potential impacts of pharmacist-supervised educational intervention on the management of "Type II diabetic with comorbid hypertension" patients. Patient data will be collected using patient's clinical profile forms, General Medication adherence Scale (GMAS), Patients Satisfaction towards pharmaceutical services (PSPSQ), Health Related-KAP questionnaires. Data will be verified, stored, entered into databases, and analyzed according to the data management plan. The findings will be compared in terms of clinical and nonclinical outcome measures between the control and test groups to ascertain the conclusion.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetics are twice as likely as non-diabetics to develop hypertension. Hypertension is a strong predictor of adverse cerebulo-vascular and cardiovascular events in people with diabetes, which increases risk of Premature micro-vascular and macro-vascular problems in patients encompassing both diseases. Therefore, strict glycemic and blood pressure control is essential to subdue complication and prevent dreadful cardiovascular events such as stroke, Ischemia and myocardial infarction. Participants with both chronic diseases may have lower HRQoL due to increased susceptibility towards cardiovascular comorbidities. Adherence to medication is equally crucial for treatment success. Pharmacist in collaboration with other healthcare members, could play a vital role in the care of patients and optimizing treatment outcomes in patients with chronic diseases .

Chronic disease management is of particular interest to clinical pharmacist since most intervention requires long-term prescription medication use. The international pharmaceutical federation (FIP) and world health organization (WHO) have implored pharmacists to support people with chronic disease through their expanded role that includes "pharmaceutical care." In Nepal, Clinical Pharmacy practice is still in early infancy, though few studies have shown encouraging impacts of pharmaceutical care services. Similarly, there is a significant gap in the literature in this region addressing the impact of pharmacist-supervised educational intervention on both clinical and nonclinical outcomes measures, primarily focusing on co-morbid Diabetes- Hypertensive patients. Therefore, these studies are intended to recap and fill that gap area and add new and valuable insight to the available literature.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in blood pressure
  - Change in blood glycemic profile
  - change in glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level
  - Impact of Intervention in Patients Medication Adherence
  - Compare patients perceived Satisfaction of pharmaceutical care services

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Clinical Pharmacist-Led Educational Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 68 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05707481
