CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04263337
Title: NFL LONG Prospective Study
Official Title: Neurologic Function Across the Lifespan: A Prospective, LONGitudinal, and trenslational Study for Former National Football League Players
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 250
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this 5-year prospective research study is to characterize the association between concussions, sub-concussive exposure, and long-term neurologic health outcomes in former NFL players. To achieve the study aims, the investigators will conduct detailed research visits that include clinical outcome assessments, blood-based biomarkers, advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) using investigational tracers and genetic testing. Ultimately, the goal of this study is to trenslate the findings from this study into clinical, interventional studies for at risk former NFL players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There is growing concern that repetitive concussions, or even exposure to sub-concussive blows during collision sports, may be associated with chronic neurologic problems, including CTE. Despite the lay media attributing devastating clinical problems to CTE, no studies conclusively demonstrate a connection between the pathological findings and clinical effects. Experts at the 5th International Conference on Concussion concluded that "a cause-and-effect relationship has not yet been demonstrated between CTE and SRCs \[sport-related concussions\]" and "the notion that repeated concussion or sub-concussive impacts cause CTE remains unknown." As there are no treatments or prevention strategies available for CTE, some former players who attribute their problems to CTE develop depression, despair, and suicidality. There is a pressing need to understand the risk, incidence, character, progression, and treatment of the neurologic health problems of former NFL players.

The investigators propose an in-depth study assessing the association between concussion, sub-concussive exposure, cerebral tau, and clinical outcomes; assessing former NFL players for autoantibodies to cis-tau; assessing carbon monoxide (CO), memantine, environmental enrichment (EE), and cis P-tau antibodies for preventing and treating neurologic sequela of rmTBI. The most promising treatment(s) from preclinical studies will ultimately be trenslated into clinical trials for individuals identified during the clinical study who are at risk for long-term neurologic health problems. The study will be carried out at 2 sites, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and The Medical College of Wisconsin both at the oversight of the main grant awardee, Boston Children's Hospital.

In order to prospectively and longitudinally track progression of neurologic health and assess associations with concussion and sub-concussive exposure the investigators plan to execute multiple study phases: (1) Former National Football League (NFL) Players will complete the General Health Survey (GHS)(part of a previous research study); (2) Stratification based on age and the GHS; (3) Phone Screening with Brief Test of Adult Cognition by Telephone (BTACT); (4) Re-stratification based on BTACT scores; (5) In-Person Neurobiopsychosocial Research Evaluation 1; (6) Annual Follow-Up Health Surveys; and (7) In-Person Neurobiopsychosocial Research Evaluation 2.

Based on the stratification above, 250 subjects will be enrolled for In-Person Research Evaluation 1. This cohort will include 100 high cognitive functioning former NFL players, 100 low cognitive functioning former NFL players, and a group of 50 demographically matched healthy controls. Informants of the former NFL subjects, that are selected for In-Person Research Evaluation 1, will also be asked to complete a series of informant-based questionnaires (n=200). Subjects enrolled in the In-Person Research Evaluation 1 will complete an assessment of neurobiopsych

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - PET Neuroimaging SUVR Over Time
  - MRI Neuroimaging Over Time
  - Serum Biomarkers Over Time
  - Mean Change in Headache Impact Test (HIT-6)
  - Mean Change in MDS-UPDRS Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: [11C] PiB
  - DRUG: [18F] PBR111
  - DRUG: [18F] Flortaucipir

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 70 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04263337
