CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07428850
Title: Effect of Aerobic Exercises Versus Low Interval Training on Cardiorespiratory Fitness in School Going Chlidren.
Official Title: Effect of Aerobic Exercises Versus Low Interval Training on Cardiorespiratory Fitness in School Going Chlidren.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 130
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), which is a key marker of heart and lung health, can be improved through regular physical activity, particularly aerobic exercises. This project aims to evaluate the effects of aerobic exercises combined with low-intensity interval training (LIIT) on the cardiorespiratory fitness of school-going children. The increasing sedentary lifestyle among children has contributed to a decline in overall physical fitness and a rise in health-related issues.Cardiorespiratory fitness is crucial for overall health and can help reduce the risk of chronic diseases from a young age.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF), which is a key marker of heart and lung health, can be improved through regular physical activity, particularly aerobic exercises. This project aims to evaluate the effects of aerobic exercises combined with low-intensity interval training (LIIT) on the cardiorespiratory fitness of school-going children. The increasing sedentary lifestyle among children has contributed to a decline in overall physical fitness and a rise in health-related issues.Cardiorespiratory fitness is crucial for overall health and can help reduce the risk of chronic diseases from a young age. The project will involve a structured program where children participate in either aerobic exercises, such as jogging or cycling, or low-intensity interval training, such as brisk walking with short breaks. Baseline measurements of heart rate, VO₂ max, 20 metter shuttle run test and endurance will be taken to assess each child's initial cardiorespiratory fitness level. The children will then undergo a 8 week training period, engaging in their assigned exercise regimen three times per week. Post intervention measurements will be recorded and compared to the baseline. This study will help determine if one type of training is more effective than the other in improving fitness levels among school-aged children, potentially guiding physical education curriculum and promoting healthier lifestyle habits from an early age.

The findings could contribute valuable insights into the role of exercise type on health outcomes, helping schools, parents, and health professionals make informed choices for children's physical activities to support optimal growth and long-term health improve heart rate , oxygen level , reduce cardio related disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 20 metter shuttle run test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 12 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07428850
