CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05807685
Title: The Effect Of Laughter Therapy On Burnout And Guılt In Women
Official Title: The Effect Of Laughter Therapy On Burnout And Guılt In Women Wıth Chıldren In Prımary School
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
: Responsibility of women staying in their traditional and modern roles has increased and the difficulties experienced by women require them to struggle with many problems. As a result of these experiences, problems have arisen for women. In addition to the intensity of the home/work life of women who have children in primary school, the lesson and responsibility of the child falls on the women. In a patriarchal society, burdening all non-working women with the responsibility of their child in addition to housework increases the fatigue of mothers. Due to this intensity, they are not able to spare time for themselves and feel guilty. In women, this situation gradually causes burnout syndrome. One of the most important personal development methods used to reduce burnout is laughter therapy. The aim of this study is to apply laughter therapy in order to reduce this sense of burnout and guilt in women.

Aim: In this study, it was aimed to examine the effect of laughter therapy on the feelings of burnout and guilt of women who have children at primary school age.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description: Method: The research is a randomized controlled experimental study.

The research will be carried out with the mothers of the students studying at Sinop Atatürk Primary School in the 2022-2023 academic year.

Research Population and Sample: All of the mothers of the students studying at the determined Sinop Atatürk Primary School in the spring term of 2022-2023 will form the universe. The sample of the study will include all mothers of the students studying at Sinop Atatürk Primary School in the 2022-2023 academic spring term, who meet the inclusion criteria, have a burnout scale score of 3.5 and above, and volunteer to participate in the research.

Arm Title: Control Group: At the beginning of the study, Data collection tools such as Individual Identification Form, Expressed Guilt Scale and Burnout Scale Short Version will be applied to the control group.

No intervention will be made in the control group. In the post-test, the Expressed Guilt Scale and the Burnout Scale Short Version will be administered again.

Arm Title: Experimental Group: Individual Identification Form, Expressed Guilt Scale and Burnout Scale Short Version will be administered to the mothers of children studying at Sinop Atatürk Primary School in the 2022-2023 spring semester before the laughter therapy. At the end of the laughter therapy, the Expressed Guilt Scale and the Short Version of the Burnout Scale will be administered as a post-test.

The Individual Identification Form, Expressed Guilt Scale and Burnout Scale Short Version will be used for all mothers of the students studying in Atatürk Primary School in the 2022-2023 academic year. All women whose Burnout Scale Short Form is above the average will be included in the study. Since all women whose Burnout Scale Short Form is above the average, who volunteered to participate in the study and who met the inclusion criteria will be included in the study, no additional sample selection will be made. The application and control group will be determined on random.org among the group that constitutes the sample of the study. A 30-minute laughter therapy session will be applied to the application group once a week for 2 months. At the end of two months, the Expressed Guilt Scale and the Short Version of the Burnout Scale will be administered to both the application group and the control group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Expressed Guilt Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: laughter therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05807685
