CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07003711
Title: Effects of Progressive Muscle Relaxation trening Applied in Addition to Aerobic Exercise trening in Individuals With Migraine Diagnosis
Official Title: Effects of Progressive Muscle Relaxation trening Applied in Addition to Aerobic Exercise trening in Individuals With Migraine Diagnosis
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
Aim: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of progressive muscle relaxation trening, in addition to aerobic exercise trening, on pain, disability, quality of life, psychological status, and functional capacity in individuals diagnosed with migraine.

Methods: The study population comprises migraine patients who presented to the Neurology Clinic of Mardin trening and Research Hospital. Participants meeting the inclusion criteria will be randomized into two groups: an exercise group and a control group. The exercise group will receive both aerobic exercise and progressive muscle relaxation trening, while the control group will receive only aerobic exercise. Participants' physical and demographic characteristics, as well as migraine-associated symptoms, will be assessed and recorded. Pain characteristics will be evaluated using a pain diary and pressure pain threshold measurements of the head and neck muscles. Disability will be assessed with the Migraine Disability Assessment Scale (MIDAS). Quality of life will be measured using the Headache Impact Test (HIT-6). Psychological status will be evaluated with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Functional capacity will be assessed clinically using the 6-Minute Walk Test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants in both groups will receive sessions under the supervision of a physiotherapist, three sessions per week for 12 weeks. The aerobic exercise program will consist of a warm-up, a main exercise phase (loading program), and a cool-down period. Progressive muscle relaxation trening will be implemented as part of the relaxation trening protocol.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Migraine-Related Disability Status Questionnaire
  - Headache Impact Questionnaire (HIT-6)
  - Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
  - 6 min Walking Test
  - pain diary

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: aerobic exercise and relaxation trenig
  - OTHER: aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07003711
