CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03672903
Title: Effect of Different Weight Vests on Body Weight in Obese Individuals
Official Title: Effect of Different Weight Vests on Body Weight in Obese Individuals
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Obesity related ailments, such as cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and metabolic disorders are major causes of death in the Western World. The proposed research may result in improved prevention, diagnosis and treatments of obesity and obesity-related disorders. Recently published data show that if a weight is carried by a rodent, this animal will lose body weight and gain an improved glucose control.

We aim to confirm these findings in a human model. We plan to let obese subjects carry weight vests and monitor their change in body weight. We will also measure appetite, physical activity and insulin sensitivity to further examine the potential beneficial effects of loading. Blood sampling will be performed to investigate the mechanism of action.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
STUDY OBJECTIVES AND ENDPOINTS

Primary objective

To determine if wearing a weight vest with 11 % of an individual's body weight for 3 weeks decreases body weight in obese study subjects.

Secondary objective

To determine if wearing a weight vest with 11 % of an individual's body weight for 3 weeks affects fat mass, bone mass, muscle mass, water mass, fat free mass, physical activity and food intake in obese study subjects.

To determine if wearing a weight vest with 11 % of an individual's body weight for 3 weeks affects plasma concentrations of glucose, insulin, HDL, LDL, TAG, FGF21, osteocalcin, FGF23, FGF15, sclerostin, lipocalin-2, leptin, ghrelin, GLP-1, GLP-2, CCK, (3-36)PYY, glucagon, renin, methoxynorepinephrine, Na, K, Cl, Ca and creatinine.

STUDY DESIGN AND PROCEDURES

Overall study design and procedure protocol

The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of adding synthetic weights to obese individuals. The weights will be added as a weight vest with 11 % of the individual's body weight and will be worn for three weeks. Half of the study subjects will be given a weight vest with 11 % of body weight and half of the study subjects will be given a light weight vest. The light weight vest consists of a weight vest with most of the weights removed. The weight of the light vest will be 1 % of body weight giving a difference of 10 % between the groups.

Body weight, fat mass, bone mass, water mass and fat free mass will be measured before and after the intervention by medical personnel to determine the effect of added synthetic weights on obese subject. This will be measured using bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) (MC-180MA, Tanita). The scales will be calibrated every week during the study to make certain reliable measurements.

Pedometers will be used to measure the subject's activity each study day. We will also encourage the study participants to report food intake, choice of food and level of hunger each week. This will be done using the validated poll MiniMealQ(9). A pedometer will also be attached to the vests to check the daily use of the vests. The study persons will be informed about this arrangement.

Fasting blood sampling will be performed before and after the intervention to further determine the effects of adding synthetic weights to obese individuals but also to elucidate the mechanism behind the "gravitostat". Blood glucose levels will be measured immediately. Blood samples, except blood glucose, will be analyzed either continuous or after all study subjects have been enrolled depending on human resources.

Study subjects will be recruited by advertising in the local newspaper. Study subjects will be informed about hypothesis that people carrying a heavy or light weight may differ in weight loss. At this point it is not known if the heavy weight vest or the light vest is causing more weight loss, as no one has performed similar studies on humans.

Study subjects will have one week to familiarize themselves wit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Weight Vest

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03672903
