CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02723552
Title: Trial of Exercise to Prevent HypeRtension in Young Adults
Official Title: Trial of Exercise to Prevent HypeRtension in Young Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 203
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
TEPHRA investigates the effect of exercise on blood pressure and other cardiovascular factors in young adults with different birth histories. TEPHRA will recruit 200 participants from 18-35 years old with elevated blood pressure (100 participants pre-term born and 100 full-term born). Half of the participants from each birth group will be randomised into a 16 week supervised aerobic exercise intervention trial and the other half will be controls.

Participants will complete 3 main study visits:

* Visit 1: Baseline visit conducted at beginning of study
* Visit 2: 16 weeks into study (upon completion of structured exercise intervention for the exercise group)
* Visit 3: End of study (52 weeks) Each visit will repeat the same set of cardiovascular measures including CPET, echo, blood pressure, vascular stiffness, and other measures.

  50 participants from each group will complete an MRI sub-study of the heart, brain, and liver.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
DESIGN TEPHRA is a randomized control trial investigating the cardiovascular effects (blood pressure, structure, and function) of aerobic exercise intervention in young adults with elevated blood pressure. The trial will compare outcomes in premature born participants vs full-term born participants.

SCIENTIFIC JUSTIFICATION 1 in 4 adults develop high blood pressure, a risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Although high blood pressure is becoming more common in younger adults, recent literature review shows that most research on exercise and blood pressure has focused on older populations. The effect of exercise on the blood pressure of preterm born young adults has not been well studied or reported. Most babies are born full term (between 37-42 weeks gestation) but 1 in 10 babies are born early (preterm). Evidence suggests that preterm birth may be associated with higher blood pressures and differences in the size, shape and function of the heart and blood vessels. These differences may alter how a person's blood pressure and cardiovascular system respond to exercise. These factors contributed to the investigators pursuing this research study.

The trial is a vehicle to learn more about hypertension in young adults and how exercise helps reduce blood pressure. It will investigate the structure and function of the cardiovascular system and how it responds to exercise. It will specifically seek to improve understanding of how birth histories, such as being born premature may influence blood pressure and response to exercise training.

This trial seeks to illuminate clinically relevant information for one of the most prevalent diseases in the UK (hypertension).

BACKGROUND AND AIMS

1 in 10 babies are born preterm and studies have identified preterm birth to be associated with increased risk of high blood pressure and reduced exercise capacity. This trial aims to advance the understanding of how aerobic exercise affects blood pressure and cardiovascular structure and function in adults aged 18-35 with different birth backgrounds.

PARTICIPANTS:

200 participants (100 preterm born \& 100 full term born) aged 18-35 with elevated blood pressure.

RECRUITMENT:

1. Open advertising
2. Hypertension Services at the John Radcliffe Hospital
3. Previous study participants
4. Local GP surgeries

RATIONALE AND FUNDING The study rationale and design has been peer-reviewed to secure external funding from the Wellcome Trust and has been substantially informed by significant interaction with the public and patient involvement group.

ACRONYMS AE Adverse Event CI Chief Investigator CRF Case Report Form CTRG Clinical Trials \& Research Governance, University of Oxford GCP Good Clinical Practice GP General Practitioner ICF Informed Consent Form NHS National Health Service PI Principal Investigator PIL Participant/Patient Information Leaflet R\&D NHS Trust R\&D Department RCT Randomised Control Trial REC Research Ethics Committee SOP Standard Operating Procedure



PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 16 Week Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02723552
