CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05419245
Title: Survey Study and Records Review of Treatment Outcomes in Freeman-Sheldon Syndrome
Official Title: Findings, Diagnostic Accuracy, Treatment, and Outcomes in Freeman-Burian Syndrome and Similar-appearing Arthrogryposis Syndromes: a Cross-sectional, Non-randomized Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the difference in diagnosis accuracy, treatment outcomes, patient perspectives, facial function and walking ability, emotional and social health, and respiratory complications between Freeman-Burian syndrome (formerly, Freeman-Sheldon or whistling face syndrome), Sheldon-Hall syndrome, and distal arthrogryposis types 3, and 1.

The approximate cumulative total time for study-related activities will be 3 hours, including email communication, survey completion, and a medical interview.

The study will involve completing 6 short ½ to 1-page surveys and participating in a medical interview. Participants may be asked to provide medical records for review. All study-related activities will take place remotely, and no travel is required.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
According to the only study of patients and a recent study of individual case reports, Freeman-Burian syndrome (FBS) may be over-diagnosed by 33-66%, and it is most often confused with Sheldon-Hall syndrome and distal arthrogryposis (DA) types 3 and 1. Unfortunately, while these conditions are different from FBS, many think of them as being less severe versions of FBS. This is not true. FBS is a skull and face syndrome, while Sheldon-Hall syndrome and DA types 1 and 3 are syndromes of the arms, legs, hands, and feet that (except DA type 1) may have mild face deformities. It is important to understand this difference, FBS does not respond well to treatment. The other syndromes generally do respond well to treatment. To improve diagnosis and treatment, it is important to understand factors contributing to an accurate diagnosis and treatment outcome. To provide better evidence for these being very different syndromes, it also is important to compare the above areas of health between people with all of these syndromes. It is hoped the study will help improve treatment and identify areas for further research.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in intervention-related outcome rates between groups
  - Difference in diagnostic accuracy between groups

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Guided Health History for Freeman-Burian Syndrome Questionnaire
  - OTHER: Freeman-Burian syndrome Semi-Structured Quality of Life Interview
  - OTHER: Medical Records Review
  - OTHER: PTSD Checklist for DSM-5
  - OTHER: Modified Flanagan Quality of Life Scale

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05419245
