CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02470676
Title: Cervical Pessary vs Vaginal Progesterone in Preventing Preterm Birth Among Women Presenting With Short Cervix: An Open-label Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Cervical Pessary vs. Vaginal Progesterone in Preventing Preterm Birth Among Women Presenting With Short Cervix: An Open-label Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 430
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this randomized control trial is to determine whether cervical pessary plus vaginal progesterone is superior to vaginal progesterone alone in decreasing preterm delivery rate, and improving perinatal outcome, among women presenting with an asymptomatic mid-pregnancy short cervix, in singleton and twin gestations.

All women with singleton or twin pregnancies undergoing routine ultrasonography up to 24 completed weeks of gestation (for examination of fetal anatomy and growth) and diagnosed with cervical length of ≤25 mm in singleton, or ≤38 mm in twins, will be invited to participate in the clinical trial.

Women who meet eligible criteria will be invited to participate in the clinical trial.

Women will be randomly assigned into one of the following groups: group A (vaginal progesterone) or group B (vaginal progesterone + pessary).

Follow-up visits for ultrasound assessment of fetal growth and cervical length will be carried out every two weeks until 37 weeks of gestation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Preterm birth represents a major challenge to obstetricians as well as healthcare policy makers. It is a leading cause of perinatal morbidity and mortality among singleton and multiple pregnancies. In the USA, the frequency of of preterm births (\<37 completed weeks of gestation) is 10-13% in singleton pregnancies, and 57% in twins and these rate have not substantially changed in the last decade.

A short cervix (\<25 mm) measured by vaginal ultrasonography during mid pregnancy (18-24 weeks of gestation) is a powerful predictor of spontaneous preterm birth (PTB). The relative risk for PTB increases as the cervical length decreases.

The two most studied treatment options in cases of short cervix at mid pregnancy are vaginal progesterone preparations, and cervical cerclage. Vaginal progesterone, given either as 90 mg gel or 200 mg suppository, was repeatedly shown to significantly reduce PTB rates and perinatal morbidity and mortality in women found to have a short cervix (20 mm or less) at 24 weeks gestation.

Progesterone were proven ineffective for the prevention of preterm birth in cases of multiple gestations, present preterm labor, or preterm premature rupture of membranes.

Cerclage may be considered an alternative for vaginal progesterone only in women with history of PTB that are found to have a short cervix in the present pregnancy (cervical length \<25 mm before 24 weeks of gestation). According to a recently published indirect meta-analysis, vaginal progesterone and cerclage are equally efficacious in the prevention of PTB in women with a singleton gestation, mid trimester sonographic short cervix, and a history of previous preterm birth.

Unfortunately, vaginal progesterone and cervical cerclage were not proven effective for the prevention of PTB in twin gestations. Moreover, cervical cerclage in this context may even lead to worse outcome compared to conservative treatment. Additionally, in contrast to singleton pregnancies, neither vaginal progesterone nor injections of 17alpha-hydroxyl-progesterone caproate prevented neonatal morbidity or preterm birth in multiple pregnancies. One meta-analysis suggested that vaginal progesterone for mid trimester short cervix in twin gestation may improve neonatal outcome without prolonging the pregnancy.

Cervical Pessary is a renovated method, currently being studied for its clinical advantages over the existing available treatments in the context of midtrimester asymptomatic short cervix in singleton and twin gestation.

The largest multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT) on pessary use in selected women screened by Trans Vaginal Sonography (TVS) excluded women who had one of the following: a known major fetal anomaly, painful regular uterine contractions, active vaginal bleeding, ruptured membrane, placenta previa, or a history of cone biopsy or cervical cerclage in situ. The conclusion of this study was that in women with a short cervical length (\>25mm) between 18-22 weeks, the use of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - preterm birth before 34 weeks of gestation rate in singleton pregnancies
  - preterm birth before 32 weeks of gestation rate in twin pregnancies

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Pessary
  - DRUG: Progesterone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02470676
