CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05317130
Title: A Complex Health Promotion Intervention in Parasport - The Safe & Healthy Parasport Project
Official Title: A Complex Health Promotion Intervention in Parasport - The Safe & Healthy Parasport Project
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The interest in Para sport is steadily increasing. A concern is, though, that elite Para athletes report a high incidence of injuries and illnesses. Altogether, there is an urgent need to prevent such incidents among athletes already suffering from an impairment. However, most of the existing training-based prevention programmes are not adapted or accessible to Para athletes. Also, recent research suggests that sports safety work advantageously should facilitate disease prevention and health promotion. Such intervention would hypothetically also have the potential to reduce injuries, illnesses and improve health among Para athletes. To allow full implementation, the intervention would need to be adapted to the Para athletes´ various impairments, abilities and sports.

MAIN QUESTIONS TO BE ADRESSED

* Can an evidence-based eHealth health promotion platform prevent sports injuries and illnesses in elite para athletes over 6 months, 12 months and 5 years?
* Can such platform improve overall health parameters such as sleep, nutrition and mental health in elite para athletes and influence the performance parameters training quantity and training quality over 6 months, 12 months and 5 years?
* Can such platform improve health literacy among Para athletes?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction Sport is today one of the largest movements in Sweden, with more than three million people being members of a sports club. Participation in sport leads to several health benefits as it improves both physical and mental health. For example, it reduces the risk for cardiometabolic disease, fractures, dementia, mental illness and some cancer types. Sport also supports the development of social skills during different periods in people's lifetime. Sport has therefore a great impact on the quality of life for the individual person as well as for our health economics, as it can prevent and treat disease. The interest in sport and its associated benefits for persons with an impairment (Para sport) has also increased in the last few decades. Para sport is, however, still a young sporting discipline and despite the fact that sport poses the athlete at a risk for suffering a sports-related injury or illness few studies have assessed the burden of such incidents in Para sport.

The Para athlete and Paralympic athlete What characterises Para and Paralympic athletes is the existing impairment, whether it is physical, visual or intellectual. According to the World Health Organization the definition of an impairment is: "a problem in body function or structure" (WHO). Depending on the nature of the impairment the athlete may also have a greater risk for suffering from secondary health complaints, early age related health conditions, health risk behaviours and higher rates of premature death.

For example, individuals with SCI may be predisposed to infections, skin breakdown, osteoporosis, contractures, spasticity, pain, depression, fatigue, hyperthermia, bowel dysfunction and cardiorespiratory insufficiency. Several of these health complaints may also be present in individuals with other neurological diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), stroke, traumatic brain injury and cerebral palsy (CP). Individuals with more rare diagnosis such as Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Friedreich's ataxia may in addition suffer from health complaints such as heart arrhythmias and a malformed skeleton. Joint contractures and muscle fibrosis are present in individuals with arthrogryposis, which often leads to musculoskeletal problems. The biomechanics is often altered among individuals with limb deficiency, which may cause stress fractures, tendinopathies and osteoarthritis. Also stump conditions such as phantom pain, rashes and heterotopic ossification are common. Furthermore, alterations in the vascular physiology may induce cardiac disease.

Individuals with visual impairment have in general a greater risk for morbidity and unintentional injury and illness such as cardiometabolic disease, depression, falls and fractures. Other health conditions that are sometimes present with diagnoses related to visual impairments are joint problems, obesity, hearing impairment, diabetes and development delay. Individuals with intellectual impairment

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of sports injuries and illnesses 6 months following study start
  - Incidence of sports injuries and illnesses 12 months following study start
  - Incidence of sports injuries and illnesses 4 years following study start

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Athlete health monitoring

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 66 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05317130
