CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06634862
Title: Comparison of the Effects of Intermittent Pneumatic Compression, Graston Technique and Percussive Therapy
Official Title: Comparison of the Effects of Intermittent Pneumatic Compression, Graston Technique and Percussive Therapy on Muscle Pain, Muscle Tone and Balance After Quadriceps Fatigue Protocol
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of intermittent pneumatic pressure, percussive therapy and graston after a fatigue protocol applied to the leg muscles.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
a- Subject and Objective (the importance of the subject, why this subject is the problem and the objectives of the study will be written based on the literature with the narration of the researcher):

Studies on the intermittent pneumatic compression device, graston technique and percussive therapy (massage weapons) have focused on investigating their use in athlete health. During the literature review, it was realised that the use of these and other auxiliary therapies and elements that increase the speed of recovery has not been investigated for sedentary individuals. The necessity and benefits of regular exercise for sedentary individuals as well as athletes in daily life have been proven by many studies. It has become a common belief that exercise should be a part of the life of every adult individual, whether athlete or sedentary, in order to maintain a healthy life. Furthermore, enjoyment of exercise and perceived exercise intensity play an important role in the adherence of sedentary individuals; moderate intensity exercise is more likely to be enjoyable and adaptive for this population. Psychological factors such as mood and self-efficacy also influence exercise behaviours in sedentary individuals, with negative exercise-related cognitions potentially moderating the exercise-effect relationship and affecting feelings of pleasure during and after exercise. However, one of the biggest obstacles for sedentary individuals to form a sports habit is the fatigue and muscle pain they experience after exercise. These effects, which make it difficult to continue daily life the next day, distract the person from the habit of exercising regularly. Furthermore, the psychosocial benefits of incorporating regular exercise into the daily life flow are well documented and emphasise the wider positive impact of exercise beyond physical health.

Intermittent Pneumatic Compression (IPC) is a mechanical method used to apply compression to limbs and has a number of therapeutic uses. The device consists of a pair of inflatable sleeves wrapped around the leg and an electric pneumatic pump that inflates the sleeves with air, compressing deep veins and displacing blood proximally. The working principle of IPC is based on passively increasing blood flow by applying external pressure to the extremity, but the exact physiological mechanisms are only partially understood. However, despite its widely recognised use and positive effects on circulatory conditions, the literature on the use of IPC in musculoskeletal treatment is limited. The available evidence has been investigated in several studies, including the efficacy of IPC, its effect on vasodilatory effects in distal skeletal muscle and its effect on serum indices of muscle function, pain and muscle damage. Studies have also reported improvements in exercise duration as well as fatigue when using pneumatic compression during rest after warm-up exercises. IPC devices are particularly popular among endurance athlet

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Star Balance Test
  - Muscle pain measurement with algometer
  - Muscle tone measurement with MyotonPRO

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Normatec Air Compression
  - OTHER: Soft Tissue Mobilization
  - OTHER: Percussive therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06634862
