CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04172038
Title: SMART Stepped Care Management for Low Back Pain in the Military Health System
Official Title: SMART Stepped Care Management for Low Back Pain in the Military Health System
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 850
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be sequential, randomization trial where patients with chronic low back pain are initially randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatments (physical therapy OR Move 2 Health). This will be Phase I of the study intervention. Patients who do not respond to treatment after 6 weeks will undergo a subsequent sequential randomization. This will be Phase II of the study intervention. Patients in Phase II will be randomized to receive 1 of 2 treatments (addition of physical therapy or Move 2 Health, whichever one they did not receive OR the MORE Mindfulness intervention). Patients will be followed for 1 year after enrollment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Improving non-pharmacologic management of chronic pain is a priority for the Military Health System (MHS) within the Department of Defense (DoD) and the most common chronic pain condition in the MHS and civilian healthcare is low back pain (LBP). Key questions exist however about the relative effectiveness of various strategies at different Steps, how to sequence treatments and individualize care based on specific patient characteristics and the resource implications. This study will recruit active duty military members or members of Reserves or National Guard on active duty, family members of active duty personnel, or Tricare beneficiaries seeing a primary care provider for chronic LBP in an MHS facility, ages 18-65. All participants will first receive 6 weeks of Phase I care with either physical therapy (PT) or Move to Health (M2H) interventions. After Phase I the investigators will assess response to initial treatment strategy. Phase I responders will be receive up to 2 additional sessions of treatment to facilitate a transition to self-management. Phase I non-responders will be randomly assigned to a more intensive Phase II treatment of either mindfulness or a combined PT+M2H intervention for 8 weeks. Randomization at each phase will be stratified by site, gender, and active duty status (adding Phase I treatment assignment at Phase II). Follow-up assessments for all participants will occur at 18 weeks (conclusion of Phase II), 6 months and 12 months after enrollment. Outcomes include patient-reported measures and health care costs.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - PROMIS-Pain Interference Computer Adapted Test (PI-CAT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Move 2 Health (M2H)
  - BEHAVIORAL: MORE Mindfulness

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04172038
