CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05358587
Title: PENG Block With Two Diffirent Volume
Official Title: Comparison of the Perioperative Analgesic Efficacy of PENG Block Applications With Two Different Volumes in Patients Undergoing Hip Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Hip fractures are morbid conditions, especially in elderly patients, and their treatment is usually surgical. Pericapsular nerve group block is a newly defined block and targets the hip capsule. The aim of this study is to investigate and compare the perioperative analgesic efficacy of PENG blocks applied in two different volumes in patients undergoing hip fracture surgery under spinal anesthesia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hip fractures are morbid conditions, especially in elderly patients, and their treatment is usually surgical. Pericapsular nerve group block is a newly defined block and targets the hip capsule. The aim of this study is to investigate and compare the perioperative analgesic efficacy of PENG blocks applied in two different volumes in patients undergoing hip fracture surgery under spinal anesthesia.

60 ASA I-III patients between 35-90 years of age who will be operated for femoral head/neck fractures will be included in the study. US-guided block procedure will be applied 30 minutes before the start of surgery. The patients will be divided into two groups, Group I, PENG block 20ml bupivacaine (n:30) and Group II, PENG block 30ml bupivacaine (n:30) using the closed envelope method in the operating room. Randomization will be performed by one of the researchers for each patient. Randomization information of patients will be used for all follow-up and data collection. The anesthetist applying the block will not take any part in collecting the data or performing the analysis. Numerical rating scale (NRS) will be used to evaluate pain. Patients will be given spinal anesthesia 30 minutes after PENG block. The primary outcome measure was determined as pain during positioning. NRS scores will be recorded after entering the operating room before, immediately before, during, and immediately after any analgesic intervention. Secondary outcome measures will be determined as the time required for LA performance (measured from the start of the position maneuvers to removal of the spinal needle), the quality of the patient position for LA performance ("unsatisfactory", "satisfactory", "good", "very good" to define SA). Questionnary 15 test will be applied to the patients 24 hours after the operation to measure patient satisfaction and to measure patient satisfaction.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain scores on the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ultrasound guided PENG block with 20 mL Local Anesthetic solution
  - OTHER: Ultrasound guided PENG block with 30 mL Local Anesthetic solution

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05358587
