CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00486863
Title: S. Japonicum and Pregnancy Outcomes
Official Title: S. Japonicum and Pregnancy Outcomes: A Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo Controlled Trial (RCT)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 370
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to understand whether the drug praziquantel (PZQ) is safe for the mother and developing baby when the mother has schistosomiasis (a type of worm) infection, and whether the drug may improve the mother's and baby's health. The usual practice is to wait until after a mother has finished breast feeding before giving the medicine. Approximately 375 infected pregnant women, ages 18 and over, in endemic villages in Leyte, The Philippines will participate. Study volunteers 12-16 weeks pregnant will be given PZQ or an inactive pill (placebo) and stay in the hospital overnight. Small blood samples will be collected before and after the medication is taken. Three stool and urine samples will be taken during a total of 7 study visits. An ultrasound image (picture or outline of the unborn baby) will be performed. When the baby is born, a small blood sample will be taken. Mother and baby will be followed for up to 8 months before the baby is born and 1 month after.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study will investigate praziquantel (PZQ) for the treatment of Schistosomiasis japonicum in pregnant women living in endemic villages of Leyte, The Philippines. The study will enroll 375 pregnant women, ages 18 and over, infected with S. japonicum. The primary study objective is to quantify the efficacy of PZQ treatment for S. japonicum at 12-16 weeks gestation on newborn birth weight among live births. This will be assessed by measuring birth weight within 96 hours of delivery to 10 grams. The secondary objectives are to: 1) assess treatment efficacy with respect to maternal and newborn nutritional status and maternal parasitologic response to treatment; 2) collect preliminary safety and toxicity data on use of PZQ among pregnant women and their newborns; 3) identify extra-placental mechanisms mediating the hypothesized beneficial effect of PZQ on birth outcomes; and 4) identify extra-placental mechanisms mediating the hypothesized beneficial effect of PZQ on birth outcomes. Participants will be involved in study related procedures for 9 months (8 months pre-natally and 1 month post-natally) for mother and infant. This study is linked to DMID protocol 08-0049.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Newborn Birth Weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Praziquantel
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00486863
