CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01494025
Title: Identification of Muscle-specific Biomarkers of Fatty Acid Beta-oxidation
Official Title: Identification of Muscle-specific Biomarkers of Fatty Acid Beta-oxidation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Elevated fat levels within skeletal muscle cells (intramyocellular lipids) are highly correlated with muscle and whole-body insulin resistance, and more prevalent in obesity. The molecular links and metabolic shifts driving this association remain open to debate, but notably, reduced muscle mitochondrial fatty acid (FA) ß-oxidation is more prevalent among insulin-resistant/diabetic persons. Therefore, discovery of biomarkers reflective of the status of an individual's muscle FA ß-oxidation activity or capacity would have tremendous prognostic and diagnostic value in terms of diabetes. Furthermore, characterization of metabolites associated with muscle mitochondrial fat metabolism should uncover candidate signaling factors which tie FA ß-oxidation to insulin signaling. The investigators propose to identify, for the first time, specific biomarkers of muscle FA ß-oxidation using multiple metabolomic analytical platforms to compare metabolite profiles in samples derived from biological systems displaying disparate muscle fat combustion. The current experiment will test whether plasma metabolites and/or metabolite signatures that track efficient muscular FA ß-oxidation can be experimentally increased in obese, insulin-resistant subjects via a diet-exercise regimen designed to improve muscle fitness and FA combustion.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will use several comprehensive state-of-the-art metabolite analysis platforms to test the hypothesis that specific systemic metabolites or metabolite signatures correlate with myocellular fatty acid combustion. The investigators will then determine whether said metabolites do in fact reflect metabolic health status as predicted, by determining whether profiles are altered in obese subjects whose insulin sensitivity and muscle FA ß-oxidation is improved through aerobic exercise and dietary intervention. Specifically, this study is investigating the usefulness of metabolomic profiles reflective of muscle fat combustion in predicting metabolic health changes following diet \& exercise intervention in obese subjects. The investigators hypothesize that biomarkers reflective of normal, efficient muscle ß-oxidation will be increased, and markers indicative of poor muscle fat combustion reduced, in a cohort of sedentary obese subjects after undergoing a 4 month diet-exercise protocol that will increase muscle fitness and improve insulin action.

In anticipation of 16 subjects completing the study, up to 20 obese female subjects will be recruited from the Davis and Sacramento areas and asked to participate in a weight loss regimen involving caloric restriction (reduction of \~25% of typical caloric intake, with rotating 7-day menus based on nutrient compositions reflective of the U.S. Dietary Guidelines) and regular aerobic exercise designed to target a 10% weight loss over 4 months (Goodpaster et al.,Diabetes 52: 2191-97, 2003). Volunteers to be included in this study will have the following characteristics: age 30-50, BMI between 30-34.9 with stable self-reported body weight over the last 6 mos., sedentary (not participating in a regular exercise program, typical planned exercise ≤30 min. per week assessed by pre-screening telephone questionnaire), non-smoker, no clinical signs of infection (i.e., no fever, CBC wnl), no personal history of cardiovascular disease, no clinically-significant elevations in blood pressure, or diabetes, no regular medications (except oral contraceptives, allergy meds) or drug abuse. These initial studies will involve women only in order to (a) reduce potential sex-related metabolite variability and (b) to better match subject characteristics in previous studies. Each subject will serve as her own control, with changes in metabolite profiles following intervention calculated for each individual. Post-absorptive insulin and glucose measurements will be made to estimate insulin sensitivity by HOMA, and patterns following an OGTT pre- and post-treatment used to assess the insulin sensitivity index using the method of Matsuda et al. (Matsuda \& DeFronzo, Diabetes Care 22:1462-70, 1999). Individual changes in HOMA and insulin sensitivity values comparing pre- and post-intervention periods will be considered to be indicative of changes in insulin action. An acute exercise protocol to elicit muscle work will be carr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in VO2max
  - Change in Body Composition (BODPOD)
  - Change in insulin Sensitivity
  - Change in Metabolite Profiling and Metabolomics
  - Change in Body Composition (DXA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diet and Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01494025
