CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01549808
Title: Early Mobilization in Intensive Therapy
Official Title: Early Mobilisation in Intensive Therapy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Abstract Many patients experience serious reduced functional ability after a critical illness and hospitalization in an Intensive Care Unit. The cause of the reduced functional ability is the combination of critical illness and immobilization following treatment with a ventilator. The functional ability of patients can be affected up till a year after the discharge, and may shows a decrease in ability to walk and in problems with focusing.

Studies show that it is safe and possible to mobilize the patients with for instance bed bikes, sitting up and standing up, even during ventilator therapy. The effect is shown as lesser days with delirium, on a ventilator therapy or hospitalization. No study has shown how early and at which intensity a patient can be mobilized. Our hypothesis is that an early systematic mobilization improves functional ability of the critically ill patient, mentally, physically and their life expectancy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate a mobilization protocol applied at critically ill patients, including a contribute related to knowledge of how soon and how intense patients ventilated for more than 48 hours can endure mobilization. To evaluate the connections between functional ability and life expectancy for critically ill patients are compared to a population matching in age.

This intervention project has a multicenter design with pre- and post research related to effect in early systematic mobilization of critically ill patients. 200 patients are included in the project.

Data are collected at tests showing the functional ability of patients in different ways. The tests are made at the discharge from the Intensive Care Unit and 5 days after at their wards and again at 3 and 12 month from discharge when the patients have returned to their home. The project started in February 2011 and is expected to end in May 2013, findings is expected in November 2013.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Many patients experience serious reduced functional ability in form of physical and mental problems (1) after a critical illness and prolonged stay at an Intensive Care Unit. The critical illness entails the need for sedation and mechanical ventilation leading to immobilization as a consequence.

The combination of critical illness and immobilization leads to an increased risk of further muscle deterioration and it is assumed that this condition deteriorates the inflammatory response (2, 3, 4, 5).

Immobilization is an important contributory cause of reduced functional ability independent of critical illness. The deterioration is noticed up till a year after the discharge from hospital (1, 6) and physically it is shown in a reduced ability to walk (1, 6, 7), and mentally as delirium, associated with increased mortality and an extended period of hospitalisation. The mentally effects show a deterioration 1 year after the discharge from hospital.

The symptoms appear as difficulty concentrating and evaluated poor health (1, 6, 7).

Mobilization has a positive effect on the functional ability of patients, physically and mentally (8, 9, 10, 11, 12) even during mobilizing in connection with wake up calls of sedated patients 10). The patients experience less fear and dependency, they are in control to a greater extent (10) and also a significant increase in the ability to walk is shown (13). The mobilized patients have fewer days of delirium, mechanical ventilation and lesser days at Intensive Care Units (10, 12). It is possible to mobilize critically ill patients in bed by means of passive and active exercises. The exercises consist of getting out of bed, sitting on the edge of the bed, moving from bed to chair, standing on the floor, standing up, sitting in a chair and walking (10,13,14,15,16), but it is recommended that there is a close interdisciplinary collaboration between nurse and physiotherapist (17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22).

Several studies (23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28) show that it is safe and possible to mobilize critically ill patients while they receive mechanical ventilation. The incidence is less than 1 % (22) and is not directly related to age, sex, number of organ failure, co-morbidity or endo-tracheal tube (10, 21,22,25). The incidences appear as deceased SAT \< 80 % (10, 17, 22, 24), subsidence of prostration without sustaining any damage (22), discontinuation of enteral feeding probe (22) or arterial catheter (10), changes in the systolic pressure (10,21,22), or patient-ventilator-asynchrony (10). It is recommended that the mobilization is structured (10, 15, 18, 22) by guidelines or protocols, and that the patients are screened before the mobilization. It is however not obvious, how soon and how intense patients can endure mobilizing.

Our hypothesis is that an early systematic mobilization improves the functional ability of critically ill patients, mentally and physically.

The purpose of this study is:

* To document the effect

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The primary outcome is to measure the functional ability of the patients

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mobilization
  - OTHER: mobilization

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01549808
