CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02633319
Title: Malezi Na Kilimo Bora - Skilful Parenting and Agribusiness Child Abuse Prevention Study
Official Title: Malezi ne Kilimo Bora (Good Parenting and Farming) - Skilful Parenting and Agribusiness Child Abuse Prevention Study (SPACAPS)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 248
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The Malezi ne Kilimo Bora ("Good Parenting and Farming" in Kiswahili) Skilful Parenting and Agribusiness Child Abuse Prevention Study is a collaboration between the University of Oxford, University of Glasgow, and the Tanzania National Medical Research Institute (NIMR). It is pilot cluster randomised controlled trial (cRCT) of a community-based intervention implemented by Investing in Children and Our Societies (ICS), an international non-governmental organization (NGO) with extensive experience operating in rural Tanzania. The overall focus of the project is to evaluate ICS's agribusiness and skilful parenting programmes' impact on the prevention of child maltreatment and improvement of child and family psychosocial and economic wellbeing (n = 8 villages, n = 16 farmer groups, n = 240 families).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background on Child Maltreatment in Tanzania

Child maltreatment and other childhood adversities often occur in many low- and middle-income countries at rates that are higher than in high-income countries - rates that often exceed 50%. In Tanzania, a national survey examining violence against children (VAC) found that almost 73.5% of females and 71.7% of males between the ages of 13 and 24 had experienced physical violence by prior to the age of 18. Furthermore, 23.6% of females and 27.5% of males had experienced emotional violence by an adult during childhood, and 27.9% of females and 13.4% of males had experienced some form of sexual violence before the age of 18 years. In addition, the survey identified an overlap among physical, emotional, and sexual violence against children. Approximately 80% of respondents who experienced sexual violence also experienced physical violence as a child, and nearly all children who experienced physical violence also experienced emotional violence. The VAC study also found that parents and other adult relatives are the most commonly reported perpetrators of physical and emotional violence against children, with corporal punishment considered a social norm.

Recent advances in neuroscience, genomics, developmental psychology, epidemiology, and economics have shed light on the long-term and far-reaching consequences of childhood adversities, many of which, like child maltreatment, are directly related to poor parenting. These consequences include serious physical and mental health problems later in life, as well as difficulties in school, jobs, and relationships. Child maltreatment can have substantial intergenerational effects in which some parents who experienced maltreatment during childhood are more vulnerable to the risk of maltreating their own children. Child maltreatment is also a risk factor for later intimate partner violence, increased risk of HIV-infection, and transactional sex amongst AIDS-affected youth. Furthermore, not only is child maltreatment a serious public health and human rights issue, but it comes at an economic cost due to expenses relating to the treatment of victims' health problems, criminal justice and welfare costs, and lower economic productivity.

The risks factors of child maltreatment can be best understood using an ecological framework. A recent review of 23 quantitative studies in Africa by Meinck et al identified a number of child, family, and social risk factors for child maltreatment. Child factors associated with increased likelihood of physical abuse included younger children, boys, children with disability or chronic illness, child behaviour problems, and school non-attendance and poor performance. Family-level factors include caregiver chronic illness, HIV/AIDS, caregiver mental health problems, caregiver disability, domestic violence, substance abuse, poor family functioning, and inconsistent parenting. Finally, household poverty and low socioeconomic status was found 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Child Abuse - Parent Report
  - Change in Child Abuse - Child Report
  - Change in Parenting Behaviour - Adult Report
  - Change in Parenting Behaviour - Child Report

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Skilful Parenting
  - OTHER: Agrics

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02633319
