CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06910293
Title: Whole-Brain Dynamics in the Natural Menstrual Cycle vs. an Ovarian Stimulated Cycle: Impact of Hormonal Fluctuations on Healthy Women Undergoing Ovarian Stimulation
Official Title: Whole-Brain Dynamics in the Natural Menstrual Cycle vs. an Ovarian Stimulated Cycle: Impact of Hormonal Fluctuations on Healthy Women Undergoing Ovarian Stimulation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The investigators aim is to investigate the brain's dynamic complexity across three phases of an ovarian stimulation cycle (basal, pre-OPU, mid-luteal), to observe the impact of externally administered hormones, and compare it with the corresponding phases of a natural menstrual cycle (early follicular, pre-ovulatory, mid-luteal) in the same woman. Brain activity patterns will be examined using resting-state fMRI in a sample of young, healthy, naturally cycling women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators seeks to fill a significant gap in our understanding of the impact of ovarian stimulation on brain dynamics, an area that has not been previously explored. By investigating the brain's dynamic complexity across controlled ovarian stimulation cycle the investigators aim to shed light on how externally administered hormones influence brain activity patterns. Utilizing resting-state Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging to examine a sample of young, healthy, naturally cycling women, this research will provide crucial insights into the safety and neurophysiological effects of ovarian stimulation. Understanding these effects is essential for ensuring the well-being of women undergoing oocyte freezing and other fertility treatments.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Functional Magnetic resonance imaging will be done on day 2 or 3 of the menstrual cycle, trigger-shot and egg retrieval.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06910293
