CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05559372
Title: Energy Drink Effects on Performance, Mood, and Cardiovascular Outcomes
Official Title: Effects of Energy Drink Consumption on Physiological Performance, Mood, and Cardiovascular Outcomes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 109
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Energy drinks are widely promoted to increase energy, enhance mental alertness, and improve physical performance. ccording to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) at NIH \[1\], next to multivitamins, energy drinks are the most popular dietary supplement consumed by American teens and young adults. No two energy drinks are the same, with each using different ingredients. Traditionally, energy drinks contained caffeine, sugar, ginseng and B-vitamins, but newer competitors are bringing different formulations to the market that are also low-calorie/low-sugar and that contain other performance enhancing ingredients, such as beta-alanine and l-citrulline. There are also significant concerns regarding the safety of energy drink consumption. Unfortunately, there are few studies that have (1) examined the effects of energy drink consumption on performance and cardiovascular safety, nor (2) compared these effects among brands with different formulations to examine their safety and efficacy relative to each other and such studies are desperately needed, especially with the growing popularity of energy drinks \[3,4\].

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
After enrollment, subjects will participate in a familiarization visit, followed by 3 separate experimental visits. All of these visits will be separated by \~1 week, and they will occur at approximately the same time of day (±90 minutes). During the familiarization visit, subjects will complete a heath history questionnaire, and then complete brief versions of the study procedures and will be provided with an opportunity to ask questions to ensure that they are comfortable with the tests before beginning the experimental visits. In this study subjects will consume various test beverages that may enhance physiologic performance and mood. Subjects will consume one of these beverages during each of the experimental visits in randomized order. Randomization will be completed using a research randomizer (randomizer.org), and the order that the drinks are consumed at each experimental visit will be different for each participant. Subjects will be blinded to which they are consuming. The investigators performing the tests will also be blinded to the order of test beverage administration. Subjects will be asked to maintain their dietary and lifestyle practices throughout the study, abstain from alcohol and recreational drugs throughout the study, and refrain from caffeine and stimulant usage except for that contained in the test beverages. More information regarding the test beverages are provided in the sub-section immediately below. In addition, a figure providing an overview of the study design/procedures has been included as an attachment.

At each experimental visit, subjects will come to the laboratory in a fasted state and provide a urine sample to validate their hydration status. Then, they will have their body composition assessed with a medical-grade bioelectrical impedance scale, completEQuestionnaires assessing their mood and energy, and then have their resting blood pressure and heart rhythm (using an electrocardiogram) assessed. Following these assessments, resting femoral artery blood flow will be evaluated using an ultrasound-based assessment in the thigh. Following this test, participants will consume a test beverage (e.g., the intervention) within 5 minutes. Following beverage consumption, they will complete assessments of maximal leg muscle static strength. They will then rest for approximately 30 minutes, and will have blood pressure, heart rate and rhythym (EKG), and blood flow evaluated again. After being instrumented with specialized sensors that measure muscle activity and heart rate, and a special mask that is used to capture the pulmonary gases that they expire for analyses, participants will complete a graded exercise test on a special exercise bike. The test will get progressively harder and proceed until they cannot continue exercise, and participants will wear the special sensors and mask for the entire duration of the test. They will also provide subjective assessments of their effort throughout the test. Immediately foll

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Exercise Performance
  - Sub-maximal Exercise Performance
  - Fatiguing Isometric Exercise Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Acute energy drink or placebo consumption

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05559372
