CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07125313
Title: Effect of Yoga trening on Cardiovascular and Mental Health Parameters in Hypertensive Patients
Official Title: Effect of Yoga trening on Cardiovascular, Autonomic, Mental Health and Cognitive Parameters in Hypertensive Patients: a Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial (Hypertension and Yoga Study)
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study will be to analyze the effect of 16 weeks of Yoga trening on cardiovascular, autonomic, mental health, and cognitive parameters in hypertensive individuals. This is a randomized, controlled clinical trial to be conducted with adults and elderly (40 years or older), of both sexes, diagnosed with High Blood Pressure (HBP), who will be randomized into two groups: Yoga Group (YG) and Control Group (CG). The YG will undergo a Yoga trening program involving breathing techniques, mobility, physical postures, relaxation, and meditation for 16 weeks. In the first eight weeks (phase 1), three supervised weekly sessions will be held. In the last eight weeks of the study (phase 2), the trening will consist of three supervised weekly sessions and the delivery of an asynchronous video lesson, with the weekly frequency then increasing (from three to four sessions per week). The video lesson will be available on a digital platform. Before, after eight weeks, and after 16 weeks, cardiovascular, autonomic, mental and cognitive health parameters will be assessed. Furthermore, the biomarkers Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF), serotonin, and nitric oxide will be analyzed at different assessment times of the study, as well as biochemical profile tests (glucose, total cholesterol, among others), functional capacity tests, and body composition. This project is expected to contribute to the literature by better elucidating the effects of Yoga on the cardiovascular, mental, and cognitive health of hypertensive individuals. The SPSS (21.0) statistical package will be used for data analysis. After confirming the appropriate assumptions, generalized estimating equations will be used, followed by the Bonferroni post hoc test, with a significance level of 5%.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: YOGA
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07125313
