CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04073381
Title: Application of Ergogenic Aids to the Prehabilitation of Abdominal Cancer Patients Undergoing Cancer Surgery
Official Title: Application of Ergogenic Aids to the Prehabilitation of Abdominal Cancer Patients Undergoing Cancer Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 92
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the proposed study is to measure surgical recovery, including the length of hospital stay, incidence of perioperative complications, and mortality at 90 days post-surgery, in surgical patients with abdominal cancer. The investigators hypothesize that this prehabilitation program will improve recovery and reduce perioperative complications via the proposed prehabilitation intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators propose that steps to augment and optimize the effectiveness of prehabilitation interventions for abdominal cancer patients may be found in the field of sport science. The investigators have identified two primary strategies to improve and optimize prehabilitation in patients with abdominal cancer: exercise and nutritional supplementation. A home-based exercise program incorporating both walking and resistance trening will be performed with blood flow restriction trening (BFR). BFR is a cutting-edge trening modality that works by restricting blood flow out of the veins by using compression devices similar to traditional blood pressure cuffs (1). This trening modality is frequently used by injured athletes for enhanced recovery (2). Muscle hypertrophy and increased muscle strength are more robust and achievable with BFR, even if exercises are performed at low to moderate intensities (2). Additionally, the implementation of a sports nutrition supplement cocktail, which will be provided simultaneously with the 4-week BFR exercise intervention, was developed to augment the effects of resistance exercise by increasing overall anabolism (3) and to remedy the catabolic state that cancer patients often experience (4). The nutrition supplement cocktail will include whey protein, creatine monohydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydrate, and L-citrulline.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hospital Measures- Length of hospital stay
  - Hospital Measures- Emergency room visits
  - Hospital Measures- Readmission
  - Hospital Measures

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Prehabilitation Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04073381
