CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03639454
Title: Dry Needling Treatment for Biceps Tendinopathy
Official Title: Effect on Symptomatic Release of Dry Needling on Patients With Biceps Tendinopathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Biceps tendinopathy is a common cause in shoulder-pain symptoms. The major mechanism is overuse of the biceps muscles. The long-term accumulated and poor repaired trauma causes myofascial trigger points in the related muscles.

We will conduct the randomized, single blind experiment to evaluate the immediate, short-term, and long-term effect of DN.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Biceps tendinopathy is a common cause in shoulder-pain symptoms. The major mechanism is overuse of the biceps muscles. The long-term accumulated and poor repaired trauma causes myofascial trigger points in the related muscles. Common symptoms are pain in the anterior shoulders and radiating pain in the biceps. Pain can be further elicited with lifting, pulling and repetitive overhead activity. Therefore, it can have a major impact on the patient's activity of daily life.

The investigator performed dry needle (DN) treatments with acupuncture needles. Stimulating the effected muscle , the investigator move the needle forward and backward several times. Muscle twitch may occur by our procedure. The pain caused by myofascial trigger points can be decreased effective simultaneously. So far, there is no solid research or clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment yet.

The investigator will conduct the randomized, single blind experiment to evaluate the immediate, short-term, and long-term effect of DN. Outcome measures include visual analog scale, shoulder pain and disability index, pressure pain threshold, pain-free grip test, muscle tone changes and ultrasonographic evaluation of biceps peritendinous effusion.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scales

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: dry needling
  - PROCEDURE: Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03639454
