CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05300308
Title: Lymphoedema and Nocturia/Nocturnal Polyuria After Pelvic LND for Urogenital Cancer
Official Title: Lymphoedema and Nocturia/ Nocturnal Polyuria After Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection (LND): Prospective Observational Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
After the treatment of urogenital cancer, a person may develop lymphoedema of the leg(s) and/ or midline region. Clinical symptoms include abnormal tissue swelling, sensation of limb heaviness, erythema, pain, and impaired limb function. Lymphoedema can have a negative impact on quality of life (QoL) and the impact of lymphoedema on the cancer treatment decision making process is underestimated. A limited number of studies have evaluated the incidence rate of midline and leg lymphoedema after surgery for urogenital cancers and have investigated the prognostic variables. In addition, to the researchers knowledge, no evidence exists regarding which (combination of) clinical measuring methods are most sensitive to detect early lymphoedema at the lower limbs after the treatment of urogenital cancer. Therefore, in this prospective observational study, the epidemiology (i.e. incidence/ prevalence rate and prognostic variables) and the detection methods of lower limb lymphoedema after pelvic lymph node dissection for urogenital cancer will be investigated.

Additionally, the epidemiology of nocturia and nocturnal polyuria will be studied (since this information is also missing in literature).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lymphoedema is caused by malfunction of the lymphatic system whether or not in combination with extra load on this system. Some patients develop lymphoedema after treatment for cancer: secondary lymphoedema or acquired lymphoedema. In 2018, 11 645 patients in Belgium were diagnosed with urogenital cancer cancer, including prostate and bladder cancer. A possible treatment consists of prostatectomy or cystectomy in combination with trensperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection. Patients who undergo treatment for cancer may develop lower limb lymphoedema or lymphoedema at midline. To the researchers knowledge, investigation of incidence of lower limb lymphoedema (LLL) is limited. Also, the prognostic variables for the development of LLL are unknown. Furthermore, no scientific evidence consists regarding which (combination of) clinical measurement methods are most sensitive to detect early LLL after trensperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection. Thresholds to identify subclinical lymphoedema in one or both legs are lacking. Besides lymphoedema in the lower limbs, treatment for cancer also often results in urinary problems. Especially urinary stress incontinence has been described in literature. However, in clinical practice, it is clear that prostatectomy is often associated with other urinary complications, as nocturia and nocturnal polyuria. To the researchers knowledge, there are no trials investigating the prognostic variables for the development of nocturia/ nocturnal polyuria after trensperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection for urogenital cancer.

Therefore, the researchers will execute a trial investigating the epidemiology (i. e incidence, prevalence and prognostic variables), detection methods and the feasibility of a trial about the early treatment of LLL after trensperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection for urogenital cancer. The epidemiology of LLL, nocturia and nocturnal polyuria will be investigated.

Participants: 150 patients undergoing a trensperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection for urogenital cancer will be included. These participants will be followed-up from baseline (pre-surgery) until 1 year post-surgery. All participants are evaluated at the University Hospitals Leuven, campus Gasthuisberg.

Procedure: The potential participant will be screened first to see if the patients meets the inclusion criteria. After signing the informed consent form, the participant will be followed in the prospective observational trial. The duration of the prospective observational trial is 2 years. Participants can be included until 1 year after the start of the trial.

Evaluation: There will be clinical evaluation of lymphoedema as well as treatment for lymphoedema. Participants in the prospective observational trial will be evaluated 4 times: baseline (pre-surgery), 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months post-surgery.

Treatment: All participants in the prospective observational trial receive standard of care. This consists out of information, skincare and 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cumulative incidence rate of lower limb lymphoedema after urogenital cancer (i.e. number of patients with newly diagnosed lower limb lymphoedema) 6 weeks post-surgery
  - Cumulative incidence rate of lower limb lymphoedema after urogenital cancer (i.e. number of patients with newly diagnosed lower limb lymphoedema) 6 months post-surgery
  - Cumulative incidence rate of lower limb lymphoedema after urogenital cancer (i.e. number of patients with newly diagnosed lower limb lymphoedema) 12 months post-surgery
  - Prognostic value of 'baseline age' for the development of lower limb lymphoedema at 12 months post-surgery.
  - Prognostic value of ' Baseline fat mass' for the development of lower limb lymphoedema at 12 months post-surgery.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: usuALCARe

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05300308
