CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04956393
Title: The SOAR (Stop OsteoARthritis) Program Proof-of-Concept Study
Official Title: Proof-of-Concept of the SOAR (Stop OsteoARthritis) Program: A Randomized Delayed-Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Adolescents and young adults who hurt their knees playing sports or doing recreational activities can develop joint damage, muscle weakness, inactivity, and weight gain which might lead to an increased risk of osteoarthritis (OA), a disabling joint condition in their later lives. Despite knowing that muscles and joints benefit from exercise, there is no proven exercise-based treatments to delay or even halt the onset of OA after a knee joint injury.

The current study will assess if a physiotherapist-guided intervention called Stop OsteoARthritis (SOAR) improves knee muscle strength, physical inactivity, knee-related self-efficacy, and knee-related quality of life in people at risk for osteoarthritis due to a past knee injury. A total of 70 former knee injury participants will be randomly assigned to two groups. One group will immediately start a 16-week SOAR program, while the second will wait for 9-weeks before starting an 8-week SOAR program. Trained physiotherapists will deliver the SOAR program with videoconferencing. The study hypothesis is that participating in the 8-Week SOAR program will improve the knee muscle strength, physical activity levels, knee-related self-efficacy and knee-related quality of life in people discharged from regular healthcare after a sports knee injury. The findings will help researchers understand the ideal length of the program for a future clinical trial in real-world settings.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose:

The purpose of this study is to evaluate a novel, virtually delivered, PT-guided, knee health program (Stop OsteoARthritis - SOAR) for people who have been discharged from regular healthcare after a sports knee injury.

Objectives:

1. The primary objective of the study is to assess the efficacy of an 8-week SOAR program to improve knee muscle strength measured by computerized dynamometry (primary outcome and daily average moderate to vigorous physical activity measured by Tri-axial Accelerometer (secondary outcome), self-reported knee-specific self-efficacy (secondary outcome), and self-reported knee-related quality of life (secondary outcome) in people discharged from regular care after sports knee trauma. Several exploratory outcomes will also be assessed to inform the design of a future clinical trial.
2. A secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of a protocol for a future full-scale clinical trial to assess the effectiveness and implementation of SOAR. Both SOAR program and study protocol implementation and practicality outcomes will be collected.
3. A third objective of this study is to inform the optimal length of the SOAR program.
4. A fourth, exploratory objective, of this study, is to explore the experiences of stakeholders (i.e., knee injury participants and physiotherapists) to inform future implementation.

Research Design:

This is a proof-of-concept, two-armed, open-label, randomized delayed control trial with embedded 1:1 interviews. In this design, randomization determines when the intervention is provided (immediate or 9-week delay). Consenting eligible knee injury participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to immediate intervention (experimental) or delayed intervention (control) groups using a computer-generated sequence of random numbers. Consenting eligible and physiotherapists will complete Brief Action Planning certification and SOAR training before delivering the SOAR program virtually to the knee injury participants.

The immediate study group will be complete an 8-week (weeks 1-8) SOAR program (Knee Camp, home-based exercise-therapy and physical activity with tracking, weekly 1:1 PT counseling sessions, and optional weekly group-based exercise classes) followed by an additional 8 weeks (weeks 10-17) of home-based exercise-therapy and physical activity with tracking, weekly 1:1 PT counseling sessions, and optional weekly group-based exercise classes. In contrast, after a 9-week delay, the delayed study group will complete an 8-week (weeks 10-17) intervention (Knee Camp, home-based exercise-therapy and physical activity with tracking, weekly 1:1 PT counseling sessions, and optional weekly group-based exercise classes).

Knee injury participant outcomes will be evaluated at baseline (T0), 9-weeks (T1-primary endpoint to assess efficacy), and 18-weeks (T2- endpoint to inform optimal intervention length).

Physiotherapist participants will be evaluated prior to training, immedia

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Knee Extensor Strength over 9-weeks (knee injury participants)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Immediate 8-Week SOAR Program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Delayed 8-Week SOAR Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04956393
