CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02521298
Title: Treatment of Lateral Elbow Tendinopathy
Official Title: Lateral Elbow Tendinopathy: A Randomized Controlled Trial Examining The Treatment Effect Of Strength Training Combined With Cortico-Steroid Injection, Dry-Needling Or Placebo
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study investigates the treatment effect on lateral elbow tendinopathy of strength training in combination with cortico-steroid injection, dry-needling or placebo in a double-blinded randomized controlled trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of lateral elbow tendinopathy is prevalence of 1-3%, with a peak incidence between 35-50 years of age (Green et al., 2002). The main symptoms are pain over the lateral humeral epicondyle upon palpation and pain full resisted dorsiflexion of the wrist. Ultrasonographic changes include hyper-/hypo-echoic areas and increased doppler signal in the most proximal part of the common extensor tendon. The condition is often self-limiting, however full recovery often takes months to years and recurrence is common. Several different treatment modalities are used in order to increase tendon healing and decrease time to recovery. Deep transverse friction massage showed no significant effect on pain, grip strength or function relative to other physiotherapy modalities (Brosseau et al., 2002). Anti-inflammatory treatment with NSAID's or corticosteroids is typically effective in the short term, however on a longer term there is a poorer outcome than with other treatment strategies including exercise (Coombes et al., 2010). Surgery does not seem to have any beneficial effect (Buchbinder et al., 2011), and there are no conclusive data regarding the use of orthotic devises for the treatment of lateral elbow tendinopathy (Struijs et al., 2002). Eccentric exercise of the extensor muscles has been shown to reduced pain, increase muscle strength, and decrease tendon thickness and time to return to sport (Croisier et al., 2007).

Loading of human tendon leads to increased tendon collagen synthesis, and interestingly, tendon tissue sampling (biopsies), which causes a minor trauma to the tendon has been shown to increase the level of growth factors locally and stimulate tendon collagen synthesis (Magnusson et al., 2010).

It is hypothesized that both minimal tissue damage and anti-inflammatory treatment could increase tendon healing and decrease time to recovery, when combined with mechanical loading.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in disability questionnaire: DASH-score. Area under the DASH-score versus time curve (AUC).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Strength Training
  - PROCEDURE: Placebo
  - DRUG: Cortico-Steroid Injection. Depomedrol 40mg/1ml.
  - PROCEDURE: Dry Needling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02521298
