CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06021171
Title: Improving the Iron Status of Athletes With Pre-, Pro- and Synbiotics
Official Title: Improving the Iron Status of Athletes With Pre-, Pro- and Synbiotics
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Iron deficiency (ID) is the most common micronutrient deficiency worldwide, and poor iron bioavailability is a major cause. While 30% of female athletes are affected by ID, and its consequences are highly relevant to athletic performance, ID affects women and children around the world with consequences just as relevant, if not more so (e.g. school performance, work capacity and thus wage earning). With poor iron absorption being a cause of ID in active women, it is especially important to discover simple ways to improve iron (Fe) uptake. While some studies have suggested that consumption of prebiotic fiber may improve Fe absorption in animal models, there have been few studies examining the effects of synbiotic supplementation (consumption of both a prebiotic and probiotic that work together) on Fe uptake in adult females (athletes and non-athletes).

A recent pilot study demonstrated a substantial improvement in Fe uptake in female athletes after 4 and 8 weeks of synbiotic supplementation compared to placebo during Fe repletion with a low dose of ferrous sulfate (FeSO4). If synbiotic supplementation can improve the Fe bioavailability of FeSO4 (which is \~30%) in ID women during repletion of Fe status, it could possibly improve the Fe bioavailability of non-heme Fe sources, as well as mixed meals.

Research Question: What is the effect of synbiotic supplementation (a supplement containing a prebiotic + a probiotic), compared to prebiotic supplementation or a placebo, on Fe uptake and the gut microbiome in ID athletes during low-dose Fe repletion?

Hypothesis: In the proposed study, we hypothesize that synbiotic supplementation along with Fe repletion with a low dose of FeSO4 will have greatest impact on athletes' Fe uptake due to alterations in the microbiome, which will be assessed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The following Specific Aims will help us to answer this research question: To screen the iron status of athletes at the beginning of training season and determine the prevalence of anemia and iron depletion on our NCAA Division III campus. To determine the differences in Fe uptake with consumption of a synbiotic, prebiotic, and placebo supplements along with low-dose Fe supplementation in ID athletes. To determine the differences in the microbiome with consumption of a synbiotic, prebiotic, and placebo supplements along with low-dose Fe supplementation in ID female athletes. This aim will help us mechanism behind change in iron status with a functional fiber (e.g. synbiotic supplementation).

This data is essential to advance our understanding of how Fe uptake in active persons can be enhanced by functional fiber supplementation, as well as by REAL foods containing functional fibers, which could help ameliorate ID not only for athletes here in the US but for people around the globe.

The design is a randomized, placebo-controlled crossover trial, which will use each participant as her/his own control, in addition to a placebo treatment being administered in a counter-balanced order with the other treatments.

Participants: King's is a Division III College and currently has \>85 eligible female athletes on the rosters of a variety of competitive sports teams. During a recent RCT, about 30 active women were screened and \>30% were ID (1). For the proposed study, given the effect size observed in previous work (6), we need n=10 to complete the 18-week randomized crossover trial (e.g. so recruiting n=13 would allow for a "normal" 20% attrition rate during the trial due to injuries, illnesses, etc).

Iron Status Screening: Athletes from King's will be asked to volunteer via recruitment email. To address Aim 1, at baseline (and after NCAA health clearance), athletes will have their iron status screened via venous blood sample at the beginning of their season in the Human Performance Lab in the Alley Center (complete blood count, which includes HGB); Serum ferritin; C-Reactive Protein for inflammation adjustment of ferritin). Anthropometrics and body composition will be measured and health, dietary and training information will also be collected. Standard demographic information, and medical history will be self-reported by each participant using computer-based questionnaires. All athletes with normal iron status (HGB \>12.0 g/dL AND sFer\>30.0 µg/L) will be given their iron status results and offered a Nutrition Consultation by a MS Nutrition Student under the supervision of the PI. Athletes will not be eligible to participate in the study if pregnant, wishing to become pregnant, breastfeeding, having a condition or taking medication impacting Fe status, or not healthy enough to train/participate in their sport.

Crossover Trial: To address Aims 2 and 3, women athletes identified as ID (sFer\<30.0 µg/L) will be invited to participate in a 18-week doubl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood serum level of ferritin
  - Blood level of hemoglobin
  - Blood serum level of soluble transferrin receptor
  - Gut microbiome data

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Partially hydrolyzed guar gum + bifidobacterium lactis
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Partially hydrolyzed guar gum
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06021171
