CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03943030
Title: Cardiovascular Effects of Pulmonary Rehabilitation in COPD
Official Title: Effects of Pulmonary Rehabilitation on Cardiovascular Parameters in Patients With COPD
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by airflow obstruction, which is clinically manifested by dyspnea and leads the patient to a vicious cycle of sedentary lifestyle. Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an important therapeutic strategy to break this cycle. Cardiovascular diseases are frequent in patients with (COPD) and are associated with higher mortality. The effects of (PR) on cardiovascular risk factors in patients with (COPD) have been little studied so far. Objectives: To evaluate the effects of pulmonary rehabilitation compared to the control group on cardiovascular risk factors in patients with (COPD). Methods: A randomized clinical trial will be conducted. Patients with (COPD) will be divided into two groups: Group I (GI): group that will be rehabilitated, with 3 weekly sessions, for 8 weeks and Group II (GII): control group, without intervention. In both groups, a baseline evaluation will be performed, which will be repeated after 9 weeks and consists of: clinical and laboratory parameters, endothelial function (FMD) and brachial ankle index (ABI). Outcomes commonly used in the assistance to assess (PR) will also be measured. Expected Results: The study is expected to improve understanding of the impact of (PR) on cardiovascular variables in patients with (COPD).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Measures and instruments Before the rehabilitation program, a baseline evaluation will be performed, which will include: anthropometric evaluation, Framingham cardiovascular risk score calculation, (mMRC) scale completion, and International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ). Baseline lung function data will be obtained from patients' medical records. The severity of (COPD) will be determined by spirometric classification of the Gold consensus, Body-mass index, airflow obstruction, dyspnea, and exercise (BODE) and Gold (ABCD) scale. To evaluate exercise capacity, a 6-minute (s) walk test (6MWT), an incremental cardiopulmonary exercise test (ECT) on a cycle ergometer, and a cardiopulmonary exercise test with a constant load on a cycle ergometer will be performed. All patients will undergo evaluation of endothelial function and (ABI) (brachial ankle index). Laboratory tests, exercise tests, evaluation of endothelial function and (ABI) will be performed before and after the pulmonary rehabilitation program. Two visits will be necessary to carry out the tests: on the first visit blood will be collected for laboratory tests, the questionnaires will be answered, anthropometric data collected and the incremental (ECP) will be performed; at the second visit, the (ABI) and endothelial function will be measured and the constant load (TECP) will be performed. There will be a minimum of 48 hours between visits. The incremental (ECP) will be performed only at baseline. In the anthropometric evaluation will be determined the weight and the height, being calculated the body mass index through the formula; weight (kg) / height2 (m). Laboratory Tests Total cholesterol and fractions, triglycerides, C-reactive protein, fasting glycemia, Glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), Glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (GPT), urea and creatinine and protein C will be collected baseline and after intervention. Pulmonary function Results of spirometry, pulmonary diffusion by carbon monoxide (DLco) and lung volumes (plethysmography) will be recorded, which are performed in the care routine and will be obtained from the patients' records. Exercise tests The (6MWT) will be performed in a 30 meter corridor, with continuous monitoring of peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) and heart rate. Before and after the test the respiratory rate and the intensity of the dyspnea will be determined. The distance covered in 6 minutes will be recorded. The test will be performed in accordance with the guidelines and predicted values previously described. The maximum incremental (TECP) limited by symptoms will be performed on an electromagnetic bicycle using a ramp protocol. After 2 minutes of standing monitoring, the patient will pedal for 2 minutes without load. The load ramp will be individualized so that the incremental test lasts between 8 and 12 minutes. The incremental (TECP) will be performed according to the recommendations of the. The constant load test will be performed with 75% of the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dilatation mediated by the flow of the brachial artery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pulmonary rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03943030
