CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06166199
Title: Effects of High-intensity Interval Training in Patients With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
Official Title: Effects of High-intensity Interval Training Combined With Resistance Training in Patients With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to evaluate the safety and effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) combined with resistance training in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The overall aim of this randomized controlled study, is to evaluate the safety and effects of HIIT combined with resistance exercises on aerobic capacity, muscle function, patient reported outcomes, disease activity and immune function in patients with SLE with low to moderate disease activity and no to little organ damage. The aim is also to explore and describe patient's experiences of the training.

The research questions are:

1. What are the differences between the HIIT combined with resistance exercises and a control group, after 3 months of supervised training and after further 3 months of self training with video-call/telephone support until 6 months follow up, regarding aerobic capacity, muscle function, physician and patient reported disease activity, fatigue, depressive symptoms, and quality of life?
2. What are the differences between the HIIT combined with resistance exercises and a control group, after 3 months of supervised training and after further 3 months of self training with video-call/telephone support until 6 months follow up, regarding inflammatory markers such as interleukin 6 and 10 and interferon molecules? Both acute exercise test (maximal ergometercycle test) effects as well as the long term effects of training will be evaluated.
3. How do individuals with SLE experience HIIT combined with resistance exercises ? What are the perceived barriers and facilitators for performing and maintaining such training?

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Aerobic capacity
  - Physical capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HIIT combined with resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06166199
