CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03815526
Title: The Immediate Effects of Applying Dynamic Tape, Kinesio Tape and Sport Tape With Chronic Ankle Instability
Official Title: The Immediate Effects of Applying Dynamic Tape, Kinesio Tape and Sport Tape With Chronic Ankle Instability
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Injuries to the ankle joint account for 20% of the population that is afﬂicted with joint injury and the largest percentage of self-reported musculoskeletal injuries (\> 10%) are to the ankle. Ankle sprain has a large portion in ankle injuries and occurs not only in the sporting population but also in the general community. Although the acute symptom would be resolve quickly, but many people still report persisting problems, such as pain and instability. Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is one of the most common of these residual problems.

Kinesio Tape and White Duck Tape are often applied in patients with CAI, attempt to increase the ankle joint stability, and improve motor performance. However, the previous studies had controversial result to the effects of kinesio tape and white duck tape. The previous studies also showed the insufficient of supporting force and elasticity of kinesio tape and white duct tape. The Dynamic Tape was developed by Kendrick in 2009, which refined the characteristic of elasticity and supporting force.

Therefore the purpose of study is to comparison the effects of static and dynamic balance performance, weight shifting ability and functional movement between kinesio tape, white duck tape and dynamic tape when applied on patients with CAI. With the result may provide an optical method to increase the movement performance of patients with CAI.

The study suspected to recruit 90 volunteers with CAI, and randomly divided to three different groups: Kinesio tape group, White duck tape group and Dynamic tape group. We make postural stability test and limit postural stability test with Biodex Balance System (SD), Y-balance test and single leg hop test to both affected side and sound side foot before applying the tape. After applying the tape according to the divided group, we will repeat the test above again. We will compare the results of the test between groups and within groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Biodex Balance System

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dynamic tape
  - OTHER: Kinesio tape
  - OTHER: Sport tape

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03815526
