CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05976035
Title: Exercise vs. Supplements in Rotator Cuff-Related Shoulder Pain
Official Title: Do Taking Supplements Provide Additional Benefits in Rotator Cuff-Related Shoulder Pain?
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Rotator cuff-related shoulder pain is a pathology characterized by pain and functional impairment originating from one or more rotator cuff tendons. The lifetime incidence of rotator cuff-related shoulder pain is around 67%, with an annual incidence exceeding 1%. Many patients continue to experience pain and functional loss for up to one year, and more than half of the patients report shoulder pain persisting for over three years.

The pathophysiology underlying rotator cuff-related shoulder pain continues to be a subject of ongoing research and uncertainty, with many aspects yet to be fully elucidated. The most common belief regarding its pathogenesis involves the role of inflammation. This hypothesis is supported by the accumulation of inflammatory cells in tendons, oxidative stress, and increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In tendon pathologies with inflammatory cell accumulation and increased cytokine levels, the use of antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents in addition to conservative treatment contributes to tendon healing. Anti-oxidants and anti-inflammatories are substances capable of preventing or delaying certain cell damage.The use of anti-inflammatory and antioxidant supplements such as Vitamin C (Vit-C), Vitamin D (Vit-D), Omega-3, and Magnesium (Mg) is recommended. Despite indicating exercise as the gold standard for managing rotator cuff-related shoulder pain and the demonstrated anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties of the mentioned supplements, there are still gaps in the understanding of their effectiveness in rotator cuff-related shoulder pain.

Based on these gaps, the goal of this study is to investigate the effects of supplements (Vit-C, Vit-D, Omega-3, and Mg) given in addition to exercise on patients' blood parameters (TNF-a, IL-6, and CRP levels), pain, functional status, quality of life, and patient satisfaction in individuals with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
58 participants older than 40 years of age with rotator cuff-related shoulder pain for at least 3 months will be included in the study. Signed voluntary consent will be obtained from the patients. Participants will be divided into two groups. Study groups will be as follows: a) Exercise \& Supplement Group and b) Exercise Group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale (VAS)
  - The American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Standardized Shoulder Assessment (ASES)
  - Quick Disabilities of The Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (Quick DASH)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise
  - OTHER: Supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05976035
