CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00186173
Title: Sports to Prevent Obesity: Feasibility and Pilot RCT
Official Title: Sports to Prevent Obesity: Feasibility and Pilot RCT
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to learn whether overweight children who participate in an after school sports program improve their health as much as overweight children in a more traditional health education program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
After school sports programs may be generalizable, motivating and cost-efficient interventions for long-term weight control among at-risk and overweight children. The infrastructure needed to provide such programs already exists in most communities. In contrast, more traditional, medically- and behaviorally-oriented treatment programs are expensive, generally not very effective, often inconvenient, and not available in most communities. While children involved in team sports tend to be more physically fit than their uninvolved peers, team sports has not yet been tested as a method to increase involvement of at-risk and overweight children in regular physical activity. As an added bonus, these sports programs can displace typical after school television viewing and snacking. Team sports is a potentially innolvative and high impact approach for intervening with at-risk and overweight children, as it may provide an opportunity to reduce weight gain while increasing social interaction and self-esteem. If our proposed research finds that team sports are an efficacious intervention for reducing weight gain among low-income at-risk and overweight children, it is an intervention approach that could be rapidly diffused and tested for effectiveness. The policy implications of these findings would be great, encouraging expanded access to team sports programs to a population that has not been previously targeted or included.

We propose a two-phase project in East Palo Alto, California, a low-income, primarily Latino, African-American and Pacific Islander community. The first phase will be a 3-month feasibility trial of an after school team sports program for overweight children to examine several theory-driven approaches to program design and implementation, including assessments of liking and participation and barriers and facilitators of participation. The second phase will be a 6-month randomized controlled pilot trial (RCT) comparing weight changes among overweight children randomized to participate in the after school team sports program versus a traditional weight control/health education program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body mass index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: After school sports program
  - BEHAVIORAL: After school health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00186173
