CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02188849
Title: Effects of Creatine Supplementation on Muscle Mass and Function Among Older Women Subjected to Resistance Training
Official Title: Effects of Creatine Supplementation on Muscle Mass and Function Among Older Women Subjected to Resistance Training
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
To determine, in a double blind trial, the effects of creatine supplementation during 12 weeks on muscle mass and function of community living older women subjected to resistance training. Material and methods: Fifty healthy older women will be selected for the study. All participants will be subjected to a progressive resistance training program using elastic bands and weights, consisting in three sessions per week lasting 1 hour. Participant will be randomly allocated in a double blind fashion, to receive creatine 5 g per day or an identical placebo. The training and supplementation period will last 12 weeks. At baseline and at the end of the study, body composition will be measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, rectus femoris cross sectional height and surface will be measured by ultrasound, quadriceps strength will be measured in a quadriceps table and 12 minutes' walk will be assessed. The main outcome measure will be quadriceps cross sectional height. Expected results: We expect that creatine supplementation will increase rectus femoris height over and above the effect of resistance training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Healthy women of middle and low socioeconomic level, living in the community and aged between 60 and 75 years, will be invited to participate in this study.

At baseline and after signing an informed consent form, the following assessments will be carried out:

1. A complete medical history including medications, previous diseases and surgical procedures.
2. Evaluation of usual physical activity using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) .
3. Minimental state examination .
4. Mininutritional assessment .
5. Measurement of weight, height, waist and hip circumference.
6. Measurement of body composition by double energy X ray absorptiometry in a General Electric iDEXA equipment.
7. Measurement of rectus femoris cross sectional height using a General Electric LogiQ ultrasonographer. Measurements will be made with the participant in supine position and the tight relaxed. The mid-point between the superior anterior iliac spine and the superior border to the patella will be the measurement point.
8. Measurement of quadriceps isometric force using a quadriceps table as previously described .
9. Measurement of hand grip strength using a hand grip dynamometer.
10. Measurement of 12 minutes walking capacity .

After performing the baseline assessment, participants will be randomized in one of two groups, balancing by age and nutritional status, using a double blind design:

1. The active group will receive creatine 5 g/day in one dose as a powder to be dissolved in water
2. The control group will receive a placebo of similar aspect and taste as creatine.

The active prescription and the placebo will be identified by a unique numeric code. The codes will be known by an external professional, not involved in the research. In case of adverse events, the opening of a specific patient code of a will be requested to this professional, who will decide the pertinence of the request. Thus, even breaking one code, the double blind will be maintained for the rest of participants

All participants will be incorporated to an exercise training program, that will last 12 weeks, with three sessions per week. Each exercise session will consist of:

1. A warm-up period of 15 minutes, consisting in walking and cycling in braked bicycle ergometers.
2. Resistance training of upper and lower limbs, using elastic bands and tubing and free weights. Training will be calibrated at 60% of one repetition maximum for each muscle group with three sets of 15 repetitions with one minute rest between each set. All exercises will be additionally calibrated to be of moderate intensity according to the Borg scale. The exercise load will be adapted according to the progression of each participant.
3. An elongation period lasting 10 minutes that will include elongation in mats and exercise balls.

The attendance of participants to each session, their level of engagement with the exercise protocol and the overall Borg score will be recorded. All adverse events will be also re

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rectus Femoris Cross Sectional Height

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance exercise training
  - DRUG: Creatine

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 80 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02188849
