CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03936712
Title: Effect of Energy Drink on Sport Performance and Psycho-Physiological Responses.
Official Title: Effects of Energy Drink on Performance and Psycho-Physiological Response to Physical Exercise
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This work aimed to examine the effects of drinking an "energy drink" upon (i) short-term maximal performance, (ii) reaction times and (iii) psychological factors (i.e., mood state, ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) and affective load) and on physiological parameters such as blood pressure, blood glucose, hematological parameters and other biochemical parameters.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 22 healthy and regularly active physical-education male students from various sports disciplines volunteered to participate in this study. Potential participants were initially screened through telephone interviews based on the inclusion criteria: 18-40 years of age, BMI less than 25 kg/m2, and low (\<1.5g/month ) and not regular caffeine users. Exclusion criteria included diagnosis of any chronic metabolic disease such as type 2 diabetes or cardiovascular disease, an auto-immune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or type 1 diabetes, liver disease and the intake of any medications/ or dietary supplements known to influence blood glucose concentrations and/or blood pressures.

The study was conducted according to the declaration of Helsinki and the protocol was fully approved (identification code: 8/16) by the review board "Local committee of the Laboratory of Biochemistry, CHU Habib Bourguiba, Sfax, Tunisia." After a throughout explanation of the protocol and responses to all questions, participants signed a written informed consent.

Subjects were instructed to avoid nicotine, alcohol, dietary supplements, medications and all other stimulants and to maintain their normal dietary, sleep and physical activity patterns before test sessions. Caffeine and other caffeinated products (e.g., chocolate, caffeinated gums, caffeine containing beverages) were avoided for 48 hours and food for at least 4 hours before testing.

A double blind, placebo-controlled, counterbalanced, crossover design was adopted for this study. The randomized order of testing was determined using free online software (www.randomization.com). Neither staff nor participants were informed about the names of the two drinks, and blinding was strictly maintained by emphasizing to both staff and participants that both drinks adhered to healthy principles, and that each was advocated by certain sports medicine experts. Two familiarization sessions were completed before definitive test sessions in order to eliminate any learning effects on physical performance and reaction time measurements. During the second familiarization session, body mass and height were recorded. Each participant visited the laboratory for two formal test sessions, drinking a caffeine-containing ED (RB) and a caffeine and taurine free beverage drink (PL). All sessions were arranged in the early evening hours to avoid any time of day effects. The two definitive test sessions were separated by an interval of seven days to allow sufficient recovery between tests and to ensure caffeine washout. To avoid identification, two opaque and unmarked cans of RB or PL were ingested by each participant (i.e., 500 mL) in the presence of a researcher. The two drinks were similar in volume, texture, and appearance. One can of RB drink (i.e., 250ml) contained 80 mg of caffeine, 1 g of taurine, 27 g of carbohydrates, 0.6 g of protein, 5 mg vitamin B6 and 487 kJ of energy. The PL drink was prepared by an agri-food e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Wingate-test physical performance from PL to RB condition
  - Change in Reaction Time Performance from PL to RB condition
  - Change in Strength Physical Performance (i.e., Handgrip) from PL to RB condition
  - Change in Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) and Affective Load from PL to RB condition
  - Change in Mood States (POMS) from PL to RB condition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Energy Drink
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo Drink

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03936712
