CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05130931
Title: Impact of a Conservative Treatment in the Waiting List for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Surgery.
Official Title: Impact of a Conservative Treatment in the Waiting List for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Surgery: Pilot Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
STC is considered one of the most prevalent peripheral neuropathy of the upper quadrant. Systematic review shows that conservative treatment is effective for treatment of CTS. In Spain, most patients diagnosed by CTS are included in surgery list without considering conservative treatment as first option or providing drugs or night splint . However, surgical treatment is not always necessary for these patients, and waiting list delays can lead to aggravation of patients' symptoms.

Researches believe that performing a conservative treatment including diacutaneous fibrolysis on carpal tunnel syndrome patients, could reduce waiting surgery list, reduce the cost-effectiveness rate of the surgical process and improve patient's satisfaction and clinical findings. In addition, patients of any level of severity and with systemic pathology will be included to define which patients would benefit from surgical treatment and which from physiotherapeutic treatment.

The aim is to find out the impact of a multimodal physiotherapy treatment in patients with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (CTS) on the patient and the Aragonese Health System.

A randomized controlled clinical trial will be performed. First a pilot study will be carried out. Patients with carpal tunnel syndrome included on waiting surgery list of Miguel Servet Hospital will be recruited. They will be randomized into a control group (staying in waiting list and performing healthcare standard) and into an experimental group (3 sessions of 45 min of diacutaneous fibrolysis and homebased treatment). Different outcomes will be assessed at pre-treatment, at the end of treatment, 3 and 6 months later.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in nocturnal symptoms intensity (VAS)
  - Change in pain intensity (VAS)
  - Change in paresthesia intensity (VAS)
  - Change in BCTQ
  - Change in DASH questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal conservative treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05130931
