CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06485115
Title: Telerehabilitation in Progressive Multiple Sclerosis
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Combining a Home-based Digital Motor Telerehabilitation Program With Conventional Therapy in Progressive Multiple Sclerosis: a Multicentre, Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a highly disabling chronic, inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the Central Nervous System (CNS). Significant progress has been made during the past three decades in managing the relapsing-remitting phase of Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS). However, once patients have entered the progressive stage of MS (secondary progressive, SPMS), therapeutic options are limited to symptomatic treatments and rehabilitation. In addition, 10-20% of patients experience unremitting disease progression (primary progressive MS, or PPMS). The limited research focusing on Progressive MS (PMS) and the lack of ecological validity highlight the need for a bolder approach that combines more than one intervention intending to produce synergistic effects. The primary aim is to test the effectiveness of combining a home-based Digital Telerehabilitation program with in-hospital rehabilitation on mobility against in-hospital rehabilitation alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The literature emphasizes a striking dearth of studies devoted solely to people with SPMS or PPMS and the lack of ecological validity in assessing the results. This suggests that an additional effort is required, a bolder approach that combines more than one intervention intending to produce synergistic effects, an improvement in one area boosting the putative benefits of therapy in another, the overall outcome exceeding the sum of the individual treatments.

The primary aim will be to test the effectiveness of combining a home-based digital motor telerehabilitation program (experimental intervention) with in-hospital rehabilitation on mobility (primary outcome) against in-hospital rehabilitation without any additional therapy except for general instructions for self-management as usual care (conventional treatment) in patients with SPMS or PPMS.

The secondary aims will be to explore the effects on measures of motor and cognitive function; the patients reported outcomes on balance and upper extremity function, fatigue, pain, anxiety, and depressive symptoms; the self-perception of clinical change; and Health-Related Quality of Life. Furthermore, the investigators will explore the patient's perspective and experience with Digital Telerehabilitation post-treatment using quantitative-qualitative methods (EG intervention). An economic evaluation of the introduction of the digital telemedicine program will be carried out within the health technology assessment (HTA) framework, considering the perspective of the healthcare system and society as a whole.

This single-blind RCT with 2-parallel arms will compare the effects between the experimental group (EG) and control group (CG). After the screening, an administrator external to research groups (the principal investigator) will generate a block randomization list at each Unit to prevent selection bias using an automated randomization system (www.randomization.com) (allocation ratio 1:1) to assign eligible patients to either the EG or the CG. Patients will be stratified according to the EDSS (≥ 6 and \< 6). Group allocation will be kept concealed. All patients will receive an individualized ten sessions of an in-hospital rehabilitation program (1 hour/day, 3 days/week) by a qualified physiotherapist at each participating unit. Then, the EG will follow a 12-week individualized Digital Telerehabilitation program (1 hour/day, 3 days/week, EG) while the CG will not receive any additional therapy except for general instructions for self-management according to the allocation group. All the patients will undergo four clinical evaluations: before (T0) and after (T1) the in-hospital rehabilitation program, 12 weeks (T2), and 24 weeks (follow-up, T3) after it. One researcher assistant with experience in assessing primary and secondary outcomes blinded to group assignment will evaluate study participants at all time points in each Unit.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in the Timed Up and Go test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Digital Telerehabilitation (Euleria Home)
  - OTHER: Conventional therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06485115
