CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03936868
Title: Tendon Transfer for Irreversible Radial Nerve Palsy, Does it Help?Retrospective Cohort From Level-1 Trauma Center.
Official Title: Tendon Transfer Surgery for Irreversible Radial Nerve Palsy, Does it Help When Expert is Available? Retrospective Cohort From Level-1 Trauma Center in a Metropolitan City.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 49
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Radial nerve palsy is associated with serious disability jeopardizing the grasp and power grip accountable to the loss of thumb and fingers extension and loss of active wrist extension respectively. There are three aims in the treatment of radial nerve palsy which comprise the restoration of thumb extension and abduction, finger extension and restoration of wrist extension. In this study we measured the functional outcome after tendon transfer for radial nerve palsy aimed to restore the wrist extension, finger extension and thumb extension/abduction. Investigators' objective was to assess the functional outcome after tendon transfer surgery for radial nerve palsy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Radial nerve palsy is associated with serious disability jeopardizing the grasp and power grip accountable to the loss of thumb and fingers extension and loss of active wrist extension respectively. There are three aims in the treatment of radial nerve palsy which comprise the restoration of thumb extension and abduction, finger extension and restoration of wrist extension. In this study we measured the functional outcome after tendon transfer for radial nerve palsy aimed to restore the wrist extension, finger extension and thumb extension/abduction. Investigators' objective was to assess the functional outcome after tendon transfer surgery for radial nerve palsy. So investigators conducted a retrospective study at Aga Khan University Hospital Karachi comprising records of patients operated for irreversible high radial nerve palsy. Investigators concluded that tendon transfer surgery for radial nerve palsy provides excellent results to restore the lost function and therefore must be considered for patients with no signs of recovery after the nerve repair.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional outcome - Range of Motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Tendon transfer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03936868
