CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05359107
Title: The "Free From Pain Exercise Book" Versus "The Back Book".
Official Title: A Pragmatic Randomised Control Trial Comparing the Efficacy of the "Free From Pain Exercise Book" Versus "The Back Book" in Decreasing Back Pain in Adults Over 60 Years of Age.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This pragmatic randomised control feasibility trial aims to investigate the effectiveness of the "Free From Pain Exercise Book" in comparison to "The Back Book" for reducing back pain in adults aged 60 and over. The "Free From Pain Exercise Book" contains a 12-week exercise and education programme. The programme is designed to reduce early osteoarthritic and generalised musculoskeletal pain and fear of falling in people over the age of 60. The study will compare the effects of the Free from Pain programme when engaged in independently versus the provision of "The Back Book", which is a booklet that promotes physical activity and a reduction of sedentary behaviour for the purpose of reducing back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic musculoskeletal conditions are the leading cause of disability worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that approximately 1.71 billion people have musculoskeletal conditions globally. They cause a significant economic burden on the NHS, with £5 billion of England's yearly NHS budget going towards the treatment of musculoskeletal conditions. The most reported musculoskeletal ailment throughout the world is back pain, for which the lifetime prevalence has been reported to be as high as 84%. Back pain can affect individuals of all ages, but has a particularly negative effect on elderly people, causing difficulty in daily living tasks for those over 65 years old. Difficulty in completing everyday tasks can result in immobility, causing a loss of muscle mass and fitness, an increased risk of falls, further injury, and diseases associated with inactivity or sedentary behaviours (such as heart attack and some cancers).

"The Back Book" is a booklet that promotes physical activity and a reduction of sedentary behaviour for the purpose of reducing back pain. One study by Hass et, al. found that the addition of this book to standard treatment improved disability scores significantly. The use of "The Back Book" was further supported by a cluster, randomised control trial which focussed on elderly adults from nursing homes. The study found a significant improvement in disability after one month of being provided with the book. It is known that, in later life, exercise can have many physiological and psychological benefits and can improve functional ability and well-being whilst reducing illness.

The complete "Free From Pain Exercise Book" presents exercises and educational information to improve pain, strength and quality of life in seniors. The "Free from Pain" exercise programme described within the exercise book is a 12-week exercise programme. It is fusion of three different generally accepted exercise programmes. Therapeutic exercise programmes exist for individual body parts, but there is no single generalised exercise programme that targets all body parts. Hence, the creation of this fusion of programmes. The three programmes are the Otago exercises for lower body strength and balance, the motor control exercises for the lower back and the isometric exercises for the neck and shoulder.

The Otago exercise program (OEP) was developed by Robertson and Campbell for the New Zealand accident compensation corporation (ACC). The initial aim of the programme was to improve balance and strength in patients to prevent falls. Further research has shown that the Otago exercise programme is an effective intervention for coping with musculoskeletal pain in community-dwelling older adults. For treating and preventing low back pain, exercise regimes include stretching, strengthening, endurance, aerobic fitness, walking, yoga, Pilates, and motor control exercises. Among these different modalities of exercises for the rehabilitation of low back pain

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire (OLBPDQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: "The Free From Pain Exercise Book"
  - BEHAVIORAL: "The Back Book"

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05359107
