CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02951338
Title: PROPEL Randomized Trial
Official Title: Promoting Optimal Physical Exercise for Life (PROPEL) - Aerobic Exercise and Self-management Early After Stroke to Increase Daily Physical Activity: a Randomized Trial
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 57
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
It is important for people with stroke to exercise in order to improve their overall recovery and general health. However, these individuals are less physically active than people without stroke, and they often do not achieve the recommended frequency, intensity or duration of exercise. Low levels of physical activity leads to people with stroke becoming very unfit, which can result in functional decline and increased difficulty being active. It is important to determine how to encourage people with stroke to be more active in the long-term. The transition time between the end of rehabilitation and return to the community might be an ideal time to address barriers, and to develop positive habits, knowledge and abilities for long-term participation in exercise. We developed the PROPEL program that combines exercise with self-management strategies during rehabilitation to promote physical activity after rehabilitation. Preliminary pilot findings indicate that people who completed PROPEL were more physically active after discharge than those who did not. This study aims to evaluate the effect of PROPEL on long-term participation in exercise after discharge from stroke rehabilitation. This study will take place at 6 different hospitals. Participants will either complete a control intervention (group exercise only) or the PROPEL intervention (group exercise plus self-management). Participants' adherence to exercise for 6 months after the end of the interventions will be evaluated using activity and heart rate monitors and physical activity questionnaires. We expect this study will show that a simple intervention delivered during rehabilitation will increase participation in exercise after rehabilitation. Increased participation in exercise could then lead to improved stroke recovery and overall health, and reduced risk of having another stroke.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Patients Who Meet Recommended Intensity, Frequency, and Duration of Physical Activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: PROPEL program
  - OTHER: Group aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02951338
