CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03690752
Title: Adherence to Walking on an Alter G Anti-Gravity Treadmill
Official Title: Adherence to Walking on an Alter G Anti-Gravity Treadmill
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Several barriers to exercise are present that need to be addressed. Morbidly obese individuals experience more skin friction, urinary stress incontinence, knee pain, low back pain, and hip arthritis than the lean population, which may significantly impair their ability to adhere to an exercise regimen (6). Obesity and overweight also contribute to greater perceived effort, oxygen uptake, and less pleasure during treadmill exercise sessions (7). Recent theories suggest that a negative experience associated with exercise can significantly reduce the likelihood of engaging in future exercise sessions (8). Therefore, tools to reduce these barriers may improve outcomes for exercise-based interventions for morbid obesity.

The Alter-G, an antigravity treadmill that alleviates body weight while subjects exercise, has potential to reduce pain and exertion during exercise. Overall, these treadmills have been found to be effective for weight loss in obese populations (10). However, although evidence suggests that the Alter-G would reduce pain and exertion, the effect of the Alter-G treadmill on exercise adherence in morbidly obese populations has not been studied.

The hypothesis is that the adherence to and progression of the exercise routine of participants walking at a reduced percentage of their body weight will increase relative to those who must exercise at 100% of their body weight.

A secondary hypothesis is that participants who use the Alter-G with the anti-gravity function will experience less pain and perceived exertion during exercise compared to those who exercise at 100% of their body weight.

Finally, the investigators hypothesize that increased exercise adherence in those using the anti-gravity function of the Alter-G will lead to increased fitness and improved muscle function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Screening

* A self-administered pre-participation health screening questionnaire (which contains physical activity readiness questionnaire (PAR-Q) questionnaire) will be used to ensure the eligibility for the study.
* Consent Form

III.) Exercise Protocol:

Scheduling:

Before beginning phases of the program, participants will be shown a physical calendar that will be located in the same room as the treadmill. They will be able to come in and select time slots in which they are available. Once a time slot has been filled it may not be reserved by another participant. If a schedule change is needed the participants will be allowed to come in and change it on the calendar and reserve an open time slot, while removing their name from the one they will be missing, or email the study coordinator and have a student or faculty member on the project change it for them.

Participants will take part in information and orientation session before scheduling begins. Informed consent will be obtained during this time, and this information session will serve as an overview of the program, and will introduce them to the Alter-G antigravity treadmill. They will be informed on how this exercise program will proceed, and will be told what to expect. Orientation Session During the orientation session, first measure blood pressure and resting heart rate as a final screening measure, and make sure it is not above 140/90 or heart rate (HR) of 90. The investigator will then review the study brochure with participants and complete informed consent. Once informed consent is obtained, participants will randomize them perform the sit-to-stand assessment followed by the 6 minute walk assessment then introduce them to the treadmill according to the following protocols:

Unweighting group:

1. Determine the participant's age-adjusted heart rate maximum.
2. Help the participant put on the polar strap heart rate monitor.
3. Help them select the shorts that fit them. Shorts should come up to the mid-hip, and should fit tightly around the thighs to make an air-tight seal.
4. Help the participant step into the treadmill.
5. Pull the bars up to mid-hip height, to be in line with the shorts. Lock the treadmill in place for the participant. Note down at which height the machine was at.
6. Help the participant zip the shorts in, and calibrate the treadmill.
7. Have the participant begin walking on the treadmill at a slow, comfortable pace. Let them get settled here and walk for 2 minutes.
8. Let them know the investigator will be bringing it down to 80% of their body weight, and do so. Let them remain at this % body weight for one minute.
9. Bring them down to 65% body weight. Allow them to adjust the pace of walking until they are comfortable, if needed, and remain there for one minute.
10. Bring them down to 50% body weight. Allow them to adjust the pace of walking until they are comfortable, if needed, and remain there for one minute.
11. Instruct the participant to select the unwe

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adherence differences between groups

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: unweighting using Alter-G Anti-Gravity Treadmill
  - DEVICE: normal weight using Alter-G Anti-Gravity Treadmill

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03690752
