CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06563674
Title: Acceptance-based Healthy Lifestyles Program for Patients With Pneumoconiosis
Official Title: Nurse-led Acceptance-based Healthy Lifestyles Program for Community-dwelling Patients With Pneumoconiosis: A Waitlist Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Symptoms, such as cough and shortness of breath, are common among patients with pneumoconiosis. Depression and anxiety can be elicited by the symptoms, while avoidance of daily activities is believed to reduce trigger of symptoms. The lung function is then declined and the risk of having stroke and heart failure is increased. The objectives of this 2-arm waitlist pilot randomized controlled trial are to test the effects and feasibility of an acceptance-based educational program among patients with pneumoconiosis. 80 participants will be recruited from community centers and randomly assigned to intervention group or waitlist-control group in a ratio of 1:1. The 6-week group-based educational program will be provided to the intervention group first, then the waitlist-control group. The program consists of 4 sessions integrated with acceptance components and care of pneumoconiosis. Their psychological health, healthy lifestyles, and cardiometabolic profiles will be assessed at baseline, week 6, and week 14. Data will be analyzed using a statistical package. The feasibility of the program will be evaluated by interview. The findings of this study can inform the integration of acceptance-based intervention into pneumoconiosis management in Hong Kong, and future study on chronic progressive lung diseases.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Psychological flexibility

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Acceptance-based healthy lifestyles program (intervention group)
  - OTHER: Acceptance-based healthy lifestyles program (control group)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06563674
