CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03147456
Title: Protein Supplementation Impact On Body Muscle Mass And Fat Mass In Qataris Post Bariatric Surgery, Randomized Controlled Trials (Rct)
Official Title: Protein Supplementation Impact On Body Muscle Mass And Fat Mass In Qataris Post Bariatric Surgery, Randomized Controlled Trials (Rcts)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
One of the most common post-operative deficiencies or complications of bariatric surgery is protein malnutrition. It may lead to many predicaments such as malnutrition, vitamin, micro- and macronutrient deficiencies that can lead to deleterious consequences. A protein-rich diet make a person feel satiety and thereby the consumption will be low in overall energy intake. The objectives of our study are. The aim of this study is to assess the effect of protein supplementation on changes in health parameters such as fat mass, muscle mass, weigh change, protein (total and albumin), Vit B12, Zinc and Magnesium, in Qatari patients post bariatric surgery. Our participants are Qatari aged 18-45 years males and females recruited from the bariatric surgery centers of 2 major HMC hospitals (HGH hospital) and will be randomized to receive either the protein supplement (treatment group) or a dietary advice (control group). All participants will be equally followed and monitored for 3 months and data on the above parameters will be collected, together with other population characteristics, at Baseline, 1 month and 3 month. Data will then be analyzed using the most up-to-date SPSS statistical package to assess the effect of protein supplementation on the parameters of interest. Statistical measures will be carefully chosen to properly assess the difference in the treatment (protein supplementation) effect compared with the control (Dietary advice). Investigators hypothesize that Patients receiving protein supplement (intervention group) Compared with patient not on protein supplement (placebo group) will maintain weight loss and other essential health parameters.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measurement of changes in Body Weight
  - Measurement of changes in Muscle mass.
  - Measurement of changes in Fat mass.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: (Cubitan Protein, Nutricia, Netherlands).
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: (preOp, Nutricia, Netherlands).

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03147456
