CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04320875
Title: Stimulate Brain and Reduce Knee Pain Due to Degeneration
Official Title: Stimulate Brain to Reduce Pain Among Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis (OA) knee is chronic, slowly progressive, degenerative disease of joint which affects articular cartilage and accompanied by pain, swelling and loss of function . OA is often considered as the serious joint disease as it has negative impact on quality of life among elderly population, it is the major cause for the reduced mobility. At cental level, due to imbalance in endogenous pain modulation there is reduce capacity of brain to inhibit the pain. Therefore, dysregulation in the central modulation of pain further leads to maladaptive changes in the brain structure. Transcranial direct current stimulation is a non-invasive method to modulate the brain structure by using a week direct current applied through the scalp in painless way. Multi-session for prolonged time can induce neuroplastic changes in the brain.

The aim of the study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of tDCS in reducing the pain among patients with chronic knee OA and to modulate the plastic changes in brain structure.

A total of 80 patients with KOA will be recruited by the convenience sampling to participate in this two group pretest-posttest, double blinded randomized clinical study. After the demographics, recruited 80 patients with KOA will be randomly divided into two groups, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) group and conventional physiotherapy (CPT) group with by block randomization. Patients with KOA in tDCS group will be provided with Active tDCS and conventional physiotherapy and CPT group will receive structured exercises protocol. Pre-post changes in the outcome measures will be documented at baseline and end of 8-week post intervention. Each session will last for approximately 30 minutes duration.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Digitalized pain pressure algometer (ALGO-DS-01)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Transcranial direct current stimulation
  - OTHER: Conventional Physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04320875
