CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07184281
Title: Effectiveness of School-Based Time-Restricted Eating for the Prevention and Control of Obesity in Children
Official Title: Effectiveness of School-Based Time-Restricted Eating for the Prevention and Control of Obesity in Children: A Cluster-Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1380
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Childhood obesity has become a major global public health challenge. Obesity can not only affects children's physical and mental health during childhood but may also persist into adulthood, significantly increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease. Therefore, effective prevention and control of childhood obesity can shift the prevention window forward and promote the prevention of cardiovascular disease. Recently, time-restricted eating (TRE) has gained attention in adult studies for its feasibility, as it involves "time control without calorie restriction," demonstrating weight loss effects comparable to energy restriction and higher feasibility. Here, the investigators designed a school-based cluster randomized controlled trial to investigate the effectiveness of 12-hour TRE in preventing and controlling childhood obesity. Schools were randomly assigned to either the intervention group or the control group, and participants were recruited from each school at the class level, ensuring that each group included at least 690 children. The control group received routine health education, while the intervention group received 12-hour TRE in addition to routine health education. After a 9-month intervention period (one academic year), the two groups will be compared in terms of weight management and childhood obesity prevalence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Childhood obesity has become a major global public health challenge. With rapid economic development, the prevalence of childhood obesity in China has risen from 0.1% in 1985 to 7.3% in 2024. Childhood obesity not only affects children's physical and mental health during childhood but may also persist into adulthood, significantly increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease. Therefore, effective prevention and control of childhood obesity can shift the prevention window forward and promote the prevention of cardiovascular disease. The age distribution of childhood obesity shows that the peak incidence occurs between 7 and 12 years of age, making this a critical period for prevention and control. During this stage, children are in school, spending half their time there, and exhibit strong behavioral plasticity. Interventions based on school settings may be an effective approach to preventing and controlling childhood obesity. Previous experimental studies have shown that comprehensive school-based interventions (primarily including reducing overeating, high-energy diets, and sedentary behavior, while increasing physical activity) can significantly reduce BMI and childhood obesity prevalence, but their feasibility is limited. Recently, time-restricted eating (TRE) has gained attention in adult studies for its feasibility, as it involves "time control without calorie restriction," demonstrating weight loss effects comparable to energy restriction and higher feasibility. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that a 12-hour TRE program implemented in schools may enhance the prevention and control of childhood obesity, but there is currently a lack of empirical evidence, particularly regarding its preventive effects on childhood obesity. Here, the investigators designed a school-based cluster randomized controlled trial to investigate the effectiveness of 12-hour TRE in preventing and controlling childhood obesity. Schools were randomly assigned to either the intervention group or the control group, and participants were recruited from each school at the class level, ensuring that each group included at least 690 children. The control group received routine health education, while the intervention group received 12-hour TRE in addition to routine health education. After a 9-month intervention period (one academic year), the two groups will be compared in terms of weight management and childhood obesity prevalence.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in BMI-Z score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: 12-hour time-restricted eating
  - BEHAVIORAL: health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 10 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07184281
