CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03500016
Title: Abnormalities in the Effects of insulin and Exercise on Glucose- and Lipid Metabolism in Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Metabolic and Molecular Abnormalities in Response to insulin and Exercise in Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Type 2 diabetes are characterized by insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. insulin resistance plays a major role for the increased risk of heart disease seen in type 2 diabetes. No specific treatment of insulin resistance is currently available, except from increased physical activity and weight-loss.

insulin resistance is characterized by abnormalities in the use of glucose and fat in the muscle, and is associated with abnormal function and content of mitochondria (the power houses of our cells) as well as increased levels of fat within the muscle.

The investigators believe that abnormalities in the use of glucose and fat in muscle cells in response to insulin and exercise can explain why insulin resistance is associated with abnormal function and content of mitochondria and an increased amount of fat in skeletal muscle of patients with type 2 diabetes and individuals with obesity.

The major purpose of our project is, therefore, to investigate the effect of insulin in physiological concentrations and the effect of both acute exercise and 8 weeks of high intensity interval exercise-training on

1. insulin sensitivity, body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness and energy metabolism,
2. insulin signaling, mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy in skeletal muscle

4\) regulators of storage of fat into lipid droplets and their interaction with mitochondria in skeletal muscle 5) acetylation and phosphorylation of enzymes (proteins) in major metabolic and signaling pathways, as well as 6) transcriptional and signalling networks regulating mitochondrial biogenesis and substrate metabolism.

The effects of insulin in physiological concentrations and a novel exercise-intervention combining biking and rowing will be studied in a comprehensive study of obese patients with type 2 diabetes compared with weight-matched obese and lean healthy controls.

The effects of insulin before and after 8 weeks HIIT on whole-body metabolism will be evaluated by measurement of maximal oxygen consumption, and well-known methods to determine insulin-stimulated glucose utilization, insulin secretion and use of glucose and fat. Skeletal muscle and fat tissue samples obtained under these conditions will be used for assessment of tissue-levels of specific sets of genes and enzymes known to be involved in insulin action, quality and size of mitochondria, and storage of fat into lipid droplets and their interaction with mitochondria.

This project is expected to provide important and novel insight into the causal relationship between insulin resistance, accumulation of fat and abnormal content and function of mitochondria in skeletal muscle in type 2 diabetes.

The investigators ultimately expect that our findings will help us to identify novel molecules or enzymatic pathways, which can be used to develop drugs that can enhance or mimic the effects of insulin and exercise, and hence be used in the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes and heart disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND insulin resistance (IR) plays a major role for the increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Targeted treatment of IR in affected tissues is, however, almost non-existing, except for weight-loss and physical activity. The central hypothesis of this proposal is that abnormalities in glucose and lipid metabolism as well as defects in molecular processes regulated by insulin and exercise can explain the link between IR, mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid accumulation observed in skeletal muscle in obesity and T2D. Focusing on these metabolic and molecular abnormalities, the major goal of our project is to discover novel targets for the treatment of IR and mimicking exercise, which can be used in the prevention and treatment of T2D and CVD.

T2D, obesity and other high risk conditions are characterized by IR in skeletal muscle, the major site of insulin-mediated glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent (1-3). In T2D, failure of the pancreatic β-cells to compensate for this abnormality causes hyperglycemia, which further aggravates the risk of CVD. Despite extensive research, the exact metabolic and molecular mechanisms underlying IR are not fully understood. At the metabolic level, the investigators and others have demonstrated that IR in obesity and T2D is characterized by impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and glucose storage, but also reduced insulin-mediated increase in glucose oxidation and attenuated suppression of lipid oxidation and circulating levels of free fatty acids (lipolysis) in response to insulin (2,3). At the molecular level these metabolic abnormalities are associated with reduced insulin signaling to glucose transport through IRS-1, PI3K, Akt, AS160 and RAC1 and to glycogen synthesis through impaired insulin action on glycogen synthase in skeletal muscle (1-10). Moreover, IR is consistently associated with accumulation of lipid content and different measures of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle of patient with T2D, obesity and high-risk individuals (1-3,11,12).

In addition, there is accumulating evidence of increased glycolysis (13-15) and resistance to the beneficial effect of exercise in T2D and obesity (16-18). The changes in substrate metabolism in IR conditions seem to be associated with a specific metabolomic signature that includes increased circulating levels of branched-chain amino acids and α-hydroxybutyrate, and reduced levels of glycine (19-23). Finally, impaired adipose tissue expandability in T2D, obesity and other high risk conditions may play a role in the pathogenesis of IR and T2D by leading to increased secretion of inflammatory factors and overflow of free fatty acids to cause ectopic lipid deposition in liver and muscle (24). Genetic variants found to be associated with T2D, obesity and body composition in large GWAS-studies suggest a role for several transcriptional factors and signaling pathways in adipose tissue expansion and inflammation (25,26).

Effects 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - insulin sensitivity
  - Whole body composition (lean body mass, total, and regional fat mass)
  - Cardiorespiratory fittness/maximal oxygen consumption

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High intensity interval training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03500016
