CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05539547
Title: Effect of NMES on Quadriceps Muscle Strength and Endurance in Patients With COPD
Official Title: Effect of Neuromuscular Electrical Nerve Stimulation on Quadriceps Muscle Strength and Endurance in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a respiratory condition that results in a mixture of small airway disease and parenchymal destruction, changes that are characteristic of emphysema. COPD is also characterized by persistent airflow limitation, an aspect which is noted to be a major cause of morbidity and disease burden worldwide. One in every 8 patients who suffer an exacerbation requires to be admitted to the hospital. Due to repercussions that arise both because of the systemic effects of COPD and also the aggravating factors due to the exacerbation, new adjuncts to treatment are being researched. NMES is a non-invasive and non-addictive means of muscle contraction and was introduced as a rehabilitation means post muscle injury, surgery, and eventually in certain diseases and its use in the treatment of patients with COPD is being looked into.

This research study shall adopt a quantitative approach. A Randomised Control Trial (RCT) shall be used to investigate the effect of Neuromuscular Electrical Nerve Stimulation on quadriceps muscle strength and endurance. Approximately 103 patients shall be randomly enrolled in the control group and the experimental group. The control group shall receive Physiotherapy as already provided by physiotherapists including chest and mobility exercises. The experimental group shall undergo Physiotherapy with the addition of NMES. To assess the effect of NMES on quadriceps strength and endurance, quadriceps strength shall be tested through the use of a hand-held dynamometer. Endurance shall be tested through a quadriceps endurance test which requires the leg to be extended against a weight corresponding to 70% of the 1 repetition maximum with a pace of 12 movements per minute, a test which will be stopped when the patient can no longer perform the movement despite strong verbal prompting and encouragement and the standardised 1-minute sit-to-stand. All tests are to be conducted before the intervention, hence on admission to the local general hospital and prior discharge to a maximum of 30 days from the date of admission. All tests shall be done in the patients' ward setting. Also, a diagnostic ultrasound scan of this group of muscles shall be performed upon admission and before discharge by a consultant radiologist at the radiology department. The Borg scale shall be used to assess the shortness of breath of the patients following the 1-minute sit-to-stand.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a respiratory condition that results in a mixture of small airway disease and parenchymal destruction, changes which are characteristic of emphysema. Research showed that COPD is also characterized by persistent airflow limitation, an aspect which some authors noted to be a major cause of morbidity and disease burden worldwide. One in every 8 patients who suffer an exacerbation of COPD requires to be admitted to the hospital. Literature also reported that re-admissions following discharge amounted to more than 20% within the first 20 days and continued to increase to approximately 33% within the first 90 days post-discharge from the hospital. Therefore, given that a high portion of patients will require further hospitalisations, this will impose a financial burden on the health care systems.

It emphasized the fact that apart from the pulmonary changes and respiratory impairments, patients diagnosed with COPD have systemic morphological and biomechanical changes. Morphological changes include a reduction in the cross-sectional area and a reduction in muscle mass. Biochemical changes are primarily due to long-term use of steroids and Chronic Systemic Inflammatory Syndrome (CSIS). Given such changes, more energy is required during activities of daily living (ADLs) by such patients, resulting in shortness of breath (SOB) following minimal exercises.

Due to muscle dysfunction, these patients develop physical deconditioning which is one of the primary symptoms reported. The primary cause of this relates to the ventilatory limitations present.

The severity of the condition and related pathophysiological changes also predict the level of exercise tolerance, with a worse condition resulting in increased levels of muscle atrophy, weakness affecting mostly the lower limbs, and poor oxidative capacity. In 2008, it was noted that the majority of patients with a severe form of COPD were so frail or dyspnoeic, making them unable to tolerate sufficient exercise training intensities required to improve their level of physical activity. Such patients were noted to become dyspnoeic following low-intensity physical activity, resulting in a decreased physical activity to control their SOB, with ultimately one-third of these patients exhibiting quadriceps muscle weakness related to immobility and decreased exercise tolerance.

Deterioration in muscle strength was the most commonly reported symptom characteristic of limb muscle dysfunction in people with COPD. In 2014, Mathur et al. noted that the occurrence of COPD patients experiencing early termination of exercise related to leg fatigue was approximately 40% more common than patients rating of SOB. A further 30% of the population sample reported equal leg fatigue and dyspnoea.

The higher the number of patients with COPD that become immobile, the more muscle mass is lost, and this loss continues to increase in periods of hospitalisation due to an exacerbation. Gosse

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Quadriceps Strength
  - Change in Quadriceps Endurance using the Quadriceps Endurance Testing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Neuromuscular Electrical Nerve Stimulation
  - OTHER: Usual Physiotherapy treatment (Chest Physiotherapy and mobility)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 79 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05539547
