CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05538442
Title: Trail Sciences Clecy: Markers of Performances
Official Title: Kinetics of the Determinants of Performance During an Ultra-trail
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The Scientific Trail Protocol of Clécy - Suisse Normande (TCS) is exploratory study including several specific protocols, on a real event of 156 km on hilly terrain (6000 m of difference in level), allowing to evaluate the constraints and immediate (6000 m of difference in altitude), allowing to evaluate the constraints and the immediate physiological adaptations under race conditions.

The evaluations will be performed by collecting biological and neurobiological variables before, during and after the race (inflammation, hydro-electrolytic, cardiac, renal and muscular balance), physiological parameters whose thermoregulatory processes (core temperature, skin temperature, hydration), neuromuscular fatigue, cognitive performances (motivation, attention, emotion) and sleep changes (before, during and after the race).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Running has deep evolutionary roots in human history. The ability and the ability and propensity to run long distances would have appeared about 2 million years ago when humans were hunting to exhaustion in order to feed themselves with meaty foods. Today, these exceptional endurance abilities are the modern manifestation of a unique human trait that helps make humans what they are.

For 20 years, the popularity of ultra-endurance disciplines (effort whose duration is greater than 6 hours) is exponential. Ultra-trail in particular has not escaped this popular worldwide craze. At the same time, the scientific community, particularly the medical community, is beginning to take an interest in this discipline. It is important to It is important to understand how a human organism is able to produce an effort of several tens of hours hours continuously. It is necessary to measure the short, medium and long term repercussions on the health of It is necessary to measure the short, medium and long term repercussions on the health of ultra-trail to ensure its development and its practice in complete safety, in a society that is becoming more and more sedentary.

The lack of data found in the literature on these issues is essentially related to the the difficulty of setting up scientific protocols during events, associated with the preponderant place of the trail discipline, on which the project in Clécy,Normandy is originated.

A consortium composed of several local research teams (Normandy Caen University Hospital), national and international research teams, propose to set up a common protocol to better explore and understand the time course of the psychophysiological mechanisms that contribute to performance during an ultra trail. For this purpose, measurements will be taken before, during and after the Ultra Trail (156 km) in 60 voluntary and experienced runners. This scientific study, so complete with a dedicated race, is the first of its type in ultra-trail.

This experimental study will include 60 subjects, men and women, experienced in ultra trail running events and with no contraindications to the practice of this discipline.

This experimental group will participate in a 156 km / 6000mD+ race (between 24 and 60 hours of running) and will take measurements at each lap (every 26 km). Hypothesis tested: The aim of this work is to evaluate the time course of parameters contributing to the performance/skills during a run of 156 km with a positive elevation difference of 6000 m.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core body temperature 1 changes from baseline
  - Biomechanical properties1
  - Biomechanical properties2
  - Biomechanical properties3
  - Spatial cognition evaluations from baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physiological recordings

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05538442
