CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05577546
Title: The Effect of Conservative Treatment on Gait Biomechanics in Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
Official Title: The Effect of Conservative Treatment on Gait Biomechanics in Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a three-dimensional complex progressive structural deformity of the growing spine. Asymmetric changes in both the anatomical structure and strength of the muscles due to deformity affect weight distribution and joint moments in the trunk and lower extremities. As the spine transfers loads through the pelvis, asymmetry in the spinal alignment creates structural or functional changes involving other parts of the kinetic chain. The deviations caused by the deformity in all three planes and the responses to it affect the kinetics and kinematics of the trunk and extremities. A number of kinetic and kinematic changes such as decreased hip muscle strength, asymmetric lateral stepping, decreased hip and pelvic joint range of motion, especially in the frontal and transverse planes, and ground reaction force asymmetry has been demonstrated in patients with AIS. Understanding the postural changes and correction strategies that affect the displacement of the center of mass, ground reaction force and center of pressure during standing and walking in adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis is fundamental to understanding the nature of the disease, disease management and guiding rehabilitation both conservative treatment and after surgery. Based on this, it was aimed to objectively measure the biomechanical effects of the forces applied to the body in the brace to control deformity and prevent progression during the growth period, to determine postural control strategies, kinetic and kinematic changes in these patients with treatment by applying MOOR-S model brace and Schroth Three-Dimensional Scoliosis Exercise Treatment as a conservative treatment method on patients with AIS. In addition, it was also aimed to determine lower extremity inequality by measuring dynamic leg length with gait analysis in individuals with functional leg length discrepancy due to scoliosis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is a three-dimensional complex progressive structural deformity of the growing spine. Asymmetric changes in both the anatomical structure and strength of the muscles due to deformity affect weight distribution and joint moments in the trunk and lower extremities. As the spine transfers loads through the pelvis, asymmetry in the spinal alignment creates structural or functional changes involving other parts of the kinetic chain. The deviations caused by the deformity in all three planes and the responses to it affects the kinetics and kinematics of the trunk and extremities. Various postural compensatory strategies emerge to maintain a stable position and energy conservation in deviation of the center of mass. Thorax-pelvis coordination plays an important role in maintaining the stability of the whole body in normal walking, the thorax and pelvis counter-rotate towards each other, minimizing the angular momentum of the trunk. In individuals with idiopathic scoliosis, higher in-phase and lower anti-phase coordination in the transverse planes in walking; less coordination consistency were observed in the transverse and frontal planes compared to healthy controls. Most of the studies on gait in AIS have concluded that there is no significant difference in walking speed, cadence and stride width in scoliosis patients and healthy controls. However, decreased hip and pelvic motion, increased energy consumption for gait, step pattern asymmetry, and ground reaction force asymmetry were observed in patients with AIS. A number of kinetic and kinematic changes such as decreased hip muscle strength, asymmetric lateral stepping, decreased hip and pelvic joint range of motion, especially in the frontal and transverse planes, and ground reaction force asymmetry has been demonstrated in patients with AIS. None of the studies included follow-up, most of them did not use EMG, the relationship with curvature types was not clearly revealed, and no treatment effect and follow-up results were evaluated. With this study, the deficiency in the literature will be tried to be overcome, especially in terms of the effect of conservative treatment on gait. Understanding the postural changes and correction strategies that affect the displacement of the center of mass, ground reaction force and center of pressure during standing and walking in adolescents with idiopathic scoliosis is fundamental to understanding the nature of the disease, disease management and guiding rehabilitation both conservative treatment and after surgery. Based on this, it was aimed to objectively measure the biomechanical effects of the forces applied to the body in the brace to control deformity and prevent progression during the growth period, to determine postural control strategies, kinetic and kinematic changes in these patients with treatment by applying MOOR-S model brace and Schroth Three-Dimensional Scoliosis Exercise Treatment as a conservative treatment 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body center of mass
  - Center of pressure
  - Thorax-pelvis coordination pattern
  - Dynamic leg length
  - Trunk, pelvis and lower extremity kinetics

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Moor S brace treatment
  - OTHER: Schroth Three-Dimensional Scoliosis Exercise Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05577546
