CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04667338
Title: A Study to Collect Information of People With Narcolepsy in Spain
Official Title: Observational, Multicentre, Cross-sectional Study to Describe Diagnosis and Treatment Patterns in Narcolepsy Patients in Real Life Practice in Spain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 214
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to review information of people with a sleep condition called narcolepsy. Narcolepsy is a condition that causes extreme sleepiness during the day including falling asleep suddenly. Study doctors will review the medical records of the participants from sleep clinics in Spain. They will do this from 1 year before the participant was diagnosed with narcolepsy up to the start of this study.

Participants will visit the sleep clinic once. During this visit, the study doctors will carry out a short medical exam. Participants will also complete a few questionnaires during this visit. If participants cannot visit the clinic for any reason, the clinic staff will arrange a phone call instead.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a non-interventional, cross-sectional study with retrospective medical chart review conducted in public and private Spanish sleep clinics, to describe the management of adult participants diagnosed with narcolepsy defined by ICDS-3 in real world practice.

This study will enroll approximately 196 participants (137 with NT1 and 59 with NT2). Participants will be enrolled in 2 cohorts:

* Cohort A: NT1 Participants
* Cohort B: NT2 Participants

The data will be collected retrospectively through clinical records and at study visit (clinical and demographic data, and participant related outcomes \[PRO\]) in an electronic case report form (eCRF).

This multi-center study will be conducted in Spain. The overall duration of this study is approximately 24 months. Participants will attend a single visit in the participating centers. In the event of a possible outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) participants will have a telepathic visits, the invitation to participate, the obtention of participant's informed consent and the collection of participant's questionnaires will be carried out remotely (by phone or via email).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants Categorized Based on Treatment by Narcolepsy Type Since Diagnosis up to Study Visit
  - Percentage of Participants Categorized Based on Non-Pharmacological Treatments Patterns by Treatment Status
  - Percentage of Treated or Naïve (Untreated) Participants for the Type of Pharmacological Treatment Status Since Diagnosis
  - Percentage of Participants With the Use of Each Type of Treatment Stratified by Type of Hospital (Public or Private Centers)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04667338
