CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06551779
Title: Efficacy of Perineural Injection With Dextrose Versus Therapy Conventional Physics in Patients With Bell's Palsy
Official Title: Efficacy of Perineural Injection With Dextrose Versus Therapy Conventional Physics in Patients With Bell's Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Bell´s Palsy, a lower motor neuron injury that causes facial asymmetry due to facial weakness ranging from mild to total paralysis. Most of cases without determining a definitive established cause. The only authenticated findings are inflammation and edema of the facial nerve. In Mexico, it is among the first causes of medical attention. In the Mexican Clinical Practice Guide for Bells Palsy, thermotherapy, massage, and active exercises are recommended for its management. Perineural dextrose injection therapy (PIT) is a new treatment for peripheral neuropathy, which consists of injecting 5% buffered dextrose close to nerve pathways to restore nerve function and movement. Objective: Determine the effectiveness of perineural injection with dextrose versus conventional physical therapy for the treatment of patients with Bell´s palsy. Material and methods: Clinical trial, experimental, prolective, longitudinal, comparative and heterodemic. Resources and infrastructure: It will be carried out within the facilities of the Unidad de Medicina Física y Rehabilitación región centro. In human resources, doctors both specialists and residents in Rehabilitation Medicine and physical therapists. In material resources, stationery, for electroneuromyography study, perineural injection therapy, hand hygiene and disinfection, and for conventional rehabilitation therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of dextrose perineural injection therapy while motivating and serving as a foundation for future studies to compare or create alternatives and therapeutic methods tailored to the needs patients, with the goal of improving functionality and aesthetics.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Efficacy in functionality
  - Recovery in time
  - Functionality facial

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: inyección perineural con solución de dextrosa tamponada

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06551779
