CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07295470
Title: Sleep and Activity For Eating Disorders
Official Title: Sleep and Activity For Eating Disorders (SAFE): a Cross-sectional and Prospective Study on the Sleep Parameters.
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The SAFE (i.e., Sleep and Activity For Eating disorders) study aims to investigate the characteristics of sleep, daytime activity, and circadian rhythms in a sample of patients with eating disorders-specifically anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder-as well as the relationship between these variables and physiological parameters (i.e., body mass index, hormone levels, blood chemistry parameters) and psychological parameters (i.e., levels of depression and anxiety, body image, eating-disorder symptoms).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The central aim of the study is to describe sleep characteristics in a population of patients with eating disorders (i.e., anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder) attending the Center for Eating and Nutrition Disorders of the Istituto Auxologico Italiano (Piancavallo branch) - San Giuseppe Hospital.

Sleep will be characterized through the following assessments:

1. actigraphy combined with salivary melatonin measurement;
2. collection of self-report data regarding sleep characteristics and dream content (e.g., sleep and dream diary);
3. validated self-report questionnaires assessing sleep characteristics (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index - PSQI) and circadian rhythms (- reduced version of the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire - rMEQ).

Specifically, sleep characteristics will be assessed at home, during the month preceding admission to Piancavallo (Time 0), through:

1. validated self-report questionnaires assessing sleep characteristics (PSQI) and circadian rhythms (rMEQ);
2. collection of self-report data regarding sleep characteristics and dream content (e.g., sleep and dream diary), as well as actigraphy for at least one week.

Subsequently, throughout the entire inpatient stay (Time 1: first day of admission; Time 2: midpoint of the admission - 4 weeks; Time 3: the night before discharge), patients will be monitored using actigraphy and will undergo salivary melatonin measurement on the first and last day before discharge. During the same period, daily self-report data on sleep characteristics and dream content (e.g., sleep and dream diary) will be collected.

In these same patients, in addition to age, sex, anthropometric data, and blood chemistry parameters (including ghrelin, leptin, and orexin levels), as well as ongoing pharmacological treatment, the following will be assessed: presence and severity of body image distortion (Body Uneasiness Test - BUT , and Body Image Task - BIT), mood disorders (Beck's Depression Inventory - BDI, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - HADS), social anxiety related to physical appearance (Social Appearance Anxiety Scale - SAAS), severity of the eating disorder (Eating Disorder Inventory-3 - EDI-3, Yale-Food Addiction Scale - YFAS, and Binge Eating Scale - BES), intensity of the urge to engage in physical activity (State Urge to be Physically Active Questionnaire - SUPAQ), and individual differences in the expression of personality traits (HEXACO adjectives list). Measurements obtained through these psychometric tests will be collected at three timepoints: upon admission to the unit for rehabilitation (Time 1), around the midpoint of the rehabilitation program (Time 2: 4 weeks after admission), and at discharge (Time 3).

The secondary objectives will also include the following:

* Assessing the correlation of the above parameters with the intensity, duration, and circadian distribution of daytime physical activity using actigraphy and validated scales (SUPAQ); actigraphy wi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep efficiency (SE)
  - Chronotype
  - Orexin Levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Actigraphy
  - BIOLOGICAL: Collection of biological parameters
  - OTHER: Psychological testing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07295470
