CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05386784
Title: Effect of Raloxifene Plus Cholecalciferol and Cholecalciferol Alone on the Bone Mineral Density in Postmenopausal Women With Osteopenia
Official Title: Effect of Raloxifene Plus Cholecalciferol and Cholecalciferol Alone on the Bone Mineral Density in Postmenopausal Women With Osteopenia: an 1-year Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Osteoporosis is a very strong predictor of fractures with low BMD, but more than half of osteoporotic fractures actually occur in the osteopenic patient group. Therefore, it is important to prevent fractures by actively evaluating fracture risk even in patients with osteopenia.

Raloxifene is a second-generation SERM agent that inhibits bone resorption and is used for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The clinical effect of raloxifene has already been demonstrated in the Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) study, a large-scale RCT, to increase BMD and improve lipid profile. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Raloxifene plus cholecalciferol in postmenopausal women with osteopenia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Backgroud : Osteoporosis is a powerful predictor of fractures with low BMD, but more than half of osteoporotic fractures occur in osteopenia. Therefore, it is important to start drug treatment after diagnosis of osteoporosis, but it is also important to prevent fractures by actively evaluating the risk of fractures in patients with osteopenia. Raloxifene is a selective oestrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has beneficial effects on bone and lipid profile and has been approved by the FDA as a treatment to prevent osteoporosis. However, studies on the efficacy of Raloxifene plus cholecalciferol in osteopenia patients lack evidence.

Aim : This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of raloxifene plus cholecalciferol in postmenopausal women with osteopenia.

Methods : A prospective, single-center, randomized, opne label, parallel, intervention study in 112 patients investigating the difference in bone mineral density between raloxifene plus cholecalciferol group and cholecalciferol group. Study participants are randomly assigned using the R procedure in a 1:1 ratio at enrollment. Each participant takes raloxifene plus cholecalciferol or cholecalciferol for 48 weeks. All participants were tested for bone turnover markers, routine chemistry, and lipid profile at baseline and 6-month intervals. In addition, at baseline and 48 weeks, DXA, whole spine x-ray, quantitative CT, bioimpedance analysis, muscle function test (handgrip test, jump power), and EQ-5D test.

Perspectives : More than half of osteoporotic fractures occur in patients with osteopenia. This study will confirm the effect of Raloxifene plus cholecalciferol on bone density and show changes in muscle function and lipid metabolism. Through this, early and active treatment can be suggested as a new guideline for preventing osteoporosis and osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women with osteopenia.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMD lumbar spine

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Raloxifene plus cholecalciferol
  - DRUG: Cholecalciferol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05386784
