CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06658236
Title: Upper Extremity Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation and Chest Expansion Exercises in Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Upper Extremity Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation and Chest Expansion Exercises on Thoracic Mobility in Children With Cerebral Palsy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Thoracic mobility is the mobility of the thoracic spine, and the rib cage is often measured by the degree of thorax expansion during breathing. Thoracic mobility is affected by many reasons, such as breathing mechanics, muscle stiffness, a sedentary lifestyle, and poor posture. The risk of respiratory illness should be assessed in all individuals with Cerebral palsy. Poor mobility of the thoracic will lead to limited breathing capacity and difficulty in daily life activities. Increasing thoracic mobility enhances dynamic alignment and functional movement. Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF) of upper extremity and chest expansion exercise can improve thoracic mobility. In this method, a physiotherapeutic approach is used in muscle strengthening, lengthening, and endurance training. The study aims to analyze the effect of an upper limb training program based on PNF techniques and chest expansion exercises on the thoracic mobility of a cerebral palsy patient.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The current study will be a randomized control trial; data will be collected from the Lahore Garrison Institute of Special Education. The study will include 14 patients who are equally divided into two groups and randomly allocated. Inclusion criteria for the study will be either gender of CP patients at Gross Motor Function Classification System level I to III, who had no orthopedic surgery in the last 6 months and have a diagnosis of CP by doctors. Patients with scoliosis and any acute or current respiratory infection or other respiratory conditions, such as asthma or influenza, will be excluded from the study. One experimental group will perform upper extremity PNF combined with elastic resistance bands; the other group will perform chest expansion exercises, which are upper extremity flexion, abduction, and external rotation exercises with an elastic band. The outcomes to be analyzed will be thoracic mobility. Data collection will be done before and after the intervention. Tools used for data collection will be Brompton BPAT breathing pattern assessment tool (BPAT) and chest cirtometry. Data will be analyzed through SPSS version 23.00.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Brompton BPAT (Breathing Pattern Assessment Tool)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation
  - OTHER: Chest Expansion Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06658236
