CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04295824
Title: Skin Pathology Assessment With Optical Technologies
Official Title: Skin Pathology Assessment With Optical Technologies (SPOT): a Cross- Sectional Clinical Study in Atopic Dermatitis Patients and Healthy Subjects
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The Skin Pathology assessment with Optical Technologies (SPOT) study aims to assess the feasibility of recently developed light-based skin imaging tools such as Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) for the study of eczema (dermatitis \[AD\]).

Tools such as OCT have enabled us to see beneath the skin surface, allowing us to see changes in our skin which are hidden and impossible to assess by eye, simply by shininGHarmless light into the skin. The investigators want to understand what these changes represent in the broader context of eczema.

To do this, the investigators would like to recruit 60 volunteers who have a range of different eczema severities. The investigators would also like to recruit 20 healthy volunteers, who have never suffered from eczema. All volunteers would be aged between 11 and 60.

The study is based at the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield, with consent and sample-collection taking place at either the hospital's Clinical Research Facility or the Sheffield Children's Hospital. The study consists of aromasingle main visit, which is expected to take approximately 3 hours, and a short follow up visit 2-4 weeks later.

During the main study visit, the investigators will collect a range of measurements from the inner elbows and cheeks usinGHarmless topical probes (Including OCT). These measurements include information about the skin's layers, blood flow, composition, water loss, acidity and redness. The investigators will also collect some samples, including tape-strips, a saliva sample and blood samples. For adult participants the investigators will also collect 2-4 skin biopsies from the inner elbows, which involves removing small pieces of skin under a local anaesthetic.

It is our hope that by demonstrating the advantages of new harmless imaging techniques, the investigators can reduce the need for invasive procedures in the future. Long term, this may help us to improve the way healthcare professionals monitor and treat eczema.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 80 participants will be recruited for the study spread equally across 4 cohorts, those with healthy skin, and those with a mild/moderate/severe eczema/dermatitis \[AD\] lesion on their inner elbow.

Our first point of contact with the participant involves providing them with a copy of the age-appropriate PIS and completing an expression of interest (EOI) form through phone/email/post. The EOI form contains questions for pre- screening purposes so that the likelihood of suitability can be estimated in order to avoid wasting the time of people who clearly don't meet the basic entry criteria (severity will need to be assessed during the screening visit). For volunteers who meet the basic entry criteria as outlined on the EOI form, the investigators will make it clear that the next step will be for a researcher on our team to contact them to arrange a screening/informed consent session at our test facility.

A member of the team will then contact interested volunteers to arrange their visit, at least 24 hours following the provision of the PIS. The bulk of the study consists of aromasingle visit, which contains the full screening process, informed consent and the study protocol (A second short follow up visit 2-3 weeks later is also required for those providing biopsies).

When the participant arrives at either the Sheffield Children's Hospital (For adolescents) or the Royal Hallamshire Hospital Clinical Research Facility (Adults), a nurse will talk the participant through the study and what it involves. They will also be asked some basic questions about their skin and current medication. Their skin will be inspected visually by eye to assess eligibility and cohort allocation. If the participant is eligible, then they will be required to fill in an informed consent form (11-15 year olds will complete an assent form, with their legal guardian completing a consent form).

Following consent, the participants will be taken to the Royal Hallamshire Hospital Skin Research room. They will be asked to roll up their sleeves such that their elbows are able to acclimatise for 20 minutes. While waiting, the scan sites will be marked on the participants elbows using a washable ink (Scan sites on the cheeks will not be marked with ink) and a skin questionnaire will be conducted which asks basic questions about the history of eczema at each scan site. When ready, images will be collected from the scan sites usinGHandheld probes which gently contact the skin surface. All of the images collected arecompletely harmless, and simply involve shining light into the skin. The following measurements will be collected in order: Clinical Photographs (From elbows and cheeks), trens-epidermal water loss measurements (From elbows and cheeks), skin redness (From elbows and cheeks), FTIR spectra (From elbows and cheeks), Optical Coherence Tomography (From elbows and cheeks), Laser doppler images (From elbows), Polarisation-sensitive Optical Coherence Tomography (From elb

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Local clinical severity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Skin imaging and Skin biopsy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04295824
