CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02681887
Title: Effect of Melatonin on Cardiometabolic Risk- FULL
Official Title: Effect of Melatonin on Cardiometabolic Risk- FULL
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
In a 12 week double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial, 120 subjects with obesity (BMI≥30 kg/m2) and pre-diabetes (HbA1c, 5.7-6.4%) will be randomly assigned 1:1 to receive either placebo or 2 mg of controlled-release melatonin, taken orally every evening 1 hour before bed. The investigators will assess melatonin's effect on insulin sensitivity by performing a hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose clamp and β-islet cell function measured using a hyperglycemic clamp, as a primary endpoint. The investigator will also evaluating melatonin supplementation's effect on mean 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, nocturnal blood pressure, and potential intermediates including endothelial function using brachial ultrasound, catecholamine production using 24-hour epinephrine and norepinephrine excretion, and renin-angiotensin system activation using measurements of plasma renin activity, angiotensin II, and urine aldosterone excretion. The final endpoint will be to evaluate melatonin supplementation's effect on cellular cytokine and CC family chemokine expression as well as high sensitivity C-reactive protein, IL-6, and TNF-α.

There will be a 24 week cohort phase as an extension of the trial. This will be an open-label prospective study of 50 subjects recruited from the trial who will take 2 mg of controlled-release melatonin nightly for 24 weeks after completion of the 12-week trial. At the end of the cohort-phase (36 weeks after entry in the trial), the investigators will again assess the extended use of melatonin supplementation on 24-hour BP, and glycemic control (HbA1, fasting glucose).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All participants will be recruited locally in the Boston area, and all study visits and procedures will be conducted through Partners and the Harvard Catalyst.

Briefly, the trial-phase will consist of four visits, two as outpatient, and two as inpatient. The cohort-phase will consist of two additional outpatient visits. The screening outpatient visit will involve history taking, physical examinations (when appropriate), phlebotomy to measure circulating factors and urine pregnancy testing for female subjects. The 6-week outpatient check-up visit will be with a study coordinator. In addition to evaluating for adverse effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count. Phlebotomy will be performed to measure circulating factors. The two inpatient visits will require two overnight stays each; the procedures performed for these two inpatient stays will be identical, and will include: timed urine collection, measurement of brachial artery flow mediated dilation, phlebotomy (including an IV protocol using low dose heparin), hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp, hyperglycemic clamp, central blood pressure, and placement of an ambulatory blood pressure monitor that the participant will wear home for 24 hours and return by pre-paid FedEx mailer. We will take blood samples at each visit, collecting about 54 tablespoons (798.5 mL) of blood over the 36-week course of the study.

Outpatient visits: A screening visit will be scheduled when a participant expresses interest in the study and is deemed potentially eligible by the study coordinator after a telephone interview. At the screening visit, a study physician will obtain informed consent. Thereafter, a study physician will conduct a history and physical examination, and phlebotomy will be performed. Female subjects will provide urine for pregnancy testing. The purpose of the screening visit is to evaluate potential volunteers based upon the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed above, and to explain the purpose and procedures of the study to the volunteers. If someone is eligible and willing, a baseline inpatient visit will be scheduled.

A 6-week check up will be scheduled after the subject completes the initial inpatient visit. In addition to evaluating for adverse effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count. Phlebotomy will be performed to measure circulating factors.

For the cohort phase, 24- and 36-week check up visits will be scheduled after the subject completes the final inpatient visit. At these visits, in addition to evaluating for adverse effects, the coordinator will perform a pill-count. Phlebotomy will be performed to measure circulating factors.

Inpatient visits: Prior to each inpatient visit, participants will be mailed 9 bouillon packets (containing 50 mmol of sodium each) and instructed to consume 3 packets each day for three days prior to admission to the Clinical Trials Center; the purpose of this is to achieve high sodium balance, which is necessary for our measurements of the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in insulin sensitivity
  - change in beta-islet cell function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Melatonin
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02681887
