CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06479265
Title: Manipulating Cognitive Intensity During Aerobic Exercise
Official Title: Manipulating the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task Using Virtual Reality to Challenge Executive Function
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the performance effects of manipulating the properties of a cognitively engaging aerobic task. The overall goal of this proposal is to determine how changes in aspects of the task (selection time, number of sorting options) and inclusion of different dual task walking interferences can be used to challenge the cognitive domain of executive function in a range of healthy adults. The investigators hope to learn how to challenge people cognitively during exercise to promote mental benefits. Participants are invited as a possible participant because are a healthy adult. 40 participants will take part in the study. This research is being funded by the Clinical Exercise Research Center (CERC) in the Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy on the University of Southern California Health Sciences Campus.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PURPOSE

The purpose of this study is to investigate the performance effects of manipulating the properties of a cognitively engaging aerobic task. The overall goal of this proposal is to determine how changes in aspects of the task (selection time, number of sorting options) and inclusion of different dual task walking interferences can be used to challenge the cognitive domain of executive function in a range of healthy adults. The investigators hope to learn how to challenge people cognitively during exercise to promote mental benefits. Participants are invited as a possible participant because are a healthy adult. 40 participants will take part in the study. This research is being funded by the Clinical Exercise Research Center (CERC) in the Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy on the University of Southern California Health Sciences Campus.

PROCEDURES

If participants decide to take part, this is what will happen:

Study Visit: Participants will report to the CERC and read the informed consent with a study investigator. Participants will be given the opportunity to ask any questions about the study. If participants are willing to take part in the study, the participant will sign this informed consent agreeing to participate. Participant's training intervention task will then be randomized. All participants will participate in the same training but in different orders. At this start of the visit, the investigators will use questionnaires to determine eligibility to participate in the full study. Participants will undergo the following assessments (Approximate time 1.5 hours):

Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q): This is a common method of uncovering health and lifestyle issues before starting an exercise program. This short questionnaire will be used to reveals history of illness and if an issue is revealed it is advisable to seek doctor's advice before participating in exercise excluding participants from this study.

Prescreen Questionnaire: Prescreening should be conducted before immersion because there are pre-existing conditions that may increase the likelihood of side effects. Therefore, participants will complete a brief questionnaire to identify any pre-existing conditions that would exclude participants from this study.

SF 36 Questionnaire: Validated scientific questionnaire scoring nine quality of life factors: (1)physical functioning, (2)role limitations due to physical health, (3) role limitations due to emotional health, (4)energy/fatigue, (5)emotional well-being, (6)social functioning, (7)pain, (8) general health, (9) health change.

. Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA) to assess body composition: Multifrequency BIA will be performed on participants in order to determine body composition. Participants will be asked to stand on a scale-like device and grasp the handles. BIA works by passing multiple low energy frequencies through the hands and feet that participants will not feel. This test takes a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cognitive Task Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Phyical/Cognitve Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06479265
