CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03190889
Title: Neuromuscular Intervention Targeted to Mechanisms of ACL Load in Female Athletes
Official Title: Neuromuscular Intervention Targeted to Mechanisms of ACL Load in Female Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The overall goal of this project is to reduce risk of second anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury in vulnerable populations (active athletes between 14 = 24 years old) through the identification of relative injury risk groups based on subject-specific movement patterns prior to second injury, as well as through the determination of effect for differential rehabilitation protocols following initial ACL reconstruction and prior to return to sport. As nearly one-third of athletes who have a primary ACL injury and return to sport will experience a secondary injury, results from the proposed work will allow us to prospectively identify high risk patients who are the most appropriate recipients of enhanced treatment, including targeted training, which may reduce the risk of second ACL injury. Secondary ACL injury has the potential to end athletic careers, promote the development of osteoarthritis, and have debilitating effects on quality of life. Hence, the information gathered in this investigation will offer ACL injured athletes the optimal potential to reduce or potentially prevent these negative health effects before they are initiated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Importance of the problem. Second ACL injury, whether it is an insult to the ipsilateral graft or the contralateral ligament, is a growing problem after reconstruction. Besides missing an additional year of athletic participation, increasing health care costs, and increased psychological distress, re-injury and subsequent revision surgery have significantly worse outcomes compared with those after initial reconstruction. Second injuries have been reported to occur at a rate of 1 of 17 (6%) within the first two years of surgery. However, a second tear prevalence of 29% has been reported. This is substantially higher than initial ACL injuries, reported to occur at a rate of 1 in 60 to 100. Risk factors for second injury include younger athletes 6 who return to high-level sporting activities early. Both sexes are at risk for second ACL injury, with women reported as having higher risk of contralateral injury, and men having an increased risk of ipsilateral injury. Thus, it is critical to include both sexes in second ACL injury prevention programs.

Improvement in scientific knowledge and clinical practice: Patients have differential responses after ACL injury, including their functional abilities, movement biomechanics, neuromuscular performance, and quadriceps strength. Building from our prior funded work, the investigators propose to prospectively evaluate these varying patient characteristics in an attempt to identify distinct groups with differing levels of risk for second injury (Aim 1). Our previous work revealed that there were three risk groups among uninjured female athletes. The significance of identification of patient groups with distinct needs is profound. Prospective identification of at-risk patients who are the most appropriate recipients of enhanced treatment will likely reduce second ACL risk, and yield a more efficacious delivery of health care resources after ACLR. The Cincinnati group described this differentiation in ACL deficient patients as the 'rule of thirds,' with one third of patients able to function without limitations and not needing to undergo surgical stabilization, one third adapting their activity level without surgery, and one third requiring surgery to perform daily activities without knee instability. A classification scheme described by the University of Delaware also differentiates ACL deficient patients into groups of thirds including copers (no limit in abilities), non-copers (unable to function without knee instability) or potential copers (individuals who have the potential to function without ACLR). There is evidence these differences in functional abilities and movement characteristics persist after ACLR. A randomized clinical trial concluded individuals who exhibit poor knee stability and function after injury may require additional time to return to pre-injury functional levels. In addition, some may be unable to develop appropriate quadriceps strength symmetry to support a return to high-level sports.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With Second ACL Injury

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: HOME
  - OTHER: TNMT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03190889
