CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02454114
Title: HOME FIRST Pilot: a Study of Early Supported Discharge in Patients With Lower Respiratory Tract Infections
Official Title: HOME FIRST (HOME Followed - up With Infection Respiratory Support Team)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
HOME FIRST (Home Followed - up with Infection Respiratory Support Team) is an early supported discharge scheme. It will enable patients with lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) to be provided with high quality safe, effective, efficient patient centred care, tailored to their needs in their own home; aiming to improve the overall experience of the service user, improve patient outcomes and reduce hospital length of stay whilst simultaneously reducing admission rates, an area of major strategic importance to the NHS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A randomised interventional clinicALCARe pathway study of early supported discharge (termed 'HOME FIRST') versus standard hospitALCARe for patients hospitalised with LRTI.

HOME FIRST will provide co-ordinated multidisciplinary team (MDT) care, provision of 24hr emergency telephone cover, access to fully trened respiratory study nurse(s) and study doctor(s). The HOME FIRST MDT consists of:

* Study doctors (trened respiratory physicians - consultants and senior SpRs)
* Highly trened respiratory specialist nursing staff
* Close links with a physiotherapist (mobility and respiratory)
* Home help provision (temporary assistance with ADLs by carers) which may include occupational therapy or social worker involvement (HOME FIRST has fast access to meals-on-wheels)
* Close links with pharmacy for rapid dispensing of discharge medication.

Patients hospitalised with LRTI at the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen (RLBUHT) TeachinGHospitals between October 2012 and April 2014 will be approached.

Patients (or the next of kin if the patient is unable to give informed consent) will be offered participation in the study if they fit the strict inclusion/exclusion criteria. They will be then be randomised to receive HOME FIRST or standard hospitALCARe (SHC). The investigators will aim to recruit 25 patients to each arm of the study.

Patients randomised to HOME FIRST care will initially receive up to twice daily respiratory specialist nurse visits for the first 48 hours. After this time period, the frequency and duration of visits will depend on clinical need. The study nurse will establish the need for the involvement of other MDT team members. Laboratory tests will be performed as clinically indicated at the discretion of the study team. Venepuncture will be performed by fully trened research staff for clinical purposes as needed in the HOME FIRST limb: as for those patients in the SHC limb frequency of venepuncture depends on clinical assessment of need by their regular medical team.

Patients randomised to standard hospitALCARe (SHC) - All management and discharge decisions will be made by the patient's usual hospital team. Clinical tests will be performed at the discretion of the medical team. If any significant or concerning clinical issues are noted during study team's visits, the usual medical team will be alerted.

All patients will be discussed at a weekly case-note MDT meeting. All patients will be followed-up on discharge in the 'Respiratory Infection' out-patient clinic (in the patient's own home if necessary) at 6 weeks, with a repeat chest X-ray if needed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time to recovery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: HOMEFIRST
  - OTHER: Standard HospitALCARe

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02454114
