CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06502795
Title: Quadriceps Strengthening At Different Angles in Patellofemoral Pain
Official Title: Quadriceps Strengthening Under Limited Range of Motion Compared to Patient-guided Range of Motion on Pain, Kinesiophobia and Function in Individuals with Patellofemoral Pain: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Patellofemoral pain (PFP) is characterized by anterior, retropatellar and/or peripatellar pain during activities such as running, squatting, kneeling, or prolonged sitting. This condition affects approximately 25% of the general population. Given its complex and multifactorial etiology, PFP presents a significant treatment challenge. All clinical practice guidelines recommend strengthening the quadriceps femoris muscle as a key component in the management of PFP. However, exercises aimed at strengthening the quadriceps place considerable stress on the patellofemoral joint and are often poorly tolerated by patients. Clinicians commonly employ a conservative strategy that restricts open kinetic chain knee extension exercises to a limited range of 90° to 45° of knee flexion and closed kinetic chain exercises to 0° to 45°. Yet, restricting the range of motion may result in suboptimal outcomes for patients with higher load tolerance and may foster beliefs regarding knee joint fragility.

Objective: We aim to compare the effects of quadriceps femoris strengthening within a limited range to a patient-guided range of motion on pain, function, knee confidence, and kinesiophobia in individuals with PFP.

Methods: A randomized clinical trial will be conducted with two parallel groups, using a balanced 1:1 allocation and a double-blind design. The study population will include men and women aged 18 to 35 years, diagnosed with PFP. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the limited range group or the patient-guided range of motion group. They will participate in a supervised therapeutic protocol, with sessions averaging 40 minutes, twice a week, for six consecutive weeks. The primary outcome will be pain, assessed using the numerical pain rating scale (0-10), and kinesiophobia, assessed by the Tampa Scale . Secondary outcomes will include pain, self-reported function, measured by the Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AKPS), perceived improvement by the Global Rating of Change Scale, quadriceps strength, kinesiophobia and analgesic consumption.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants with patellofemoral pain will be randomized into two intervention groups. All participants will start with a warm-up on a stationary bike, followed by dynamic stretching exercises targeting the quadriceps, hamstrings, calf muscles, adductors, and abductors.

Open kinetic chain exercises will be performed using a leg extension machine, while closed kinetic chain exercises will include free squats and Bulgarian squats.

The Limited-RoM Quadriceps Strengthening group will perform open-kinetic-chain quadriceps strengthening exercises within a range of 90° to 45° of knee flexion and closed-kinetic-chain within a range of 0° to 45°.

The Patient-Guided-RoM Quadriceps Strengthening group will perform quadriceps strengthening exercises in both open and closed kinetic chains to the maximum tolerated by the patient based on their symptoms. The patient-guided maximum range of motion will be adjusted based on pain intensity, comfort, and patient response, following a shared decision-making approach with a clinician. The goal will be to maintain exercises at the greatest possible range of motion.

The identification of the patient-guided angle in both open and closed kinetic chain exercises will be determined as follows: the patient will perform 10 maximum repetitions on the leg with PFP, prioritizing range of motion over load. During the execution, the range of motion and load will be guided by the numerical pain rating scale and the perceived exertion scale.

Participants will complete 12 sessions, twice a week, supervised by a physiotherapist. Assessments will be conducted at baseline, six weeks, and six months, evaluating pain, function, kinesiophobia, crepitus, perception of effect, and weekly pain-killer consumption.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee pain intensity
  - Kinesiophobia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Protected Range Quadriceps Strengthening group
  - OTHER: Patient-Guided Range Quadriceps Strengthening group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06502795
