CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05831735
Title: The CRESCENDO Program (inCRease Physical Exercise and Sport to Combat ENDOmetriosis)
Official Title: Adapted Physical Activity as Complementary Treatment to Alleviate the Symptoms of Endometriosis? The CRESCENDO Program (inCRease Physical Exercise and Sport to Combat ENDOmetriosis)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Symptoms due to endometriosis cause psychological distress and interpersonal difficulties. However, studies on the psychological and social consequences of endometriosis are scarce, none has investigated life-partners' view of the disease and its consequences, and all adopt cross-sectional designs.

Research highlights the beneficial effects of adapted physical activity (APA), on chronic diseases. Thus, APA may have a beneficial effect on the symptoms and the psychological and social consequences of endometriosis. However, studies questioning the link between PA and endometriosis are rare. The scarcity of studies can be explained by the fact that due to the painful symptoms caused by the disease; women avoid practicing. It is worth noticing that, in the specific context of endometriosis, the barriers and facilitators to PA are not clearly identified. Otherwise, due to their cross-sectional design, it is not possible for these studies to establish a causal link between PA and endometriosis. A RCT is needed to test the effects of PA on endometriosis and its consequences.

The investigators' ambition is to fill these gaps in the existing literature and to allow a more comprehensive view of the phenomena at play in the relation between PA and endometriosis. To this end, the investigators will seek to achieve 2 objectives:

1. to identify the perceived effects of the disease on different areas of patients' lives, specifically areas related to PA, and to examine the reasons why patients are or are not physically active using a mixed methodology. Life-partners and women who do not suffer from this disease will also be involved in this study.
2. to investigate the effects of an APA program which includes therapeutic patient education (TPE) on 3 primary outcomes: perceived pain, QoL, and PA. A complementary aim is to determine the effect of the program on psychosocial and motivational variables, and on physiological variables.

Patients will be randomly assigned to 3 groups: (1) control, (2) APA, (3) APA + TPE. The investigators hypothesize that the program could (H1) complement current treatments for endometriosis by reducing pain, increasing QoL, increasing PA, (H2) have beneficial effects on patients' physical, psychological and social health as well as physiological factors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
a. Objectives and research hypothesis

1. Endometriosis and its consequences Endometriosis is a chronic disease characterized by growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity which affects 200 million women (The investigators use the word "women" generically. However, this study takes into account gender identity. In other words, a person with endometriosis may identify as a man, as woman or no/other gender.) worldwide. In addition to infertility, one of the most common symptoms of endometriosis is pelvic chronic pain. Evidence has suggested that these symptoms result from a local inflammatory peritoneal reaction caused by ectopic endometrial implants that undergo cyclic bleeding. This disease generates significant health care costs (e.g., 9,5 billion in France) because there is no definite cure for it and its management involves pain related treatment and/or surgery. Research showed that these treatments are only relatively effective in reducing pain.

   This pain can cause psychological distress and interpersonal difficulties that are as difficult to live with as the pain itself. Compared to women who do not suffer from endometriosis, women with this disease develop a lower sense of femininity, altered body image, higher levels of stress, depression and anxiety. These factors affect their quality of life (QoL) and can have deleterious effects on the response to treatment. Interpersonal relationships are also impacted such as romantic, professional and social relationships, because the symptoms make it difficult to move and carry out daily activities. However, studies on the psychological and social consequences of endometriosis are scarce, few have investigated life-partners' view of the disease and its consequences, and all adopt cross-sectional designs.
2. The effects of physical activity on endometriosis: a question for further investigation In their recent publication, INSERM (L'Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale) highlights the beneficial effects of regular physical activity (PA) and adapted physical activity (APA) on chronic diseases. Research suggested that (A)PA may have a beneficial effect on the physical symptoms and the psychological and social consequences of these diseases, thus may be also in endometriosis context. However, studies questioning the link between PA and endometriosis (and its symptoms) are rare, cross-sectional, and their results are inconsistent. The scarcity of studies can be explained by the fact that due to the painful symptoms caused by the disease; women do not practice much PA spontaneously and autonomously or even avoid practicing. In addition to this difficulty, widely recognized barriers to PA (i.e., lack of time, lack of adequate and nearby infrastructure, and low self-confidence and motivation for PA) can also contribute to the low level of PA. It is worth noticing that, in the specific context of endometriosis, the barriers and facilitators to the practice of PA are not 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Perceived pain and fatigue
  - Change in Perceived Quality of life; Endometriosis Health Profile 30
  - Change in Physical activity (PA) ; International Physical Activity Questionnaire & International Sedentary Assessment Tool

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity and education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05831735
