CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03188003
Title: Lumbo-pelvic Mobilization and Stabilization With Pilates Method in Low Back Pain and Movement Functionality
Official Title: Comparison of Lumbo-pelvic Mobilization and Stabilization Exercises With Pilates Method in Non-specific Chronic Low Back Pain and Movement Functionality
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Lumbar pain is one of the most common injuries being the cause of morbidity in the individual generating occupational disability with strong personal, social and economic impact. As one of the methods of treatment, Pilates is a method that has good results for the management of this dysfunction. However, it is not known exactly which approach Pilates can bring better results for this population. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to compare the effects of two types of Pilates method interventions on non-specific chronic low back pain.

A blinded randomized clinical trial, will be held. 28 patients divided randomly into two groups will be assessed, the Mobilization Pilates (MP) and the Stabilization Pilates (SP). Both groups will be formed by individuals of both sexes and aged 21 to 41 years with chronic low back pain. Both groups will receive 10 sessions of Pilates Methods twice a week, with each session taking an average of 50 minutes, therefore the MP will focus on a lumbo-pelvic mobilization exercises approach and the SP will focus on lumbo-pelvic stabilization exercises approach. At the beginning and end of the 5 weeks the individuals are evaluated to verify the presence of pain and disability with VAS of pain and Oswestry Questionnaire, and also with the Functional Movement Screen. Data will be analyzed statistically.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The change in Oswestry Low Back Disability Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise Movement Techniques based on mobilization
  - OTHER: Exercise Movement Techniques based on stabilization

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03188003
