CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06497595
Title: Lifestyle Intervention to Reduce the Risk of Sarcopenia in Adults With Diabetes & Obesity Treated With Semaglutide
Official Title: Exercise and Nutritional Intervention to Reduce the Risk of Sarcopenia in Older Adults With Type 2 Diabetes and Obesity Treated With Semaglutide: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This study aims to test whether a multi-disciplinary intervention involving exercise and nutrition can slow down the decline in physical function, muscle strength and mass in older adults (aged 65-75) with Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity treated with Semaglutide.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

In older people with T2D and obesity, treated with Semaglutide, does a multi-disciplinary intervention of exercise and nutrition compared to standard health recommendations:

1. Reduce the rate of decline in muscle mass?
2. Reduce the rate of decline in muscle strength?
3. Reduce the rate of decline in physical function?

Participants will:

Administer Semaglutide once weekly for 6 months. Visit the clinic once every 8 weeks for checkups and tests. Keep a diary of their exercise and food consumption. Participants in the intervention group will participate in an online exercise program and will receive personal nutritional counseling.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be conducted at the Center for Successful Aging with Diabetes, Sheba Medical Center and the Clinical Research Center for Diabetes, Hadassah Medical Center, Israel. The research will include a team with expertise in endocrinology, nutritional interventions, physical therapy, fitness training, medical imaging and biostatistics.

Participants aged 65-75 years, with both type 2 diabetes (T2D) and overweight / obesity, will be randomly allocated to either a (1) Semaglutide and multi-disciplinary intervention group (MDIG) comprised of exercise and diet or (2) Semaglutide and general health recommendations control group (GHRG). The drug dosage (Wegovy, Semaglutide) will be gradually increased every 4 weeks starting with 0.25 milligrams (mg) on week 0 and reaching 2.4 mg by week 16 as per the Wegovy label and maintained at 2.4 mg until the end of the trial (week 26). If a participant is unable to tolerate the 2.4 mg subcutaneous weekly dose (SC QW) of Semaglutide, the highest tolerable dose will be administered, with continued efforts to gradually increase the dose over time.

Participants in the MDIG will undergo a once-weekly group exercise training that will be delivered online, followed by 2 unsupervised home-based sessions. Weekly phone calls and a personal exercise diary will be used in order to measure adherence to the exercise program. In addition, personal nutritional counseling will be administered by a certified dietitian every 2 weeks for the first 4 weeks and every 4 weeks for the remaining 22 weeks via a virtual meeting platform (i.e., "ZOOM"). In addition, a 2-day food diary will be filled out for tracking and documentation. All group exercise training will be conducted via a virtual meeting platform as well. Participants allocated to the GHRG will receive general health recommendations both verbally and in writing and continue with their regular daily routine. They will also be required to complete a personal exercise and food diary.

Visit 1- screening: All potential eligible subjects will be invited for a screening Visit, during which the following information would be obtained: a) Informed consent; b) Eligibility criteria form; c) Physician interview and examination; d) Demographic and medical information; e) Medical History and recent blood work.

Visits 2 - 5: After being allocated to the two study arms, 4 additional measurement visits will be booked: (1) baseline - week 0 (visit 2), (2) week 8 (visit 3), (3) week 16 (visit 4), and (4) end of treatment - week 26 (visit 5). The following information will be collected on each visit: a) Anthropometric measurements, including waist and hip circumference, waist to hip ratio, weight, height and body mass index (BMI, calculated in kg/m2); b) Body composition measured with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA); c) Functional and strength assessments, including balance, aerobic capacity, gait speed and strength tests d) Blood pressure (BP) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Thigh muscle volume (TMV)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Wegovy (2.4 Mg Dose) + exercise & nutrition
  - OTHER: Wegovy (2.4 Mg Dose) + usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06497595
