CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06063031
Title: Nutritional Intervention and Rehabilitation Treatment in Patients With Post-COVID Condition
Official Title: Investigation of a Specialized Nutritional Intervention and Rehabilitation Treatment in Patients With Post-COVID Condition to Improve Their Quality of Life: ARACOV-02
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 146
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
SARS-CoV-2 is the coronavirus responsible for developing the disease known as COVID-19. Once the acute phase of the disease has passed, about 40% of the people who discharged continue to have symptoms, and of these, between 50 and 70% present them up to three months later. These persistent symptoms include physical aspects such as fatigue and dyspnea, but also cardiac such as palpitations, cognitive such as mental confusion, and psycho-emotional such as depression, anxiety, and stress. SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with a hyperinflammatory state, including excessive inflammatory cell infiltration, inflammasomes activation. In this context, omega-3 metabolites (Special Pro-resolving Mediators-SPMs) restore the balance in nutritional and molecular levels of eicosanoids. A more direct and targeted way to increase SPMs levels is Omega3 Essential Nutrition with natural SPMs taken by mouth. Today, there are dietary supplements containing SPMs (LIPINOVA®), made from fish oil through a fractionation process. LIPINOVA® is a nutritional supplement patented by Solutex GC S.L., obtained through several fractionation stages (extraction, purification, separation, concentration) from rich-in-omega-3 fish oil (without additives). Each capsule contains 498 mg of fish oil and 2 mg of tocopherols. This represents a variable quantity from 50 to 150 mg of EPA (20%), a variable quantity from 100 to 225 mg of DHA (30%), as well as the following quantities of EPA and DHA active metabolites, obtained from a pool of natural lipid mediators contained in omega-3 oil: 40-200 mcg of 17-HDHA, 25-200 mcg of 18-HEPE and 20-100 mcg of 14-HDHA.

In addition to this, the appearance of this new health condition, post-COVID condition, has once again led physiotherapists to update themselves in search of the best evidence to guide the examination and necessary rehabilitation interventions in this type of patient. Studies have shown how physiotherapy sessions that include a multimodal program could be the most indicated for this type of patients. Patients with this condition present an increase in fatigue, dyspnea and a decrease in their functional capacity and, therefore, a decrease in their quality of life, due to various pathogenic mechanisms that include chronic hyperinflammation.

These patients could obtain greater health improvements in terms of their quality of life if a therapeutical exercise and education program based on tele-rehabilitation is implemented together with a natural nutritional supplement that generates a systemic anti-inflammatory effect through SPMs (omega- 3).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients who have contracted COVID-19 usually show various symptoms during the infection: Fever, cough, generalized pain, gastrointestinal disturbances, dyspnea, and fatigue. The latter two symptoms occur in about half of patients worldwide, although they are even more common in Europe. In addition to these respiratory symptoms, the disease can also have effects at the muscular, neurological, and cardiovascular levels.

After the acute phase of the disease, approximately 40% of discharged patients still have symptoms, and of these, 50% to 70% have symptoms up to three months later. These persistent symptoms include physical aspects such as fatigue and shortness of breath, but also cardiac symptoms such as palpitations, cognitive symptoms such as mental confusion, and psychoemotional symptoms such as depression, anxiety, and stress.

However, it is also observed how this clinic can be maintained beyond three months. It is known that there is a group of patients, about 5-10%, who have persistent symptoms over a period of up to 2 years, and new symptoms may even appear, leading to persistent COVID. Although the terminology for designating patients with this persistent clinical condition is changing, on October 6, 2021, the WHO published a consensus document defining the post-COVID condition (CPCOVID).

The possible mechanisms contributing to the overall pathophysiology of CPCOVID are still unclear, and numerous factors have been proposed to date. A key element may be the presence of a state of chronic hyperinflammation. In the lung context, the virus activates innate immunity, leading to a cascade of inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin-6 (IL -6), IL -1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and reactive oxygen species. Some studies have attempted to demonstrate the presence of T cells and NK lymphocytes in these patients, making it appear that COVID is characterized by alterations in TCD4+ cells and TCD8+ cells.

Other proposed mechanisms include autoimmune mechanisms through the presence of autoantibodies that act against modulatory proteins that alter immune function. Also, the hypercoagulable state (thromboinflammatory state) associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection is responsible for the disproportionately high rates (20-30%) of thrombotic complications observed in patients with COVID-19 and autonomic nervous system involvement leading to autonomic dysfunction.

Therefore, controlling systemic inflammation and eliminating it in general is as important as eradicating the virus itself. In particular, omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA) are substrates that modulate the immune system response by promoting the resolution of inflammation by producing pro-resolving mediators that actively modulate and resolve the immune system response. Thus, omega-6 (ARA) and omega-3 fatty acids (EPA and DHA) are structural lipids, but the biological effects are carried out by their naturally produced metabolites (SPMs). In cases where the acute response of the immune syst

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in the Quality of life (EQ-5D)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Active
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06063031
