CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01873547
Title: Different Efficacy Between Rehabilitation Therapy and Stem Cells Transplantation in Patients With SCI in China
Official Title: Different Efficacy Between Rehabilitation Therapy and Umbilical Cord Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells Transplantation in Patients With Chronic Spinal Cord Injury in China
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The morbidity of spinal cord injury (SCI) is increasing year by year significantly in China. The methods to treat SCI patients in sequela stage update are poor. Though traditional rehabilitation therapy is the routine method to treat SCI in sequela stage, aiming to improve the neurological disorders of these patients, such as sensory disturbance, dyskinesia, autologous adjustment of blood pressure, dysfunction of urination, defecation and perspiration , etc. What's a pity, the efficacy of the rehabilitation therapy is unsatisfactory. Rehabilitation Therapy can prevent the process of muscle atrophy and joint stiffness. However, it can not repair the damaged nerve function. Studies show that mesenchymal stem cell transplantation can remarkably improve the neurological function of SCI in animals without any severe side effect.

In this study, 300 patients will be divided into three groups and the investigators will use mesenchymal stem cells derived from umbilical cord to treat 100 SCI patients. They will also follow up 100 patients who only receive rehabilitation and another 100 patients who accept neither stem cell therapy nor rehabilitation. On this basis, the investigators can compare the efficacy of these two treatments.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients enrolled in this study need to finish our whole follow-up survey, which is carried out by clinical doctors and epidemiologist.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assessment of changes in International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury according to American Spine Injury Association

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: cell therapy
  - OTHER: rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01873547
