CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03782155
Title: Effect of Supplementation With HMB and Glutamine in Wound Healing on Bloody Areas
Official Title: Effect of Supplementation With b- Hydroxy Methyl Butyrate and Glutamine in Wound HealinGHistology in Type 2 Diabetes and Controls Bloody Areas
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
A randomized controlled clinical trial in two groups of supplementation with HMB and glutamine. Each group consist in 25 patients with bloody areas, one group will receive and intervention with HMB and Glutamine and the other will receive a placebo with calcium caseinate.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A fundamental part of the integral management of wound healing in patients with bloody areas is nutrition, since it involves biochemical events that depend on the substrates it provides. Wound healing is a phase that demands higher needs of energy-protein than the requirement. Problem statement: Poor nutrition decreases, through specific phases, normal processes that allow the progression of wound healing. Nutrient deficiencies can have negative effects on wound healing by prolonging the inflammatory phase, decreasing fibroblast proliferation, and modifying collagen synthesis. Some amino acids are essential for the process, such as Glutamine and Hydroxymethylbutyrate.

Objective: To evaluate the effect of Glutamine and Hydroxymethylbutyrate supplementation over the cells involved in wound healing of bloody areas. Hypothesis: Glutamine and Hydroxymethylbutyrate supplementation promotes a positive effect over the cells involved in wound healing of bloody areas. Methodology: A randomized controlled clinical trial, in patients with diagnosis of bloody areas. They will be divided into two groups, the first will receive an intervention with Glutamine (14g) and Hydroxymethylbutyrate (3g) and a control group will receive a placebo with calcium caseinate (17g)

A sample of the affected tissue will be taken before and after the supplementation where histology will be analyzed.

Remains of tissue will be obteined during surgery wash for histology.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Wound healing:Number of cells per clauster in tissue sample of wound.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: glutamine supplementation
  - DRUG: HMB
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03782155
