CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06070493
Title: The Effects of Myofascial Release Technique
Official Title: The Effects of Myofascial Release Technique in Patients With Rotator Cuff Injury: A Single-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 29
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study was planned to investigate the long-term effects of myofascial release technique on proprioception, pain severity, shoulder range of motion, functional level, flexibility, and muscle strength in patients with rotator cuff injury. The study included 29 individuals with partial rotator cuff injury who were randomly divided into two groups. The control group received a classical physiotherapy program including transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, hot pack and exercise, while the treatment group received the same classic physiotherapy program along with the myofascial release technique. All treatments were planned for 4 weeks and a total of 10 sessions. Proprioception, pain severity, shoulder range of motion, functional level, flexibility and muscle strength were assessed before and after the treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rotator cuff injury is the most common cause of shoulder pain and dysfunction in adults. It may cause muscle weakness, changes in glenohumeral kinematics, and instability in the shoulder internal and external rotator muscle groups and abductors. Patients may present a variety of symptoms, ranging from painless to severe shoulder pain and from normal function to severe dysfunction. It causes a decrease in the level of function in individuals, limitation in daily living activities, decreased quality of life and sleep problems. Various psychological factors, such as emotional or mental collapse and fear-avoidance behaviors, have been found to be associated with severe pain and disability in these patients. In response to emotional or physical injuries and traumas, fascia shortens, thickens, and stiffens. This situation causes pain and dysfunction. Conservative treatment is primarily preferred in the treatment of rotator cuff injury. In cases where there is no response to conservative treatment, surgery is used. Conservative treatment includes patient education, electrophysical agents, and exercise program. The exercise program includes scapular stabilization exercises, rotator cuff and shoulder area muscle strengthening exercises, range of motion exercises and stretching exercises. Additionally, the use of manual therapy techniques increases the effect of the treatment. Myofascial release technique, one of the manual therapy techniques, is a widely used therapy that involves low load and long-term mechanical forces to manipulate the myofascial complex, aiming to restore optimal length, reduce pain and improve function. With the myofascial release technique, proprioception is also increased. Considering the possible changes in the fascia, it is thought that the myofascial release technique may be useful in the conservative treatment program of individuals with rotator cuff injury. When the literature is examined, there is no study examining the effect of myofascial release technique on individuals with rotator cuff injury. The aim of this study is to investigate the long-term effects of myofascial release technique on proprioception, pain severity, shoulder range of motion, functional level, flexibility, and muscle strength in patients with rotator cuff injury.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proprioception
  - Proprioception
  - Pain severity
  - Pain severity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: classic physiotherapy program
  - OTHER: Myofascial release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06070493
