CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06266312
Title: Feasibility of a Preoperative, Multimodal Lifestyle Intervention in Patients With Breastcancer
Official Title: FeAsibility of a PReoperative, Multimodal Lifestyle InterventiOn in Patients With Breast Cancer ReceivIng Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility of a multimodal prehabilitation programme consisting of MIET during neoadjuvant intravenous chemotherapy infusion, HITT and strength training during the last six weeks prior to surgery, and optimising nutritional intake throughout the total preoperative period in patients with breast cancer with respect to recruitment, adherence, dropout, safety and acceptance. The secondary objective is to provide a preliminary evaluation of participant responses to a preoperative multimodal lifestyle intervention, on cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle strength, nutritional status, and fatigue in patients with breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women. The disease and treatment are associated with an increased risk of deterioration in physical fitness, muscle strength, nutritional status (sarcopenic obesity), mental well-being, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and fatigue. To improve health outcomes, modifiable factors should be intervened as early as possible. The preoperative period during which patients receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy seems ideal to offer a multimodal lifestyle intervention, but is currently hardly used for this purpose. Nutritional status can be optimised through guidance from a dietician and self-monitoring of nutritional intake via a digital food diary. Additionally, offering a moderate-intensity endurance training (MIET) exercise programme during neoadjuvant intravenous chemotherapy infusion enables supervised exercise at a time when patients would otherwise be inactive. It may also improve tumour perfusion, thereby increasing the effectiveness of cytostatic uptake into the tumour and counteracting resistance to cytostatic drugs. The last six weeks prior to surgery can be used to further optimise cardiorespiratory fitness and muscle strength through a high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and strength training programme. Before the effect of a preoperative, multimodal lifestyle intervention in breast cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy can be investigated, its feasibility needs to be investigated first.

Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility of a multimodal prehabilitation programme consisting of MIET during neoadjuvant intravenous chemotherapy infusion, HITT and strength training during the last six weeks prior to surgery, and optimising nutritional intake throughout the total preoperative period in patients with breast cancer with respect to recruitment, adherence, dropout, safety and acceptance. The secondary objective is to provide a preliminary evaluation of participant responses to a preoperative multimodal lifestyle intervention, on cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle strength, nutritional status, and fatigue in patients with breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

Study design: A prospective, single-centre, longitudinal mixed-methods feasibility study.

Study population: Patients with breast cancer scheduled for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery at the MUMC+ Comprehensive Cancer Center.

Intervention: The multimodal lifestyle intervention consists of three modalities. Patients are asked to complete 11 sessions of MIET during intravenous chemotherapy infusion, 8 sessions of HIIT and strength training in the last six weeks prior to surgery, and 4 consultations with a dietician throughout the preoperative period. The MIET training sessions consist of 45-50 minutes training programme on a cycle ergometer during the chemotherapy infusion. The physiotherapist will additionally advise patients to adhere (or build up to) t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recruitment rate (%)
  - Characteristics of included participants
  - Attendance rate for MIET sessions (%)
  - Adherence rate, exercise relative dose intensity (ExRDI) MIET (%)
  - Reasons for not having executed a training session as intended

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: A multimodal prehabilitation programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06266312
