CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05784220
Title: The Canadian Diabetes Prevention Program
Official Title: Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes Using a Digital Wellness Coaching Intervention: The Canadian Diabetes Prevention Program
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2174
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
According to Diabetes Canada ("DC"), in 2015, the estimated prevalence of prediabetes in Canada (\>20 years of age) is 5.7 million people (22.1%). This rate is estimated to increase to 6.4 million people (23.2%) by 2025. Risk factors contributing to prediabetes and consequently Type 2 Diabetes include rising obesity rates, lack of physical activity, an aging population, and the cultural diversity of Canada .

There is convincing evidence that modifiable risk factors, such as diet and physical activity reduce the development of Type 2 Diabetes with the benefits extending beyond the active intervention stage.

The underlying theory that supports this intervention relates to the imperative need to focus on weight loss and physical activity, with this population that is at risk of developing diabetes, due to its relationship with insulin resistance. DC outlines the importance of intensive and structured lifestyle modification to promote weight loss in order to reduce the progression of prediabetes to diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION:

LMC Healthcare, in collaboration with Diabetes Canada and INTERVENT International, is inviting participants to be part of a new program called the Canadian Diabetes Prevention Program ("CDPP") aimed at reducing the risk of developing Type 2 Diabetes. Participants can join the CDPP if participants have been diagnosed with prediabetes or participants score 33 or above on the CANRISK Questionnaire (a validated tool used to assess diabetes risk). Information collected from the CDPP will be used for research purposes.

BACKGROUND / RATIONALE:

According to Diabetes Canada ("DC"), in 2015, the estimated number of people with prediabetes in Canada (\>20 years of age) was 5.7 million people (22.1%). Prediabetes can be defined as people with a blood sugar level that is higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed with diabetes; these people are at high risk for developing diabetes. This rate is estimated to increase to 6.4 million people (23.2%) by 2025. Risk factors contributing to prediabetes and consequently type 2 diabetes include rising obesity rates, lack of physical activity, an aging population, and the cultural diversity of Canada.

There is convincing evidence that modifiable risk factors, such as diet and physical activity reduce the development of Type 2 Diabetes with the benefits extending beyond the active intervention stage. The underlying theory that supports this intervention relates to the imperative need to focus on weight loss and physical activity, with this population that is at risk of developing diabetes, due to its relationship with insulin resistance. DC outlines the importance of intensive and structured lifestyle modification to promote weight loss in order to reduce the progression of prediabetes to diabetes.

The proposed intervention would target participants who are identified as "at risk" using the Canadian Diabetes Risk Assessment Questionnaire (CANRISK) or those participants who have been diagnosed with prediabetes based on blood work.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVE:

To reduce the risk of developing Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus by taking part in a 12-month lifestyle intervention program. A select group of participants, 452 participants, will have a follow up at 18 months to assess a post-study progression.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in weight assessed by a scale
  - Change in weight assessed by a scale
  - BMI < 25.0 and/or weight loss ≥ 5.0%
  - BMI < 25.0 and/or weight loss ≥ 5.0%
  - Change in waist circumference assessed by measurement in waist circumference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: DPP Curriculum for Lifestyle Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05784220
