CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06739408
Title: Protein Source and Resistance trening
Official Title: Investigation of Protein Source and Its Impact on Response to Resistance trening
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the role of whole food protein source compared with supplement forms in enhancing response to resistance exercise trening in moderately active participants. The main question it aims to answer:

Whether wholefood protein (lean red meat) consumption is equivalent to supplementation in supporting muscle function and composition responses to resistance trening? Whether wholefood protein consumption results in additional benefits to micronutrient status above that of supplementations? Researchers will compare both lean red meat and whey protein groups with an isocaloric maltodextrin control to see if protein intake enhanced response to resistance trening.

* Participants will be randomized to consume one of three treatments: (1) lean red meat, (2) a whey protein supplement, or (3) an isocaloric maltodextrin control beverage following each resistance trening session.
* Participants will complete a 12-week progressive resistance trening programme consisting of 3 exercise sessions per week.
* Participants will undergo skeletal muscle performance testing by way of Vertical jump height, isokinetic strength tests and estimated one repetition maximum tests prior to and following the 12-week resistance trening programme.
* Participants will undergo body composition assessment by way of bioelectrical impedance analysis, thigh muscle ultrasound and skinfold measurement prior to and following the 12-week resistance trening programme.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Protein supplements and particularly whey protein supplements are frequently consumed by athletes and recreationally active adults to achieve greater gains in muscle mass and strength as well as improved physical performance. Lean red meat has the equivalent essential amino acid and branched chain amino acids as whey protein, and additionally contains creatine, beta-alanine and several essential vitamins and minerals which are important for health and performance. Therefore, the preferential addition of lean red meat to the diet as opposed to whey protein supplements may provide the same and possibly greater benefits and would be in line with the recommended 'food first approach' endorsed by Sport Ireland and the World Anti-Doping Agency among others.

Aim The overall aim of this study is to explore whether lean red meat augments adaptation to resistance trening in recreationally active young adults undergoing resistance trening. Additionally, the investigators aim to investigate changes in nutritional intakes and status of selected micronutrients in response to increased consumption of lean red meat.

Methods

A total of n=72 recreationally active men and women (50% male) will be recruited to this single-blinded intervention study with a parallel design. Participants will be randomized to consume one of three treatments:

1. lean red meat,
2. a whey protein supplement, or
3. an isocaloric maltodextrin control beverage and will complete a 12-week resistance trening programme.

Measurements: Body composition and muscle thickness will be measured using bioelectrical impedance analysis and ultrasound respectively. Additionally, skinfold measurements will be used to estimate body fat percentage. Vertical jump height, isokinetic strength and 1 repetition maximums will be completed to assess muscle contractile properties namely explosive and maximal strength. Blood pressure will also be measured at baseline and post intervention. Finally, dietary intake will be recorded at selected timepoints, and blood tests will be used to characterise status of selected micronutrients, blood lipids, and inflammation markers. All measures will be performed before and at the end of a 12-week resistance trening intervention during which all participants will engage in resistance exercise 3 days per week and consume their assigned treatment on each of those trening days.

Conclusion By investigating the impact of lean red meat on exercise adaptation and nutrition status of a number of selected micronutrients this study can contribute to the understanding of the role of lean red meat in performance nutrition. Additionally, this study can more broadly contribute to our understanding of the "food first" approach as it relates to recreationally active men and women.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isokinetic Dynamometry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Lean red meat
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin (Placebo)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06739408
