CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06542211
Title: Observation on the Efficacy of Improving Ankle Dorsiflexion Limitation in Patients With Plantar Fasciitis
Official Title: Observation on the Efficacy of Improving Ankle Dorsiflexion Limitation in Patients With Plantar Fasciitis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This study aims to design a randomized controlled trial to treat plantar fasciitis by combining conventional rehabilitation with the improvement of ankle dorsiflexion function, and to explore its clinical efficacy by combining various evaluation indicators.

Compared with conventional plantar fasciitis, ankle dorsiflexion function rehabilitation training focuses more on the improvement of patients\&#39; foot and ankle function. Conventional PF rehabilitation training focuses on loosening the plantar fascia and gastrocnemius muscle, which can restore the elasticity of the plantar fascia and promote pain relief, but has limited improvement in ankle dorsiflexion function, resulting in patients\&#39; daily life such as walking, squatting, and going upstairs. Ankle dorsiflexion function rehabilitation training is an intervention directly targeting the function of the foot and ankle joint. By restoring the ankle dorsiflexion function of patients, it helps patients correct the force line in daily life movements, reduce the probability of sports injury risk, and improve sports performance and daily life satisfaction.

Conventional rehabilitation for plantar fasciitis mainly focuses on relaxing the plantar fascia, gastrocnemius muscle, and plantar flexor muscle strength and strengthening the small muscle group exercises of the plantar foot.

The experimental group directly intervened and conducted rehabilitation training for the limited ankle dorsiflexion function. It mainly includes subtalar joint loosening (increasing joint activity space), plantar flexor muscle group relaxation (releasing antagonist muscle tension), ankle dorsiflexor muscle strengthening (enhancing agonist muscle strength), and integrated exercises (integrating ankle dorsiflexion function into gait training).

This experiment lasted for a total of eight weeks, and patients were required to complete five home rehabilitation training sessions per week.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Plantar fasciitis (PF) is a common musculoskeletal injury characterized by inflammation and degeneration at the origin of the fascia and causing heel pain. The disease affects individuals of different ages and activity levels and is the main cause of plantar pain and ankle dysfunction in patients, accounting for 15% of all foot diseases. A previous study showed that PF is more common in middle-aged and elderly people and those who love sports. One in 10 people has their daily quality of life seriously affected by PF. In clinical work, it was found that there was a large difference in the degree of ankle function of PF patients at the time of consultation. The clinical symptoms of plantar fasciitis are mainly heel pain when landing in the morning or after a long rest. The symptoms are aggravated after standing or walking for a long time, and sometimes patients will show a pain-reducing gait. The diagnosis is mainly based on the patient\&#39;s symptoms and signs. There are often local tenderness points when palpating along the plantar fascia and the medial tubercle of the calcaneus. The patient\&#39;s ankle dorsiflexion range of motion may be limited. Ultrasound examination shows increased thickness of the plantar fascia. The patient may also show bone spurs growing into the fascia on X-rays . The cause of plantar fasciitis is still unclear. Its risk factors include age, obesity, foot deformity, limited ankle dorsiflexion, decreased foot proprioception, long-term weight-bearing and walking activities . These factors are interrelated and interact with each other, and the abnormal biomechanical mechanism of the foot is the key to the internal connection between these factors . Poor foot-ankle force line and biomechanics will increase abnormal stress on the plantar fascia during joint movement, leading to micro-tears of the fascia, and then thickening and tightening of the plantar fascia, resulting in inflammation. At present, the intervention treatment methods for plantar fasciitis are divided into two categories: surgery and conservative treatment. Most patients are treated with conservative treatment, which mainly includes insole adjustment, physical therapy and weight loss. Physical therapy programs generally include stretching the plantar fascia and calf muscles, muscle strength training, taping, the use of orthotics and night splints, etc.. Currently, the short-term effect is acceptable, but the long-term effect is poor, and it is easy to relapse, which affects the overall motor function and sports performance.

People have higher and higher requirements for health. In addition to paying attention to local pain relief, patients with plantar fasciitis also have higher demands for improving sports performance. Conventional physical therapy methods can effectively relieve the temporary pain of patients with plantar fasciitis, but the recovery of patients\&#39; motor function is still poor. Only relieving short-term pain symptoms can no longer fully

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vicon 3D gait test
  - Plantar fascia thickness measurement
  - Ankle dorsiflexion angle measurement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intervention plan for improving ankle dorsiflexion limitation group (experimental group)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Plantar fasciitis routine rehabilitation group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06542211
