CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05878613
Title: Treadmill Training With Kinesiotaping Affects Balance and Gait in Chronic Stroke Patients
Official Title: Effect of Treadmill Training With and Without Trunk Kinesiotaping on Balance and Gait in Chronic Stroke Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine the effects of treadmill training with and without trunk kinesiotaping on balance and gait of chronic stroke patients. The main question it aims to answer is:- Does kinesiotaping have added benefit to improve gait and balance in chronic stroke patients?.

Researcher will compare the treadmill training group with the group receiving treadmill training with kinesiotaping to see if there is any difference in the outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Summary Stroke, one of the leading cause of death and disability worldwide, is defined as rapid deterioration of brain function due to disturbance in blood supply to the brain. According to the cause it is divided into two main types; ischemic stroke and hemorrhagic stroke. Stroke can lead to a number of physical impairments like muscle imbalance, impaired balance and postural control, poor voluntary control, body malalignment and disturbance of walking patterns etc. Ability to walk safely and participate in activities of daily living is the main goal of many individuals affected by stroke. Therefore, improving balance and gait is the primary focus of physical therapy interventions. Many therapeutic interventions such as , treadmill training, over ground gait training , Functional electrical stimulation, neurofacilitation approaches and strength training are used for improving balance and gait in patients affected by stroke, all of which have been proven to be beneficial. This study will be conducted to compare the effect of treadmill training with and without kinesiotaping on trunk muscles (rectus abdominis, erector spinae, external oblique and internal oblique) on gait and balance in chronic stroke patients.

Many studies have shown that trunk muscles have a very important role in balance and gait in patients with stroke and KT application may be an effective intervention for trunk function and postural control however, there is no evidence on whether providing support to the trunk with kinesiotaping during treadmill training will have any added benefit on balance and gait or not.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Berg Balance Scale (BBS):
  - Dynamic gait index(DGI):

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: treadmill training with KT group (TTKT group)
  - DEVICE: treadmill training without KT group (TT group)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05878613
