CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04822948
Title: Study of the Intestinal Microbiota During a Real Life Dietary Intervention in Subjects With Overweight or Obesity
Official Title: Study of the Intestinal Microbiota During a Real Life Dietary Intervention in Subjects With Overweight or Obesity
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 1855
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Worldwide, 13% of the population had obesity in 2016 and overweight and obesity are recognized as the fifth leading risk factor for death (roughly 5 million deaths per year). In the United States alone, a recent study predicts that over half of the population will have obesity in 2030. At the global level, overweight and obesity are also estimated to account for 44% of diabetes, 23% of heart disease and between 7% to 41% of cancer cases, in addition to numerous other pathologies, including neurological disorders. While obesity and overweight are classified as a general disease (i.e. a body mass index (BMI) above 25 kg/m2 or 30 kg/m2, respectively), there are large variabilities between classifications of obesity observed. For example, sub-populations of obesity present either a rapid or delayed onset of other chronic diseases, such as diabetes or cardiovascular disease.

Many studies show that lifestyle interventions are effective in improving overweight and obesity through weight loss, but with very large inter-individual variability, especially in the long-term. These interventions and the respective observed weight loss are also shown to reduce the risk of other cardiovascular or metabolic diseases, demonstrating the importance of weight loss for future quality of life Interestingly, there is a large variation in weight loss when implementing the same dietary or lifestyle changes, even when many factors are accounted for in clinical studies. Similar variable weight loss or metabolic responses are also observed for other obesity treatments, such as pharmaceutical or surgical interventions. Therefore, in order to prevent and treat overweight and obesity, it is critical to progress in the understanding of individual variations in responses (trajectories) to weight loss programs.

While biological, environmental, and behavioral factors indeed drive personal responses, recent advances have allowed more insight into how the human body processes these stimuli, namely through microorganisms inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract. Over the last 10 years, the gut microbiota, the 100 billion bacterial cells inhabiting our intestines, has emerged as a recognized factor contributing to our health. Given its access to the food and medicine consumed by an individual, the gut microbiota can be seen as a "super integrator" highly sensitive to our environmental and lifestyle changes. Accumulating evidence has highlighted that the gut microbiota translates these environmental changes by altering its diversity of bacteria or functions and producing molecules that interact with organs and the brain.

As part of a weight loss program conducted within the standard of care in a network of clinical centers across France, the investigators set out to establish a cohort to examine the relative contribution of clinical, nutritional, and lifestyle factors related to individual's weight loss success with an emphasis on evaluating the gut microbiome of individuals.

Within this context, the investigators are testing whether an individuals' microbiota profile before the real-life dietary intervention influences weight loss responses and changes in metabolic health parameters to a standardized weight loss diet.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bodyweight change

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04822948
