CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02335645
Title: AlterG ACL Return to Running Case Series
Official Title: AlterG ACL Return to Running Case Series
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 5
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
This case series will follow standard ACL protocol, while using biomechanical movement analysis to analyze running mechanics using a body weight supported treadmill.

Standard ACL protocol will be followed throughout the treatment of each patient. The only variance from treatment will be using motion analysis software to analyze gait patterns at different points throughout the rehabilitation.

The first motion analysis will be performed at week 6 of the rehabilitation process. Prior to this treatment, manual muscle testing of the hip, knee and ankle using a handheld dynamometer, two outcome measures, range of motion, pain, and patient satisfaction will be performed. At this treatment, motion capture sensors will be placed on the patient at different anatomical positions. The patient will then run in a body weight supported treadmill. During this run, video capture will be performed and later analyzed to determine biomechanical kinematics.

This process will be repeated at week 8 of rehabilitation in the body weight supported treadmill.

At week 10, the patient will shift treatment from the body weight supported treadmill, to a standard treadmill. The process will be repeated using the same anatomical landmarks and video capture.

The final video capture will be performed at week 12. At this visit, video capture will be performed. The patient will also repeat all test, measures, and questionnaires from week 6.

At all visits between video capturing, standard PT will be performed with a focus on patient deficits and following the standard protocol.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Each year, up to 250,000 Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) reconstructions are performed in the United States.(1) Individuals who undergo ACL reconstruction vary from the weekend warrior to high level professional athletes. With a majority of ACL injuries occurring from a sports injury, returning to running is a key portion of the rehabilitation process.(2) Following an ACL tear, knee laxity and instability are a common complaint. Due to this, individuals are classified as coper or non-copers.(3) Copers are individuals who are able to maintain their previous function with conservative treatment. Non-copers are persons who are unable to return to their previous level of activity due to instability or who perform high level activities. Non-copers will undergo ACL reconstruction surgery, followed by a lengthy rehabilitation process.(3)

With extensive knowledge on running mechanics, it is important to consider these normal mechanics following ACL surgery.(4, 5) Following ACL surgery and rehabilitation, several variances in gait pattern are known to exist for 6 months or greater. Several Studies have demonstrated abnormal knee torques following ACL surgery for well over 6 months.(6) With known deficits lasting for several months, we must consider these mechanics and return to sport criteria when returning an athlete to sports competition. With the highest risk of reinjury in the first several months, understanding gait mechanics and risk factors is vital to a successful ACL rehabilitation.(6) As a clinician, the most important aspect to consider a rehabilitation successful is an athlete's full return to the sport or activity of their choice, at the highest level. In order to do this, we must understand all areas of their mechanics and limit any deficits throughout the process.

Over time, ACL protocols have progressively changed from a standard conservative plan, to an accelerated protocol, with return to running at around 6 months.(7) This is nearly twice as fast as the conservative plan. As the time to return to sports participation continues to decrease, understanding mechanics and correcting deficits is important to an overall successful surgery, rehabilitation, and patient. The ability to progressively decrease treatment times has been made possible by increased knowledge and ever improving technology.

One piece of technology that allows this decrease in rehabilitation time is the use of a body weight supported treadmill to allow a much quicker return to running, within the limitations of a protocol. One such example is the AlterG, Anti-Gravity treadmill. This treadmill allows a patient to run with as little as 20% of their body weight using an air pressure system for unweighting. This type of unweighting allows for safe and normal gait mechanics, in a pain free system. This type of treadmill also allows a clinician to adjust and monitor changes and improvements as a patient progresses through a treatment.(8)

The purpose of this case series is 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Pedi-IKDC
  - Change in KOOS
  - Change in numeric pain rating scale
  - Change in manual muscle testing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Body Weight Supported Treadmill Use of Patients with ACL Reconstruction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02335645
