CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04928170
Title: The Halland Osteoarthritis Cohort
Official Title: The Halland Osteoarthritis (HALLOA) Cohort Study - a Five-year Observational Longitudinal Study With Focus on Metabolic Osteoarthritis
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 312
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis is the most common musculoskeletal disease and is characterized by cartilage destruction, osteophyte formation, subchondral bone sclerosis and cysts. Modern treatment strategies, as well as preventive measures, include early detection and knowledge of the early course of the disease. This includes how stress patterns, physical activity, impaired function and metabolic changes and other comorbidities affect development and possible associations with osteoarthritis.

The overall objective was to study the early development of osteoarthritis of the knee and its association with hand- and general osteoarthritis, metabolic diseases, biomarkers, long-term pain, physical function and stress patterns

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The overall objective was to study the early development of osteoarthritis of the knee and its association with hand- and general osteoarthritis, metabolic diseases, biomarkers, long-term pain, physical function and stress patterns.

The project includes 4 different research areas that are studied with the help of several smaller sub-studies:

Research area 1: Metabolic osteoarthritis - to study the connections between metabolic factors and osteoarthritis development in the knee and hand.

A. Relationship between knee osteoarthritis and metabolic factors B. Relationship between osteoarthritis of the hand and metabolic factors Research area 2: Biomarkers in knee and hand osteoarthritis - to study cartilage and bone markers that reflect different processes in osteoarthritis development, e.g. inflammation, matrix degradation both in the short and long term Research area 3: Pain and osteoarthritis - to study pain development and pain pressure thresholds in relation to lifestyle, depression and health-related quality of life in individuals with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis Research area 4: Physical function and osteoarthritis - to study physical function, physical activity and measured stress patterns, as well as changes in stress patterns and the relationship between these and the development of osteoarthritis over time.

Study design This is a longitudinal cohort study including 306 individuals with knee pain in the southwest of Sweden, the Halland osteoarthritis (HALLOA) cohort. The enrolments took place from 2017-2019. The participants were recruited: 1) by primary health care clinics when searching care for knee pain, or 2) by advertisements in local newspapers. The inclusion criterions were current knee pain, aged 30-65 years, with no former known radiographic knee osteoarthritis (RKOA). the exclusion criterions were no cruciate ligament rupture or rheumatologic disorder. A general practitioner examined all participants to confirm the exclusion criteria.

The cohort will be followed for five years with yearly follow-ups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMI (kg/m2)
  - BMI (kg/m2)
  - BMI (kg/m2)
  - Abdominal circumference (cm)
  - Abdominal circumference (cm)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04928170
