CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03277898
Title: Aerobic Exercise and Cognitive Functioning in Women With Breast Cancer
Official Title: Aerobic Exercise and Cognitive Functioning in Women With Breast Cancer: the ACTIVATE Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
In Canada, approximately 68 women are diagnosed with breast cancer every day. Chemotherapy-related cognitive changes (CRCC) are reported by up to 75% of breast cancer survivors during treatment and symptoms persist in 35% of survivors after treatment. Women report that CRCC negatively impacts their everyday functioning and substantially reduces their overall quality of life. Effective clinical interventions to manage CRCC are elusive. As a result, breast cancer survivors typically receive little to no advice on how to prevent or manage CRCC. Aerobic exercise is a type of physical activity that uses large muscle groups, is rhythmic in nature, and can be sustained for at least 10 minutes (e.g., walking, jogging, indoor cycling). It has been associated with improved quality of life in breast cancer survivors. It also holds great promise as an intervention to prevent or mitigate CRCC. However, there is limited evidence from experimental studies to confirm this. Therefore, the primary aim of this trial is to evaluate the impact of a supervised aerobic exercise intervention on CRCC in women diagnosed with early-stage breast cancer. Recruited women will be randomized into one of two groups: (1) aerobic exercise during chemotherapy, or (2) usual care during chemotherapy and the aerobic exercise post-chemotherapy (i.e., wait-list control group). This study will test several novel hypotheses, including whether exercise during chemotherapy can prevent and/or mitigate CRCC and its negative impact on quality of life among women with breast cancer, and whether the timing of the exercise intervention matters (i.e., exercise during versus after chemotherapy). The results of this study aim to address the concerns of women affected by CRCC who are currently lacking available evidence-based treatment options, as well as oncology care providers' need to have options to recommend to their patients to prevent or manage CRCC.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of an aerobic exercise intervention on CRCC in women diagnosed with breast cancer who undergo chemotherapy. The specific objectives are to:

1. Test the effect of aerobic exercise during chemotherapy (EX) compared to a usual care wait-list control group (exercise after chemotherapy; UC) on CRCC as assessed by neuropsychological tests and self-report;
2. Test the effect of EX compared to UC on:

   1. Global measures of brain structure and functioning including brain volume in regions associated with working memory and response inhibition, white matter integrity (i.e., fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity), and neural functioning using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI);
   2. Overall global brain network organization and improved regional brain network organization and neural functioning in areas underlying attention and working memory (i.e., dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex, superior temporal region and posterior parietal cortex) using electroencephalography (EEG; Vancouver site only; see Methods).
3. Assess if the timing of the exercise intervention (i.e., during chemotherapy versus after chemotherapy) moderates the effects on CRCC by examining the effects of the intervention at 1-year post start of chemotherapy.

It is hypothesized that:

1. At the end of chemotherapy, EX group will perform better than UC group on neuropsychological tests and will self-report better cognitive functioning;
2. At the end of chemotherapy, EX group will have maintained measures of brain structure and functioning as assessed by MRI scans and EEG (Vancouver site only) compared to UC group who will have significant changes in both;
3. At 1-year post the start of chemotherapy, EX group will have better outcomes compared to the UC group.

This is a two-arm, two-centre RCT. The two arms are:

1. Aerobic exercise intervention during chemotherapy (EX);
2. Usual care during chemotherapy and aerobic exercise after chemotherapy (i.e., usual care wait-list control group; UC).

Recruitment:

84 women diagnosed with breast cancer will be recruited across the two sites. The primary method of recruitment will be through printed postings and oncologist referral at the two main clinical sites: British Columbia Cancer Agency-Vancouver (BCCA) and The Ottawa Hospital (TOH). We anticipate our target of 84 patients will be reached in 30 months (combined site rate of 2-3 participants per month).

Outcomes will be assessed at:

1. Pre-chemotherapy (baseline, week 0);
2. Mid-chemotherapy (approximately 6-9 weeks post-baseline);
3. End of chemotherapy (approximately 12-18 weeks post-baseline);
4. Follow-up and post-usual care wait-list control group receiving the intervention (approximately 24-34 weeks post-baseline);
5. 1-year follow-up (52 weeks post-baseline).

Optional neuroimaging and EEG will be completed in a sub-set of participants at each site who are interested, eligible, and consent to additional assessments at these time points

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change with treatment and maintenance post-treatment in objective neuropsychology test battery composite score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care (Wait-list Control)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03277898
