CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03811743
Title: A Coordinated Parent/Child Dyad Weight Loss Intervention: Dyad Plus (Feasibility)
Official Title: A Coordinated Parent/Child Dyad Weight Loss Intervention: Dyad Plus (Feasibility)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research is to develop a coordinated program (Dyad Plus) that would help to facilitate self-monitoring, positive communication, joint problem solving, and social support to increase physical activity, healthy eating, and weight loss. Participants of the Brenner FIT (Families In Training) pediatric weight management program and their parent/guardian will co-enroll in weight loss programs. Parents/guardians will receive the components of By Design Essentials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participation in this study will involve participation in six, one-hour sessions in addition to those required by your weight loss program. These sessions will work to facilitate an increase in self-monitoring, positive communication, problem solving, and social support to increase healthy physical activity and eating behaviors to increase the effectiveness of the weight loss programs. Joint goal setting and tracking will be enabled by commercially available devices and apps. Each caregiver and child will receive an activity monitor, activity app, and a food app (digital food diary) that allows self-monitoring of consumption and "social accountability," which will allow caregivers and the Brenner FIT team to monitor and encourage. Furthermore, two home visits will be conducted to evaluation the home food and activity environments to inform tailored feedback to families.

Brenner FIT is a family-based pediatric weight management clinic for youth 2-18 years old referred by a physician for overweight or obesity.11-14 By Design is an adult (\>18yrs) weight loss clinic that includes tailored dietary and physical activity behavioral counseling. The preliminary data suggest that most adolescent youth who enroll in Brenner FIT have at least one adult caregiver who is eligible and would benefit from enrollment in By Design Essentials.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMI z-score
  - BMI z-score
  - BMI z-score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brenner FIT
  - BEHAVIORAL: By Design
  - BEHAVIORAL: Coordination

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03811743
