CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05229835
Title: Effect of Time-restricted Eating and Endurance trening on Markers of the Health of Women and Men
Official Title: Effect of Time-restricted Eating and Endurance trening on Markers of the Health of Women and Men-role of Dietary Supplements
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of this project is to demonstrate the synergistic effect of TRE and NW trening on health indicators for older women. The women will be divided into four groups, i.e. Control group (CG); time-restricted eating group (TRG) which will follow 12 weeks of TRE protocol; Nordic walking trening group (NWT) which will follow 12 weeks of supervised Nordic walking trening and Nordic walking trening combined with a time-restricted eating group (NW-TRG). In addition, it is assumed to prove that among young men, TRE will improve adaptation to endurance trening and improve the metabolism. The study will be divided into two groups: 1. a group undergoing endurance trening and 2. a group combining endurance trening with TRE. In all subject's changes in the metabolism of iron, tryptophan, vitamin D and lipids will be evaluated. Endocrine function of skeletal muscles, mental state and cognitive abilities of the subjects will also be examined. The investigators expect that the applied procedure of temporary restriction of food intake will be easy to apply and continue for much longer than the study period. In order to maintain this time window, test subjects will be asked to delay their breakfast and early dinner intake. In addition, it is expected that the improvement in wellbeing, vitality and a significant improvement in performance and biochemical indicators of health, especially in the NWT plus TRE group, will allow to better understand the physiology of exercise, which may result in future specific health recommendations for people of different ages.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Studies of recent years prove that one of the important causes of metabolic disorders in people is a disturbed daily cycle, which is significantly influenced by the time of eating. It has been shown that more than 50% of the examined persons consumed food for 15 hours and more during the day. Limiting food consumption to 8-10 hours, without the need to reduce food intake, the so-called time-restricted eating (TRE), resulted in a significant improvement in metabolism, decrease in body weight and cholesterol concentration, increase in insulin sensitivity and many others. A period of hunger is necessary for the body to regenerate cell structures and allows for the separation of opposing metabolic processes. This means that the period of hunger is necessary and its limitation by e.g. snacking can seriously disturb this series of processes in the human body. The results of the investigators preliminary research indicate that TRE increases the vitality of the examined persons and their desire for doing exercise. So far, there are no studies on older people, where the intervention would consist in the use of TRE and endurance trening such as Nordic walking (NW). The aim of this project is to demonstrate the synergistic effect of TRE and NW trening on health indicators for older women. The women will be divided into four groups, i.e. Control group (CG); time-restricted eating group (TRG) which will follow 12 weeks of TRE protocol; Nordic walking trening group (NWT) which will follow 12 weeks of supervised Nordic walking trening and Nordic walking trening combined with a time-restricted eating group (NW-TRG). In addition, it is assumed to prove that among young men, TRE will improve adaptation to endurance trening and improve the metabolism. The study will be divided into two groups: 1. a group undergoing endurance trening and 2. a group combining endurance trening with TRE. In all subject's changes in the metabolism of iron, tryptophan, vitamin D and lipids will be evaluated. Endocrine function of skeletal muscles, mental state and cognitive abilities of the subjects will also be examined. The investigators expect that the applied procedure of temporary restriction of food intake will be easy to apply and continue for much longer than the study period. In order to maintain this time window, test subjects will be asked to delay their breakfast and early dinner intake. In addition, it is expected that the improvement in wellbeing, vitality and a significant improvement in performance and biochemical indicators of health, especially in the NWT plus TRE group, will allow to better understand the physiology of exercise, which may result in future specific health recommendations for people of different ages.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time restricted eating and physical performance
  - Time restricted eating and mental performance
  - Time restricted eating and iron metabolism
  - Time restricted eating and myokines concentration
  - Time restricted eating and lipid metabolism

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Time restricted eating and exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05229835
