CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00456781
Title: Use of Graft Jacket for Rotator Cuff Repair
Official Title: GraftJacket® Rotator Cuff Tendon Reinforcement Scaffold: A Randomized Prospective Clinical Evaluation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 79
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of GraftJacket, a human tissue product used in fixing large and massive reparable rotator cuff tears.GraftJacket allograft (Wright Medical Technology, Inc., Arlington, TN) is a biologic tissue that is derived from human dermis. The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether rotator cuff repair augmentation using GraftJacket allograft provides a viable alternative, based on observed clinical outcomes, versus outcomes traditionally achieved with suture and anchor repairs. The study will secondarily investigate the difference in outcomes in patients treated arthroscopically versus open. This study will report patient progress and results at early (6 month) and late (2 year) time points in patients treated for large and massive reparable rotator cuff tears (\>3cm). A reparable tear is defined as a tear of the rotator cuff where it is possible to bring the retracted tendon edge back to the greater tuberosity of the humerus without excessive tension. Restoration of rotator cuff integrity, clinical outcomes and re-tear rate will be included in the study evaluations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective multi-center clinical study evaluating GraftJacket in the augmentation of large and massive rotator cuff tears compared to the traditional surgical technique of sutures and anchors alone. The study group will consist of 160 patients (early withdrawals or drop outs will not be replaced). Surgical approach for each patient will be either mini-open or arthroscopic. Safety assessments for this clinical study will be based on reported adverse events. Any adverse event that occurs during the study that represents a change from the patient's condition as noted at baseline \[determined by normal standard of care\] that is related to the procedure will be documented by completing the adverse events case report form.

Each investigator will indicate which operative technique (mini-open or arthroscopic) will be used during the study period at their site. The site selection process will be used to attempt to attain an equal distribution of both operative techniques used in the study. Patients will be randomly assigned to the treatment groups A or B. A randomization scheme using a 2 block model will be used within each surgical technique. Randomization cards meeting the requirements for this process will be generated by the statistician. Both surgical technique treatment groups will use the same assessments for comparisons throughout the study period.

Enrollment Plan for the GraftJacket Rotator Cuff Tendon Reinforcement Scaffold Surgical Technique Open Surgical (suture and anchor) Arthroscopic Group A without augmentation Group B with GraftJacket Group A without augmentation Group B with GraftJacket

Patients with reparable rotator cuff repairs must present with large and massive rotator cuff tears of more than 3cm, which can be repaired either arthroscopically or by open surgery to be eligible for enrollment. A reparable rotator cuff tear is defined as a tear of the rotator cuff where it is possible to bring the retracted tendon edge back to the greater tuberosity of the humerus without excessive tension. It should be possible to accomplish a watertight repair or only leave a residual defect of less than or equal to 1cm. The anteroposterior and mediolateral dimensions of the rotator cuff tear will be assessed intra-operatively by measurements either including the edges or after the edges are trimmed depending on the judgment of the surgeon. Rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon will not be included in the study, because the postoperative rehabilitation is more difficult and may confound the outcome results of either group. Surgical variables that should be documented on source documents and appropriate CRFs are the size of rotator cuff tear, the number of tendons involved, the type of repair (open, mini-open, arthroscopic) and the type and number of sutures and anchors.

Both clinical assessments and magnetic resonance imaging will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the surgical techniques in both groups A and B. 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - less or no recurrence of shoulder rotator cuff tear with the use of the tissue scaffold than with the standard use of surgical anchors and screws as measured by MRI results

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Augmentation
  - PROCEDURE: Rotator Cuff Repair without augmentation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00456781
