CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05736783
Title: Plyometric and Strength Training of Quadriceps and Hamstrings in Football Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Plyometric and Strength Training of Quadriceps and Hamstrings on Sprint and Agility Performance in Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Football is a trendy sport in the world. A typical footballer runs more than 10 kilometers in an average game of 90 minutes. FIFA regulates the sport of football and the world cup is conducted every 4 years. Plyometric exercise training uses speed and different forced movements to build muscle power. Plyometrics training improves physical performance and the ability to do different activities. Strengthening exercises are designed to increase the strength of specific groups of muscles. Strengthening exercises overload the muscle until the point of muscle fatigue. By conducting the study, it will help us to make a better understanding that whether plyometrics or strength training is more effective so that we can cooperate it into the regular exercise of the football player so that their sports performance can be enhanced.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It will be a randomized clinical trial. It will be conducted at the Pakistan sports board and coaching center, Lahore. A sample of 40 athletes will be taken using convenient sampling. Athletes will be randomly allocated into two groups. Group A was given plyometrics and group B was given strengthening exercises. Athletes will be assessed using a 20m sprint test and an Illinois agility test before the initiation of the exercise regimen. Athletes will perform plyometrics 5 days a week and strength training twice a week for 6 weeks. Athletes will be reassessed after 6 weeks. Statistical analysis will be used to determine their effects with the help of the software SPSS 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 20 meter sprint test
  - Illinois Agility Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: plyometric exercises
  - OTHER: strenghtening of quadriceps and hamstring

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05736783
