CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05770986
Title: Effect of Power's Program of Gluteus Maximus on LBP
Official Title: Gluteus Maximus trening Using Power's Program in Chronic Mechanical Low Back Pain
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
Low back pain (LBP) is highly prevalent that causes significant pain and disability. Core muscles are important for LBP. One of them is gluteus maximus, but effect of power's program for this muscle and its role in LBP is lacking in literature, so this study aims to study the effect of power's program of gluteus maximus on LBP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic mechanical low back pain (CMLBP) is a common musculoskeletal dysfunction affecting 53% of Egyptian population and 1.4 to 20.0% worldwide.

which is a major social and economic burden. Patients with CMLBP experience time loss of work and recently became a workforce burden. Giving the fact that back pain is widely prevalent across Egyptian population and by addressing the functional deficits in those patients, Proper physical therapy intervention can help reducing such burden and improve over all work performance. The 'Powers Program' is a recent concept and it had been proven to be effective in improving lower extremity function and biomechanics. Up to the knowledge of the primary investigator, GMax strengthening using this program has not been conducted in patients with CMLBP. Studying this approach may benefit physical therapists by providing an evidence-based approach in treating patients with CMLBP through exercise therapy and improve functional performance of these patients therefore they can return to normal activities faster. Moreover, this study may benefit researchers interested in Gluteus maximus (GMax) muscle strength. We believe that this study may open up more rooms for future research to address such an important issue.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Severity of low back Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group A
  - OTHER: Group B

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05770986
