CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04072692
Title: Investigation of the Relation Between Trigger Digit and Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Official Title: Investigation of the Relation Between Trigger Digit and Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 59
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to comprehend the association between the trigger digit and carpal tunnel syndrome based on the quantification of the tendon and nerve characteristics. It includes three parts.

The first part is an observational study. The aim of the first part is to attempts to measure the gliding and morphological characteristics of the flexor tendons and median nerve in the longitudinal or cross-sectional directions via the ultrasonographical images incorporating with the motion capture experiment of the wrist and fingers. The gliding and morphological features of the tendons and nerve will be compared under different postures or movement patterns of the wrist and hand.

The second part is an interventional study. The aim of the first part is to establishes a novel hybrid rehabilitation protocol which combines the tendon gliding exercise with nerve mobilization to treat either the trigger digit or the carpal tunnel syndrome. A randomized controlled trial to investigate the short-term treatment effect and the follow-up examination will be carried out as well.

The third part is an observational study. The aim of the first part is to investigate the effects of carpal tunnel release on the hand performances from functional perspectives. In addition, a novel wrist orthosis will be developed to eliminate the bowstringing effect of the flexor tendons after carpal tunnel release.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in the gliding features of tendons
  - Change in the gliding features of median nerve
  - Change in the grip strength
  - Change in the pinch force
  - Change in the threshold value of sensitivity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Hybrid rehabilitation training
  - OTHER: Traditional rehabilitation training
  - OTHER: Wearable anti-bowstringing orthosis (WABO)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04072692
