CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06822075
Title: Impact of a Physical Activity Program on the Mental Health of Medical Students.
Official Title: SANTE - Solidarité, Activités Sportives et Ludiques, Nouveauté, Tissu et Étudiants
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
University students frequently adopt a sedentary lifestyle with low levels of physical activity, leading to a deterioration in their health. A significant number of them also suffer from social isolation. Moreover, numerous studies have highlighted the vulnerability of university students (particularly those in medical programs) to mental health issues. Medical students, with their demanding academic curriculum, are no exception to this trend.

A student association at the Lyon Est Faculty of Medicine reported that students' mental health is very low (2022): at least 1 in 2 students has experienced a depressive episode, and 1 in 3 has had suicidal thoughts during their studies. Other recent studies indicate that medical students at Lyon Est exhibit high levels of stress, low self-confidence, and excessive sedentary behavior (ECOSTRESS and ECOSPERF studies, 2021, 2022, and 2023). Unfortunately, in 2024, new mental health surveys among medical students from the second year through the end of their internship continue to confirm these findings.

The SANTE project aims to offer solution to student to a highly effective means of improving both their mental health and their level of physical activity throught an intervention program. More precisely, the goal of this interventional study is to evaluate the impact of a physical activity program on the mental health in second-cycle medical students at the University of Lyon 1. The development of the SANTÉ program was based on (i) data from the literature, (ii) results from a previous local study (IRB No. 2024-07-02-03) that identified student needs through individual interviews and focus groups, and (iii) local findings from a co-construction workshop with students.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Overall mental health : Evolution of the score obtained at the Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SANTE program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06822075
