CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05824780
Title: Functional and Performance Effects of a 4-week Weightlifting Program in Highly Trained Adolescent Basketball Athletes
Official Title: Functional and Performance Effects of a 4-week Weightlifting Program in Highly Trained Adolescent Basketball Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 46
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Weightlifting is an increasingly used intervention in the sport field to improve both function and performance outcomes. However, the effects in a pediatric and adolescent population are not well described, and require further research to elucidate the benefits and potential adverse effects compared to other strength training methods, such as plyometric training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Highly trained male and female adolescent basketball athletes aged 12-16 years will be recruited for the study. Participants will be randomly assigned to a 4-week program (12 sessions) of weightlifting or plyometric training. The training programs will be identical in sets and repetitions, progressively evolving each week towards fewer sets and fewer repetitions. The training intensity will be the same in both groups, calculated from the RM, starting at 70% in the first week and progressing by 5% each week until a final intensity of 85% in the last week. Therefore, both interventions evolve towards sessions with fewer sets and repetitions and higher loads.

The weightlifting intervention refers to the performance of highly technical and explosive multi-joint strength exercises. The program consists of six basic weightlifting maneuvers (hang power clean, overhead squat, hang power snatch, clean, split jerk, snatch), two of which are performed in each of the three weekly sessions. The order of execution of the exercises in the weekly sessions is always the same. To ensure the correct execution of the maneuvers, before starting the intervention, a brief familiarization program will be carried out. This consists of an explanation of the exercises by the research staff and practice by the participants with simultaneous correction.

The plyometric program follows the same structure, consisting in a total of 6 exercises (Max countermovement jump, double leg side jump, maximum squat jump, dropjump (20cm), single leg hurdle jump, doble leg multi hop) performed in groups of 2 for each weekly training session.

The design of the intervention program is based on previously published related articles.Training sessions will be supervised by a member of the research team with expertise in strength and conditioning in basketball athletes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline Repetition Maximum at 5 weeks
  - Change from baseline Hand Grip at 5 weeks
  - Change from baseline Lower-limb muscle strength at 5 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05824780
