CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05969210
Title: Effects of Big Toe Strengthening on Agility, Jump and Speed Among Runners
Official Title: Effects of Big Toe Strengthening on Agility, Jump and Speed Among Runners
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Running form and technique have a direct influence on a runner's economy, and therefore small changes in specific running mechanics could be useful to improving running performance. The thumb plays an important role in the functionality of the foot. During standing, the big toe is more loaded than the head of the five metatarsals and the heel.

The study design will be a Randomized Controlled Trial. This study will be conducted in Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of eight to ten months after the approval of the synopsis. The sample size will be 30 subjects. Non-probability convenient sampling technique will be used to recruit the individuals for the study. Then randomization will be done by lottery method to divide the individuals into 2 treatment groups. The experimental group is given big toe strengthening program for 3 weeks along with running training on the other hand control group will do only their running training and after that measure their pre-post values on spss.

In this study, it will be aimed to examine the relationship of big toe strength with parameters that affect anaerobic athletic performance in runners such as vertical jump, horizontally jumping, strength, agility and speed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of my study is to explore the effects of big toe strengthening on agility, jump and speed among runners.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HIP AND TOE DYNAMOMETER
  - Dynamic balance Y TEST, Star excursion test (SEBT)
  - Vertical jumping, Horizontal jumping
  - STRENGHT • Speed: 20m Sprint test • Agility---- T- Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Toe strengthening exercise
  - OTHER: Control Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 28 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05969210
