CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04057144
Title: Acceptance and Commitment Therapy With and Without Enhanced Mindfulness Training for Chronic Pain
Official Title: Acceptance and Commitment Therapy With and Without Enhanced Mindfulness Training for Chronic Pain: A Randomized Controlled Efficacy and Mediator Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 667
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
As non-pharmacological alternatives, psychosocial treatments have been recommended for chronic pain management. One such treatment is Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT). ACT is a cognitive behavior therapy based on Relational Frame Theory, a comprehensive theory about language and cognition. This treatment intends to help patients identify values ("what is truly meaningful to them") and to set goals and take action according to their values. ACT has research support in the treatment of several mental health problems. Moreover patients are taught mindfulness skills to increase acceptance of pain, thoughts and feelings so that these will have less impact on functioning and action. Among patients with chronic pain, several small clinical trials have shown that ACT is more effective than other treatments in terms of increasing function and improving mental health. ACT in combination with mindfulness training has not been tested so far. Further methodologically robust trials are required. This study will therefore examine whether ACT is more effective for chronic pain than an education program, and whether adding daily mindfulness training will improve the outcome, in a large sample of patients from four multidisciplinary pain centers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - pain intensity measured by the Norwegian Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ACT
  - BEHAVIORAL: mindfulness exercises and audio recordings
  - BEHAVIORAL: Education program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04057144
