CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02474524
Title: Self-Management and Recovery Technology Psychosocial Intervention Trial
Official Title: Psychosocial Intervention Using Online Resources to Promote Personal Recovery in Users of Specialist Mental Health Services
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 148
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This project is a component of a broader research program referred to as "Self-Management and Recovery Technology (SMART): Use of online technology to promote self-management and recovery in people with psychosis", which has been funded by the Victorian Department of Health Mental Illness Research Fund (MIRF33). The overall research program is examining the therapeutic potential of using online (Internet-based) educational and multimedia resources in mental health services. It involves the development of a website which can be accessed via an internet browser on a desktop computer, tablet computer, or smartphone. It consists of a series of educational modules containing textual information, exercises, audio, and video clips designed to promote self-management and recovery in people with a history of persisting mental illness.

This particular project (SMART-Therapy) involves a randomised controlled trial examining the use of a discrete 8-session psychosocial intervention delivered in addition to routine care which utilises these online materials. The intervention will involve a mental health worker meeting with the participant with a tablet computer (e.g. iPad) on which online materials can be viewed, and used to guide an interaction with the participant.

The randomised controlled trial will include 148 participants, who will be randomised to receive one of two interventions: (a) meeting with a support worker using the SMART website to guide interaction (health intervention), or (b) meeting with a support worker delivering a social interaction-based control condition (social intervention). In each condition, there will be 8 x 50min face-to-face sessions over 3 months. Assessments will be completed pre-randomisation, and at 3, 6 and 9 months.

The primary hypothesis is that participants randomised to the health intervention will show greater improvement in personal recovery than participants randomised to the social intervention, and that these improvements will be maintained at follow-up (6 and 9 months following intake).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Process of Recovery Questionnaire (QPR)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Social intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02474524
