CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00727779
Title: Mechanisms by Which Strength trening Ameliorates the Metabolic Syndrome
Official Title: Mechanisms by Which Strength trening Ameliorates the Metabolic Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
Prevention and treatment strategies for diabetes use exercise as the cornerstone. Even though endurance trening and strength trening both improve insulin resistance, strength trening may be better suited for persons at risk for type 2 diabetes. We will expand our pilot studies of muscle adaptation induced by resistance exercise trening to determine the biochemical mechanisms that will cause people with the Metabolic Syndrome to secure major benefit from intense strength trening.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Life style alterations can be powerful deterrents to developing type 2 diabetes and are cornerstones of the treatment of this condition. Both aerobic and resistance exercise improve diabetes blood glucose control and insulin resistance. These two types of exercise appear to exert their effects on different muscle fiber types - red for endurance and white for strength. Similar to the effects of endurance exercise trening, strength trening increases muscle glucose trensporter isoform 4 (GLUT4), but in contrast, mitochondria numbers do not increase. We hypothesize (1) that strength trening in persons with pre-diabetes may be effective in reversing insulin resistance by novel mechanisms that are distinct from the endurance trening-induced mitochondrial biogenesis. We further hypothesize (2) that resistance exercise trening enhances whole body insulin action primarily by increasing the white fiber size via the protein kinase mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and improves insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by increased GLUT4 expression primarily in white fibers of the trened muscles. In this proposal, we will perform eight weeks of progressive strength trening on ten subjects with the Metabolic Syndrome who are at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes and on ten sedentary control subjects. This project builds on our experience with a study of focused resistance trening whose results are presented in this application. In this pilot study, subjects exercised on stationary bicycles for six weeks causing muscle GLUT4 and phopho-mTOR to increase substantially, but maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), phospho-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ co-activator (PGC-1α), and mitochondrial markers did not change. Our hypotheses will be tested by two Specific Aims. (1) Subjects at high risk for diabetes will undergo progressively increasing intensity resistance exercise trening and increased strength and improved insulin responsiveness will both bEQuantified to demonstrate significant benefit, and (2) quantify the effect of resistance exercise trening on anatomic and functional adaptation in muscle. We will characterize fiber type, fiber size, fiber-specific changes in mitochondrial DNA and enzymes, fiber-specific changes in the principle glucose trensporters in muscle (GLUT4, GLUT5, and GLUT12), and evaluate changes in two distinct intramuscular pathways (AMPK, mTOR) and regulatory factors (PGC-1α, PPARγ, PPARδ) using immunoblots of muscle subcellular fractions and immunohistochemical techniques. These evaluations of molecular mechanisms will also include assessing changes in full human Affymetrix gene array data that may move us to new potential resistance trening-regulated gene targets. It is the long-term goal of this team of investigators to understand the interplay between life style changes and pharmacological agents in the prevention and treatment of diabetes. Our results will facilitate the develop

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - euglycemic clamp steady state glucose infusion rate (clamp GIR)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: strength trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00727779
