CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06571318
Title: Clinical Study to Reduce Premature Ejaculation in Healthy Adult Men
Official Title: A Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo-controlled, Parallel Arm Clinical Trial of De-Stress and Perform Capsule in the Management of Stress-induced Premature Ejaculation in Healthy Adult Men
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The current study focuses on clinical validation of efficacy of nutraceutical product in management of male health. In healthy adult men with induced premature ejaculation, the introduction of these nutraceuticals has been associated with notable improvements in quality of life. These supplements help them for enhanced sexual satisfaction, increased control over ejaculation, and a reduction in performance anxiety. The psychological benefits are significant, as the improvement in sexual function can lead to higher self-confidence and a more positive outlook on life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel arm clinical trial of De-Stress and Perform Capsule in the management of stress-induced premature ejaculation in healthy adult men.

More than 60 participants will be randomized into three groups: Group A: De-Stress and Perform Capsule-U001 (20 participants), Group B: De-Stress and Perform Capsule-I001 (20 participants), Group C: Placebo Capsule-002 (20 participants) in a 1:1:1 ratio. The treatment duration will be 60 days. The efficacy of the investigational products will be compared between the groups.

Concomitant diseases/medication assessment will be performed at screening.

The efficacy of the intervention will be assessed by evaluating the following: changes in Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) score; changes in Premature Ejaculation Profile (PEP) score, including PEP control, PEP satisfaction, PEP distress, PEP relationship problems, and PEP Index Score; changes in sexual stamina using Intravaginal Ejaculatory Latency Time (IELT) score; changes in Libido System Score (LSS) score; changes in levels of serum testosterone, cortisol, and LDH; changes in weight and BMI; changes in COPE Questionnaire scores, including Positive Subscale and Denial Subscale; changes in % fat and % skeletal muscle using Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA); and changes in handgrip strength using a hand-held dynamometer, assessed at screening, day 30, and day 60.

Additionally, changes in blood flow will be assessed by penile Doppler in erectile dysfunction (ED) participants (a subset of 15 participants, i.e., 5 participants from each group). Changes in State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) score; changes in Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaire scores, including Total Mood Disturbance and Depression; changes in cardiorespiratory endurance (maximal oxygen uptake VO2 max) by steps test; and changes in Personal Assessment of Intimacy in Relationships (PAIR) scores (to be completed by partner) will also be evaluated at screening and day 60.

Treatment compliance and tolerability of investigational products will be assessed at day 30 and day 60. Safety of the investigational treatment in terms of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be assessed at baseline, day 30, and day 60. Assessments of changes in vital sign parameters will be done thought the visit. Assessments of changes in complete blood count, liver function test, and kidney function test will be done at screening and day 60.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Perceived Stress Scale
  - Premature ejaculation assessed using Premature Ejaculation Profile (PEP) Questionnaire
  - Sexual stamina assessed using intravaginal ejaculatory latency time (IELT)
  - libido system score (LSS)
  - Changes in serum testosterone

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Destress and Perform Capsule-U001
  - OTHER: Destress and Perform Capsule-I001
  - OTHER: Placebo capsules 002

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 50 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06571318
