CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06789900
Title: Everolimus and/or Exercise to Prevent Bone Loss in Postmenopausal Women
Official Title: Targeting mTOR With Everolimus and/or Physical Training for Preventing Postmenopausal Bone Loss and Accelerated Skeletal Aging: The RapaLoad Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 136
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
It is estimated that women lose around 20-25% of bone mass during the 5-10 years period of postmenopausal transition, and menopause is considered a major risk factor for osteoporotic fragility fracture. Currently, there is no preventive strategy to counteract these changes, and hormone replacement therapy is not considered an attractive option for many women, because of concerns related to side effects. Rapamycin, through inhibition of mTOR (the mechanistic target of Rapamycin) has been demonstrated in many preclinical animal models to extend lifespan and healthspan. The most well-established mTOR inhibitors include rapamycin (sirolimus) and its analog (also referred as rapalog). Everolimus are FDA approved and have been used for many years at a high dose as an immunosuppressant and anti-cancer drug. Exercise training has been demonstrated to counteract age-related degenerative changes in several clinical studies. The aim of this randomized clinical trial is to test the effects of treatment with oral Everolimus, exercise, or their combination as a preventive strategy for impaired musculoskeletal function in healthy postmenopausal women.

The trial will include 136 women aged 45-60 years with T-score \&gt;-3 and no history of hip, Colles' or symptomatic vertebral fractures within the last 6 months, randomized to 24 weeks of treatment with one of the following regimens:

1. control group getting general health advice,
2. Football fitness session group, physical training consisting of structured hybrid exercise training via the "football fitness concept" for 1hour, 2 times/ week
3. Everolimus group receiving an oral dosage of 5 mg everolimus once a week, (4) Everolimus and football fitness session group, consisting of structured hybrid exercise training via the "football fitness concept" for 1 hour, 2 times/week combined with oral everolimus 5 mg once a week.

The primary outcome of this trial is percentage change in bone formation marker P1NP (Procollagen Type 1 propeptide) between baseline and week 24. Secondary outcomes include percentage changes in bone resorption marker CTX (cross-lined C-telopeptide of type 1 collagen), bone mineral density (BMD), bone structure as determined by high resolution CT-scanning, muscle function and postural balance. As exploratory endpoints, changes in biological age as determined by "epigenetic clocks", levels of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) as an indicator of whole-body burden of senescent cells.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (P1NP)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Everolimus (Afinitor®)
  - OTHER: Football Fitness Concept

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06789900
