CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05777564
Title: Tolerability of High Intensity Exercise for Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Tolerability of High Intensity Aerobic Exercise for Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis and Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 41
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Current knee osteoarthritis (OA) guidelines recommend knee specific exercise as treatment for knee OA pain. However, up to 87 % of patients with knee OA have at least one other chronic condition, typically cardiovascular in nature. The elevated risk of cardiovascular health problems can be mitigated by performing aerobic exercise. By consequence, it seems logical to apply aerobic exercise for this patient group as the symptomatic benefit is equal to other types of exercise.

Aim: This study aims to assess the tolerability of cardiovascular exercise using High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) on different self-selected exercise equipment in patients with knee OA and at least one CVD risk factor.

Hypothesis: The hypothesis is that performing HIIT exercise is tolerable when having knee OA and at least one CVD risk factor.

Method:

The study is a prospective cohort study designed to assess if HIIT performed by patients with knee OA and at least one modifiable CVD risk factor influence knee pain. The investigators plan to include 40 participants. The participants will be recruited from the osteoarthritis outpatient clinic at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg hospital.

This study will include participants with a clinical diagnosis of knee OA (either one or both knees) and at least one CVD risk factor (obesity, hypertension, elevated HbA1c (long-term blood glycose), elevated triglycerides, elevated cholesterol (LDL)). All participants will attend the HIIT intervention 3 times per week, for 12 weeks. Before a participant attend their first exercise session, he/she will be asked to complete an educational session about knee OA and aerobic exercise.

Participants will have a pre-screening visit (phone call), a screening visit, and a baseline visit, before the 12-week exercise period (3 sessions weekly), and after completion of the exercise period a follow-up visit.

Finance: This study is fully funded by Sygesikring "Denmark".

Publication: All results, both negative, positive, and inconclusive will be published. Should publication fail, the results will be made publicly available.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND Current knee osteoarthritis (OA) treatment guidelines recommend knee specific exercise as treatment for knee OA pain. If performed regularly, such knee-specific exercise can yield a small to moderate effect on knee OA pain. However, muscle strengthening and neuromuscular exercise are not the only types of exercise that can reduce knee pain; walking regularly or aerobic exercise have similar positive effects on knee OA pain.

Up to 87 % of patients with knee OA have at least one other chronic condition. In the OA population abdominal obesity and metabolic syndrome are more prevalent than in the general population and knee OA is associated with increased risk for all-cause and cardiovascular (CV) death.

It therefore seems logical to apply aerobic exercise for this patient group as the symptomatic benefit is equal to other types of exercise.

AIM This study aims to assess the tolerability of cardiovascular exercise using High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) on different self-selected exercise equipment in patients with knee OA and at least one CVD risk factor.

STUDY DESIGN The study is a prospective cohort study designed to assess if High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) performed by patients with knee OA and at least one modifiable CVD risk factor influence knee pain.

The intervention will be performed with 3 sessions per week for 12 weeks. Due to the feasibility-like nature of this study, we have not made formalized sample size calculations. Approaches to the sample size justification for feasibility studies vary greatly. We plan to include 40 participants, whom we believe are adequate to meet the aims of the study and inform recruitment and sample size estimation for a subsequent large-scale randomized controlled trial. The participants will be recruited from the osteoarthritis outpatient clinic at Bispebjerg-Frederiksberg hospital. Participants that have completed the baseline visit will not be replaced if they are prematurely terminated or withdraw study participation.

DIAGNOSIS This study will include participants with a clinical diagnosis of knee OA (either one or both knees) and at least one CVD risk factor (obesity, hypertension, elevated HbA1c (long-term blood glycose), elevated triglycerides, elevated cholesterol (LDL)).

STUDY TREATMENT, HIIT All participants will attend the HIIT intervention 3 times per week, for 12 weeks and one educational session. The educational session containing information on rationale for aerobic exercise in knee OA and management of potential knee OA symptom flares. The educational session will be led by health professionals with experience within the fields of aerobic exercise and knee OA.

There will be several types of exercise equipment for aerobic exercise available (e.g., treadmill, cross-trainer, etc.) and participants will be asked to choose which they preferrer. If, during the intervention period, participants change exercise equipment (either due to pain or personal preference) thi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee flares
  - Average knee pain
  - Attendance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High intensity exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05777564
