CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01161329
Title: Effect of Intensified Physical Activity for Patients With Stroke - a Combined Physical and Behavioural Approach
Official Title: Description of Physical and Psychosocial Problems One Year After Stroke and the Effect of Intensified Physical Activity for Patients With Stroke - a Combined Physical and Behavioural Approach
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 67
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Chronic conditions such as stroke are associated with physical disability and an economic burden for the family and the society. A medical approach is often not sufficient to address the bio-psychological process of chronic disease. Behavioural medicine approaches are often needed to improve the treatment outcomes. Those approaches have often successfully been used together with physical activity to change health behaviour in inactive individuals and in pain management. In this project the combined approach of behavioural medicine principles and physical training will be tried on patients who have had a stroke one year ago where it has yet only been used scarcely. As the study focus on the individuals' ability to function and be active the primary outcome measure is disability. The aim of the study are in a randomized controlled study evaluate if a high intense functional exercise program as an group intervention under three months can influence functional, psychosocial, anthropometric and biochemical factors 3, 6 months and 1 year after the start of the study. Following outcome variables will be analyzed:

1. level of physical activity, motor function and balance
2. depression and health-related quality of life
3. body mass index (BMI), metabolic risk profile, inflammation status
4. number of falls, fall-related self-efficacy and outcome expectations

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hife include functional exercises consisting of everyday tasks challenging leg strength, postural stability, and gait ability. All exercise shall be performed in weight-bearing positions, eg squats and walking over obstacles. HIFE are performed twice a week during 1 h. for three months in a group with 6-7 seven patients with stroke. Two physiotherapists lead the group and one physiotherapist select exercises for each participant according to their functional deficits. The exercises will be progressively increased in load and difficulty.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Berg Balance Scale (BBS)
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High-Intensity Functional Exercise Programmes (HIFE)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01161329
