CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03031951
Title: Lifestyle Intervention Program for Former Elite Athletes
Official Title: Lifestyle Intervention Program for Former Elite Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 94
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Given the lack of support for lifestyle management in post-career and considering the high rates of physical inactivity and overweight in former elite athletes, the aim of this research project is to analyze the efficacy and effectiveness of a lifestyle intervention in former athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The physical preparation of the elite athlete results from a complex and very demanding daily training. In this process high energy expenditure (EE) occur compensated by a proportional energy intake, thus contributing to neutral energy balance and weight maintenance. However, a positive energy balance (and consequently an increase in weight) is expected after the end of the sports career if the energy intake is maintained for lower EE. While clinicians and researchers are concerned with the average individual whose physical activity (PA) level is far below the recommended exercise dose an often overlooked group are the former highly competitive athletes, who have been exposed to higher amounts of vigorous PA during times of training and competition.

It is common that upon retirement energy intake does not match the dramatic decrease in overall energy expenditure leading to a positive energy balance, and consequently weight gain. The change to a lower physical activity level does not induce an equivalent reduction in energy intake. Varying physical activity level from 1.8 to 1.4 over 7 days was not associated with a change of energy intake and there was no tendency for energy intake to drop as the sedentariness progressed.

In fact, elite athletes that became inactive are susceptible to various chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Not only obesity and its comorbidities are a major health problem as an increase in body weight and a higher risk for developing hypertension, type II diabetes and cardiovascular disease has been observed in athletes that retired from the sports career . However, the literature reports that this risk is only present in those retired athletes exposed to a sedentary lifestyle. In fact, the current levels of PA are more protective against the development of cardiovascular disease in former athletes than their past sports history. Although it is expected that the retired elite athlete will be engaged in regular PA throughout life, studies reveal that this assumption does not apply to all former athletes. This concern was addressed in the United States, namely within the National Football League where an obesity prevention program for the retired athletes was implemented. In Portugal \~50% of the former elite athletes are overweight/obese and \~30% are inactive, based on self-reports measures. Indeed no support is provided for maintaining a healthy lifestyle after the end of the sports career. If a healthy lifestyle promotion among post-career elite athletes would contribute to avoid the observed rates of overweight/obesity it is unknown. Considering this actual context, the aim of this research project is to analyze the effect of a lifestyle intervention in former athletes. To accomplish the goals the investigators will perform a 1 year randomized controlled trial with a 4-month lifestyle intervention and an 8-month follow-up in 100 volunteered former overweight (Body Mass index\>25 kg.m-2)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Whole body fat mass (FM)
  - Abdominal Fat Mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Intervention Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03031951
