CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00526604
Title: Work Related Rehabilitation in Patients With Low Back Pain
Official Title: A Study on the Effect of Employment Follow-up on Return to Work in Sick Listed Patients With Low Back Pain
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 260
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is a usual conditions in the western countries and several treatments available for patients with "non-specific low back pain". According to the European guidelines are exercise and cognitive intervention effective on pain and function(www.backpaineurope.org), but it have no documented effect on return to work. In addition, there is no documentation that treatments which focus on a single treatment, is effective with regard to return to work for sick-listed patients.

The challenges for health personnel is not cure of the patients back pain, but to build up rehabilitation programs which focus on disability and work incapacity, in patients which are at risk of loosing their work. Dr. P. Loisel, Montreal, Canada", has since 1995 treated patients with back pain according to the "The PREVICAP model - (PREVention of work handICAP)", where the main purpose with work-related program is to prevent prolonged disability and to help patients back to work. Loisel demonstrated that the PREVICAP models accelerated the "return to work" factor by a factor 2.4 (p=0.01). The PREVICAP model have also been evaluated in Amsterdam, by Dr. Anema with the same results.

At the Back Clinic, Ullevål University Hospital we have evaluated several exercise programs with good effect on pain and function, but not on the return to work rate. We are planning to do a randomized controlled trial after the PREVICAP model. All included patients in both groups, will have an clinical examination by specialist in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and an exercise program. Patients will be randomized to a work-related rehabilitations program or to usual care by the general practitioner.

Hypothesis Main hypothesis: Sick-listed patients with back pain, who will be randomized to the work-related rehabilitation programs, will return to work faster than patients randomized to usual care by the general practitioner.

Second hypothesis: A cost-benefit analysis will favor the exercise program and work place intervention

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Low back pain is a usual conditions in the western countries and in Norway 40% of the population report decreased function because of back pain. The disease has great economic consequences, which in 2004 came to 15 billions to disability pension and 1,46 billions to physical treatments.

Severe incidence of back pain, like tumours, infections, fractures and pareses are rare and represent less than 1 % of all cases. The main part is within the category of "non-specific low back pain", which is defined as back pain without specific pathology as known cause.

Based on scientific documentation the back-specialists consider non-specific low back pain as a benign and self-limited condition, while patients expect to get treatment because they experience the condition as painful and disabling.

There are several treatments available for patients with "non-specific low back pain". According to the European guidelines exercise and cognitive intervention has good effects on pain and function (www.backpaineurope.org), but it is not documented effect on return to work. In addition it is not documented that treatments which focus on a single treatment neither is effective regarding return to work for sick-listed patients.

It is a usual myth that physical hard work cause back pain. However, only few studies have demonstrated correlations between hard work and sick-leave. On the contrary several studies have demonstrated that back pain is a multifactorial problem, which is not only due to workers' characteristics, but is also closely related to environmental factors, such as the workplace, the healthcare system, the compensation system and the interaction between all stakeholders in the disability problem.

The challenges for health personnel is not cure of the patients back pain, but to build up rehabilitation programs which focus on disability and work incapacity in patients which are at risk of loosing their work.

Dr. P. Loisel, Montreal, Canada", has since 1995 treated patients with back pain according to the "The PREVICAP model - (PREVention of work handICAP)". The main purpose with work-related program is to prevent prolonged disability and to help patients back to work. This approach includes two steps: first identification of factors on the workplace which contribute to the absence of work and second "workplace intervention". Identification of factors at workplace includes physical, ergonomic, psychosocial, interpersonal conflicts and administrative problems. "Workplace intervention" is a rehabilitation program centred at the workplace, allowing a graded transition from the clinical setting to the workplace. Parallel with the workplace intervention the patients enter an exercise-program, adjusted to the workplace intervention.

The PREVICAP models have been evaluated in randomized controlled trials and has accelerated return to work by a factor 2.4 (p=0.01). The most important effect came from the workplace intervention, which alone accelera

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The primary outcome measure is return to work, measured in number of days patients have been sick listed in both groups.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: work related rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00526604
