CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03062475
Title: Lifestyle Intervention to Prevent the Recurrence of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus
Official Title: The Efficacy of Lifestyle Intervention in Preventing the the Recurrence of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 660
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Gestational diabetes mellitus(GDM) is a commom complication during pregnancy and associated with various adverse pregnancy outcomes for both the mother and her offspring. Imoportantly, with the gradual opening of a two-child policy, more and more Chinese women of reproductive age enter pregnancy have a history of GDM. Our previous study showed that regular exercise commenced in early pregnancy is effective in reducing the risk of developing GDM in Chinese overweight and obese pregant women. Thus, in this study, we want to evaluate the effect of lifestyle intervention with detailed information on how to eat and how to diet in preventing the recurrence of GDM.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gestational diabetes mellitus(GDM) is a commom complication during pregnancy. and the incidence has reached as high as 19.2% in China. GDM is associated with various adverse pregnancy outcomes for both the mother and her offspring, and not only during the perinatal phase, but also in the long term.Thus finding effective way to reduce the risk of GDM is of great importance,especial for women with high GDM risk factors. GDM history is one of the risk factors. Imoportantly, with the gradual opening of a two-child policy, more and more Chinese women of reproductive age enter pregnancy have a history of GDM. Our previous study showed that regular exercise commenced in early pregnancy is effective in reducing the risk of developing GDM in Chinese overweight and obese pregant women. Thus, in this study, we want to evaluate the effect of lifestyle intervention with detailed information on how to eat and how to diet in preventing the recurrence of GDM

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - GDM

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: lifestyle intervention with dietary and exercise recommendation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03062475
