CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02924012
Title: Active Video Game and Potential to Cause Post-exercise Hypotension
Official Title: Energy Demand in a Video Game Active Session and Potencial to Promove Post Exercise Hypotension in Hypertensive Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to determine the energy demand and the potential to promote reduce blood pressure of an active video game (AVG). Fourteen hypertensive (56.4 ± 7.5 years) held a session AVG and traditional sedentary video game sessions (SVG) and walk (WAL), as negative and positive controls, in order determined randomly. During the sessions, they were observed oxygen consumption and energy expenditure (EE). Blood pressure (BP) and cardiac autonomic modulation (CAM) were measured at rest and every 15 minutes of a 60 minute period of recovery activities. It was also applied a rating scale of pleasure (enjoyment scale).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Volunteers: In a previous pilot study, seven women who had systolic blood pressure (SBP) of resting 128.9 ± 9.4 mmHg obtained a reduction to 116.9 ± 7.0 mmHg 60 minutes after a workout with AVG. These data resulted in an effect size of 1.05. Adopting an α error of 0.05 and statistical power of 0.95, estimated a minimum sample size of 12 volunteers. effectively participated in the study 14 hypertensive women aged between 47 and 68 years (56.4 ± 7.5 years). In addition to the diagnosis of hypertension, they should perform with pressure values of at least 130/90 mmHg and no greater than 160/110 mmHg in measurements made in the days before the study and on the day of data collection. They should still be postmenopausal women, being overweight or obesity grade I (BMI between 25 and 34.9 kg / m2), not be practicing systematic physical exercise for at least three months and not be suffering from labyrinthitis. They would be excluded from the study volunteers who initiate any antihypertensive treatment during the study period, presented difficulties to perform the AVG games or take him more than four weeks to complete all experimental procedures.

The research project was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Health Science Center - UFPB under the nº0621 / 14 protocol. After informed about all the procedures, the volunteers signed a Consent and Informed (IC) according to the resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council of Brazil.

Study design: the volunteers held an AVG session, an internal control session composed of sedentary video game (SVG) and an external control session consists of a walking exercise (WAL) with a minimum of 48 hours between sessions and order determined randomly. In all sessions, during activities, they were instrumented with portable gas analyzer for measuring energy expenditure (EE) accelerometer to quantify performed movements and heart rate monitor to evaluate the behavior of heart rate (HR). Blood pressure measurements (BP) and cardiac autonomic modulation (CAM) were performed at rest and every 15 minutes a period 60 minutes of recovery activities. In these same times it was applied a rating scale of pleasure in activities (enjoyment scale) (Figure 1).

Pre experimental procedures: prior to the experimental sessions, blood pressure measurements, physical activity and blood collection were made to characterize the participants. Personal information on the drugs used and collected and they were given a list containing rich foods and medicines caffeine could not be ingested 24 before each experimental session.

Adaptation activities: the participants underwent three sessions of adaptation and learning the handling of active and sedentary games and walking on a treadmill. The sessions lasted 10 to 40 minutes, with an interval of 48 hours between sessions and at least 72 hours between the last session of adaptation and the first test session. The intensity adopted in these sessions was free, but participants were en

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: video game active
  - OTHER: sedentary video game
  - OTHER: walking

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 47 Years to 68 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02924012
