CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01861717
Title: A Pilot Study of Pre- and Post-operative Use of Somatuline Depot.
Official Title: A Pilot Study of Pre- and Post-operative Somatuline Depot Therapy in Acromegalic Patients Treated by Endonasal Endoscopic Surgery: Impact on Early Remission Rates and Perioperative Morbidity
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
If someone is diagnosed with a pituitary tumor that causes acromegaly (too much growth hormone) the treatment is to have it surgically removed. This study has two phases.

The first phase provides medical treatment with a drug that will be provided for 3 months before surgery to see if complications of surgery are reduced and to see whether or not remission improves following surgery if you have this medical treatment. The drug administered is approved by the FDA for long-term treatment of acromegaly. It is not routinely administered before surgery, and is therefore experimental as used in this way. All other procedures performed during this research are standard of care with the exception of the 3 questionnaires to be completed at each visit.

The second phase of this study is from 3 months until 12 months after surgery and is only for people who do not go into remission after the operation. This phase assesses the possible remission of acromegaly after resuming the drug treatment for an additional 3 to 9 months. The drug will be prescribed by your physician as part of your regular medical care and will not be included as part of the study. All other procedures performed during this research are standard of care with the exception of the 3 questionnaires to be completed at each visit.

The study lasts approximately 16 months - 3 month before surgery and 12 months after surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Early Remission of Acromegaly

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: lanreotide

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01861717
