CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05480566
Title: Functional Strength Training and Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation in Severe Acute Exacerbations of COPD
Official Title: Effects of Functional Strength Training and Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation During Hospitalisation for Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: a Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is highly prevalent and frequently punctuated by severe acute exacerbations (AECOPD), defined as a temporary worsening of symptoms which leads to hospitalisation. AECOPD result in physical inactivity, muscle weakness and decreased exercise capacity, which impacts negatively on patients' health status, and increases patients' susceptibility for new exacerbations and death. To date, light aerobic exercises, such as early mobilisation and low-intensity ambulation, have become part of standard of care during severe AECOPD. Nevertheless, additional strength training using neuromuscular electrical stimulation and functional exercises, which have been shown to prevent skeletal muscle dysfunction whilst inducing minimal stress in the ventilatory system, might be of added value to optimize patients' functional performance and symptoms during activities at discharge.

Therefore, this randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of additional functional strength training and neuromuscular electrical stimulation on top of standard of care during hospitalisation for an AECOPD to enhance functional performance, symptoms of dyspnoea and fatigue during activities, and readmission rate.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive and life-threatening condition characterised by persistent respiratory symptoms and airflow limitation. It affects 384 million people, is one of the main causes of morbidity and the third cause of mortality worldwide, responsible for around 3 million deaths annually. Consequently, COPD results in significant and increasing health, economic and social burden. The trajectory of COPD is frequently punctuated by acute exacerbations (AECOPD), defined as episodes of acute worsening of respiratory symptoms that result in additional therapy.

Severe AECOPD lead to hospitalization and account for more than 70% of all COPD-related costs. AECOPD are associated with physical inactivity, quadriceps muscle weakness and decreased exercise capacity, which impacts negatively on patients' health status, and increases patients' susceptibility for exacerbations recurrence, hospitalisations and death. Therefore, minimising the negative sequelae of AECOPD and preventing rehospitalisation are fundamental treatment goals for individuals, families and health, economic and social systems.

People discharged from the hospital after an AECOPD benefit from participating in pulmonary rehabilitation, but uptake is generally low. By all means, however, it is important to maximize the patient's functional performance and minimize symptoms during activities by the time of discharge. During an AECOPD, patients experience increased dyspnoea. Consequently, exercise modalities with minimal ventilatory requirements are preferred. To date, light aerobic exercises, such as early mobilisation and low-intensity ambulation, have become part of the standard of care. Nevertheless, additional strength training using neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) and functional exercises, which have been shown to prevent skeletal muscle dysfunction whilst inducing minimal stress in the ventilatory system, might be of added value to optimize patients' functional performance and symptoms at discharge.

The researchers hypothesise that adding functional strength training and NMES to the standard mobilisation practice during hospitalisation for an AECOPD will: i) preserve or enhance patients' functional performance; ii) reduce symptoms of dyspnoea and fatigue and iii) decrease the short-term readmission rate.

Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the impact of adding functional strength training and NMES to standard mobilisation practice during hospitalisation for an AECOPD on:

* functional performance (primary outcome);
* symptoms of dyspnoea and fatigue (secondary outcome);
* readmission rate (exploratory outcome).

Hospitalised patients with AECOPD will be recruited consecutively at the hospital "Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg" (ZOL). Patients will be eligible if they are: i) hospitalised due to an AECOPD according to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease criteria, ii) included within 48h of hospital admission and iii) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 1-minute sit-to-stand test
  - Change in the 1-minute sit-to-stand test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Functional strength training
  - DEVICE: NMES
  - DRUG: Daily medical treatment (e.g., oxygen, medrol, duovent, azitromycine)
  - OTHER: Routine physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05480566
