CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06959069
Title: Impact of Intermittent Fasting on Sleep and Quality of Life
Official Title: Impact of Intermittent Fasting on Sleep and Quality of Life Among Healthy Adults
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the impact of intermittent fasting on sleep, quality of life and fatigue among healthy volunteers. The main questions aim to answer:

Whether intermittent fasting would allow participants to experience an improvement in their sleep quality, duration and latency? Whether intermittent fasting would ameliorate participants' quality of life and reduce chronic fatigue symptoms? Researchers will compare the two most prevailing fasting windows of intermittent diet including an early morning feeding window (8 a.m.-4 p.m.) and a late feeding window (12 p.m.-8 p.m.) to see if there is a difference among these feeding windows on sleep and quality of life.

Participants will:

* Be divided into two groups (group A and group B) that will alternate their fasting windows.
* Group A will start with intermittent fasting over a feeding period from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. for one month, then a two weeks period of usual eating habits (washout period) and finally one month of intermittent fasting with a feeding period from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
* Group B will follow intermittent fasting over a feeding period from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m for one month, then a two weeks period of usual eating habits (washout period) and finally one month of intermittent fasting with a feeding period from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m.
* At enrollment, at the end of each month of intermittent fasting and at the end of washout period participants will be asked to complete some questionnaires and will be submitted to anthropometric measurements using impedance scales.
* Participants will be asked to complete an electronic 24 hour recall diary using the Automated Self-Administered 24h Dietary Assessment (ASA24) Tool software once per week every week during study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized clinical trial focusing on the effect of intermittent fasting on sleep and quality of life among healthy population. More specifically, the first objective of this study will be to investigate the impact of intermittent fasting on sleep including sleep quality, efficiency, duration, and sleep latency among healthy individuals. The second objective will be to explore the impact of intermittent fasting on participants' quality of life and fatigue using validated questionnaires. The third objective is to compare the effect of the two prevailing fasting windows including early morning feeding window (8 a.m.-4 p.m.) and late feeding window (12 p.m.-8 p.m.) on sleep and quality of life.

The investigators expect that intermittent fasting would have a positive effect on sleep and would allow participants to experience an improvement in their sleep during this practice. The investigators also assume that intermittent fasting would have a positive effect on participants' quality of life and fatigue. Moreover, intermittent fasting during the early morning feeding window (8 a.m.-4 p.m.) would have a more positive impact on sleep and quality of life compared to the late feeding window (12 p.m.-8 p.m.) because it would be more aligned with the circadian rhythm.

This project will be conducted over a 10-week period. Subjects will be divided into two groups (group A and group B) that will alternate their fasting windows each month. Each group will consist of 36 male and female volunteers, adults, aged between 18 and 65 years old, and with a BMI between 18.5 and 29.9.

At recruitment, all subjects will provide their written informed consent prior to enrolling in the study. Once the subject's consent is obtained, the participants will be randomly assigned to Group A or Group B. More specifically, during baseline assessment, the participants will randomly draw an envelope containing a piece of paper labeled Group A or Group B. There will be as many envelopes as there are participants, half containing the Group A paper and the other half containing the Group B paper. Once the subject will be assigned to their group, they will be labeled with a number (ranging from 1 to 36) which will allow us to maintain their anonymity.

The study will last 10 weeks in total, with 4 weeks for each window, followed by a 2-week "washout" period where the subjects follow their usual diet between each group of 4 weeks intermittent fasting period. For the first month, group A will follow a feeding period from 12 p.m. to 8 p.m. (known as late feeding window) and group B will follow a feeding period from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. (known as early feeding window). The following 2 weeks both groups will return to their usual eating habits. For the second month, group A will follow an early feeding window while group B will follow a late feeding window.

At enrollment, information concerning baseline characteristics such as age, body mass index (BMI), profession, physical activit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Impact of intermittent fasting on sleep
  - Impact of intermittent fasting on quality of life
  - Impact of intermittent fasting on fatigue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Intermittent Fasting - Late feeding window
  - OTHER: Intermittent Fasting - Early feeding window

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06959069
