CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03495336
Title: The Effects of Unfiltered (Turkish) Coffee Consumption on Cardiovascular Risk Parameters
Official Title: A 4-week Consumption of Light or Dark Roast Unfiltered (Turkish) Coffee Affects Cardiovascular Risk Parameters of Homocysteine and Cholesterol Concentrations in Healthy Subjects: A Randomized Crossover Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Purpose/Objective: The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of boiled unfiltered (Turkish) coffee consumption on the plasma cardiovascular risk parameters of healthy subjects. The study also explores whether two unfiltered boiled (Turkish) coffee beverages that differ in content due to different roasting degrees will differentially affect cardiovascular biomarkers.

Methods: In this crossover intervention study, healthy, nonsmoking, habitual Turkish coffee drinkers (n=28) were randomized to consume at least 3 cups of Light (LR) or Dark (DR) roast Turkish coffee brews per day for 4 weeks after a washout period (WO) of 2 weeks. Subsequent to each coffee abstinence period, both groups received the alternative intervention. After the first WO and the coffee intervention periods, anthropometric measures, blood pressure, heart rate and 13 biochemical parameters were collected and dietary records were completed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Considerable controversy exists regarding the link between coffee consumption and cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. It has been shown that different coffee preparation and brewing methods influence the concentration of compounds present in the final coffee brew. Unlike coffee traditionally consumed in the western world, Turkish coffee is not drip filtered, but rather its method of preparation involves slowly boiling water that is mixed with thinly ground coffee beans. This style of preparation results in a greater amount of biologically active components (caffeine and diterpenes) remaining in the liquid. In addition to preparation styles, roasting process greatly affects the chemical composition of the coffee. Coffee types differing in content of major constituents differ with regard to cardiovascular health effects.

Purpose/Objective: The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of boiled unfiltered (Turkish) coffee consumption on the plasma cardiovascular risk parameters of healthy subjects. The study also explores whether two unfiltered boiled (Turkish) coffee beverages that differ in content due to different roasting degrees will differentially affect cardiovascular biomarkers.

Methods: In this crossover intervention study, healthy, nonsmoking, habitual Turkish coffee drinkers (n=28) were randomized to consume at least 3 cups of Light (LR) or Dark (DR) roast Turkish coffee brews per day for 4 weeks after a washout period (WO) of 2 weeks. Subsequent to each coffee abstinence period, both groups received the alternative intervention. After the first WO and the coffee intervention periods, anthropometric measures, blood pressure, heart rate and 13 biochemical parameters were collected and dietary records were completed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Comparing the serum lipid levels of all interventions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: coffee abstention phase
  - OTHER: LR Coffee consumption
  - OTHER: DR Coffee consumption

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03495336
