CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05450666
Title: Effectiveness of Mobility Exercises in Resistance-Trained Males With Shoulder Immobility in Different Age Groups
Official Title: Effectiveness of Mobility Exercises in Resistance-Trained Males With Shoulder Immobility in Different Age Groups
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The shoulder is a dynamic and mobile joint between the arm and the trunk. The movement of the joint in three dimensions performs complex movements in almost every activity of daily life.

These movements performed during activities of daily living can cause musculoskeletal problems and shoulder pathologies. For this reason, the shoulder joint should be carefully evaluated, especially in athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The shoulder consists of four functional joints. Glenohumeral joint (GH), acromioclavicular joint (AC), sternoclavicular joint (SC), and scapulothoracic joint (ST). The most mobile of these four joints is the glenohumeral joint, located between the scapula and the glenoid. The GH is a synovial joint that has three-dimensional motion, covers the intra-articular capsule, and wraps the biceps long head tendon to the biceps sulcus. The glenohumeral capsule, glenohumeral ligament, and coracohumeral ligament contain a capsuloligamentous complex structure. This complex structure and the rotator cuff tendons form a static and dynamic restrictive structure around the glenohumeral joint. The rotator cuff space forms a triangular tissue between the edge of the anterior supraspinatus tendon and the superior subscapularis, and the apex is located on the lateral ridge of the biceps sulcus at the edge of the humeral ligament.

After providing mobility, movement and balance will return to stability. Increasing muscle strength for joint stabilization is a physical training goal for the shoulder in athletes.

Bone mechanics, intra-articular pressure, glenohumeral labrum and capuloligamentous structures are static components.

Dynamic components are provided by muscle activity coordinated around the joint and modulated by the neuromuscular system.

The basis of static and dynamic interactions is mainly proprioceptive inputs that occur with mechanoreceptors in the muscles, joint capsule ligaments, tendons and skin, which are integrated into each other.

Joint stabilization is provided by the coactivation force of dynamic shoulder stabilizers.

The balance of such forces must be proportional. For this reason, exercises to provide joint stabilization should aim to provide equal force distribution around the joint.

Among the criteria for evaluating the athletes; proprioception and range of motion.

Body Awareness Questionnaire aims to evaluate body awareness. Posture will be evaluated with New York posture analysis.

As a result of the literature review carried out; As far as is known, there is no adequate, up-to-date and evidence-based study in the literature.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Awareness Questionnairei
  - The range of motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mobility exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05450666
