CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02117700
Title: Fatty Liver Disease in Obese Children
Official Title: Effect of N-acetyl Cysteine on Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Obese Children
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Although weight reduction through physical activity-based interventions is the mainstay therapy for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), its maintenance is difficult and typically unsuccessful. This affirms the extreme need for alternate and/or adjunct therapies. Although convincing data from animal studies and a few adult human studies on the benefits of a natural product, N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), in a variety of liver conditions including NAFLD have emerged, studies in children are scarce. Therefore, the aim of the study is to test the use NAC as an innovative approach to attenuate the progression of NAFD in obese children with biopsy proven NASH. The central hypothesis is that NAC supplementation will reduce liver fat and liver enzymes and ameliorate risk factors of cardiometabolic disease in children with NAFLD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Physical activity (PA)-induced weight reduction, the suggested therapy for noalcoholic liver disease (NAFLD), is difficult and its maintenance is typically unsuccessful in children, affirming the acute need for alternative/adjunct therapies. Although few promising approaches have been reported, the benefits are incongruent and mostly marginal. N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), a derivative of the natural amino acid, cysteine, appears to be promising as an adjunct therapy to PA. Animal and a few adult human studies suggest NAC-induced attenuation of liver abnormalities, oxidative stress, insulin resistance and inflammation. The primary aim of the proposal is to determine in obese children with biopsy proven NASH and elevated liver enzymes the effect of NAC at two different doses on liver fat using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), liver enzymes and risk factors of cardiometabolic disease. We hypothesize that NAC will produce beneficial effect on these parameters.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in liver fat (MRI) and ALT levels from baseline and at 16 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: N-acetyl cysteine 600 mg once/day
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: N-acetyl cysteine 600mg twice/day
  - OTHER: Placebo twice/day

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02117700
