CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05825274
Title: TDCs to Treat Drug-resistant Epilepsy
Official Title: Transcranial Direct Current Estimulation for the Treatment of Drug-resistant Epilepsy in Children
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Epilepsy is the fourth overall neurologic disorder, regardless of age and gender. It encompass a wide spectrum of conditions, intensities and seizure types; therefor, several drugs have proven to treat different types of seizures. However, around 22.5 % of patients are unable to attain control regardless of the drug used or even a combination of several of them. TDCs offers a non-invasive approach with a focal effect for those patients. The focus of this study is to define the role for tDCS in the treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy on children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Epilepsy is the fourth overall neurologic disorder, regardless of age and gender. There are between 16 and 51 new cases per 100 000 people every year. A community-based study conducted in France concluded that up to 22.5 % of patients could be classified as presenting drug-resistant epilepsy. This group presents significant hazards such as an increased risk of death, injuries, psychosocial disfunction and a reduced quality of life. The International League against Epilepsy defines drug-resistant epilepsy as follows: A failure of adequate trials of two (or more) tolerated, appropriately chosen, appropriately used antiepileptic drugs (whether administered as monotherapies or in a combination) to achieve freedom from seizures. This significant amount of patients are the drive to develop different approaches in order to offer alternatives for control. In this regard, non-invasive brain stimulation protocols lead the way, since the pathophysiological substrate of epilepsy is an enhanced cortical excitability, leading to paroxysmal depolarisation shifts, an enhanced probability of high-frequent and hypersyncronous activity of small neuronal networks and the abnormal spreading of this pathological activity along cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical neuronal conections. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) consists of short-lasting electric stimulus delivered to specific brain regions. When delivered repidetly, it generates long-lasting cortical excitability alterations and thus, has the potential to treat epilepsy targeting to the specific brain region where the cortical excitability is alterated. The aim of this study is to define the role for tDCS on the treatment of drug resistant epilepsy on children.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Decrease in number of crisis per day
  - Body mass index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Cathodal tDCS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Months to 120 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05825274
