CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06032247
Title: Bilateral Versus Unilateral Strength Training After ACLR
Official Title: Effect of Bilateral Versus Unilateral Lower Body Resistance Training on Musculoskeletal Outcomes in Individuals With a Previous Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
After rehabilitation completion, there remains large deficiencies between the operative (OP) and non-operative (NOP) limbs in lower-limb outcomes (e.g., size, strength, and function) and these deficits can persist for years. Therefore, further specialized training protocols, such as the ones in the present study, are required to determine if these deficits can be lessened. The proposed project will evaluate the effect of 8-weeks of single-leg and double-leg lower-body resistance training on musculoskeletal function in individuals with a previous anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction (ACLR) in a randomized control trial. The study will recruit 30-40 males and females between 18-35 years of age that have undergone a previous ACLR. Participants will be randomized to either the single-leg/unilateral (UL) or double-leg/bilateral (BL) training groups. Training will occur three times per week for 8-weeks. The UL group will participate in exercises such as split squats, single-leg deadlifts, or single-leg squats. The BL group will utilize exercises such as double-leg squats, conventional deadlifts, and leg presses. One week prior to (PRE) and one week after (POST) the training program, all participants will undergo a testing battery. Musculoskeletal ultrasound will measure quadriceps and hamstrings muscle cross-sectional area (mCSA), fascicle length (FL), and pennation angle (PA) of both OP and NOP limbs. Strength will be assessed through maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) for the quadriceps and hamstrings, and one-repetition maximum tests for single-leg leg extensions, leg curls, and leg press. Lower-limb function will be assessed through single-leg and double-leg jumps on a dual force plate system for jump height, impulse, rate of force development, and peak force. Data will be analyzed via separate mixed-factorial analyses of variance for the within-subjects factor of leg (OP vs. NOP) and time (PRE vs. POST) and the between-subjects factor of biological sex (male vs. female) and group (UL vs. BL). Post-hoc analyses will include lower-order ANOVAs and t-tests as pairwise comparisons when significance is detected. Significance will be established at p≤0.05. The results of this study will assist practitioners, coaches, sport scientists, and most importantly, the athletes, in the development of post-rehabilitative strength training protocols designed to reduce between-limb discrepancies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in isometric strength of the quadriceps femoris
  - Change in muscle cross-sectional area of the quadriceps femoris

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance exercise program- UL
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance exercise program- BL

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06032247
