CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02465294
Title: The Influence of Probiotics on Body Weight and Composition
Official Title: The Influence of Probiotics With a Behavioral Life Style Intervention on Body Weight and Composition in Overweight Participants: A Randomized, Double-blinded, Placebo-controlled Study.
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the addition of two different probiotic interventions to a comprehensive behavioral lifestyle intervention on body weight loss and overall health in overweight adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study. After obtaining informed consent, healthy overweight adults aged 18 to 75 years (n=76/intervention group with n=228 total/study) will be randomized to one of three groups: Lactobacillus, a blend of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus, or placebo. Participants will consume 1 capsule per day of probiotic or placebo for 12 weeks. Participants will attend weekly behavioral lifestyle intervention meetings, which will address dietary and physical activity contributions to weight loss, in groups of approximately 20 subjects during the 12 intervention weeks.

Participants will complete daily questionnaires throughout the week before and during the intervention period which address subject compliance and bowel habits. A dual X-ray absorptivity scan will be done to measure body composition during the week before the intervention and during the 12th week of the intervention period (± 1 week). Blood samples will be collected via a finger prick at the baseline and final time points. Blood samples will be used to measure cardiovascular and metabolic markers of health. Stool samples will be collected from 25 subjects per intervention group during the week before the intervention period and the 12th week of the intervention period. Dietary intake will be assessed during the week before the intervention period and during the week of the final appointment (± 1 week). Gastrointestinal symptoms and physical activity questionnaires will be completed upon providing consent to the study, being randomized to an intervention, and during the last week of the intervention period. Questionnaires regarding income, weight control strategies, and quality of life will be completed during randomization and during the last week of the intervention period. Stool samples will be collected from a subgroup of participants during the week before the intervention period and during the 12th week of the intervention period. These samples will be used to detect the presence and/or abundance and/or survival of the probiotic microorganisms at the end of the digestive tract.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in baseline to week 12 in the percentage of body weight lost between the probiotic groups and the placebo group

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral lifestyle intervention
  - OTHER: Placebo
  - OTHER: Blood Test
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02465294
