CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05298839
Title: Effect of COVID-19 Infection on the Performance of Adolescent Professional Overhead Athletes
Official Title: Effect of COVID-19 Infection on the Performance of Adolescent Professional Overhead Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 47
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
COVID-19 is known to also cause damage outside the pulmonary system, particularly the cardiovascular and the musculoskeletal system. The studies on the effects of COVID-19 infection on different populations may provide valuable information for health professionals. Derangements in the cardiorespiratory and musculoskeletal systems which normally direct effect on the sports performance of athlete together with physical inactivity during COVID-19 infection are the main factors that may decrease the performance of the professional athletes. Although it may be well anticipated that COVID-19 will reduce sports performance; there are scarce studies in the literature. The aim of this study is to compare the sports performance of adolescent athletes that has COVID-19 infection with those did not.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Extensor muscle endurance, flexor muscle endurance and the lateral core muscle endurance were evaluated. All tests were performed by a chronometer and test was terminated as the position was lost and the time passed was recorded. Hand grip strength was measured by Jamar hand dynamometer. Health ball throwing test was used to evaluate upper extremity open kinetic chain and explosive power. Pro-agility test was used to evaluate the agility. Step test was performed for 3 minutes with a 30 cm high step board.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core Muscle Endurance
  - Jamar hand dynamometer
  - Upper Extremity Functional Performance
  - Reaction Time
  - Agility Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Evaluation of core muscle endurance, hand grip strength, upper extremity functional performance, reaction time, agility performance and 3 minutes step test

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 20 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05298839
