CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01612637
Title: Can Pelvic Floor Muscle Training Reduce my Prolapse
Official Title: Can Pelvic Floor Muscle Training Reduce my Prolapse? A Randomised Controlled Trial Comparing the Effect of Pelvic Floor Muscle Training and Lifestyle Advice on Pelvic Organ Prolapse
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Purpose The aim of this study is to examine if a structured pelvic floor muscle training combined with lifestyle advice with can improve pelvic organ prolapse (POP) symptoms more than structured lifestyle advice programme alone.

Background Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common condition among adult women and almost one in ten women experience symptoms caused by POP. The key symptom of POP is seeing or feeling a bulge in the vaginal opening but POP often gives other symptoms, such as pain, difficulty emptying the bladder or the bowel, incontinence and sexual problems such as dyspareunia.

A majority of women with POP will be offered reconstructive surgery but the risk of reoperations is substantial and surgery may cause new symptoms. In one out of four women surgery does not relieve symptoms and the women have been exposed to unnecessary risk of complications.

It is therefore important to evaluate the effect of conservative treatments for POP. New studies have shown that pelvic floor muscle training offered in combination with lifestyle advice has a significant on POP symptoms and objective measures of POP compared to a lifestyle advice leaflet alone.

No studies have compared the effect of a combined pelvic floor muscle training and lifestyle advice programme with a structured programme of lifestyle advice and hypothetically the structured lifestyle advice programme could have a substantial effect on its own. Our hypothesis is that the pelvic floor muscle training is a vital component of a conservative treatment for POP.

Methods In this single-blind randomised controlled study women with POP will randomised to either a programme of structured pelvic floor muscle training combined with lifestyle advice or a structured lifestyle advice programme alone. Both groups will receive the same lifestyle advices through six (separate) lectures within 12 weeks. The training group will be examined and individually instructed in pelvic floor muscle training before the intervention starts and they will, in continuation with their lifestyle lectures, perform pelvic floor muscle training as group training

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient Global Index of Improvement scale (PGI-I)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pelvic floor muscle training and lifestyle advice
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle advice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01612637
