CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04863677
Title: The Effect of HIIT, MICT in Patients With Myocardial Infarction
Official Title: Effect of High-Intensity Interval Training, Moderate Continuous Training, or Guideline-Based Physical Activity on Peak Oxygen Uptake and Myocardial Fibrosis in Patients With Myocardial Infarction: Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 188
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This study will investigate the effect of a 12-weeks cardiac rehabilitation training (HIIT, MICT) program on VO2peak and cardiac fibrosis in patients, and evaluate the effects of HIIT on endothelial function, microvascular obstruction, body fat, inflammation, arrhythmia and psychology .

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Eligible and consenting patients are randomized (block randomization) in a 1:1:1 ratio. According to the number of 180 samples calculated by the sample size, the random number table containing 1-180 ( including shedding cases ) was obtained by the computer. Case number will be assigned to participants in each group according to the order of grouping, and each case number corresponded to Group1(HIIT), 2(MICT) or 3(Control) according to the random number.

The HIIT sessions include brief, intermittent bouts of high-intensity exercise interspersed with periods of low-intensity exercise (active recovery). HIIT include 20 intervals of high-intensity (30-60s at rating of perceived exertion (RPE; Borg scale of 6-20) of 15 to 17) and low-intensity (1min at RPE \<10 or totally rest). The whole exercise cycle takes around 40-50 minutes (Figure 2). In MICT Group, patients perform 40-50 minutes at a RPE of 12 to 14(a total of 4 groups, each group 5-8 min, interspersed with 2-minute rest)(Figure 3). HIIT and MICT are performed only during supervised sessions with non-consecutive 3 days/week. And all patients are supervised by professional CR team. After assessing by therapists and doctors, participants also can perform three days of home-based exercises guided by wearing a sports bracelet.

The CR program includes 36 sessions supervised exercises, pharmacological counseling, patient education, catering management, smoking cessation counseling, stress management, and psychological counseling. A standard 36 sessions of CR usually lasts 12 weeks (three sessions per week).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The effect of HIIT/MICT on VO2peak
  - Evaluate the degree of cardiac fibrosis in 3 groups by cardiac magnetic resonance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity Interval Training(HIIT）
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Intensity Continuous Training(MICT）

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04863677
