CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03339635
Title: Short-term Testosterone Replacement in Testicular Cancer Survivors
Official Title: Short-term Testosterone Replacement in Testicular Cancer Survivors to Treat Overweight and Improve Cardiometabolic Risk: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
To assess the effects of testosterone replacement therapy on fat mass and other components of the metabolic syndrome. A randomized double-blind placebo controlled intervention study, followed by an open-label treatment phase. Results of this pilot study will be used to design a multicenter randomized controlled study in a large group of TC survivors

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Testicular cancer (TC) survivors have an increased risk of hypogonadism (decreased testosterone and/or increased luteinizinGHormone levels) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Metabolic syndrome develops early after chemotherapy in 20-30% of long-term TC survivors and is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic disease in the general population. TC survivors who develop the metabolic syndrome have a higher body mass index (BMI) pretreatment, a larger BMI increase during follow-up, and lower total Testosterone levels than patients without the metabolic syndrome. Testosterone replacement therapy as a short-term intervention during a limited time period may be an important strategy to reduce body weight and fat mass, restore cardiometabolic balance, and decrease the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in TC survivors.

Objective: to assess the effects of testosterone replacement therapy on fat mass and other components of the metabolic syndrome.

Study design: randomized double-blind placebo controlled intervention study, followed by an open-label treatment phase. Results of this pilot study will be used to design a multicenter randomized controlled study in a large group of TC survivors

Study population: 40 TC patients, aged 18-55 years, at least 12 months after completion of curative treatment with unilateral orchidectomy and platinum-based chemotherapy, and having a fasting total Testosterone level ≤12 nmol/l and a BMI ≥25 kg/m2.

Intervention: Patients will be randomized to treatment with trensdermal testosterone gel (Androgel) or placebo gel once daily during 20 weeks, followed by 20 weeks of active Androgel treatment in all participants. The treatment dose will be 50 mg daily, adjusted to 25 mg in case of increased testosterone concentrations (average of 2 measurements \>25 nmol/L) or signs of overdosing. Patients will be stratified according to testosterone level (8-12 nmol/L versus \<8 nmol/L) and BMI (25-30 kg/m2 versus 30-35 kg/m2).

Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint is the change in fat mass as measured by Dual-Energy X-ray Absorption (DEXA) scan after 20 weeks of Androgel compared to placebo. Secondary endpoints are changes in fat mass between 20 and 40 weeks, and changes in abdominal visceral fat, BMI, adipocytokines, metabolic syndrome parameters, bone mass density, semen quality, sexual function, and quality of life between Androgel and placebo-treated patients.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: The study will provide an answer to thEQuestion whether testosterone replacement therapy as a short-term intervention has significant effects on obesity and fat metabolism and may, thus, reduce the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in this population of young men with excellent long-term cancer-related prognosis, but an increased CVD risk. At various time points during the intervention, patients will be subjected to history taking

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - percent change in fat mass as measured using using full body dual X-ray absorptiometry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Androgel (Testosterone gel)
  - DRUG: Placebo gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03339635
