CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06529874
Title: Pressure Pain Tolerance in Relation to Balance and Strength in Children
Official Title: Pressure Pain Tolerance in Relation to Balance and Strength in Children With Sickle Cell Anemia
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most frequent life-threatening genetic hemoglobinopathy in the world and occurs due to the synthesis of abnormal hemoglobin S (HbS).Cells with sickle cell hemoglobin are stiff and sticky. When they lose their oxygen, they form into the shape of a sickle or crescent. This can cause pain and tissue damage. Significant decrease in exercise capacity was seen in sickle cell anemic children. In the absence of a guidelines that can guide the prescription of exercise in SCD children. This study is a step for determine the forms of prescription of pain on the balance and muscle strength to build up in future studies a safety of physical exercises for children with sickle cell anemia and improve their functional abilities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sickle cell anemia is a serious life-limiting and potentially life-threatening condition that causes disruption in the lifestyle of the affected child. Pain is a common and severe symptom of sickle cell disease (SCD) and is the major reason that patients seek health care services. Some researchers supported the fact that an important impairment in balance control and muscle strength in children with sickle cell disease due to pressure pain tolerance problems and other factors. Significant decrease in exercise capacity was seen in sickle cell anemic children. The altered muscle function and balance observed in SCD children may collectively be the result of pressure pain tolerance impairment. As your physical fitness improves, your body becomes more efficient at getting oxygen into the bloodstream and transporting it to the working muscles. Along this observational correlational study design; Eighty children from both sexes will be participated in this study. Forty normal healthy children will be selected from primary governmental schools at Alexandria governorate and forty children with sickle cell anemia will be selected from Alexandria University Students Hospitals For evaluation of muscle strength hand held dynamometer (Lafayette) is one of the best methods to detect the muscle strength. It is an ergonomic hand-held device for objectively quantifying muscle strength

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pressure pain tolerance
  - Balance assessment
  - Lower limb muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pressure pain tolerance measurement using Digital Pressure Algometer
  - OTHER: Balance assessment using HUMAC balance system
  - OTHER: Lower limb muscular strength using Lafayette hand held dynamometer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 14 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06529874
