CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07484360
Title: Effects of Kinetic Chain Exercises on Pain, Range of Motion and Disability in Shoulder Impingement Syndrome
Official Title: Effects of Kinetic Chain Exercises on Pain, Range of Motion and Disability in Shoulder Impingement Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
PROJECT SUMMARY Shoulder pain is secondary only to lower back pain in occurrence. Impingement is one of the most common shoulder disorders. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of kinetic chain exercises on pain, ROM and disability in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome which is important in establishing eveidence for a holistic and potentially more effective rehabilitation method for shoulder impingement syndrome. This study will be a randomized control trial and will be conducted in Riphah International University associated hospital and physiotherapy outpatient department of Jinnah hospital Lahore.

Non probability consecutive sampling will be used. Sample size of 32 subjects with age group 30 to 50 years will be taken. Data will be collected from patients having present complaint of shoulder pain due to shoulder impingement. Outcome measures will be taken using numeric pain rating scale(NPRS) for pain, universal Goniometer for ROM and Shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI) for function. An informed consent will be taken. Subjects will be selected on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria and will be equally divided into two groups. Group A will receive kinetic chain exercises (both open and closed chain exercises) and group B will receive conventional physical therapy treatment. Data analysis will be done by SPSS version 28

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PROJECT SUMMARY Shoulder pain is secondary only to lower back pain in occurrence. Impingement is one of the most common shoulder disorders. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of kinetic chain exercises on pain, ROM and disability in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome which is important in establishing eveidence for a holistic and potentially more effective rehabilitation method for shoulder impingement syndrome. This study will be a randomized control trial and will be conducted in Riphah International University associated hospital and physiotherapy outpatient department of Jinnah hospital Lahore.

Non probability consecutive sampling will be used. Sample size of 32 subjects with age group 30 to 50 years will be taken. Data will be collected from patients having present complaint of shoulder pain due to shoulder impingement. Outcome measures will be taken using numeric pain rating scale(NPRS) for pain, universal Goniometer for ROM and Shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI) for function. An informed consent will be taken. Subjects will be selected on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria and will be equally divided into two groups. Group A will receive kinetic chain exercises (both open and closed chain exercises) and group B will receive conventional physical therapy treatment. Data analysis will be done by SPSS version 28

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating scale
  - Shoulder Pain and Disability Index
  - Universal Goniometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kinetic chain exercises
  - OTHER: conventional physical therapy treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07484360
