CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04474561
Title: Reduced Sulfur Diet in Ulcerative Colitis Patients
Official Title: Exploring the Use of a Reduced Sulfur Diet to Improve Disease Severity in Ulcerative Colitis: An 8-week Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
A)Background:

Approximately 44% of patients with Inflammatory bowel disease have Ulcerative colitis(UC) which is a lifelong, chronic disease, starting in early adulthood, where the colon becomes inflamed and ulcerated due to a complex interaction between genetics, altered immune function, and environmental factors2such as dietary intake. While the etiology of UC is not clear, it is hypothesized the abnormal immune response and chronic inflammation may be caused by dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota and decreased epithelial barrier function. Substantial evidence suggests that higher than normal levels of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the colon plays a role in the etiology of UC. The higher levels of H2S and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) found in the feces of patients with UC is likely caused by the reduced conversion of H2S to thiosulfate by rhodanese (thiosulfate trensferase enzyme)12, and increased colonization or activity of SRB. For example, SRB has been identified as the predominant bacterial group in patients with UC compared to the minority group in healthy individuals, and SRB growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is stimulated by the presence of sulfur-rich amino acids. Dietary intervention may help to repair the dysbiosis existing in the microbiome of the patient with UC, but research about food and recurrence of UC is conflicting. Dietary components such as sulfur and sulfates also appear to play a role in the recurrence of UC; although a recent review of the relationship between sulfur-containing foods and UC calls for more randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining a reduced sulfur diet in UC. With the body of evidence described above, there is a compelling reason to consider that sulfur and sulfate-containing foods contribute to developing severe UC. Thus, understandinGHow dietary modulation of sulfur intake within the context of UC impacts disease status is the focus of this proposal.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A)Overview and Specific Aims:

Higher than normal levels of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the colon plays an important role in the etiology of ulcerative colitis (UC). Increased H2S impairs the colonic cell's ability to oxidize butyrate and other short-chain fatty acids required for cell nutrition. Sulfur in the human body is largely provided by diet; high intakes of sulfur and sulfate-containing foods have been found to be associated with an increased risk of recurrence of UC. Hence, it is only rational to identify whether foods high in sulfur or sulfate increase the risk of poor outcomes in UC. To our knowledge, there have been no studies investigating the impact of a reduced sulfur diet compared to conventional management on disease severity in patients with UC. Our main objectives are to identify if a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional management results in 1. improved disease severity, 2. reduced exposure of the host to sulfur-containing compounds, and 3. alterations in the microbiome of the patients. To achieve these objectives, we will randomly allocate the patients to either the conventional management (CM) or reduced sulfur diet intervention group (INT) and obtain the Mayo score, concentrations of fecal hydrogen sulphide (H2S), methanethiol (MT), and dimethyl sulphide (DMS), and urinary dimethyl sulfone (DM202) and 3-indoxyl sulfate and fecal microbiome at baseline and after 8 weeks. The INT group will also receive diet counselling by a registered dietician (RD).

B)Hypothesis:

A reduced sulfur diet would result in improved disease severity compared to conventional management in UC patients.

C)Objectives:

Primary objective:

1\. To pilot-test the feasibility of a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional management with oral and/or topical 5-ASA ± corticosteroid therapy to improve disease severity, measured by a clinically meaningful improvement in Total Mayo Score \& partial Mayo Score from baseline to week 8 compared to conventional management alone.

Secondary objectives:

1. To pilot-test the feasibility of a reduced sulfur diet added to conventional management with oral and/or 5-ASA ± oral corticosteroids to lower exposure of the host to sulfur-containing compounds from baseline to week 8 measured by fecal hydrogen sulphide (H2S), methanethiol (MT), and dimethyl sulphide (DMS), and; urinary dimethyl sulfone (DM202), and 3-indoxyl sulfate concentration compared to conventional management alone.
2. To examine the effect of a reduced sulfur diet on the microbiome of patients with UC.
3. To identify patient experience with a reduced sulfur diet usinGHealth related quality of life (HRQoL), and patient experience with chronic disease care measures.
4. To examine the effect of a reduced sulfur diet on inflammatory cytokines in patients with UC.

D) Methods

Study Design :

This pilot randomized controlled trial will have an 8-week interventional design that will take place at the University of Calgary (UofC).

Patient Recruitment:



PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mayo Score: Change is being assessed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Reduced sulfur diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04474561
