CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06138002
Title: Clinical Investigation to Assess the Clinical Performance of the LumbaCure® Intervention on Chronic Low Back Pain Patients.
Official Title: Randomized Clinical Investigation to Assess Preliminary Clinical Performance, Effectiveness and Safety of the LumbaCure® (prototype C190070.01) Medical Device When Used in Patients Suffering from Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low Back Pain (LBP) is one of the common causes of morbidity worldwide, with a one-month prevalence of 23.3 %. Number of people with LBP reached 577 million people in 2020. LBP has been the leading cause of years lived with disability from 1990 to 2017. The highest incidence of LBP is in people in their third decade of age. LBP is a complex disease difficult to treat as most of these cases (80 - 90 %) are classified as non-specific meaning that the pain cannot be attributed to any specific injury or pathology.

Until now exercise therapy is commonly used as the treatment of choice in the revalidation program of LBP. The aim of physical treatment is to improve function and prevent disability from getting worse.

LumbaCure® is a robotic system driven by a proprietary movement algorithm to induce a specific and controlled mobilization of the hips and the low back in patient requiring treatment by physical exercises due to orthopedic disorder, especially low back pain.

The investigation include an intervention period of 4 weeks The main objective is to compare the impact on disability (Oswestry disability Index) and movement performance of the interventions (LumbaCure® vs physical exercises supervised by the physiotherapist) in two parallel groups of patients suffering from chronic low back pain.

The investigation includes an intervention period of 4 weeks and a follow-up period of 6 months (post intervention period).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: LumbaCure®
  - PROCEDURE: Physical Exercises supervised by the physiotherapist

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06138002
