CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06687018
Title: Effects of Kaltenborn and Mulligan Mobilisation in Patients With Carpal Tunnel Syndrome.
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Kaltenborn Versus Mulligan Mobilisation on Pain, Disability and Hand Function in Patients With Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome is the most common mononeuropathy that results from the compression of median nerve in carpal tunnel, leading to entrapment neuropathy. The symptoms become aggravated during drawing, typing or playing video games. The aim of study will be to compare the effects of Kaltenborn and Mulligan mobilisation on pain, disability and hand function in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This research will adopt a Randomized Clinical Trial design. Upon approval of the synopsis, ethical clearance would be taken and necessary permissions from Ejaz Hospital Lahore. Through convenience sampling technique, 48 patients will be included which will be allocated using simple random sampling through sealed opaque enveloped into Group A and Group B. Mobilisation technique includes moving the proximal row of carpal bones either dorsally to promote wrist extension or to the palmar side to promote wrist flexion. Group A will be treated with Grade 3 Kaltenborn mobilisation. Grade 3 distraction was chosen to avoid contact between the articular surfaces and to stimulate hypoalgesic factors and Group B will be treated with Mulligan mobilisation. Outcome measures will be conducted through pain, disability and hand function questionnaire after 6 weeks. Data will be analyzed during SPSS software version 25. After assessing normality of data by Shapiro-wilk test, it will be decided either parametric or non-parametric test will be used within a group or between two groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kaltenborn mobilisation
  - OTHER: Mulligan mobilisation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06687018
