CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04615377
Title: The Kaia Hip and Knee Pain Intervention for Self-management of the Pain in Patients With Osteoarthritis.
Official Title: The Kaia hiP and Knee paIn Digital Application as an interVention for Self-management of Pain in Patients With OsteoarThritis - a Randomised Controlled Study (Kaia PIVOT Study).
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 192
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The study intervention provides an innolvative way of making exercise trening and other recommended lifestyle modifications as accessible as possible for knee and hip OA participants by introducing a home-based exercise trening program with a motion track feedback technology. Self-management of the pain for the patients suffering osteoarthritis, in the form of lifestyle modification, implementation of coping strategies and exercise is part of recommendations of recent international guidelines such as those by the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI). Cost and resource constrents typically limit the access to these recommended therapies. Moreover, the study intervention is focused on maintaining and adapting everyday physical activity, as required, in comparison to the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative disease of the affected joints. According to surveys by the World Health Organization (WHO) knee and hip joint OA is one of the diseases that make up the largest proportion of all disability diseases.

On the individual patient level, there is a pronounced limitation of thEQuality of life, which can also lead to the development of secondary diseases. There are numerous methods available for the treatment of OA, the spectrum of which ranges from conservative measures such as physical therapy or medical procedures up to surgical procedures, especially joint replacement. In recent years, the number of prostheses implanted in knee and hip joints has increased significantly.

International guidelines such as those of the American College of Rheumatologists recommend conservative treatment of OA of the knee and hip joint with physical therapy. Multidisciplinary approaches include aerobic and anaerobic exercise trening, in particular with the aim of weight loss in overweight participants, participant education for self-management of the disease and the consideration of psychosocial factors. This comprehensive, structured, conservative program for the treatment of OA achieves significantly better results than the standard treatment. However, comparable programs, which offer comprehensive management of OA are not widely available.

Digital therapies represent a novel approach to help patients manage themselves and their diseases in a home setting and even show better results than current standard therapies. An analysis of a smartphone intervention providing a multidisciplinary approach for self-management of lower back pain, the Kaia Back Pain Relief app, shows promising results in 180 users with a significant and clinically relevant reduction of pain levels.

Based on these promising results, this study will evaluate the effectiveness of the Kaia Knee and Hip pain app intervention in comparison to usual medicALCARe in reducing pain and disease-related symptoms in participants with OA over 3 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index as calculated from Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) or Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Kaia hip and knee pain application
  - OTHER: Treatment as usual

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 22 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04615377
