CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05073185
Title: Resilience to the Effects of Advertising in Children
Official Title: Characterizing Resilience to Food-cue Induced Overeating in Children
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Strong empirical evidence shows food marketing promotes excess energy intake and obesity. Yet, not all children are susceptible to its effects and this variability is poorly understood. Identifying sources of this variability is a public health priority not only because it may elucidate characteristics of children who are most susceptible, but also because it may highlight novel sources of resiliency to overconsumption. The proposed research will use state-of-the art, data-driven approaches to identify neural, cognitive and behavioral phenotypes associated with resiliency to food-cue (i.e. food advertisement) induced overeating and determine whether these phenotypes protect children from weight gain during the critical pre-adolescent period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigator's central hypothesis is that children who are resistant to food-cue induced overeating will exhibit a distinct cluster of neural, behavioral, and cognitive traits that protect them from weight gain, even in the context of high-familial obesity risk. Identifying these traits is critical to the development of successful, individually tailored obesity prevention programs. This hypothesis is informed by compelling preliminary research showing that children who are less susceptible to food-cue induced eating in the laboratory show decreased neural activation in somatosensory (i.e., post-central gyrus) and reward (i.e., striatum) regions and increased activation in cognitive control regions (i.e., dorsolateral prefrontal cortex-dlPFC) following food commercial exposure.

These results provide a strong foundation for characterizing neural responses that are associated with resiliency to food-cue induced eating, but highlight major gaps in the literature that must be addressed to advance the field. This proposal will make three novel contributions to the understanding of the etiology of obesity. Using a prospective, family-risk design, the investigators will follow 100, 7-9 year-old children who have healthy weight but vary by risk for obesity (based on maternal weight status) for 1 year to characterize neural and behavioral responses to food commercials and identify common neural networks associated with resiliency to food-cue induced overconsumption. Second, the investigators will use sophisticated behavioral coding to characterize children's eating following food commercial exposure at both homeostatic (i.e., meal consumed when hungry) and non-homeostatic (i.e., eating in the absence of hunger - EAH snack buffet) events and relate individual differences in eating behavior to neural phenotypes. Finally, the investigators will follow children over 1 year to determine whether the neural and behavioral responses at baseline are protective against adiposity gains, during a critical period where children are cognizant of the purpose of advertising, but cannot fully defend against its effects.

Baseline data will be collected over 4 weekly initial visits, followed by a 5th visit one year later.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - fMRI blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response to food commercials
  - fMRI blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response to toy commercials
  - Food intake in grams after no commercial viewing
  - Food intake in kcals after no commercial viewing
  - Food intake in grams after viewing food commercials

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 9 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05073185
