CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05951439
Title: Effect of Creatine+HMB Supplementation in Physically Active Older Adults
Official Title: Effects of Combined Creatine Monohydrate and β-Hydroxy-β-Methylbutyrate Supplementation on Body Composition, Physical Performance, Quality of Life, Oxidative Stress, and Inflammation in Physically Active Older Individuals Who Underwent a Comprehensive Fitness Program: A Randomized Crossover Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia (SAR) is the loss of muscle strength and mass caused by aging. It is accompanied by a progressive decline in physical and cognitive abilities, increasing the risk of falls. This loss of muscle mass leads to pathophysiological changes at the neuromuscular and tendon levels as a consequence, among others, of alterations in the balance between protein synthesis and degradation, inflammation (INF), or alterations in the anabolic/catabolic state (ACS). These alterations are caused by oxidative stress (OS), when reactive oxygen species-toxic metabolites produced by cells using oxygen-exceed the defensive capacity of the antioxidant system.

Therapeutic strategies to modulate SAR are based on exercise and nutrition programs. Multicomponent physical exercise programs have shown improvements in parameters related to sarcopenia. Likewise, the use of nutritional supplements such as creatine (CRE) has demonstrated improvements in muscle function in older adults. CRE may reduce INF and OS in the general population.

On the other hand, beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) also appears to improve muscle function in older adults by promoting myogenesis. However, the effects of these supplements in older adults have only been observed when used in isolation. In this regard, our research team observed that a 10-week regimen combining 3 g/day of CRE + 3 g/day of HMB (CRE-HMB) improved muscle recovery (better ACS) and physical performance in athletes subjected to high muscle wear. However, to date, it has not been determined whether this combination improves muscle function, OS, INF, and ACS in women with SAR.

Therefore, the working hypothesis is that the CRE-HMB combination could improve muscle function and physical performance, as well as OS, INF, and ACS in individuals with high muscle loss, such as those with SAR. Thus, a randomized double-blind crossover study is proposed to analyze the effect of 12 weeks-6 weeks of intervention + 3 weeks of washout + 3 weeks of intervention-of co-supplementation with 3 g/day of CRE + 3 g/day of HMB (CRE-HMB), combined with 4 sessions/week of multicomponent physical exercise, on muscle function, OS, INF, and ACS in 40 physically active men and women over 60 years of age. These 40 participants will be divided into two groups of 20 (20 in the placebo group and 20 in the CRE-HMB group).

At the assessment points (baseline, at 6 weeks, after the 3-week washout period, and after another 6 weeks), body composition, nutritional intake, muscle strength, and performance tests will be evaluated. Blood samples will also be collected to determine biochemical markers of OS, INF, and ACS.

It is expected that CRE-HMB co-supplementation for 6 + 6 weeks, together with multicomponent physical exercise, in physically active older adults will improve muscle strength, muscle mass, and performance. Additionally, improvements in OS, INF, and ACS levels are anticipated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design: Cross-over, controlled, randomised, double-blind study approved by the Bioethics Committee of the University of Burgos (ref. IR 24/2023).

Duration: 15 weeks in total. 6 weeks of intervention, 3 weeks of rest and another 6 weeks of intervention.

Supplementation: 3 g of creatine monohydrate + 3 g of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB).

Control: 6 g of inulin (placebo). Recruitment sessions (T0): 15/8/2024; First meeting with potential participants to explain the study. Reasons, objectives, inclusion and exclusion criteria, study discipline, duration, control dates, resolution of doubts and concerns, etc. They were provided with an information document, a form to collect social data and another with the informed consent form. A first group of 40 people was formed, 15 women and 25 men.

Between September and October 2024, the study's registered dietitian-nutritionist conducted individual nutritional consultations with all participants. Surveys were conducted on food consumption frequency, adherence to the Mediterranean diet, dietary habits, training, sports, pathologies, medications, supplementation, social circumstances, etc. The inclusion and exclusion criteria, the study protocol, randomisation, how to take the supplements, the timing of the tests, how to keep exercise and nutrition records, and the premises of nutrition and exercise (no changes in diet or exercise habits throughout the study) were explained again, as well as who to contact in case of doubt, etc.

Inclusion criteria: all individuals over the age of 60 who performed Comprehensive Physical Conditioning training for a minimum of 120 minutes per week were included. They did not take the study supplement or any other supplement related to performance or muscle development. They did not have heart, liver or kidney disease. Nor did they have musculoskeletal conditions or injuries that required the use of anti-inflammatories during the study. They agreed to the study protocol and signed the informed consent form.

Exclusion criteria: all individuals who were not in the age range studied were excluded. They did not meet the minimum weekly Comprehensive Physical Conditioning training requirement. All those who had suffered from or were being treated for heart, liver or kidney conditions. Those who were being treated with NSAIDs. Those who refused to stop taking supplements and/or follow the study protocol. Ten people were excluded, five women and five men.

Participants: finally, 30 volunteer participants (n=60) were recruited, 10 women (n=20) and 20 men (n=40) over the age of 60 who were doing multi-component training. All signed the informed consent form. They had no impediments to complying with the study protocol.

Randomisation: each participant was randomly assigned to one of the two intervention groups by an independent researcher. Block randomisation was used, ensuring that each group had an equal number of participants and an equal number of men and women. Inter

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body composition (Day 0 and at 6 weeks of intervention).
  - Body composition (Day 0 after 3 weeks washout and at 6 weeks of intervention).
  - Nutritional evaluation (Day 0 and at 6 weeks of intervention).
  - Nutritional evaluation (Day 0 after 3 weeks washout and at 6 weeks of intervention).
  - Assessment of muscle strength and performance. Short Physical Performance Battery (Day 0 and at 6 weeks of intervention).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: CRE + HMB
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05951439
