CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03959995
Title: Effects of Physical Exercise on Postmenopausal Risk Factors in Women With Osteopenia
Official Title: Effects of an Optimized 13-month Physical Exercise on (Early)-Postmenopausal Risk Factors in Women With Osteopenia and Osteoporosis (Actlife)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Menopause usually have a serious impact on a woman's life, associated with negative consequences for health and quality of life. Early preventive assessments are very difficult to implement due to the complex hormone-deficiency-induced effects on a large variety of organs and systems with estrogen receptors. In fact, only a few types of interventions have the potential to comprehensively improve the various risk factors and complaints of the menopausal transition. In detail, however, not every form of exercise training or every training protocol is effective for exerting positive effects on selected risk factors. In particular, the training concept for addressing musculoskeletal or cardio-metabolic risk factors differ fundamentally.

In several studies, we confirmed the effect of different complex training programs on risk factors of different postmenopausal female cohorts with special consideration of osteoporotic aspects. The training programs applied in this context were characterized by the consistent implementation of recognized training principles and an in general exercise intensity-oriented approach. Recent studies confirmed the effectiveness of this proceeding for women with relevant postmenopausal risk factors including low bone strength. However, the crucial issue of the most effective, feasible and easily customizable training protocol for addressing postmenopausal risk factors remains to be answered, taking into account that the majority of exercise programs were realized in an ambulatory group setting.

The aim of the study will be to evaluate the effects of an optimized physical training on risk factors and complaints of (early) postmenopausal women with special consideration of the osseous fracture risk.

Note (05.06.2020): Of importance, the intervention has to be cancelled due to COVID-19 lockdown in March 2020 after 13 months of intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMD Lumbar Spine

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Resistance (HIT-RT) and Endurance exercise (HIIT)
  - OTHER: Wellness

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 48 Years to 58 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03959995
