CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01062308
Title: STRIPS: Shoulder Taping Reduces Injury and Pain in Stroke
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Taping Technique Versus Conventional Techniques in Prevention of Shoulder Injuries in Patients With Acute Stroke-A Prospective, Randomized, Interventional, Outcome Blinded (PROBE Design), Parallel Design Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 162
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Background and Rationale: The most commonly seen disabilities in stroke patients are shoulder injuries such as shoulder pain, glenohumeral subluxation, spasticity of shoulder muscles, soft-tissue trauma, rotator cuff tears, and shoulder-hand syndrome.

Taping is widely used in the field of rehabilitation as both means of treatment and prevention of sports related injuries. Scarce information is available regarding the use of shoulder taping in preventing shoulder injuries in stroke patients. Aims:

To find out the effectiveness of taping technique with conventional treatment versus sham taping and conventional treatment in prevention of shoulder injuries in patients with acute stroke.

Hypothesis:

Taping technique with conventional treatment will be superior to conventional treatment alone in preventing shoulder injuries in patients with acute stroke.

Methods Research setting: Stroke unit, department of Neurology, Christian Medical College (CMC) Ludhiana, Punjab, India and College of Physiotherapy, CMC Ludhiana.

Study design: prospective, randomized, outcome blinded trial (PROBE design). Study period: Prospective for 18 months from May 2009 All stroke patients with upper limb weakness within 48 hours after the ictus and with Brunnstrom's stage of recovery 1 and 2 will be included in the study. Patients will be randomized into two groups using lottery method. The treatment arm group(Group I) include shoulder taping with conventional techniques that is(positioning, handling technique and passive range of motion exercises) and the control arm (Group II) include sham taping with conventional techniques with sham taping. A total of 80 patients in each group will be included. The plastic micropore and elastic adhesive tape will be used for taping the affected shoulder. The sham taping will be done using the same tapes but without stretching the concerned muscles and joints. The tapes will be changed every 3 days and will remain for 14 days. The outcome measures are as follows; Primary: Pain: Visual Analog Scale and Activities of daily living: Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI); Secondary: Range of motion: using a Goniometer. The outcome will be assessed by an independent physiotherapist who will be blinded to the clinical details. Patients will be followed-up at 14 days and 30 days. Statistical analyses will be done using SPSS software version 16.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and Rationale:

Stroke is the second leading cause of death and a major cause of disability worldwide. Two-thirds of stroke deaths worldwide occur in developing countries. According to recent reports from India the incidence and 30-day case fatality rates are higher than the developed countries. In both rural and urban India there has been a rise in the non-communicable diseases like stroke and coronary artery disease. In developing countries the average age of stroke is 15 years less than that of developed countries.

It has been estimated that by 2021, the stroke related "disability adjusted life years" (DALY) would become 61 million, and 52 million would be in developing nations. According to recent studies 55-70% of stroke survivors become fully independent by one year and 7-16% remain completely disabled. Prominent residual spasticity occurs in 46% of patients.

Shoulder Injuries in Stroke The most commonly seen disabilities in stroke patients are shoulder injuries which are more common during sub-acute phase of stroke. Pain in the affected shoulder often referred to as hemiplegic shoulder pain, is a common complication. The other types of shoulder injuries include glenohumeral subluxation, spasticity of shoulder muscles, soft-tissue trauma, rotator cuff tears, and shoulder-hand syndrome or reflex sympathetic dystrophy. Shoulder injuries can negatively affect rehabilitation outcomes as good shoulder function is a pre-requisite for successful transfers, maintaining balance, performing activities of daily living and for effective hand function.

Biomechanics of shoulder injuries in stroke patients A stroke patient with upper limb weakness tends to place the arm in a resting position and this promotes shortening of the shoulder adductors and internal rotators, and the elbow, wrist and hand flexors. This habitual posturing of the upper limb can result in adaptive changes to muscle tissue that impede both passive and active joint movement.As motor power returns, the pattern of recovery may be imbalanced, with individual muscles developing strength at different rates or there may be increased tone in certain muscle groups. Imbalanced motor return and persistent attempts to move with increased activation of just one muscle group can pull the scapula and humerus into abnormal postures. When this posture is maintained, the resting length of the surrounding muscles may either shorten or lengthen, thereby disrupting the normal biomechanics of that joint. In addition in flaccid stage, the scapula assumes a depressed and downward rotated position, as the paretic serratus anterior and upper part of trapezius muscle no longer support the scapula. The combination of flaccid supportive musculature and a downward rotated scapula predisposes the head of humerus to undergo inferior subluxation relative to the glenoid fossa.

Treatment options for shoulder injuries in stroke patients The ideal management of hemiplegic shoulder pain is to prevent it ha

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain: Visual Analog Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Taping and Sham Taping
  - PROCEDURE: Sham Taping

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01062308
