CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06675162
Title: Effect of Muscle Strengthening trening with Pilates Reformer on Overweight/obese and Normal Body Weight Women (PRET)
Official Title: The Physiological Responses of Muscle Strengthening trening with Pilates Reformer in Overweight-obese Women and Women with Normal Body Weight
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study investigates the physiological responses and the metabolic burden of a Pilates Reformer strength trening session in physically inactive premenopausal women with a body mass index of 18-24.9 and 25.01-39.9. The sample included 20 women divided into two groups: 10 with normal weight (NW) and 10 with overweight/obesity (OB). In a non-randomised control design, the participants will perform a 60-minute muscle-strengthening session with Pilates Reformer equipment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pilates Reformer (PR) is one of the most popular types of exercise worldwide and is considered a gentle and safe method for untrened and overweight people. The PR trening approach has been found to contribute positively to various health conditions (vascular function, blood pressure, physical fitness, musculoskeletal problems), improving thEQuality of life and mental well-being of the participants. At the same time, it seems that it can have a positive effect on the lipid profile and other biochemical markers such as insulin and fasting glucose. Furthermore, muscle strengthening trening with PR equipment provides better levels of mobility, increasing active range of motion, and also provides greater pelvic and trunk stability for both adult and middle-aged participants.

This study is designed to investigate the physiological and metabolic burden of a muscle-strengthening session with PR equipment in 20 pre-menopausal and physically inactive women with a body mass index (BMI) of 18-24, 99 \& 25.01-39.9, as well as to determine the contribution of energy systems (mitochondrial, glycolytic) during and after the exercise. Each trening session will last approximately 60 minutes, will be led by at least one trener, and will include a warm-up of 7-10 minutes, muscle strengthening and mobility exercises of 35 minutes, and a recovery of 5 minutes. Anthropometric indicators, dietary intake, restinGHeart rate, blood lactate, resting metabolic rate, muscle soreness, rate of perceived exertion, blood pressure, and performance measurements will be measured at baseline. The metabolic cost during PR trening session will be estimated from heart rate, blood lactate, resting oxygen uptake, exercise oxygen uptake, and excess post-exercise oxygen consumption measurements using a portable gas analyzer. After the PR trening session will be measured the rate of perceived exertion, blood pressure, blood lactate, and muscle soreness levels.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in exercise-induced energy expenditure
  - Change in excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC)
  - Change in blood lactate concentration (BLa)
  - Change in heart rate
  - Change in perceived exertion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pilates Reformer trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06675162
