CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05158673
Title: Effect of Cocoa Polyphenols Supplementation on Cardiovascular Risk of Postmenopausal Women
Official Title: Effect of Cocoa Polyphenols Supplementation on Cardiovascular Risk of Overweight or Obese Postmenopausal Women: Double Blind Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Several epidemiological studies have shown that premenopausal women are protected from cardiovascular diseases compared to men of the same age; however, after menopause (postmenopause), the cardiovascular risk increases progressively to equal the cardiovascular risk of men of the same age group. In addition, in Mexico, the incidence of women entering the postmenopausal stage with overweight or obesity increases each year. Therefore, it is essential to generate public initiatives to reduce the metabolic and physiological alterations caused by overweight/obesity and improve postmenopausal women's health and quality of life. Flavonoids are bioactive compounds that have been shown to reduce the cardiovascular risk associated with obesity since they participate in the regulation of lipid metabolism, improve body composition, reduce oxidative stress and inflammation; Therefore, our objective is to reduce the cardiovascular risk of postmenopausal women and improve the oxidative and inflammatory state, through oral supplementation with cocoa flavonoids. To do this, an innovative method will be used to assess cardiovascular risk based on knowledge of the type, number, and size of lipoprotein particles and knowing the oxidative and inflammatory state before and after supplementation with cocoa flavonoids.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Some interventions have been carried out to reduce obesity and the incidence of cardio-metabolic pathologies since the foods consumed in the daily diet, directly and indirectly, influence the modulation of metabolic signaling pathways. Flavonoids, nutrients of plant origin, have beneficial effects on health since they can prevent and reduce the impact of overweight/obesity. Significant benefits have also been shown in blood pressure, platelet reactivity, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, insulin sensitivity, and prostaglandin metabolism, improving health in patients with chronic diseases related to metabolic disorders and OS.

Food rich in flavonoids is cocoa; the plant contains many polyphenols (anthocyanidins, proanthocyanidins, and catechins), concentrated mainly in the pods and seeds, which provides a highly bitter taste. The polyphenols that can be identified in cocoa beans are (-) - epicatechin and, to a lesser extent (+) - catechin, (+) - gallocatechin, and (-) - epigallocatechin.

Polyphenols derived from cocoa are characterized by being powerful antioxidants, by having effects on muscle and fat tissue: inducing the darkening of adipocytes (change from white adipocytes (fat deposit) to beige adipocytes; promoting mitochondrial biogenesis; increasing the expression of vital thermogenic genes and upstream regulators of fatty acid oxidation; reducing serum TG concentrations; phosphorylating metabolism regulators and acetylating (activating) proteins involved in mitochondrial structure and function. Actions culminate in regulating the metabolic profile, decreasing adipose tissue, increasing muscle mass, and, therefore, decreasing BMI.

There is evidence of the beneficial effects of cocoa polyphenols as antioxidants, improving the lipid profile levels and pro and anti-inflammatory markers. Cocoa is one of the foods of natural origin with high antioxidant capacity due to the tricyclic structure of flavonoids. The compounds act as electron donors and stabilize free radicals through their aromatic rings with hydroxyl substituents. Cocoa polyphenols have been shown to protect cells from oxidative stress at the membrane level by reducing lipoperoxidation and DNA damage through the chelating action of the catechol group and hydroxyl substituents. Furthermore, cocoa flavonoids inhibit xanthine oxidase, NADPH-oxidase, tyrosine kinases, and protein kinases.

Cocoa polyphenols have been shown to have antioxidant activity that helps counteract the atherosclerotic process by reducing the activation of NADPH oxidase. In addition, to improve the dilation of the arteries in smoking patients with atherosclerosis. The antioxidants in cocoa inhibit LDL oxidation, which is related to delaying atherosclerotic progression by reducing ox-LDL and increasing HDL-c.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants with Metabolic Syndrome

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo of Cocoa flavonoids
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cocoa flavonoids

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05158673
