CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06385015
Title: T-UP: Engaging Vulnerable Students in Diabetes Prevention
Official Title: Targeted Upstream Prevention (T-UP): Engaging Vulnerable Students in Diabetes Prevention
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this study is to enhance reach and uptake of diabetes prevention among young adults, with a focus on recruiting underserved and high-need students who face additional challenges, including food and financial insecurity.

The specific aims are to: 1) Evaluate the efficacy of adolescents and young adults (AYA)-tailored version of the University of California Diabetes Prevention Program (UC DPP) for mitigating type 2 diabetes risk (i.e., weight change) in a pre/post pilot trial. The investigators hypothesize that the AYA-tailored intervention will be effective at producing 5% weight loss from baseline to program completion (at 9-months); and, 2) Assess the feasibility and acceptability of an AYA-tailored version of the UC DPP program. The investigators hypothesize that it will be feasible to recruit the desired number of participants given proposed innovative outreach strategies, and that the AYA-tailored intervention will be deemed acceptable to participants both qualitatively and in regards to their retention in the program at rates similar to the larger UC DPP.

The investigators will randomize participants to the AYA-tailored DPP cohort vs control cohort. Control participants will be offered the opportunity to participate in the AYA-tailored DPP in the following academic year. Participants will be organized into groups within their DPP cohort based on their student status and/or place of residence. The intervention will include 19 sessions (18 in-person and 1 on-demand) covering 24 DPP modules; each session is approximately an hour in length and will be moderated by a lifestyle coach. At the end of each session, intervention participants will receive an email/text with a unique link to a brief REDCap survey to ascertain acceptability of the session. Control group will receive access to materials about study habits, alcohol use, and financial literacy. Control group will receive materials via e-mail for participants to review on their own time and will receive acceptability surveys. A research assistant (RA) will meet with control participants via Zoom to explain the materials. Participants will complete baseline and 9-month follow-up assessments. Participants will complete a 30 minute questionnaire via REDCap and height/weight measurements will be collected by a RA. Participants will be asked to self-report weight and physical activity at the end of the fall and winter quarter; data will be collected via brief REDCap survey.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aim 1 - Design: Pre/post pilot trial of 100 participants (\<1% of total number of eligible UCLA undergraduates). The investigators will randomize participants to the AYA-tailored DPP vs control based on a stratified, block (n=2) schema based on age \[≤19/≥20\] and sex \[M/F\]. All control participants will be offered the opportunity to participate in the AYA-tailored DPP in the following academic year (in the interest of equipoise).

Aim 1 - Participant Recruitment: All participants will be asked to complete a brief online intake form to assess eligibility and to collect preferred contact information. This form will further allow the investigators to prioritize recruitment efforts of those with identified food, financial, or stress-related vulnerability (per standard NCHA questions). After confirming eligibility, a trained research assistant (RA) will reach out to eligible participants to obtain informed consent and enroll them in the pilot trial.

Aim 1 - Tailored DPP Intervention: Once consented and enrolled, participants will be randomized into one of two cohorts, the first group will be enrolled in the tailored DPP for the immediate academic year while the second will be enrolled in a series of unrelated interventions in year 1 and offered the opportunity to participate in the AYA-tailored DPP for the following academic year. As social support is a key component of the program, participants will be organized into groups within their DPP cohort based on their student status (frosh/soph vs junior/senior) and/or place of residence (residence hall vs off-campus). The intervention will include 19 sessions (18 in-person and 1 on-demand) covering 24 DPP modules; each session is approximately an hour in length and will be moderated by a trained lifestyle coach. Lifestyle coaches are accessible, collaborative, and culturally competent diabetes care and education specialists trained and certified in the CDC's National DPP curriculum to provide effective guidance and support for program participants. The Lifestyle Coach's ability to support participants, provide guidance, and help groups work together effectively is essential for a successful lifestyle change program. Each group will meet regularly during the academic year, with six in-person sessions delivered per 10-week quarter (for each of three quarters) to allow for breaks during final exams and scheduled school recess(e.g., spring break). The interventions for the intervention participants will take place on UCLA campus. It will take place at the John Wooden Center, UCLA Teaching Kitchen, UCLA dining halls, UCLA sculpture garden, UCLA botanical garden, UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health \& Wellness Center, UCLA Glendon building, UCLA Murphy Hall, and other UCLA buildings. UC DPP has consistently been using some of these places to facilitate the program.

The control group will receive access to a study habits intervention (fall), alcohol use intervention (winter), and financial literacy intervention

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in weight (pounds, lbs) between baseline and 9-month follow-up
  - Change in self-reported quality of life (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Health-Related Quality of Life-14 item (CDC HRQOL-14)) between baseline and 9-month follow-up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Tailored DPP Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06385015
