CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03675399
Title: Effect of Isometric Exercise on Pain Perception in Rotator Cuff Related Shoulder Pain
Official Title: Effect of Isometric Exercise on Pain Perception in Subjects With Rotator Cuff Related Shoulder Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to compare the immediate effects of an acute bout of isometric exercise of the shoulder external rotator muscles above and below pain threshold on pain intensity, pain threshold, conditioned pain modulation and pain free force in external rotation. To evaluate the results of the exercise, the subjects will be assessed at pre-intervention, immediately post-intervention and after and 45 minutes after each experimental condition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to compare the immediate effects of an acute bout of isometric exercise of the shoulder external rotator muscles above and below pain threshold on pain intensity, pain threshold, conditioned pain modulation and pain free force in external rotation.

It will consist of a randomized three-treatment parallel-design study. The sample will consist of subjects with rotator cuff related shoulder pain (RCRSP). Once the sample is selected, subjects will participate in three experimental sessions, which will occur in a randomized order: two exercise sessions (supra-threshold and infra-threshold isometric exercise) and one control session. In the first session, information regarding clinical and demographical aspects will be collected. A washout period of approximately 48 hours will separate each of the experimental sessions.

To evaluate the results of the exercise, the subjects will be assessed at pre-intervention, immediately post-intervention and 45 minutes after each experimental condition. Pain intensity, Pressure Pain Thresholds (PPT), Conditioned Pain Modulation (CPM), maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) and pain free isometric strength (PFIS) will be measured.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Pain intensity
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Supra-threshold isometric exercise
  - OTHER: Infra-threshold isometric exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03675399
