CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03810963
Title: FES Cycling and Nutritional Counseling for Battling Obesity After SCI
Official Title: Electrically Induced Cycling and Nutritional Counseling for Counteracting Obesity After SCI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Individuals who suffer from paralysis after spinal cord injury (SCI) are estimated to have an even greater (66%) prevalence of obesity. Obesity is a major public health concern and is associated with a plethora of cardiometabolic health complications (heart disease, stroke and type II diabetes mellitus). Although the benefits of physical activity to counteract obesity and cardiometabolic disease have been documented, SCI typically limits voluntary exercise to the often injured arms (60-90%). On the other hand, functional electrical stimulation (FES) cycling has proven to be a safe and effective way to exercise paralyzed leg muscles in clinical and home settings, saving the often overworked arms. The investigators have developed a novel high-intensity interval training (HIIT) protocol for FES lower extremities cycling that may provide equal or greater benefits with less time commitment. The investigators proof-of-principle study in 3 obese persons with SCI confirmed that HIIT-FES cycling 3 times per week for 8 weeks without dietary monitoring can increase legs lean mass (5-9%), increase cardiovascular health markers (58% on average) and decrease HbA1c blood levels (2-4%). Also, 2 persons decreased body weight and BMI. The investigators hypothesize that combining HIIT-FES cycling with nutritional counseling will be effective for reducing obesity and enhancing cardiometabolic health in persons with chronic SCI. Research AIM: To determine preliminary efficacy of HIIT-FES cycling combined with nutritional counseling in obese adults with SCI. In this pilot two-arm, parallel, pre-post, subject-matched controlled trial, we will test the hypothesis that the experimental group receiving HIIT-FES cycling plus nutritional counseling will decrease total body weight, decrease body fat percentage, decrease fat mass, increase total and legs lean mass, improve blood lipid levels, decrease blood glucose and HbA1c levels and improve vascular endothelial health (flow mediated dilation) significantly more than age-, sex- and injury-matched controls receiving nutritional counseling only. The investigators will recruit 20 obese adults, 21-65 years of age, with chronic post-traumatic SCI ranging in neurological level between C4 and T12. Participants will be divided into experimental (HIIT-FES cycling plus nutritional counseling) and control (nutritional counseling only) groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity prevalence among individuals with SCI is about 66%. However, when the BMI formula is adjusted for the loss of muscle after SCI, the combined overweight and obesity rate is 70 to 75%. This places the SCI population across the U.S. at the top of the list in terms of obesity. Additionally, because greater obesity is related to greater disability and chronic diseases, the risk of cardiometabolic diseases, including heart disease, stroke and type II diabetes, are elevated to more than twice that of the able-bodied population. One reason for high obesity after SCI is the loss of muscle mass. Shortly after injury, those with SCI experience rapid and significant skeletal muscle atrophy below the level of injury resulting in skeletal muscle cross-sectional areas of 45-80% less than that of able-bodied individuals. Therefore, after SCI, the loss of metabolically active muscle mass results in a 26% reduction in basal metabolic rate and resting energy expenditure. This is important because basal metabolic rate accounts for \~65% of the total daily energy expenditure after SCI. In addition to decreased muscle mass, individuals with SCI are typically among the most sedentary, thus further lowering energy expenditure creating an unhealthy energy balance.

The benefits of physical activity for reducing obesity and cardiometabolic disease have been well documented. In particular, high-intensity interval training (HIIT) has been shown to decrease cardiovascular and metabolic risk among able-bodied individuals in a shorter period of time than standard non-interval exercise programs. For example, one comparison of interval walking to continuous walking in able-bodied adults with type II diabetes over a 6-month period. The continuous walking group walked for 60 minutes 5 days per week at a moderate intensity while the interval training group alternated between 3 minutes of high intensity walking and 3 minutes of low intensity walking 5 days per week. The walking intensities were determined by oxygen uptake (VO2) peak testing and energy expenditure, with moderate intensity being set at 55% and high intensity at 70% of VO2 peak. Although, the mileage was the same for both groups, the interval training group lost 4.3 ± 1.2 kg total body weight and 3.1 ± 0.7 kg body fat mass, whereas no changes in body composition were found in the continuous walking group or the non-walking control group. In a similar study, another researcher used leg cycling 3 times per week for 12 weeks in both the continuous and interval groups and determined intensity levels based on heart rate. The interval training group performed 3 "all out" cycling sessions of 20 seconds each separated by 2 minutes low intensity cycling, while the continuous group cycled steady at 70% of maximal heart rate for 45 minutes. Both groups improved similarly in insulin sensitivity, cardiorespiratory fitness, and skeletal muscle mitochondrial content, however, the interval training group achieved these benefit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Fat Percentage
  - Fat mass and lean mass
  - Arterial health via flow mediated dilation
  - Blood glucose testing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: HIIT-FES Cycling combined with Nutritional Counseling
  - OTHER: Nutritional Counseling Only

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03810963
