CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02381262
Title: Fitbit / Healthy Weight Management Study
Official Title: Fitbit / Healthy Weight Management Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 213
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Study Aims Specifically with our Healthy Weight Management patients that are pursuing sleeve gastrectomy surgery, the investigators would like to determine if the Fitbit is associated with health outcomes in this population.

Primary Outcome

• Percentage of excess weight loss - Does the use of a Fitbit positively affect the percentage of excess body weight loss in vertical sleeve gastrectomy patients?

Secondary Outcomes

* Lifestyle changes and Exercise patterns - Does the use of a Fitbit foster positive lifestyle and exercise pattern changes in post-operative VSG patients?
* Resolution of comorbidity - Does the use of a Fitbit positively affect patient health via reduction of co-morbid conditions associated with morbid obesity following VSG surgery?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Aims Specifically with our Healthy Weight Management patients that are pursuing sleeve gastrectomy surgery, the investigators would like to determine if the Fitbit is associated with health outcomes in this population.

Primary Outcome

• Percentage of excess weight loss - Does the use of a Fitbit positively affect the percentage of excess body weight loss in vertical sleeve gastrectomy patients?

Secondary Outcomes

* Lifestyle changes and Exercise patterns - Does the use of a Fitbit foster positive lifestyle and exercise pattern changes in post-operative VSG patients?
* Resolution of comorbidity - Does the use of a Fitbit positively affect patient health via reduction of co-morbid conditions associated with morbid obesity following VSG surgery?

Research Methodology This study will be focused on a bariatric post-surgical population and is designed as a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with three arms; a RCT with a control and intervention group and a historical control group. For the RCT, subjects, after providing informed consent, will be randomized into either the control arm or the intervention arm. In the control arm, subjects will be provided normal/standard of care for post-surgical bariatric patients. This includes physician visits, dietary and exercise consults, education and other therapy as appropriate for their care. In the intervention arm, subjects will be provided with a Fitbit bracelet and software to monitor their physical activity in addition to the normal/standard of care provided in the control group. Both groups will receive the recommended aerobic and strength training exercise guidelines. Furthermore, each group will have identical exercise education regarding appropriate intensity using either rate of perceived exertion or target heart rate range. At the end of the 12-month tracking period of the study, the control group will be provided with a Fitbit bracelet so that they can begin tracking their activity levels during the 2nd post-operative year. A third group, the historical controls, at the end of the study will be extracted from the electronic medical records from patients who have meet the same inclusion/exclusion criteria and were surgical patients with completed follow-up prior to the start of the RCT portion of the trial.

RCT subjects randomized to the intervention group will be provided with step by step instructions on how to set-up the Fitbit app on their smartphone and or view the data on the Fitbit secure portal. Additionally, subjects will be shown how to track their weekly structured aerobic and strength training exercise within the app. Users will also be shown how to access Fitbit data on the MyLGHealth portal. Data from the Fitbit will also be accessible to the provider on EPIC flow sheets. Providers will be able to incorporate this data into discussions with patient at visits. RCT subjects randomized to the control group will receive the same training and a Fitbit device after they complete the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of excess weight loss

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Fitbit

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02381262
