CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04493775
Title: Smartphone-based Brainwave Entrainment (BWE) Technology in Chronic Pain
Official Title: A Feasibility Study of Smartphone-based Brainwave Entrainment (BWE) Technology as a Novel Treatment for Chronic Pain
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Is brainwave entrainment a feasible tool for managing long-term pain in a patient population in the home-setting? Long-term pain affects 4 in 10 people in the UK and can impact on all aspects of life. Many people find that their pain is not well controlled on the treatments that are currently available, or they experience unpleasant side-effects from painkillers. There is therefore an urgent need for new safe and effective treatments for long-term pain.

One new approach to treatment is to target alpha brainwaves - rhythmic brain activity that is known to be associated with reduced pain. Alpha brainwaves can be increased by looking at flashing lights or listening to rhythmic sounds at the same rhythm as the brainwaves. This is known as "brainwave entrainment" (BWE) and can be delivered through a smartphone application.

The aim of this study is to test the suitability, acceptability and benefits of the brainwave entrainment smartphone application for people with long-term pain, and to inform the design of a future larger study.

The investigators aim to recruit 40 participants. Individuals may be eligible if they are over 18 years old and have suffered persistent pain for longer than 3 months. Participants will attend a 3-hour session in the laboratory in either Manchester or Leeds. They will undergo brainwave entrainment for different lengths of time whilst their brain activity and pain levels are recorded to determine the most effective "dose" of entrainment for that individual. They will then use the smartphone application at home 3 times a day for 4 weeks, and will complete pain, sleep, fatigue and quality of life questionnaires. At the end of the study, the investigators will conduct interviews to gain in-depth feedback. The total duration for each participant is around 7 weeks. This study is funded by a Leeds Cares Clinical Research Fellowship.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary Question/Objective:

The principal research objectives are two-fold:

* Firstly, to understand the dose-response of alpha BWE.
* Secondly, to test the feasibility of using alpha BWE technology for managing chronic pain in the home environment and to inform the design of a future clinical trial.

Secondary Question/Objective:

* To identify any issues with recruitment or retention of participants.
* To test the acceptability and usability of the intervention.
* To test the acceptability of the outcome measures and methods of data collection.
* To gain an understanding of the effect size in order to calculate how many participants will be required for a future clinical trial.

STUDY DESIGN

Participants:

A total of 40 participants will be recruited from musculoskeletal, rheumatology and rehabilitation clinics in Leeds Teaching Hospitals National Health Service (NHS) Trust and Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust.

Study Intervention and Procedures:

This is a two-stage feasibility study incorporating electroencephalography (EEG), quantitative outcome measures and qualitative interviews.

Project duration:

Each participant's involvement is estimated to last a minimum of 7 weeks (this may be longer depending on the availability of the participant to attend laboratory sessions).

Number of centres:

This study will be conducted across two sites: University of Manchester and University of Leeds. Two NHS sites will act as Participant Identification Centres (PICs): Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust and Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust.

Study design and procedures:

The project will be comprised of two studies: 1) a laboratory-based study followed by 2) a home-based study. All participants will be involved in both studies.

Potential participants may be approached and provided with a flyer and Participant Information Leaflet from musculoskeletal, rehabilitation and pain clinics at the two PICs, or may find out about the study from flyers placed in relevant NHS clinics or other relevant settings such as support groups. The participant will then contact the research team by phone or email on the contact details provided to discuss the study further, go through the screening process and arrange a convenient time for them to attend the laboratory if they wish to proceed.

Study 1:

Participants will attend either the University of Manchester laboratory in Salford Royal Hospital, or the University of Leeds laboratory in the School of Biological Sciences, University of Leeds, whichever is more convenient. They will be given opportunity to ask any questions before signing the consent forms. They will complete the following questionnaires:

* demographics form (5-10 mins)
* Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) (5-10 mins)
* Multidimensional Fatigue Index (MFI) (5-10 mins)
* EuroQol Five Dimensions (EQ-5D) (5-10 mins) Baseline EEG will be recorded for 7 minutes. The participant will then undergo 4 blocks of visual or auditory rhythmic stimulation (3 blocks

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numerical pain ratings (NRS)
  - Qualitative data from semi-structured interviews

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Brainwave Entrainment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04493775
