CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04791644
Title: Faecal Microbiota Characterization in Lynch Syndrome (LS) Patients With or Without Colorectal Neoplasia
Official Title: Faecal Microbiota Characterization in Lynch Syndrome (LS) Patients With or Without Colorectal Neoplasia ( AAS-Lynch-Microbiote)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 285
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second cause of cancer-related death in western countries. CRC prevention and screening are major public health issues. Better knowledge of colorectal carcinogenesis could lead to better prevention. Gut microbiota (GM) is a complex community of bacteria, fungi, protozoa, viruses and bacteriophages which live in a symbiotic and epigenetic relationship with the host. GM can promote either digestive health or CRC through inflammatory and proliferative effects.

Lynch syndrome (LS) is the most common familial CRC syndrome with a lifetime CRC risk of 52% in women and 69% in men. The risk of CRC depends upon type of altered mismatch-repair gene and environmental factors (diet, exercise, obesity, tobacco and alcohol intake, etc.). Regular surveillance including annual or biannual colonoscopy is recommended in LS patients.

Chemoprevention has the potential to represent a cost-effective intervention in these high-risk patients and could allow a delay in colonoscopy surveillance. Regular low dose aspirin use is associated with a 20 to 30% reduction in the risk of sporadic colonic adenomas and CRC. The real benefit of aspirin is still to be consolidated. AAS-Lynch trial is an ongoing prospective multicenter (n=37), double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial, designed to investigate whether daily aspirin, at a dose of 100 or 300 mg compared with placebo, would decrease the occurrence or recurrence of colorectal adenomas in LS patients. The primary endpoint is the number of patients with at least one adenoma detected by chromo-endoscopy 48 months after initial colon clearance. At randomization and at the end of study, stool collection, blood collection, quality of life questionnaire, validated food frequency questionnaire (SU-VI-MAX2) and physical activity questionnaire are performed.

The ongoing AAS-Lynch study allow accessing to a unique fecal collection in very well characterized LS patients including a comprehensive dietary evaluation at high risk for colorectal neoplasia and planned colonoscopy surveillance during a 48 months follow-up, exposed or not exposed to chronic low dose aspirin. The expertise of the scientific consortium with state of the art microbiota analysis, the comprehensive collection of data and the prospective design of the study will allow the evaluation of the true role of gut microbiota in CRC carcinogenesis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and originality of the project with regards to the state of the art :

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in western countries and the third most prevalent cancer worlwide. CRC prevention and screening are major public health issues. Better knowledge of colorectal carcinogenesis could lead to better prevention and screening. Recent observational data in human and experimental data in vitro or in rodents showed that gut microbiota could contribute to CRC pathogenesis.

The proposal will allow the evaluation of the role of gut microbiota in CRC carcinogenesis in a cohort of Lynch syndrome (LS) patients at high risk for colorectal neoplasia and with well characterized environmental risk factors particularly dietary factors.

Microbiota and CRC Gut microbiota is a complex community consisting of bacteria, fungi, protozoa, viruses and bacteriophages which live in a symbiotic and epigenetic relationship with the host. Gut microbiota can promote either health or tumor progression through its inflammatory and proliferative effects likely dependent on the context and genetic factors of the host. Specific microorganisms or variability of the microbiome have been associated with CRC over the past years. Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis sequences are over represented in CRC versus matched normal control tissue, and a positive association with lymph node metastasis has been characterized. In patients with sporadic CRC, Fusobacterium nucleatum overexpression is associated with specific CRC carcinogenesis pathways. Studies have also identified several other bacteria as Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis, and Enterococcus faecalis increase in CRC patients, whereas the Clostridiales, Faecalibacterium, Blautia, Bifidobacterium, or Lactobacillus genus were low or absent. In vitro, Fusobacterium nucleatum promotes CRC cell proliferation; in mice, the presence of F. nucleatum inpatient-derived CRC xenografts (where patient CRC samples are implanted in mice) increases tumor growth rates. A possible mechanism to explain these findings is that the F. nucleatum adhesin, FadA, binds to E-cadherin on the CRC cell surface and activates oncogenic Wnt/β-catenin signaling. F. nucleatum can also alter the function of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and natural killer (NK) cells by binding to the inhibitory immune receptor TIGIT (T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITI Mdomains) through another adhesin, Fap2. Fap2 also binds a disaccharide sugar motif \[galactoseN-acetyl-D-galactosamine (Gal-GalNAc)\] which is expressed at high levels on the surface of many tumor cell types, as well as other cell types, and facilitates F. nucleatum binding to CRC cells. Enterotoxigenic Bacteroides fragilis (ETBF) potentiates colorectal carcinogenesis in mice, and ETBF was detected in biofilms coating human CRCs and precancerous colonic lesions. Escherichia coli expressing the genomic island polyketide synthase (pks+) enhanc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - This study will compare fecal microbiota richness and composition differences between LS patients with no previous adenoma at inclusion in AAS-Lynch study and LS patients with history of adenoma or adenoma at inclusion in AAS-Lynch study.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04791644
