CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03061773
Title: Physical Training on Patients With Breast Cancer
Official Title: Benefits of Physical Exercise in Patients With Breast Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The treatment of breast cancer at any given time can be through surgery, as well as adjuvant treatments (radiotherapy, chemotherapy and hormone therapy) alone or together. And with this the patient tends to lose weight, he becomes depressed, resulting in an increasingly debilitating picture. Therefore, the present study aims to investigate the relationship between physical exercise and its effects on quality of life in patients with breast cancer, those who underwent surgery for at least 6 months, patients who are still with the Tumor using the adjuvant treatments submitted to physical exercises and not submitted. The sample will consist of 25 to 50 female patients aged 18 to 75 years. Patients will be submitted to the initial quality of life evaluation (SF - 36 reduced version, Anxiety and depression (HAD Scale), Fatigue (Piper Fatigue Scale), Pain (Brief Inventory of Pain), Body Composition (Bioimpedance BYODINAMICS 450 ) And oxidative stress markers (oxidized and reduced glutathione, TBARS / MDA, Myeloperoxidase and Creatinine), inflammatory markers (IL1, IL6, IL8, IL10, MCP-1 and TNF-α), hormones Estrogen, progesterone), blood test (complete blood count) 24 hour food recall (24hs food recall), and perform the maximum repetition test to find the initial workload that will be adjusted every 4 weeks with the evaluation of the load and Completing the 12 weeks of training will be reevaluated following the initial evaluation. The data collected will be treated statistically with an α=5% using the software Stata 12.0.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The patients will be allocated into two groups: exercise group (intervention) and conventional treatment group (active comparison). Intervention: The combined training program consisted of 12-week aerobic, resistive and flexibility exercises, with 3 sessions per week of aerobic and resistive training in the same session (supervised by physical exercise coaches) and 2 sessions per week of Flexibility training (unsupervised). As stretching sessions were interspersed with sessions of aerobic and weathered training in the daytime period.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measure the pain, The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Conventional hospital treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03061773
