CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02449200
Title: RCT of Multimodal Physiotherapy for Acute / Sub-acute Cervical Radiculopathy
Official Title: A Randomised Controlled Trial of Multimodal Physiotherapy for Patients With Acute / Sub-acute Cervical Radiculopathy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Multimodal physiotherapy involving manual therapy and exercise has demonstrated a positive effect on pain and disability in sub-acute and chronic cervical radiculopathy (CR) but a research gap exists for optimal management in the first 12 weeks and short-term natural history of the condition is unclear, although thought to be favourable within the first 4 weeks. The primary aim of this single blind, 2 group randomised controlled trial (RCT) is to investigate the effects of a 4 week (6-8 sessions) programme of manual therapy, exercise and upper limb unloading tape compared to advice to stay active, on disability, pain and other biopsychosocial measures, in acute / sub-acute cervical radiculopathy patients. The hypothesis is that a 4 week multimodal physiotherapy programme will lead to changes in self-reported disability and pain, compared to advice to stay active, in patients with acute / sub-acute cervical radiculopathy. A secondary study objective is to identify whether variables from the baseline examination, group allocation and aetiology confirmed by MRI can predict outcome, as measured with the Global Rating of Change Scale (GROC). Subjects will be diagnosed with CR based on a diagnostic clinical prediction rule. Random group allocation, allocation concealment, blinded assessment and intention to treat analysis will be employed. Outcomes will be measured at baseline, 4 and 12 weeks. Patients' report of pain, disability and their rating of recovery will also be recorded by telephone interview at 6 months. An internal pilot feasibility study will be undertaken in advance of the main study to test recruitment and retention strategies. Statistical analysis of differences between groups will be done with ANOVAs and MANOVAs. Appropriate multivariable regression analysis will be used to explore predictors of outcome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cervical radiculopathy (CR) has been defined by the North American Spine Society (NASS) as pain in a radicular pattern in one or both upper extremities related to compression and/or irritation of one or more cervical nerve roots, with signs and symptoms including varying degrees of sensory, motor, and reflex changes in addition to dysaesthesia and paraesthesia (Bono et al. 2011). CR is of particular clinical concern, given the higher levels of pain and disability associated with the presence of nerve-related arm pain resulting in higher healthcare costs for this cohort of people with neck pain (Rubinstein et al., 2007, Haldeman et al., 2008).

Multimodal physiotherapy involving manual therapy and exercise has demonstrated a positive effect on pain and disability for chronic (symptom duration \> 3 months) CR (Boyles et al., 2011). No consensus on the optimum conservative management, or indeed optimal timing of such management, currently exists for acute / sub-acute cervical radiculopathy. The combined use of manual therapy with exercise for this cohort is now garnering interest; evident by the emergence of several randomised controlled trials (Nee et al., 2012, Langevin et al., 2015) involving treatment duration of 2-4 weeks. Langevin et al. (2015) demonstrated that using 2 varied programmes of manual therapy \& exercise, led to similarly clinically significant improvements in pain and disability, particularly immediately after a 4 week intervention. However, without a 'no treatment' control group, natural recovery could not be excluded, confirming the need for adequate control groups in future trials (Langevin et al., 2015). The most recent Cochrane review of exercise for the treatment of mechanical neck disorders (MND) (including CR) concluded that there was low quality evidence to suggest a small pain reduction benefit with cervical stretch / strengthening / stabilization exercises in the short term in acute cervical radiculopathy (Gross et al., 2015). They also advocated for larger sample sizes and longer follow-up periods in future trials.

A randomised controlled trial of a 4 week course of a multimodal physiotherapy package (manual therapy (to spinal joints), exercise (mobility exercise, deep neck flexor and scapular muscle training), upper limb unloading tape (to offload the brachial plexus) and advice to stay active) for acute/sub-acute CR is proposed. As there is no strong evidence establishing best clinical practice for the conservative management of acute/sub-acute CR, a control group of advice to stay active and medication will be used.

Aims \& Objectives:

The primary aim of this trial is to investigate the effects of a 4 week multimodal physiotherapy (MP) programme on neck and arm pain and resulting disability in CR, over 6 months, with the primary endpoint at 4 weeks.

Secondary objectives are:

* to investigate the effects of the MP programme on the following additional biopsychosocial outcome measures;

  * Cervical range of mot

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in neck and arm pain (Numerical Pain Rating Scale)
  - Change from baseline in Neck Disability Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02449200
