CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07140445
Title: Monitoring Neurocognitive Dysfunction and the Impact of Metabolism and Physical Capacity After Paediatric HSCT
Official Title: Monitoring Neurocognitive Dysfunction and the Impact of Metabolism and Physical Capacity After Paediatric Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (Abbreviation: MindMe)
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 175
Topic: beta alanine

SUMMARY:
Today the overall survival of childhood cancers has increased to above 85%. This increase is partially caused by treatment with bone marrow transplantation. A bone marrow transplantation is an efficient treatment against high-risk leukemia, as well as other life-threatening immunological and hematological diseases. However, it is unfortunately also related to the risk of developing a long series of late effects during early adulthood, such as reduced muscle mass, cardiovascular disease and diabetes.

Some survivors of bone marrow transplantation in childhood also seem to experience changes in cognitive functions. These changes may be experienced as difficulties with concentration, forgetfulness, learning difficulties, and challenges in school or the labour market. Currently, the extent of cognitive changes following bone marrow transplantation in childhood is not fully understood, nor how it relates to other late effects, and what can be done to prevent cognitive impairment.

This research project will examine cognitive function in a group of survivors of bone marrow transplantation in childhood and find out whether there is a correlation between reduced cognitive function and the occurrence of other late effects, including metabolic changes and reduced physical capacity. It will also explore associations between cognitive function at late follow up and blood-based biomarkers of neurological damage and systemic inflammation at the time of transplantation to identify predictors of reduced cognitive function.

The goal of the study is to evaluate the level of cognitive functioning after bone marrow transplantation in childhood, see how it relates to other late effect and identify risk factors and biomarkers in the blood that can predict which patients are at risk of neurocognitive impairment. The results of this study will hopefully contribute to optimizing the prevention and treatment of cognitive impairments following bone marrow transplantation in childhood, thereby improving the quality of life for survivors of bone marrow transplantation in childhood.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Intelligence quotient
  - verbal reasoning
  - verbal learning
  - non-verbal reasoning
  - working memory

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07140445
