CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05769907
Title: Protocol for a Feasibility of a Motivational Interviewing for Weight Loss in Adults
Official Title: Motivational to Weight Loss Version 1 (MWL v.1): Protocol for a Feasibility Single-arm, Open-label Clinical Trial of a Motivational Interviewing, Stages and Processes of Change-based Intervention for Weight Loss in Adults
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Abstract Introduction: This pilot study will determine the recruitment feasibility, retention, and adhesion for a motivational interviewing program for weight loss in adults according to the processes of change in weight loss.

Methods and Analysis: The single-arm pilot study will be a feasibility study of the Motivation to Lose Weight version 1 (MLW v.1). The study includes presential and online sessions. Participants will be recruited through advertisements on social media and selected according to the inclusion criteria. Participants will receive 8 sessions of approximately 30-45 minutes of motivational interviewing (MI) according to the processes of change in weight loss, as measured by the S-Weight scale. The results will be evaluated at the beginning and the end of the program, which will last 8 weeks. The primary outcome of the study is feasibility. The intervention will be feasible if adherence to the proposed activities in the sessions is greater than 70%, we can recruit 10 patients within 8 weeks, the proportion of interested people and registered participants is greater than 30%, and more than 75% of participants attend the final study visit. The secondary outcome is weight loss, fat mass percentage, muscle mass, waist and hip measurements, and the scores of behavioral scales.

Ethics and discussion: The feasibility of this project consists of proposing an individualized intervention based on MI strategy(s) for each participant, according to the stage of readiness, and thus, help to evolve in the process of losing weight. This intervention aims to increase the participant's confidence level to implement actions that lead to the progression of behavior and, consequently, the action and maintenance of the lost weight. This study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee (REC) of the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) under number 20220209 CAAE 59573622300005327.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will consist of one session per week for 8 weeks, during which the participant will receive MI for 30-45 minutes. All participants will receive the MI intervention according to their readiness to lose weight measured by means the P-weight and S-weight at the beginning of each session.

In session one, sociodemographic and clinical information will be collected through a structured interview as well clinical assessment including the following scales: the stage of change to lose weight (S-Weight), symptoms of depression (PROMIS depression v. 8.1a, ), anxiety (PROMIS anxiety v.8.1a, ), psychosocial functioning (FAST ), binge eating (TCAP ), current food intake (24-hours food recall, ), and cognitive process used while losing weight (P-Weight ). In addition, the first session will collect information regarding the participant's body weight, body fat, free fat mass, and waist and hip circumference.

As participants will be in the precontemplation or contemplation stage of change at the beginning of the study, the goals of the first session will be: a) develop participant rapport; b) develop the discrepancy, that is, understand the distance between what the participant wants to change and the actions are taken; c) roll with resistance, that is, do not conflict during the dialogue; d) avoid the correction reflex, that is, avoid correcting something the interviewee says, even if it is technically incorrect or not plausible; e) valuing and validating the person, that is, emphasizing points in the participant's speech to increase their self-confidence; f) establish an agenda of issues to be deal with that are related to being overweight or obese. All these objectives remain in subsequent sessions. To accomplish those goals, the interviewer will use the MI process called "explore," which leads to the topic the participant wants to discuss. The interviewer will use strategies such as open questions, affirmations, reflections, abstracts, exploring discrepancies, informing with permission, explore values and objectives based on the participants' speech in order to elicit from the person their different motives for the desired change . Each session will be registered following the Session Registration Form .

From sessions two to seven, the sessions will take place online through the platform Teams, and the participant will answer the S-weight scale to identify the actual stage of change to lose weight at the beginning of each session. In case of the participant is in the precontemplation, contemplation or preparation phases, the goals in the session will be a) encourage the participant to talk about the reasons that favor him to change and not to change; b) focus on the positive motives to change; c) Increase the participants' confidence, that is, explain that the style of this approach takes into account their autonomy, and thus, any and all decision-making will be shared and not directed from the interviewer to he/she, also because a basic premise 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The primary outcome is to test the feasibility and acceptability of the pilot study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intervention Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05769907
