CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06521086
Title: Optimizing Recovery in Trauma Patients by Integrating Enhanced Nutrition Delivery
Official Title: Optimizing Recovery in Trauma Patients: Integrating Enhanced Nutrition Delivery With Muscle Assessments, Functional Outcomes and Quality of Life
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial designed to evaluate the impact of enhanced protein supplementation compared to a standard of care nutrition delivery in critically ill older adult trauma patients. Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to either enhanced nutrition or control arm. Subjects randomized to the enhanced nutrition arm will receive oral nutrition supplements (ONS) up to 3 times per day while in the hospital and for 4 weeks after discharge. Subjects in the standard of care arm will receive normal nutrition recommendations from their clinical providers. Participants in both groups will undergo non-invasive tests that measure how much energy (calories) they are using, body composition, and muscle mass.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective, randomized, controlled trial designed to evaluate the impact of enhanced protein supplementation compared to a standard of care nutrition delivery in critically ill older adult trauma patients. Enhanced protein supplementation supports patients from ICU admission to 4-weeks post-hospital discharge, providing a comprehensive and personalized plan of care carried to completion.

Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to enhanced nutrition or control arm. Subjects randomized enhanced nutrition oral nutrition supplements (Fresenius KCAL shakes) up to 3 times per day while in the hospital and for 4 weeks after discharge. Subjects in the standard of care arm will receive normal nutrition recommendations from their clinical providers.

Participants in both groups will undergo non-invasive tests that measure how much energy (calories) they are using, body composition, and muscle mass. They will also be asked to complete walking and strength tests, and surveys about quality of life.These will be done at hospital admission, day 14 or hospital discharge, and at a one month post-discharge follow-up visit.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in muscle mass as a measure of muscle quality
  - Change in glycogen stores as a measure of muscle quality
  - Change in body composition (percentage of a body's weight that is fat tissue) as a measure of muscle quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition Supplements - Fresubin KCAL Drinks

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06521086
