CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07002437
Title: Hypoxia Pathways for Early Recovery After Spinal Cord Injury
Official Title: Intermittent Hypoxia-Induced Motor Plasticity in Sub-Acute Spinal Cord Injury
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Spinal cord injury (SCI) disrupts neural pathways to respiratory motor neurons, diminishing breathing capacity and airway defense (e.g., cough). Indeed, respiratory impairment is a leading cause of infection, re-hospitalization and death after SCI. There is a critical need for new strategies to restore breathing ability and airway defense in people with SCI. Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) - repetitive exposure to brief episodes of low inspired oxygen - is a promising strategy to restore breathing capacity by promoting spinal neuroplasticity. Exciting outcomes in \>12 SCI trials completed to date demonstrate that AIH improves human respiratory and limb function. Unfortunately, \~40% of individuals exhibit minimal response to AIH, making it essential to 1) optimize AIH protocols to maximize functional benefits; and 2) identify genetic biomarkers distinguishing those most/least likely to benefit from AIH-based treatments.

The purpose of the pilot study, to be conducted in a small sample of participants with sub-acute SCI (2 weeks to 6 months post injury), is to preliminarily compare the effects of two intermittent hypoxia protocols. Since AIH-induced plasticity may be induced via serotonin or adenosine-driven mechanisms and these pathways compete and inhibit each other, each protocol favors a distinct mechanistic pathway. Our long-term objective is to test the hypothesis that a longer duration (i.e., augmented) hypoxia protocol, favoring adenosine mechanisms, enhances respiratory motor plasticity more than an AIH protocol targeting serotonin mechanisms (low O2 + CO2) in people with sub-acute SCI. Since an individual's genetics can influence the response to rehabilitation, we are also investigating how certain genes are related to breathing changes after these treatments.

Data acquired through this pilot study will be used to inform a larger, more definitive clinical trial and will contribute to estimations of the magnitude and direction of effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The specific focus of this pilot study is to obtain preliminary data to inform a larger, more definitive clinical trial. The long-term objective of this line of work is to test the hypothesis that an acute intermittent hypoxia protocol (3, 5 min episodes, 9-13% FiO2; augmented AIH (aAIH)) favoring adenosine mechanisms, enhances respiratory motor plasticity more than an AIH protocol targeting serotonin mechanisms (1 min 9% FiO2 + CO2) in people with sub-acute SCI. Since an individual's genetics can influence the response to rehabilitation, investigators are also collecting preliminary data regarding how certain genes are related to breathing changes after these treatments.

Data acquired through this pilot study will be used to estimate the magnitude and direction of effects.

This line of research will inform AIH protocol optimization to enhance the clinical effects of AIH treatments designed to improve rehabilitation outcomes.

The following Aims will be addressed:

Aim 1: To preliminarily test the hypothesis that augmented acute intermittent hypoxia (aAIH) is a more potent stimulus to induce respiratory motor plasticity than AIHH (low oxygen with hypercapnia) in people with sub-acute SCI.

The investigators predict that 6 sessions of aAIH (3, 5-minute episodes of 9-13% O2; 3-minute intervals) will elicit greater respiratory motor plasticity than AIHH (15, 1-minute episodes of 9-13% O2 with 4-5% CO2; 1.5-minute intervals) or Sham (5, 3-minute episodes of 21% O2) in individuals with SCI, 2 weeks to 6 months post injury.

The primary outcomes include maximum pressure generation and cough function 1-day and 1-week post-intervention. Secondary, exploratory outcomes will be biceps (elbow flexion) force output.

Aim 2: To obtain preliminary data regarding the association between dysfunctional genetic variants, linked with molecules necessary for AIH-induced respiratory motor plasticity, and the magnitude of response (change in primary outcomes) in response to aAIH or AIHH in individuals with sub-acute SCI.

The investigators predict that individuals with dysfunctional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with pro-plasticity genes have blunted responses to aAIH and/or AIHH treatments.

* Augmented Acute intermittent hypoxia (aAIH): This intervention will involve breathing low-oxygen air through a facemask that covers the nose and mouth. Participants will be asked to breathe the low-oxygen air for 3 periods (about 5 minutes each period). A mask will be secured and adjusted to the face and the participant will be able to breathe naturally and normally. Between the \~ 5 minute periods of lower oxygen, the participant will breathe higher oxygen levels that are 'normal' or consistent with room air for about 3 minutes. Heart rate, blood oxygen saturation, and blood pressure will be monitored. The gas mixture will be adjusted if a participant's blood oxygen saturation drops below 80%.
* Acute intermittent hypercapnic hypoxia, lower oxygen with CO

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Maximal Inspiratory Pressure
  - Change in Maximal Expiratory Pressure
  - Change in Cough Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Augmented Acute Intermittent Hypoxia (aAIH)
  - OTHER: Acute Intermittent Hypercapnic-Hypoxia (AIHH)
  - OTHER: Sham AIH

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07002437
