CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03335319
Title: The Effect Of An Expanded Long Term Periodization Exercise Training In Patients With Cardiovascular Disease
Official Title: The Effect Of An Expanded Long Term Periodization Exercise Training In Patients With Cardiovascular Disease: Central And Peripheral Adaptations
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Benefits from cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs are evidence based and widely recognized. Less than 50% of people who participate in hospital-based CR programs maintain an exercise regimen for as long as six months after completion. Despite the benefits associated with regular exercise training (ET), adherence with supervised exercise-based CR remains low.

Current exercise guidelines for CR focus on moderate intensity steady state exercises, with walking and cycling being the most recommended types of ET. The repetitive nature of this type of activity can become monotonous for the patient, affecting exercise adherence, compliance and training outcomes. Exercise periodization is a method typically used in sports training, but the impact of periodized exercise to yield optimal beneficial effects in cardiac patients is still unclear.

In healthy or trained populations, periodization aims to optimize ET adaptations as compared with non periodized training, to prevent overtraining and to avoid plateauing of training adaptations. Periodized methods are considered to be superior to non periodized methods in trained populations and appears to be superior in inactive adults. In most of the CR programs there are no periodization or exercise progression during medium to long term interventions. Further randomized controlled trials (RCT) are necessary to evaluate long-term periodization outcomes.

The purpose of this research project is twofold:

1. To conduct a 12-month randomized control trial to evaluate the effects of a periodized ET regime versus a non periodized ET regime (guidelines) on VO2 peak, maximal strength, body composition, functionality and quality of life in cardiovascular disease patients.
2. to differentiate the effects of a 12-month periodized ET regime versus a non periodized ET regime on the different components of the oxygen kinetics response and oxidative adaptations in cardiovascular disease patients.

These patients will be randomized in 2 ET groups: 1) periodization; 2) non periodization. This experimental design will occur during 48 weeks 3 times per week with 4 assessment time points: M0) before starting the ET program (baseline); M1) 3 months after starting the ET; M2) 6 months after starting the ET program and M3) 12 months at the end of the community-based ET program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) of patients with Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) has been practiced in Europe to varying degrees since the early 1970s. CR is a comprehensive, long-term program involving medical evaluation, prescribed Exercise Training (ET), cardiac risk factor modification, education and counselling. These programs are designed to limit the physiologic and psychological effects of cardiac illness, reduce the risk for sudden death or re-infarction, control cardiac symptoms, stabilize or reverse the atherosclerotic process, and enhance the psychosocial and vocational status of selected patients. Furthermore, it is a safe, useful and an effective treatment for patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), particularly after myocardial infarction, but also for patients with cardiac interventions and chronic stable heart failure.

Exercise adherence after a hospital-based CR program is reported to be poor with only 30% to 60% of those who complete a phase II CR program are still exercising 6 months later and after 12 months, up to 50 to 80% of participants failing to adhere to exercise. Despite the benefits associated with regular ET, adherence with supervised exercise-based CR remains low.

A brief review of meta-analysis studies that assess the impact of different types of exercise in short term outcomes for participants of CR will now be presented. The findings of a meta-analysis in 2015 indicated that high intensity interval training (HIIT) is more effective than moderate continuous training (MCT) for the improvement of both VO2 peak and the anaerobic threshold in patients with stable CAD. The greater improvement in VO2 peak following HIIT compared to MCT (4.6 ± 3.1 versus 2.8 ± 2.4 ml/kg/min) is important in the context of a 10-25% survival advantage with every 3.5 ml/kg/min improvement in VO2 peak.

Another meta-analysis in 2016, compared HIIT and MCT in their ability to improve patients aerobic exercise capacity and various cardiovascular risk factors. Ten studies with 472 patients were included for analyses (218 HIIT, 254 MCT) and the main conclusions were that HIIT improves the mean VO2 peak in patients with CAD more than MCT, although MCT was associated with a more pronounced numerical decline in patients resting heart rate and body weight.

Current CR guidelines recommend the inclusion of a standardized resistance training (RT) program. A recent meta-analysis of ET programs in patients with CAD revealed that the addition of RT training to MCT led to superior improvements in body composition, muscle strength, peak work capacity, and a trend for greater increases in VO2 peak. Similar to HIIT, RT has not been shown to compromise patient safety or program adherence.

Less is known about central and peripheral adaptations during long term effects on HIIT, MCT or even aerobic combined training with RT. In 2016, a systematic review and meta-analysis with a total of 63 studies with 14,486 participants with CAD median follow-up of 12 months

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of peak oxygen consumption during cardiopulmonary exercise testing
  - Change of oxygen kinetics during submaximal test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Periodized Exercise Training Regime
  - OTHER: Non Periodized Exercise Training Regime

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03335319
