CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06689618
Title: Effects of Whole-body Electrical Muscle Stimulation Exercise on Spinal Motoneuronal Activation in Older Adults
Official Title: Effects of Whole-body Electrical Muscle Stimulation Exercise on Spinal Motoneuronal Activation in Older Adults
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
During this pilot study, the investigators will examine the effects of whole-body electrical muscle stimulation exercise (WB-EMS Exercise) on motoneuronal activation in healthy adults, which typically decreases with age. The investigators will also test whether WB-EMS Exercise will improve measures of physical function. Participants will undergo clinical and electrophysiologic testing before and after the WB-EMS Exercise intervention. The WB-EMS Exercise intervention will be delivered two times per week for four weeks. The hypothesis is that whole-body electrical muscle stimulation combined with physical exercise (WB-EMS Exercise) could bypass the problem of insufficient motoneuronal activation to improve exercise effect in older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
During this pilot study, the investigators will examine the effects of whole-body electrical muscle stimulation exercise (WB-EMS Exercise) on motoneuronal activation in healthy adults, which typically decreases with age. The investigators will also test whether WB-EMS Exercise will improve measures of physical function. The intervention consists of WB-EMS Exercise twice a week for four weeks. The investigators will use decomposition electromyography, interpolated twitch technique, and clinical measures to assess pre- and post-treatment motoneuronal activation and physical functioning. Correlation matrices will be performed associating the measures of motoneuronal activation to the measures of physical function (pre-intervention values, post-intervention values, and change values). At the conclusion of the study, expected outcomes include that whole-body electrical muscle stimulation combined with physical exercise (WB-EMS Exercise) could bypass the problem of insufficient motoneuronal activation to improve exercise effect in older adults. This project represents early work to uncover motoneuronal mechanisms of WB-EMS Exercise in older adults. An intervention that combines voluntary and involuntary activation of motoneurons to enhance the effectiveness of exercise could have significant impact in maximizing the functional independence of an aging population.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean change from baseline in motor unit firing rates of the vastus lateralis using decomposition electromyography (dEMG)
  - Mean change from baseline in central activation ratio of the vastus lateralis using interpolated twitch technique (ITT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06689618
