CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04432935
Title: Effect of Lactoferrin on Polio Seroconversion
Official Title: Effect of Bovine Lactoferrin on Seroconversion Following Polio Vaccine Administration in Children: A Randomized Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 468
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
A massive decline in cases of poliomyelitis was observed worldwide since 1988; however its transmission continues in Pakistan and Afghanistan. In 2017, a total of 17 cases were reported from these countries, which represent approximately half of the cases reported in 2016. This achievement was made possible by large scale use of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and inactivated polio vaccine (IPV). Despite vigorous efforts to end poliovirus transmission in endemic areas, several challenges including illiteracy, poverty, malnutrition, difficulty to access health and immunization services adversely affect the effectiveness of the polio eradication efforts. Innovations are thus needed to accomplish the goal of eradication as due to limited funding, the sustainability of a program becomes questionable. The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of lactoferrin in increasing mucosal and serum immunity in children following administration of poliovirus vaccines.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lactoferrin was first discovered in bovine milk which was later isolated in human milk as the second most abundant protein; with high levels found in colostrum. Evidence suggests that Lactoferrin enhances a child's immunity against gastrointestinal infections by inhibiting the growth of bacteria through iron deprivation and by preventing attachment of the virus to the intestinal cells thus children become less susceptible to virus replication in the gut. Investigations of enhanced efficacy of the BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) vaccine after administration of Lactoferrin showed promising results. The use of bovine Lactoferrin in children is generally recognized as safe by the US Food and Drug Administration. Its anti-infective properties creates a new window of opportunity to assess its effects on the level of seroconversion following poliovirus vaccination in children.

This is a double-blinded two arm randomized placebo-controlled trial. A total of 377 neonates will be enrolled in each group (754 neonates in both groups). Females ages 18-45 years in their last trimester of pregnancy in Karachi, Pakistan will be recruited for the study by the study team and consent will be obtained. Participants will be newborns (on day 1 of birth) who will be followed through 6 months of age. Newborns who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the control or intervention group in 1:1 ratio on the first day of birth. Intervention group will receive a daily bovine lactoferrin supplementation whereas Control group will receive a daily placebo supplementation along with breast milk from day 0 of birth to 6 weeks of life. Newborns will be followed up daily during the course of the hospital stay.

After discharge from the hospital, mothers will be provided with a week's supply of lactoferrin or placebo along with instructions on how and when to administer it to the baby. Newborns will be followed up weekly. Compliance will be assessed by counting the used sachets of lactoferrin or placebo because mothers will be instructed to keep the empty sachets in a dedicated container issued by study staff. Mothers will be strictly advised to administer all vaccinations according to the routine immunization schedule. For both groups, a blood sample will be collected in the hospital and containers will be given to the mother for collections of stool for the newborn.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assessment of humoral immunity by seroconversion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Bovine Lactoferrin
  - OTHER: Placebo Glucon D

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Hour to 23 Hours
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04432935
