CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05698654
Title: Fasting-mimicking Diet and Longevity Diet, Body Composition and Aging
Official Title: Evaluation of Longevity Diet and Fasting Mimicking Diet Programs on Body Composition, Disease Risk Factors, and Aging Markers: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 501
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
This study was designed as a large, randomized, controlled clinical trial in a heterogeneous population and is aimed at assessing as a primary objective whether the fasting-mimicking diet alone or in combination with the longevity diet can modify the percentage of fat mass in a cohort of subjects stratified by sex, age and body mass index. As secondary objectives, will evaluate the effects of the fasting-mimicking diet alone or in combination with the longevity diet on the general health conditions of the population.

From a public health point of view, the efficacy of a food intervention such as the longevity diet and/or short periods of fasting-mimicking diet would represent proof of the results that can be achieved by a realistics, feasible and inexpensive approach.

The information obtained is relevant because the nutritional intervention will be undertaken by people who live in their normal environment and who simply receive every day dietary guidelines, and support and/or boxes containing a 5 day meal program to be consumed in lieu of their normal diet once every 3 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized, open-label in adult subjects: arm 1 will include subjects randomized to follow a Fasting Mimicking Diet (FMD) plan with a 5-day meal program once every two months for a 6-month period (3 cycles); arm 2 will include subjects randomized to follow the FMD plus a Longevity Diet (LD) program for a 6-month period (FMD+LD); arm 3 will include randomized to the control group that will be recommended to continue their usual diet. Participants belonging to the control arm will be given an opportunity to follow a 6-month LD program starting at the end of 6 months.

Recruitment

Participants with BMI \>=25 kg/m2 and in the 30 to 65 year range will be identified in towns within of a range of 20 km from Varapodio (province of Reggio Calabria, Southern Italy).The confirmation of eligibility and subsequent consenting will be carried out at the screening visit.

Eligible participants will undergo 5 different visits (pre-screening visit, screening visit, baseline visit (t0), and two follow-up visits (after 3 and 6 months from the baseline visit). Participants belonging to the control arm who decide to follow an optional 6-month LD program at the last follow-up visit (month 6), will receive two additional visits at month 9 and at month 12.

Pre-screening phone call visit

The purpose of the pre-screening visit is to determine if a potential participant fits the study's core inclusion criteria (age and BMI) and doesn't meet some of its permanent exclusion criteria (e.g. morbidities, pregnancy, known allergies, etc.). Once a potential participant is cleared through the pre-screening visit and confirms interest in participating, he/she may proceed to the screening visit.

Screening visit

The purpose of the screening visit is to confirm the volunteer's eligibility for study participation. Participants who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be informed about the research study before any procedure is performed. Participants must provide written informed consent to the processing of personal data in an anonymous and aggregate form in compliance with the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) and the relevant Italian laws implementing the GDPR, including the Legislative Decree No.101/2018 of 10 August 2018 on the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data. Any collection, processing and disclosure of personal data, such as participant health and medical information is subject to compliance with the aforementioned personal data protection laws.

Screening will include measurement of height, weight, and vital signs, review of medical history and current medications, assessment of sleep quality and disturbances and collection of fasting blood. Participants will be then randomized into either one of the intervention arms (FMD or FMD+LD) or in the control arm using a web-based randomization system that will be controlled by the researchers of the Valter Longo Foundation in Milan

Basel

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Fat Percentage

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Fasting-mimicking diet (FMD)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Longevity Diet (LD) + Fasting-mimicking Diet (FMD)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05698654
