CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03890991
Title: Self-Care for Older People With Diabetes Mellitus
Official Title: Self-Care for Older People With Diabetes Mellitus (SCOPE-DM): Live Well With Diabetes Programme
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
In Singapore, the prevalence of diabetes was approximately 12.8% in 2014 and was projected to rise to 22.7% in 2035. In 2015, the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) reported that Singapore has the second highest proportion of diabetic patients among developed nations. The impact of poorly controlled diabetes on the individual, family and health system is well known. Previous studies have shown that older persons, specifically those with chronic conditions such as diabetes, often lack sufficient knowledge about their condition and thus frequently have poor self-management skills, which is essential for good health outcome.

Health education among older persons, particularly those with chronic illnesses, has long been promoted as a priority. Chodosh and colleagues (2005) determined that there were benefits and significant improvement in blood glucose and blood pressure for chronic disease self-management programs for older adults with diabetes and high blood pressure respectively in a meta-analysis study. This project \[Self-Care for Older People with Diabetes Mellitus (SCOPE-DM)\] was therefore developed to help community-dwelling older patients with type 2 diabetes to effectively manage their disease by reducing diabetes-related risk factors and complications, leading to an improvement in their psychological well-being and health-related quality of life, as well as a reduction in future healthcare requirements from family and society. This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of the SCOPE-DM programme in improving the self-efficacy, motivation, medication adherence, health-related quality of life and diabetes knowledge among community-dwelling older adults with type 2 diabetes in Singapore.

This proposed study is a prospective, four-group cluster randomized controlled trial. The participants will be followed up for 6 months at the community sites and Hua Mei Clinics of the Tsao Foundation. A set of questionnaires will be used to assess participants' self-efficacy, diabetic self-care activities, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), diabetes knowledge and medication adherence. Process evaluation will also be conducted to assess the acceptability, strengths and weaknesses of the 'SCOPE-DM: Live Well with Diabetes' programme based on the participants' perspectives through the conduct of qualitative interviews.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overview

This study is a prospective, four-group cluster randomized controlled trial. The participants will be followed up for 6 months at the community sites or Hua Mei Clinics of the Tsao Foundation.

The 4 groups are:

i. Control group receiving routine care from their healthcare provider/ clinics of Tsao Foundation

ii. Intervention group 1 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme without supply of glucometers and accessories

iii. Intervention group 2 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme as well as 3 months' supply of glucometers and accessories

iv. Intervention group 3 receiving the SCOPE-DM programme as well as 6 months' supply of glucometers and accessories

A staff of Tsao Foundation will recruit community-dwelling adults with diabetes from the 68 community sites around Singapore. After which, the research associate (RA) or Fellow appointed to represent the Site Principal Investigator will screen the individuals participating for eligibility to join this research study. Alternatively, potential participants will be referred to the RA or Fellow to be screened for eligibility. Eligible individuals will be invited to participate in the research study, of which interested individuals will be explained with the study procedure and informed consent will be taken by the RA.

Inclusion Criteria:

* Individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus
* Aged 55 to 99 years old (both inclusive)
* Community-dwelling

Exclusion Criteria:

* Individuals with Type 1 diabetes mellitus
* Unable to communicate independently in English or Mandarin
* Mentally incapacitated individuals

The 68 sites will form the cluster sites for the study and will be assigned to any one of the 4 groups via a randomisation process (control, intervention group 1, 2 and 3). The randomisation process will be generated by the research team before recruitment begins using a computerised programme. Each group will thus consist of 17 sites. All the participants belonging to each group of 17 sites will be invited to participate in the study if they meet the inclusion criteria until we have reached the target number of 80 for each group.

Questionnaire administration

Questionnaires to elucidate the humanistic outcomes will be administered at baseline, 3 and 6 months from baseline respectively for all 4 groups. Each questionnaire administration will last for around 45 minutes.

The questionnaire will be used to assess participants' self-efficacy, diabetic self-care activities, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), diabetes knowledge and medication adherence. Participant demographics, anthropometric parameters, past medical history, and current medication use will be collected. A staff from Tsao Foundation will provide the clinical data and laboratory test results (HbA1c, blood pressure, TChol, LDL-C, HDL-C, TG, BMI and adherence to yearly eye and foot screenings) to the RA or Fellow of the project. Consent will be obtained from the participants before Tsao Foundation releases the clinical data and la

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Self-efficacy assessed using the General Self-efficacy Scale
  - Diabetes self-care activities measured using the Revised Summary of Diabetes Self-care Activities

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SCOPE-DM
  - BEHAVIORAL: SCOPE-DM with 3 months' supply of glucometer
  - BEHAVIORAL: SCOPE-DM with 6 months' supply of glucometer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03890991
