CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04048967
Title: Active Learning Norwegian Preschool(er)s
Official Title: Active Learning Norwegian Preschool(er)s
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1265
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Evidence is lacking about scalable, effective and sustainable interventions to increase physical activity and concomitant outcomes in young children. Therefore, the investigators will conduct a large cluster randomized controlled trial investigating the effects of physical activity professional development of preschool staff on preschool physical activity practices and child health and development over 6 and 18 months. The aim is to recruit 60 preschools and 1200 children aged 3-5 years in one county in the western part of Norway to allow for detecting small to moderate effect sizes and ensuring a heterogeneous sample of preschools for the study of implementation. Children's physical development, children's socio-emotional and cognitive development, and intervention implementation will be investigated. The intervention will be developed with strong user involvement from municipalities and relevant stakeholders to facilitate the development of sustainable solutions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There are growing concerns about low physical activity levels among preschoolers. As 97% of 3-5-year-olds in Norway attend preschool, preschools are unique arenas for intervention, laying the foundation for equitable development of health, human capital, and life opportunities. Yet, evidence of scalable, effective and sustainable interventions to increase physical activity and concomitant outcomes in preschoolers is lacking. Specifically, there is a need to study how the purposeful use of the preschool instructional context can be used to increase moderate-to-vigorous physical activity across a wide range of motor competences to enhance development, cognitively engaging play, and physically active learning. These aspects, in combination, have the potential to simultaneously affect various developmental and learning outcomes, but implementing such a program requires a highly coordinated effort by highly trained individuals. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the effects of an education module, which is designed to result in highly competent preschool staffs having a good understanding of development of motor competence, provision of cognitively engaging play, physically active learning, and pedagogic/didactic approaches and teaching principles to foster physically active and learning preschoolers, on child developmental outcomes. Hopefully, this professional development will promote a physically active lifestyle in the early years that will favorably influence cognition and learning, and provide an efficient, acceptable, and feasible venue to build human capital and provide an early solution to lifelong public health and developmental challenges.

Two main research questions will be tested using both quantitative and qualitative methods, applied to both the child and organizational levels: 1) How does the intervention affect children's physical activity, physical fitness, motor competence, socio-emotional health, self-regulation, executive functions, and learning? 2) How does the intervention interact with different preschool contexts to produce various individual and organizational outcomes?

The proposed research questions will be investigated using a cluster RCT with randomization at the preschool level, including short- (6-month) and long-term (18-month) follow-up. The intervention development will include strong involvement from preschool owners and staff to provide broad support and anchor the project in the preschool sector. Thus, the investigators aim to combine a large-scale experimental study with continuous improvement effort in this sector allowing each preschool's contextual factors to be reflected within the larger cluster RCT. In this model, to make adaptations within each preschool is not considered a lack of fidelity; rather it is a desired process of institutionalization that balances internal and external validity. This balance also overcomes a common criticism of clinical trials as it increases the value for lat

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Executive function
  - Executive function
  - Learning
  - Learning
  - Children's socio-emotional health

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Professional development

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04048967
