CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02399423
Title: The GlasVEGAS Study (Glasgow Visceral & Ectopic Fat With Weight Gain in South AsianS)
Official Title: The GlasVEGAS Study (Glasgow Visceral & Ectopic Fat With Weight Gain in South AsianS) - Does Adipose Tissue Expandibility Differ Between South Asians and Europeans and Does This Contribute to Differences in Cardio-metabolic Disease Risk?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
South Asians have a much higher risk of diabetes compared to Europeans and investigators don't know why this is. Investigators think that South Asians' capacity to store fat safely under the skin is lower than Europeans, so they start to store fat around internal organs and in liver and muscle, and at lower body weights than Europeans. These increased levels of internal fat storage are thought to increase risk of diabetes.

The purpose of the study therefore is to investigate whether there are differences with weight gain and weight loss in fat storage, fat cell function and metabolic risk factors, in South Asians compared with Europeans. Investigators will compare South Asian and European men at the start of the study, after they have gained about 7% body weight, and again after they have lost 7-15% body weight (from peak weight) to see how gaining and losing weight affects fat storage within the body and the function of fat cells. Investigators will also assess the effect of weight gain and weight loss on metabolism, fitness and risk factors for diabetes and heart disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
South Asians have about five times the risk of adult onset diabetes (high blood sugar) than Europeans and nearly one in five South Asian men in the United Kingdom have the disease. Diabetes is a serious disease that can lead to a number of adverse health consequences including heart disease, kidney disease and blindness and accounts for about 10% of all healthcare costs in the UK. Obesity is strongly linked to diabetes risk, but the adverse effect of getting fatter on diabetes risk is much higher in South Asians than Europeans. The purpose of this study is to understand why this is the case. When humans put on weight initially this fat is stored under the skin (subcutaneous fat). This is relatively safe. However, when the capacity of this under skin storage is exceeded, fat is stored internally within the tummy area (visceral fat) and in organs such as the liver and muscle, which is less safe and increases diabetes risk. Investigators think that South Asians' capacity to store fat safely under the skin is lower than Europeans, so fat is stored internally and in liver and muscle at lower body weights than Europeans. The purpose of this study is to investigate whether this occurs and why. To do this investigators will compare a group of South Asian and European men and see how gaining and losing weight affects fat storage within the body and the function of fat cells. Investigators will also assess the effect of weight gain and weight loss on metabolism, fitness and risk factors for diabetes and heart disease.

The study will include healthy men of normal weight aged between 18-45 year and of either white European or South Asian (both parent of Indian, Pakistani, Bangladesh or Sri Lankan origin) ethnic origin.

Body weight will be altered by initially gaining weight and then losing weight. To do this participants will initially have to eat more food for 4-6 weeks and then go on a diet combined with exercise for 12 weeks. Participation in the study will last around 5½ months in total.

During the study pictures of body fat stores will be taken using an MRI scanner, a biopsy/sample of tummy fat will be taken to look at the fat cells and physical fitness and body metabolism (the way the body deals with sugar, insulin and fat) will be measured. These measurements will be done at three different times: before gaining weight, once weight is gained, and after losing weight (and back to original weight). The measurements will give a detailed assessment of the changes in the body when gaining or losing weight.

The benefits of taking part in the study are receiving detailed feedback about fitness levels, body fat, dietary intake, blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar and level of "insulin resistance". Feedback about the overall study findings will also be provided.

In addition, the knowledge gained from participation may benefit people who are at risk of diabetes in the future by increasing our understanding of why South Asians are at increased risk of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in body metabolism after gaining 7% body weight and after losing 7% of body weight
  - Change in visceral adipose tissue after gaining 7% body weight and after losing 7% body weight
  - Change in subcutaneous adipose tissue after gaining 7% body weight and after losing 7% body weight
  - Change in liver adipose tissue after gaining 7% body weight and after losing 7% body weight
  - Change in adipose cell morphology after gaining 7% body weight and after losing 7% body weight.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weight gain
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weight loss

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02399423
