CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04647617
Title: Effects of 12- Weeks of Quantitative Weight-bearing Progressive Resistance Exercise Training on Glycemia Control and Improving Muscle Strength With Type 2 Diabetes Combine Pre-sarcopenia.
Official Title: Effects of 12- Weeks of Quantitative Weight-bearing Progressive Resistance Exercise Training on Glycemia Control and Improving Muscle Strength With Type 2 Diabetes Combine Pre-sarcopenia.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
According to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) in 2017 investigator found that the incidence of type 2 diabetes is currently 425 million people aged 20 to 79 in the world, and this data will increase o 629 million at 2045, The etiology of more than 90% is related to aging, it has become a serious challenge to public health.

Sarcopenia is a newly noticed severe syndrome characterized by reduced walking speed, decreased grip strength, and decreased muscle mass. Patients with type 2 diabetes are at risk of sarcopenia and are those with normal blood sugar. One of the main ways to improve the face of sarcopenia is to exercise intensity. By carrying out a gradual training plan instead of using different weights, it will lead to muscle hypertrophy and increase in muscle strength to achieve muscle gain. In view of the fact that the commercially available sandbags are cheap and easy to obtain, the weight is fixed, and the use variability is high, it is expected to introduce quantitative weight-bearing progressive exercises in type 2 diabetes and have symptoms of muscle loss to improve muscle mass, and to control blood sugar. The quality of life can have better benefits.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose:This study aim is effectiveness of 12 weeks quantitative weight-bearing progressive exercise training in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus(T2DM) with pre-sarcopenia promotion muscle strength and blood sugar control.

Hypothesis:After 12 weeks of quantitative sandbag training , the experimental group can have a significant increase in the muscle mass of the upper and lower limbs、grip strength、5-time chair stand test、Lipid profile、glycemic control(HbA1c) and quality of life.

Methods:This study will be a randomized controlled trial. Forty adult diagnosis with T2DM with pre-sarcopenia patient randomly assigned to experimental group and control group. Experimental group wearing 0.5 kg quantitative sandbag 12\~15 Repetitions/set X 5 set X 3day. Weight adjustment: After the first month of intervention, if the experimental can perform for more than 20 repetitions/set , we will asked to increase the weight of the sandbag to 1 kg until the end of the experiment Conditions:The effectiveness of 12 weeks quantitative weight-bearing can improvement of Glycemic control and limb muscle strength.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c level
  - muscle strength
  - muscle mass
  - 5-time chair stand test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Quantitative weight -bearing and report exercise sign data every weekly

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04647617
