CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04463043
Title: An App-based Versus a Web-based Self-management Intervention or Usual Care in People With Low Back and/or Neck Pain on a Waiting List for Hospital-based Outpatient Rehabilitation
Official Title: The Effectiveness of an App-based (selfBACK) Versus a Web-based (e-Help) Self-management Intervention or Usual Care in People With Low Back and/or Neck Pain on a Waiting List for Hospital-based Outpatient Rehabilitation: a Three Arm Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 294
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of an individually tailored self-management intervention, the selfBACK app, in improving health status in patients on a waiting list for outpatient rehabilitation due to low back and/or neck pain compared to a non-tailored web-based self-management solution (e-Help) and usual care only.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients on waiting list for treatment at the multidisciplinary outpatient clinic for back, neck and shoulder rehabilitation, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim University Hospital, Norway, due to low back and/or neck pain are the target group for this study. The average waiting time for receiving treatment is 8-10 weeks. The use of digital solutions can be a beneficial approach to support self-management during the waiting period. Therefore, the effectiveness of these tools in this patients group needs to be evaluated.

A total of 279 participants will be recruited and randomly allocated to one of the three groups: 1) the selfBACK app in addition to usual care; 2) the e-Help webpage in addition to usual care; and 3) usual care only. Participants who receive either the selfBACK app and the e-Help webpage will be allowed to seek care, treatment or help elsewhere as usual.

Self-reported outcome measures will be collected through web-based questionnaires at three follow-up time points: 1) 6 weeks; 2) 3 months (primary endpoint); and 3) 6 months. In addition, participants receiving the selfBACK app will be asked a set of weekly tailoring questions to individualize self-management plans. Objective registry based data linked to social security number in Norway will be used to investigate health care consumption and sickness absence at 1 year (and up to 5 years).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Musculoskeletal Health Questionnaire (MSK-HQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: SelfBACK app
  - OTHER: e-Help webpage
  - OTHER: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04463043
