CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05958732
Title: Effect of Body Awarness Therapy on Balance and Coordination in Stroke
Official Title: Effect of Body Awarness Therapy on Balance and Coordination in Stroke
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Stroke is sudden disruption in central nervous system function due to disturbance of the blood flow circulation in the brain. Cerebrovascular accident (CVA), is the second most leading cause of mortality (5.5 million cases yearly). Its occurrence remains high, with 13.7 million annual incident cases globally. Ischemic strokes are more common with a prevalence ratio of 76-119 per 100,000 per year worldwide ). Stroke is a neurological disease that decrease sensorimotor functions by causing irreversible impairments to the nervous system due to cerebral vascular problems . Patients with balance and activity disturbance are indicated by reduce in body functions. It is very essential for CVA patients to improve balance stability and muscle power for recovery and for normal activities ). Balance is an essential factor for independent living. It is maintained by adjusting COG (Center of Gravity) over the BOS (Base of Support). These adjustments are done through sensational inputs from the vestibular, visual and somatosensory system and are maintained by brain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Impairment of balance stability is common in stroke patients. Patients with cerebrovascular accident (CVA) present mainly with asymmetric standing balance that affects their stability limits, and leads to major difficulty in functional independence. A reduction in maintaining balance is one of the major element that adversely affect after stroke. Coordination is another important factor, which allows a person to perform purposeful movement. After cerebrovascular accidents mainly impairment in coordination may be an element in mobility and movement limitations. Restoring the coordinated movement after cerebrovascular accident in important in regaining normal living activities. Those patients who survive from stroke may experience instant changes in thinking, language, balance, coordination, proprioception, body functions and quality of life. Stroke rehabilitation is the restoring functions of the impaired body regions and it is a long and time taking process, both for patients and for rehabilitation teams. Body awareness therapy (BAT) is a physiotherapeutic restorative approach that examine the patient's condition and focus towards relearning self-awareness movements. Body awareness therapy helps in strengthening the patient and also performing in activities of daily living (ADLs). A basic movement is stimulation of center line by weight shifting from right towards left and rotatory movements around the center of body and vice versa. Movements can be achieved in supine, sitting and standing position. Unfortunately, no randomized controlled trial (RCT) study has so far evaluated the effect of body awareness therapy (BAT) on balance and coordination in stroke survivals. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to assess BAT on balance and coordination in patients with cerebrovascular accident (CVA).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Balance
  - Co-ordination
  - Cognition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Somato-sensorial exercises therapy
  - OTHER: Conventional Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05958732
