CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01791985
Title: AZD4547 & Anastrozole or Letrozole (NSAIs) in ER+ Breast Cancer Patients Who Have Progressed on NSAIs (RADICAL)
Official Title: A Single Arm Phase IIa Study (With Combination SRI) to Assess the Safety & Efficacy of AZD4547 in Combination With Either Anastrozole or Letrozole in ER+ Breast Cancer Patients Who Have Progressed on Treatment With Anastrozole or Letrozole
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This study is looking at a new drug called AZD4547 which is being tested for the treatment of oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer. AZD4547 is a drug which specifically "blocks" proteins called fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR1) that are involved in the processes that help cancer cells to grow. These proteins may also be responsible for the development of resistance to hormonal therapies used to treat some breast cancers. AZD4547 is not yet approved for use in breast cancer and is therefore being used in this study as a research drug.

The investigators will also test the theory that it is not necessary for high levels of FGFR1 to be present in the body to see benefit from AZD4547. (Stage 1 only)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be carried out in two stages. Stage 1 is to find a suitable dose of AZD4547 which can be used together with a class of drugs called nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors (e.g. anastrozole or letrozole) i.e. a dose which does not cause too many unacceptable side effects.

Patients with hormone sensitive (oestrogen receptor positive) breast cancer, whose current treatment with anastrozole or letrozole has recently stopped working properly will be eligible for this stage.

Stage 2 will then assess the efficacy of AZD4547, based on the change in tumour size at 12 weeks (or progression if prior to week 12), when used in combination with either anastrozole or letrozole in patients with hormone sensitive (oestrogen receptor positive) breast cancer, who have progressed on treatment with either anastrozole or letrozole in any setting.

In both stages, the study will look at how well the new treatment is tolerated.

Each patient is only allowed to take part in either stage 1 or 2.

The study will be run in 9 Hospitals across England and Scotland.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
  - Proportion of Tumour Size Change at 12 Weeks (or Progression if Prior to Week 12)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: AZD4547 / anastrozole or letrozole

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01791985
