CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06943131
Title: YWTL Exercises and Close Kinetic Chain Exercises in Children With Scapular Dyskinesis.
Official Title: Comparison of YWTL Exercises and Closed Kinetic Chain Exercises on Shoulder Pain, Disability, Upper Limb Mobility and Posture in Children With Scapular Dyskinesis.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Scapular dyskinesia is defined by abnormal movement or placement of the scapula, the shoulder blade, during arm movements. Physical treatment aimed at regaining appropriate scapular mechanics through strengthening exercises, postural correction, and functional movement training is typically part of management. A randomized clinical trial will be conducted. The study will be conducted at Unique school and on school going children in a total duration of 10 months. Sample size will be 22.There will be two study groups. A convenient sampling technique will be used. The sample which will have following characteristics will be included children with age group 9 to 12 years, positive scapular test, positive scapular assistance test, athletes who practice one hour three days a week. The sample with the following characteristics will be excluded. Any muscular or joint deformity, scoliosis, shoulder dislocation. The tools that will be included in the study are modified lateral scapular test, shoulder flexion test, shoulder and pain disability index, upper extremity functional use scale, posture and posture assessment scale, shoulder and scapular ranges.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Scapular dyskinesia is defined by abnormal movement or placement of the scapula, the shoulder blade, during arm movements. Changes in scapular kinematics, such as tipping (forward or backward tilting), winging (medial border protrusion), or general prominence during shoulder movements, are usually involved. Physical treatment aimed at regaining appropriate scapular mechanics through strengthening exercises, postural correction, and functional movement training is typically part of management. From the shoulders to the hands, proper upper limb posture is essential for both biomechanical effectiveness and the avoidance of injuries when performing tasks. In addition to maximizing mobility for daily tasks, work, sports, and leisure activities, proper posture relieves tension on muscles and joints, assuring effective performance and lowering the chance of injury. A randomized clinical trial will be conducted. The study will be conducted at Unique School Wapda Town and The Punjab School in a total duration of 10 months. Sample size will be 22.

There will be two study groups. A convenient sampling technique will be used. The sample which will have following characteristics will be included children with age group 9 to 12 years, positive scapular test, positive scapular assistance test, normal shoulder ranges, normal scapular ranges, athletes who practice one hour three days a week. The sample with the following characteristics will be excluded. Any muscular or joint deformity, scoliosis, shoulder dislocation, previous surgery of shoulder and cervicobrachialgia. The tools that will be included in the study are modified lateral scapular test, scapular dyskinesis test, shoulder flexion test, scapular assistance test, shoulder and pain disability index, upper extremity functional use scale, posture and posture assessment scale, shoulder and scapular ranges. SPSS version 27 will be used for data analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - modified lateral scapular test
  - scapular dyskinesis test
  - shoulder flexion test
  - scapular assistance test
  - shoulder and pain disability index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: YWTL EXERCISES
  - OTHER: Closed kinetic chain exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06943131
