CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06444555
Title: Adolescent Nutrition in Girls in Burkina Faso and Ethiopia
Official Title: Nutritional Needs and Food Supplement Intake of Adolescent Girls in Burkina Faso and Ethiopia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Adolescents' diets are key to breaking the intergenerational cycle of malnutrition. This study will guide policies and programs on the adequacy, acceptability, and feasibility of implementing balanced energy protein and multiple micronutrient supplementations to fill nutrient gaps in adolescent girls. Using a trial, the study will assess dietary intake and nutrient gaps, acceptability of balanced energy protein and multiple micronutrient supplementations. In addition to the trial, the study will the assess willingness to pay for the supplements and the most effective delivery platform and model to reach vulnerable adolescent girls. The most effective delivery platform and model to reach vulnerable adolescent girls cost-effectively will also be assessed through interviews with (inter)national experts, producers, and the donor community.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In low- and middle-income countries, it is estimated that each year, 21 million adolescent girls become mothers. Infants of adolescent mothers are at increased risk of delivering babies preterm, with low birth weight or length. Targeting nutrition interventions to improve adolescent girls' diet and nutrition is crucial to breaking the intergenerational cycle of poor growth and development. There is a specific need to assess how a balanced energy protein (BEP) and multiple micronutrient (MMN) supplement interventions can be tailored to adolescent girls and women of reproductive age.

This study aims to assess the adequacy, acceptability, and feasibility of implementing nutritional supplementations to fill nutrient gaps in adolescent girls in resource-limited settings. A trial will specifically:

1. assess the short-term acceptability of BEP and MMN supplements
2. assess how nutrition supplements increase nutrient adequacy of diets adolescent girls in resources-limited settings;

Using a qualitative component, the study explores the food agency of adolescents and the most effective delivery platform to reach vulnerable adolescent girls cost-effectively. The overall aim is to guide policies and programs on new formulations of nutritional supplements for adolescent girls in resource-limited settings.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acceptability of the supplement
  - Nutritional adequacy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: BEP supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Multiple Micronutrient supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 19 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06444555
