CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05685927
Title: Investigating Muscle Failure in Diabetic Myopathy
Official Title: Understanding Muscular Deficits of Diabetic Myopathy
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The goal of this observational study is to assess if diabetes and obesity are independently related to functional and structural muscle deficits, and how muscular deficits relate to metabolic properties of diabetes and obesity. All studies will include clinical muscle strength and contractile examinations, functional tests, and MR imaging and spectroscopy techniques.

The main questions this project aims to answer are:

1. Is chronic hyperglycemia in type 1 and 2 diabetes associated with functional and structural deficits of skeletal muscles unrelated to the presence of neuropathy?
2. Is obesity associated with functional and structural impairments of skeletal muscles unrelated to the presence of type 2 diabetes ?
3. Does weight loss improve muscle metabolic flexibility and economy and modify skeletal muscle function and structure in obese subjects with and without type 2 diabetes?

The project will include three studies, intended to answer the hypotheses listed above:

Study 1: Evaluation of functional and structural muscular deficits of diabetic myopathy in relation to prolonged hyperglycemia prior to and 6 months following glycemic improvement in patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes

Study 2: Functional and structural muscular deficits in severely obese subjects with and without type 2 diabetes prior to assisted weight loss.

Study 3: Changes in functional and structural muscle properties following assisted weight loss in severely obese subjects with and without type 2 diabetes - a 1-year follow-up study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Baseline: Evaluating the presence of sarcopenia in relation to the presence of hyperglycemia and/or obesity
  - Baseline: Skeletal muscle Force-velocity assessment in relation to the presence of hyperglycemia and/or obesity
  - Baseline: Assessment of skeletal muscle fatigue in relation to the presence of hyperglycemia and/or obesity
  - Changes in skeletal muscle force-velocity relationship with weight-loss or glycemic improvement
  - Changes in skeletal muscle fatigue in relation to weight-loss or glycemic improvement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: 6-months of medically assisted glycemic improvement
  - PROCEDURE: Bariatric surgery

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05685927
