CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06573749
Title: Effect of 12-week Milk Fat Globule Membrane Supplementation on the Human Muscle Function of Healthy, Recreationally Active Adults
Official Title: Effect of 12-week Bioactive Whey Protein Concentrate Supplementation on the Neuromuscular System of Healthy, Recreationally Active Adults
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The main aim of this study is to understand if chronic supplementation (12 weeks) of a milk fat globule membrane containing supplement, called bioactive whey protein concentrate, improves human muscle function greater than a placebo supplement within a cohort of healthy, recreationally active adults. Furthermore, we aim to investigate whether any potential benefits of milk fat globule membrane are influenced by age through the assessment of 2 distinct age subgroups (young and older). We hypothesise that neuromuscular function (strength and power) will increase from pre to post within the group that consumes bioactive whey protein concentrate but not the placebo group, with a greater increase in the older group compared to the young group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Nutritional strategies, including supplementation, are widely sought after to improve the function of the neuromuscular system (muscle strength and power). Milk fat globule membrane (MFGM, composed of the membrane that surrounds milk fat droplets) has begun to receive increasing attention as a potential supplement to improve muscle function and size due to a series of promising longitudinal studies (\> 4 weeks of supplementation), however the overall findings are still conflicting which is likely due to methodological limitations of previous studies. Therefore, it is important to thoroughly investigate whether chronic supplementation of a MFGM-containing supplement is effective at improving the function and physiology of the neuromuscular system within healthy, recreationally active adults.

This study aims to compare the effects of chronic (12 weeks) bioactive whey protein concentrate (BWPC) supplementation versus an isocaloric, isonitrogenous whey protein isolate placebo on the physiology (contractile properties, coactivation, timing of action potentials), morphology (total/functional muscle cross-sectional area/volume), and function of the neuromuscular system of healthy, recreationally active adults.

Utilising a randomised, double-blind, parallel group study design, participants will be allocated to one of two groups: BWPC or placebo supplement group. Once consented, participants will complete screening questionnaires to confirm their eligibility. Altogether, participants will be required to attend 5 laboratory sessions (1 familiarisation \~ 1.5 hours, 4 main measurement sessions each \~ 2 hours) at the neuromuscular laboratories situated within the Matthew Arnold building at Loughborough University. The familiarisation and first two baseline measurement sessions will be done over a 2-week period, after which participants will be asked to consume a supplement daily for 12 weeks (84 daily doses) while they maintain their usual lifestyle (diet and exercise/physical activity). Then they will attend two further post measurement sessions, with the first being at exactly 12 weeks of supplementation (i.e. 84th day) and the second being 3-4 days later (i.e. 87th or 88th day). The supplementation protocol will involve participants mixing 1 scoop of supplement with water and consuming the resultant drink alongside their breakfast. Participants will be required to fill in a diet record form twice across the supplementation period (week 3 and 9), which involves weighing and recording what they eat/drink over 3 consecutive days. Physical activity at pre and post will be assessed through the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ, short format).

During the familiarisation session participants will get to try all of the types of contractions (voluntary and involuntary) to be performed in the main measurement sessions, but without the recording of electromyography (EMG). The first measurement session at baseline/post will begin with countermov

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal voluntary isometric torque of the knee extensors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Bioactive whey protein concentrate
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein isolate supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06573749
