CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07190989
Title: A Replicate Crossover Trial on Nutritional Supplementation in Association Football (Soccer)
Official Title: Inter-individual Variability of Sleep Outcome Measures in Response to Nutritional Blend Supplementation: a Replicate Crossover Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Problems of sleep disorders and disruption are common particularly in Arab populations, and sleep insufficiency hinders the pursuit of high performance and optimal recovery following training and competition. Adequate investigation and personalization of dietary interventions to enhance sleep and recovery requires employing suitable methods of experimentation that involves repeated administration of treatment and placebo conditions, following a replicate crossover trial design, for derivation of athlete by dietary treatment interaction to inform decisions of supplementation dosing personalization embedded into routine service provision. Nevertheless, no study in sports performance explored this and other issues following adequate methodology and research design requirements. Accordingly, the project seeks to investigate the main effects and whether inter-individual variability exists in free-living objective sleep and recovery responses to novel nutritional blend supplementation in the form of a mixed juice (15000 mg cherry juice concentrate, 220 mg cherry extract, 250 mg cocoa extract, 200 mg of tryptophan, 100 mg of L-5-Hydroxytryptophan, 3000 mg of glycine, 300 mg of magnesium, 200 mg of theanine) adopting a replicate crossover design.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background information \& study rationale: A number of investigations explored the effects nutritional supplements on proxy measures of sleep and recovery. Notably, different studies examined the properties of high glycemic index carbohydrates, tryptophan, tart cherries, glycine, magnesium, and L-theanine predominantly in isolation in sample of participants from general populations with and without sleep disorders. However, none of these studies involved elite athletes nor assessed the effects of and potential for personalizing nutritional supplementation according to evidence from appropriately designed experimental investigations involving the repeated administration of supplementation and placebo conditions adopting a replicate crossover trial design. With this in mind, and for the first time, the project seeks to quantify the magnitude of inter-individual variability in the effects of a novel nutritional blend supplementation in the form of a mixed juice (15000 mg cherry juice concentrate, 220 mg cherry extract, 250 mg cocoa extract, 200 mg of tryptophan, 100 mg of L-5-Hydroxytryptophan, 3000 mg of glycine, 300 mg of magnesium, 200 mg of theanine - https://sport.wetestyoutrust.com/supplement-search/science-sport/rest-juice) on proxy measures of recovery and sleep using a replicate crossover design. The project seeks to examine the consistency of these responses on repeated occasions. We hypothesize that there is 'true' inter-individual variability (i.e., exceeding random within-subject variability) in the effects of nutritional blend supplementation on actigraphy-based sleep outcome measures and proxies of recovery, and that these responses would be consistent on two occasions. Adequate sleep and recovery are pivotal to promote optimal preparation training and competition as well as foster high performance in elite sport (Fox et al., 2020). Importantly, continuous unperturbed sleep represents a physiological necessity to preserve normal cognitive and neurobehavioral functions (Maquet 2001; Van Someren et al. 2015; Logan and McClung 2019; Walsh et al. 2020). Nevertheless, youth athletes are vulnerable to sleep disorders that generally involve short durations inconsistent with health recommendations due to lifestyle factors, social commitments (e.g., school), coupled with the demands of training and competition (Fox et al. 2020). In this context, Muslim from general and athletic populations are particularly prone to issues of sleep disorders and schedule congestion throughout different seasons of the Gregorian year. Outcomes from a 14-day surveillance period from Aspire Academy youth football players (Lolli et al., 2021) were consistent with this line of evidence that highlighted children, adolescents, and young adults from Qatar do not meet the age-specific sleep recommendations (i.e., 8 hr to 9 hr of sleep per night). Furthermore, recent findings highlighted how the observance of the holy month of Ramadan exacerbated such issues in Aspire Aca

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time asleep

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional Supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin (Placebo)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 17 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07190989
