CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06069908
Title: Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation in Upper Extremity Lymphedema
Official Title: The Effect of Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation on Edema, Grip Strength, Dexterity and Quality of Life in Upper Extremity Lymphedema
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Lymphedema is an inflammatory disease characterized by abnormal accumulation of excess water, plasma proteins, and extravascular blood and parenchymal cells in the affected upper and lower arms, chest and/or trunk due to inadequate lymphatic transport capacity, and is associated with high-severity, recurrent soft tissue infections that can lead to sepsis and even death. Although there is no definitive treatment for lymphedema, a Complex Decongestive Treatment approach that includes manual lymph drainage, skin care, special exercises, compression and personal care has been described to slow down the progression of the disease and prevent secondary complications. In addition, parasympathetic nerve activation has been described, similar to vagus nerve activation with manual lymphatic drainage. system activation can be increased. The aim of our study was to investigate the effect of transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation on quality of life, grip strength and manual dexterity in patients with unilateral upper extremity lymphedema. It was planned as a randomized controlled experimental study. The universe of the study will consist of lymphedema patients hospitalized in Gaziosmanpaşa Physical Therapy Rehabilitation Education and Research Hospital, and the sample will consist of 27 volunteer patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study was planned as a single-center (Gaziosmanpaşa Education and Research Hospital). Participants will be randomly divided into three groups. The groups will be determined by simple randomization method. Only Complex Decongestive Treatment (manual lymph drainage, skin care, special exercises, compression) approach will be applied to the first group, Complex Decongestive Treatment and sham transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation will be applied to the second group, and transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation will be applied in addition to Complex Decongestive Treatment to the third group. Data collected from the patients will be entered into SPSS 21.0 package program to create a data set and statistical analyses will be performed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Demographic data related to the patient will be questioned with the Demographic Data and Anamnesis form prepared by the researchers. Circumference measurement was determined as the primary outcome measure, and gross grip strength, dexterity and quality of life were determined as the secondary outcome measures. To this end; Patients' upper extremity circumference was measured with a tape measure, their gross grip strength was measured with the Jamar Dynanometer, manual skills were measured with the 9-Hole Peg Test, upper extremity problems were measured with the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Problems Quick Questionnaire (Quick DASH), items related to people's quality of life and specific arm symptoms were measured. Lymphedema Functionality will be evaluated with the Disability and Health Questionnaire (LFOSA) and the quality of life will be evaluated with the Quality of Life Questionnaire in Upper Extremity Lymphedema Patients (ULL-27).Upper Extremity Circumference Measurement will be evaluated for both upper extremities. Assuming the wrist pivot point, markings will be made every 4 cm up to the axilla. At the marked points, the circumference will be measured with a tape measure and the difference between the affected and healthy sides will be determined.The Jamar handheld dynamometer is the most reliable and most commonly used measuring tool for measuring static grip strength. Static and dynamic measurement dynamometers are used when evaluating grip strength. These devices are hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical and resistive devices. Measurements are generally based on the principle of compressing two bars parallel to each other. Patients are positioned and evaluated according to the holding and grip strength of the dynamometer to be used. The needle of the Jamar Hand Dynamometer shows measurements up to a maximum of 90 kg. The person will be measured in a chair without arm support, with the arm in adduction and neutral rotation, the elbow in 90 degrees of flexion, and the forearm in a neutral position. Each measurement will be repeated three times, the average will be calculated and data will be created and recorded.The Nine-Hole Peg Test, which provides information about the functional status of the hand, consists of a board with nine holes and nine nails. While the test is applied to both hands, the application begins with the dominant hand. Before proceeding with the application part, the test procedure is read to the individuals who will perform the test. In the application part, individuals are asked to place the nails into the holes as soon as possible and to remove them without wasting time and place the nails in the empty chamber on the side. Meanwhile, the application time is measured using a stopwatch and recorded in seconds.The DASH scale is a criterion developed for the evaluation of disability related to the entire upper extremity and is used to monitor the level of disability and benefit from treatment. With the DASH scale, the difficulty e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Extremity circumference measurement as the primary outcome measure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Complex Decongestive Treatment
  - OTHER: Sham transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation
  - OTHER: Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06069908
