CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07287800
Title: TRT as an Adjunctive ERAS Therapy in ESRD Patients Undergoing Kidney Transplantation
Official Title: A Prospective Study of Testosterone Supplementation in Hypogonadal Patients Receiving a Renal Transplant
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This prospective study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) as an adjunct to an enhanced recover after surgery (ERAS) protocol in men with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) undergoing kidney transplantation.

Participants will be highly-listed hypogonadal men, defined as total testosterone level \<300 on two occasions with clinical symptoms of hypogonadism, with ESRD who are expected to receive a kidney transplant within 6 months. Participants will be started on TRT, ideally for at least 3 months prior transplantation. The investigators will perform a subset analysis to evaluate if there is a significant difference in our endpoints by comparing these two subgroups (Three months or more receiving TRT vs. Less than three months receiving TRT). There will be no cut-off time for pre-transplant TRT. Following the intervention period, a historical control cohort of age-matched and health-matched patients will be identified, who have followed a standard transplant protocol that does not incorporate TRT. The primary outcome will evaluate safety, including 30- and 90-day adverse events, 3, 6, and 12-month allograft survival, and overall patient survival. Secondary outcomes will focus on (1) qualitative assessments of symptoms using validated questionnaires, (2) quantitative improvements in the hormonal profile before and after initiation of TRT and surgery, and (3) allograft function and incidence of delayed graft function. The results of this study could provide novel insights into the benefits of TRT in improving surgical outcomes in men with ESRD undergoing kidney transplantation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adverse Events
  - Overall Survival
  - Death-Censored- Graft Survival
  - Healthcare Utilization Metrics
  - Length of hospitalization

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Replacement Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07287800
