CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06887478
Title: Flexor Hallucis Longus Training and Balance-Gait in Geriatrics
Official Title: Examination of Balance-Gait Parameters and Fall Effect of Flexor Hallucis Longus Muscle Strengthening Training in Geriatric Group
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Examination of Balance-Gait Parameters and Fall Effect of Flexor Hallucis Longus Muscle Strengthening Training in Geriatric Group It has been demonstrated that the reduction in the strength of the toe flexor muscles is an independent indicator of falls in geriatric individuals. However, the extent of this strength loss and the effects of strengthening training programs on balance, gait parameters, and falls are not well understood.

Objective: The aim is to investigate whether a progressive resistance exercise program, focusing specifically on the flexor hallucis longus (FHL) muscle, can improve toe flexor strength and influence gait, balance, and falls in geriatric individuals.

Materials and Methods: Individuals over the age of 65 who are willing to participate in the study will be included. The participants will be divided into three groups: individual exercise group, home exercise group, and control group. Individuals who are unable to walk independently, have severe musculoskeletal disorders, have hallux rigidus deformity, suffer from orthostatic hypotension, have difficulty understanding instructions, or have diabetic neuropathy will be excluded from the study. After obtaining socio-demographic information from the participants, anthropometric measurements will be taken. Toe grip strength will be assessed using a digital dynamometer, and the strength of the intrinsic foot muscles and lower extremity antigravity muscles will also be measured using a digital dynamometer. Balance parameters will be evaluated using the Berg Balance Scale, Functional Reach Test, Timed Up and Go Test, while gait parameters will be assessed using the 10-meter walk test and Tinetti Gait Scale. Fall parameters will be assessed by the Falls Efficacy Scale and fall frequency.

The collected data will be analyzed using SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences) software.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Strength Measurement
  - balance assessment
  - gait

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06887478
