CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04746118
Title: Diet and Other Non Pharmacological Interventions to Reduce Cardiovascular Risk in Hypertensive Patients
Official Title: Effectiveness of Nutritional Intervention Alone or Associated With Other Non-pharmacological Interventions in Controlling Hypertension and Reducing Cardiovascular Risk - Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of diet change and other non-pharmacological treatments which includes physical activity and integrative therapies oriented to reduce the blood pressure in hypertensive patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Despite advances in the pharmaceutical industry, blood pressure control remains the biggest challenge in the treatment of hypertension in Brazil and worldwide. In this context, besides the availability and use of antihypertensive drugs, the best therapeutic approach should start with the stratification of cardiovascular risk, and contextualized modification of life habits. In this view, the present study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of diet change and other non-pharmacological treatments oriented to reduce the blood pressure in adults diagnosed with prehypertension, hypertension, and resistant hypertension. Therefore, it includes the analysis of these 3 groups: i. pre-hypertension (to evaluate strategies adopted as primary prevention); ii. hypertension in general (to assess blood pressure control and reduce cardiovascular risk reduction), and iii. resistant hypertension (individuals using 3 or more drugs without blood pressure control who have more endothelial dysfunction and target organ damage to assess secondary and tertiary prevention with possible blood pressure control, reduction in the number of drugs in use and subclinical lesions regression). Non-pharmacological approach includes adoption of healthy lifestyles, weight loss, reduced sodium intake, regular physical activity, and integrative practices capable of maintaining biopsychosocial balance. Since those interventions seems to be the best way to reach blood pressure control, we intend to use individual interventions and group actions to increase the population's adherence contributing effectively to public policies within primary care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: DIET CHANGE
  - BEHAVIORAL: PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
  - OTHER: INTEGRATIVE PRACTICES

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04746118
