CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06793345
Title: Walking Training Improves Thyroid and Cardiometabolic Markers in Postmenopausal Obesity
Official Title: Moderate Intensity Intermittent Walking Training (MIWT) Improves Thyroid Function and Cardiometabolic Risk Factors in Obese Postmenopausal Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the impact of a 10-week MIWT program on thyroid hormone levels and key cardiometabolic markers in obese postmenopausal women. The main question it aims to answer is:

Does MIWT enhance thyroid function and reduce cardiometabolic risk factors in this population? Researchers will compare MIWT (designed to MIWT group) to non-training intervention (designed to control group) to see if the training program works to improve thyroid function and cardiometabolic risk factors.

Participants in MIWT group will: perform a 10-week MIWT program, four sessions per week (5 repetitions of 6-min-walking-test (6MWT) at 60-80% of 6MWTdistance measured at baseline, interspersed by 6-min of active recovery between repetitions).

Participants in control group will : not perform any physical training and maintain their usual daily activities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study aimed to investigate the impact of a 10-week MIWT program on thyroid hormone levels and key cardiometabolic markers in obese postmenopausal women. Thirty-six obese postmenopausal women (BMI≥30 kg.m-2, aged 50-60 yrs.) were randomized to either a moderate-intensity intermittent walking training (MIWT) group (n=18) or control group (CG, n=18). Participants performed a 10-week MIWT program, four sessions per week (5 repetitions of 6-min-walking-test (6MWT) at 60-80% of 6MWTdistance measured at baseline, interspersed by 6-min of active recovery between repetitions). Body composition, thyroid hormones (thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) and thyroxine free (FT4)), lipid profile (triglycerides (TRG), total cholesterol(TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol(HDLC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol(LDLC)), blood pressure (systolic and diastolic blood pressure) and aerobic fitness (6MWT) were determined before and after the MIWT.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Thyroid hormones
  - Body composition
  - Lipid profile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Moderate intensity intermittent walking training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06793345
