CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06068322
Title: Supramaximal High-Intensity Interval Training in People With and Without Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Official Title: Effects and Mechanisms of Supramaximal High-Intensity Interval Training in People With and Without Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease on Extrapulmonary Manifestations
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 208
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Beyond pulmonary complications, COPD presents with extrapulmonary manifestations including reduced cognitive, cardiovascular, and muscle function. While exercise training is the cornerstone in the non-pharmacological treatment of COPD, there is a need for new exercise training methods.

The COPD-HIIT trial intend to investigate the effects and mechanisms of 12 weeks supramaximal high-intensity interval-training (HIIT) compared to moderate intensive continous training (MICT) in people with COPD and matched healthy controls on important clinical outcomes.

The trial also intends to compare the effects of 24 months of exercise training (supramaximal HIIT or MICT) to usual care in people with COPD on brain health, cardiorespiratory fitness and muscle power; in people with COPD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
COPD-HIIT is a prospective, multi-centre, randomised, controlled, parallel-group superiority trial with assessor and data analyst blinding, featuring a 1:1 allocation ratio and two separate phases. In Phase 1, the trial will investigate the effects and mechanisms of a 12 week intervention with supramaximal HIIT compared to MICT in people with COPD and matched healthy controls. Upon completing the initial 12 week intervention and follow-up assessments, people with COPD, but not healthy controls, will enter Phase 2 of the trial. Phase 2 comprises a 21 month maintenance exercise program. Subsequently, exercise training (supramaximal HIIT or MICT) will be performed until a 24 month follow-up. A separate control group of people with COPD, receiving usual care only, will undergo assessments at baseline and 24-months, making Phase 2 a partially randomized controlled trial.

The primary objectives are:

1. to determine and compare the effect of 12-weeks of supramaximal HIIT and MICT on cognitive function, cardiorespiratory fitness, and muscle power in people with COPD compared to matched healthy controls (Phase 1).
2. to determine and compare the effect of 24-months of supramaximal HIIT, MICT and usual care on cognitive function, cardiorespiratory fitness and muscle power in people with COPD (Phase 2).

Phase 1 and 2 of the COPD-HIIT project will be performed at two recruiting centres. 1) Department of Community Medicine and Rehabilitation, Physiotherapy, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden and Norrlands Universitetssjukhus, and 2) Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, Hasselt University, Diepenbeek, Belgium and Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg (ZOL, Genk, Belgium).

In Phase 1, eligible participants will be randomized to either supramaximal HIIT (intervention arm) or MICT (active control arm) on a stationary bicycle (Smart ZBike, Zycle, Valencia, Spain). For both arms, training is performed two to three times per week for a total of 30 sessions (Table 1) using a group format with groups of 4-8 participants at the same time. Both protocols enable controlled and systematic adjustments of training intensity by means of standardized criteria to achieve a progressive overload

Regarding supramaximal HIIT, importantly, while the intensity is supramaximal, it is dosed and performed at a given fraction of the maximum capacity that the person can produce during the bout (6-seconds). In contrast to an all-out regimen, or sprint interval training (SIT), this allows for the introduction and titration of intensity to the highest acceptable level without the individual feeling unwell during the process.

In Phase 2, participants with COPD will enter a 21 month maintenance phase. They will continue to exercise using the same training modality (HIIT or MICT) as during the first 12-weeks but can select between three different settings to continue their training: "Home", "Outpatient", or "Mix" setting. Notably, the participant can, at any time during the maintenance period, change betwee

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline global cognitive function
  - Change from baseline cardiorespiratory fitness
  - Change from baseline quadriceps muscle power

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training on a stationary bicycle

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06068322
