CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05574439
Title: Young Adults With Early-onset Obesity Treated With Semaglutide
Official Title: Young Adults With Early-onset Obesity Treated With Semaglutide -The RESETTLE Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Introduction:

The increasing prevalence of obesity is particularly pronounced among adolescents. Currently available treatment options consist of structured lifestyle interventions. However, 25 % of adolescents do not respond to lifestyle treatment, why new effective treatment strategies are needed. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of lifestyle interventions combined with the GLP-1 receptor agonist semaglutide to young adults with otherwise treatment resistant obesity.

Methods and analysis:

This is an investigator-initiated, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. 180-270 young adults (age 18-28) will be recruited from The Childrens Obesity Clinic (TCOC), Department of Pediatrics, Holbæk Hospital. Based on their previous response to the TCOC protocol the participants will be divided in four groups:

Group A: Non-responders: 55-85 young adults with obesity (BMI≥30 kg/m2) who have not reduced adiposity, defined as BMI SDS reduction \<0.1, during the structured lifestyle counselling as children.

Group B: Insufficient responders: 55-85 young adults who have reduced adiposity, defined as BMI SDS reduction \>0.25, during the structured lifestyle counselling as children but still have obesity as young adults (BMI≥30 kg/m2)

Group C: Excellent responders: 35-50 young adults, who have reduced adiposity, defined as BMI SDS reduction \>0.5, during the structured lifestyle counselling as children and no longer have obesity as young adults (BMI\<30 kg/m2)

Group D: Population-based reference group (normal weight development): 35-50 young adults, who have participated in The Holbaek Study as children.

Group A and B are randomized 2:1 to either semaglutide or placebo for 68 weeks. Group C and D will attend baseline examinations only and not undergo intervention. The primary endpoint is change in BMI from randomization to end-of-treatment.

Ethics and dissemination: The trial has been approved by the Danish Medicines Agency (EudraCT 2019-002274-31) and by the ethical committee of the Capital Region of Denmark (H-20039422). The trial will be conducted in agreement with the Declaration of Helsinki and monitored to follow the guidelines for good clinical practice. Results will be submitted for publication in international peer-reviewed scientific journals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

The prevalence of obesity in adolescents has increased markedly in the past decades, thus entailing increased cumulative incidences of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and chronic kidney disease (1). Adolescents with obesity are at a substantially elevated risk of developing morbid obesity and type 2 diabetes in early adulthood (2,3) and a recent large scale meta-analysis revealed that mortality increased approximately log-linearly with BMI over 25.0 kg/m² in all continents; and that this increment was greater in younger than older people (4). Furthermore, obesity increase the risk of stigmatization with respect to social relationships, entry into the job market, reduced self-esteem and other psychological problems (5). Thus, adolescents with obesity require particular medical attention.

Since 2008, The Childrens Obesity Clinic (TCOC), Department of Pediatrics, Copenhagen University Hospital Holbæk has treated more than 4000 children and adolescents with overweight or obesity using the TCOC protocol which includes regular counselling on diet, exercise, lifestyle and general health. The TCOC protocol has proven successful with a reduction in BMI standard deviation score (SDS) after 1.5 years of treatment obtained in 74% of the children and adolescents (6). In addition, significant improvements in lipid profile (7) the degree of hypertension (8), hepatic steatosis (9) and the presence of visceral fat (9) have been reported.

However, approximately one in four of the children following the TCOC protocol do not achieve a reduction in BMI SDS. Furthermore, for the majority of children who reduce BMI SDS, obesity remains and represents a medical and personal issue. Lifestyle intervention is the method of choice for children with obesity, however, new effective treatment strategies for non-responders are urgently required.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is secreted from endocrine cells in the intestine upon meal intake and reduces blood glucose and food intake in a dose-dependent manner (10-13). It has previously been shown that 1) people with obesity have impaired GLP-1 secretion already in the overweight state, indicating that low concentrations of GLP-1 may be part of obesity development (14), 2) weight loss induces a marked increase in GLP-1 response and this increase is part of a successfully maintained weight loss of \>10 kg (15), 3) treatment with a GLP-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) facilitates long term weight loss maintenance (13 kg) accompanied by substantial improvement in metabolic health, compared to similar diet-induced weight loss maintenance (15-17),4) appetite sensation and eating behavior are important factors in maintenance of weight loss (18,19). Pathogenic mutations in the appetite-regulating melanocortin-4 receptor represent the most common cause of early-onset monogenic obesity that has been shown to be a type of obesity that is more resistant to lifestyle interventions (20) and even to bariatric surgery (2

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in BMI (weight in kg/height in m^2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: TCOC treatment
  - DRUG: Semaglutide 3 mg/ml
  - DRUG: Placebo (Semaglutide 3 mg/ml)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05574439
