CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06809920
Title: Analysis of Knee Joint of Patients with Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury Undergoing Physiotherapy After Two Different Surgical Techniques: a Randomized Clinical Trial.
Official Title: Analysis of Knee Joint Stability, Functional Capacity, Postural Control, Activation and Muscle Strength of Patients with Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury Undergoing Physiotherapy After Two Different Surgical Techniques: a Randomized Clinical Trial.
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The objetive is compare knee joint stability, functional capacity, postural control, activation, and muscle strength of patients undergoing conventional Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction or the conventional Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction + Anterolateral Ligament Reconstruction technique of the knee, and rehabilitation for up to nine months. This project aims to include patients with ACL injuries already treated at the Knee Outpatient Clinic of the Hospital das Clínicas da UEL (HC-UEL), coordinated by the orthopedic physician Dr. Lucas da Fonseca Borghi, who has his master's degree related to this research project. Twenty patients between 18 and 50 years old, of both sexes, sedentary and/or active and/or athletes, diagnosed with unilateral injury of the Anterior Cruciate Ligament will be included. These patients will be evaluated, submitted to ACL surgery (conservative) or associated with ALL reconstruction and undergo rehabilitation with physiotherapy in conjunction with the extension project Sports Physiotherapy from Theory to Practice - Phase III (PROEX-UEL No 02675), coordinated by Prof. Dr. Christiane S. Guerino Macedo - advisor of this research. Expected results: It is expected that the group undergoing ACL + ALL reconstruction will present better knee joint stability, functional capacity, postural control, activation and muscle strength.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Articular Range of Motion
  - Functional Capacity
  - Isometric Muscle Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Group 1 ACL reconstruction with quadruple flexor tendons and conventional physiotherapy
  - PROCEDURE: Group 2 ACL reconstruction with quadruple flexor tendons + ALL reconstruction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06809920
