CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06299917
Title: WORK-ON Vocational Rehabilitation for People with Inflammatory Arthritis
Official Title: WORK-ON - Vocational Rehabilitation for People with Chronic Inflammatory Arthritis - a Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
People with chronic inflammatory arthritis (IA) (rheumatoid arthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, and psoriatic arthritis), often have a reduced work ability. Up to 40% lose their job in the first years after diagnosis. Consequently, they are at high risk of losing their jobs and being permanently excluded from the labour market. Therefore, a new context-specific vocational rehabilitation (VR) for people with IA was developed, based on the Medical Research Council's framework for complex interventions. The 6-months VR is called WORK-ON and consists of three parts: 1) a coordinating occupational therapist who performs an initial assessment and goalsetting process and supports cooperation between relevant partners and navigation between sectors, 2) Four group sessions with peers and if needed, 3) Individual sessions with a social worker, nurse, or physiotherapist. The objective of the WORK-ON trial is to test the overall efficacy on work ability compared to a control group who receives usual care and pamphlets for their employer and colleagues.

Based on the experiences from a feasibility study, WORK-ON will be conducted as a randomised controlled trial. Patients with IA, aged 18 years or older, experiencing job insecurity will be randomised to one of two groups: the WORK-ON VR group or usual care (control group). The primary outcome; work ability measured is measured by Work Ability Index single item, at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 30 months after baseline. Secondary outcomes are absenteeism, presenteeism, overall work impairment, activity impairment, job loss, quality of life, mental well-being, fatigue, sleep, physical activity, occupational balance and pain. Secondary outcomes are measured at baseline, 6 and 12 months after baseline. In addition, work ability, working hours per week and job loss are measured at 18 and 30 months after baseline.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In Denmark, about 100,000 people are diagnosed with chronic autoimmune inflammatory arthritis (IA). In this study, IA includes rheumatoid arthritis (RA), axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA), and psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Despite major advances in pharmacological treatment, there are still unmet needs among people with IA. Many experience pain, fatigue, sleep problems, anxiety, physical disability and/or problems with participation in everyday activities, including paid work.

Up to 40% lose their job in the first years after being diagnosed. Support to maintain work needs to be offered early, as it is difficult to get back to work if long-term absenteeism occurs. In 2013, people with RA had 5.6 more days away from work due to sickness absenteeism than people without RA in Denmark. This corresponds to more than 50,000 days of sickness absenteeism per year and a productivity loss of 67.3 million DKK (app. 9 million EURO).

Being able to work is of great importance to the experience of identity and quality of life among people with RA. People with IA struggle to find a balance between their disease, paid work, and other aspects of everyday life. In a systematic review on interventions to prevent job loss among people with IA, showed that strategies such as job accommodation, job coaching, physical exercise, and ergonomic and vocational counselling may have an effect on job loss, work ability and absenteeism. The study pointed to a need for a context specific tailored vocational rehabilitation (VR). Given that VR depends on the context, and countries have different social security systems, it is important to develop and test a context-specific VR.

At the Danish Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases (DHR), a VR called 'WORK-ON' for people with IA who consider they are at risk of job loss within the following two years was developed based on the updated Medical Research Counsil's framework for developing and evaluating Complex Interventions. In the development of WORK-ON, relevant stakeholders including patient research partners were involved. In addition, a logic model to help explain the associations between resources and outcomes of the intervention was developed.

In 2022-2023 the feasibility of the WORK-ON VR was tested in 19 participants. Based on the results from the feasibility test, the WORK-ON VR was slightly adjusted based on qualitative evaluations with patients and rehabilitation clinicians.

Work ability is considered to be a proxy for future job loss.

Aim: To test the efficacy of the adjusted WORK-ON VR on work ability relative to usual care.

Material and Methods: This study was developed in accordance with the Usual Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) reporting guideline. The trial is planned as a randomised controlled trial (RCT) with a two group parallel design. Participants will be allocated 1:1 to either the WORK-ON VR (the intervention group) or usual care (the control group) stratified by diagnosis and dis

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Work Ability Index (WAI) single item

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: WORK-ON

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06299917
