CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06686680
Title: Treatment of Post Traumatic Knee Osteoarthritis With Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy
Official Title: Treatment of Post Traumatic Knee Osteoarthritis With Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
This study is recruiting current or former athletes who had ACL reconstruction surgery over a year ago and have been diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis (OA). We are doing the research to investigate the effects of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) on pain, function, biomechanics, knee range of motion and strength, inflammation, and joint structure and integrity of the knee.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of this study is to characterize redox homeostasis in post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA), with the goal of examining the impact of extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT). We will explore the following aims:

Specific Aim 1: Investigate the effects of ESWT treatment on participant-reported functional outcomes and quality of life in individuals with PTOA of the knee. We hypothesize that those in ESWT group will report greater improvements in pain level, function and quality of life compared to those individuals in the sham group.

Specific Aim 2: Determine if ESWT influences gait biomechanics of participants with PTOA. We hypothesize that those in ESWT group will display biomechanics during gait that more closely resemble the biomechanics of a healthy individual. We anticipate that this aim will identify if a more favorable inflammation burden will reduce abnormal biomechanics, or if further interventions will be necessary.

Specific Aim 3: Investigate the influence of ESWT on joint conductivity and inflammation of the knee using bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS). This has yet to be explored in the PTOA population and thus our objective is to explore knee-site tissue changes in PTOA following ESWT. Thermal pattern has been used to identify active inflammation in the osteoarthritic knee with respect to a healthy knee. We hypothesize that there will be improvements in tissue changes and thermal pattern in the knee measured by BIS and thermal camera following ESWT.

Specific Aim 4: Evaluate baseline values of knee range of motion, lower extremity strength, and bone health and determine if ESWT may influence these measures. We will collect measures of knee range of motion, quadriceps isometric strength and rate of torque development with handheld dynamometry, and measurements of bone density with DXA scans. We hypothesize that knee range of motion, quadriceps strength and rate of torque development will yield greater improvements following ESWT compared to sham treatment.

Specific Aim 5: Assess the influence of ESWT on chronic pain. We will investigate if ESWT will reduce chronic pain in participants with knee OA, thus resulting in improved functional outcomes. We hypothesize that individuals will have reduced levels of PPT and improved scores on PainDETECT following ESWT compared to sham treatment.

Specific Aim 6: Evaluate the effects of ESWT on bone turnover and joint integrity. We hypothesize that those in ESWT group will demonstrate more favorable joint integrity compared to individuals in the sham group.

Specific Aim 7: Investigate the effects of ESWT treatment on redox and inflammatory biomarkers. We hypothesize that redox and inflammatory biomarkers will increase above pre-treatment values following ESWT treatment and that ESWT will provoke a greater biomarker response than sham treatment. Finally, upon resolution of this acute response, we hypothesize that biomarker values assessed after treatment completion will reveal favorable r

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT)
  - DEVICE: Sham Comparator

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06686680
