CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04049292
Title: Better and Safer Return to Sport
Official Title: Better and Safer Return to Sport After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 250
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
A prospective cohort design will be used to assess differences in outcomes between pivoting sport athletes with anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) who follow usual care and those who follow a treatment algorithm with a RTS and rehabilitation tool. Athletes aged 15-40 at injury with primary ACLR who express a goal to return to sports with frequent pivoting are eligible. The RTS and rehabilitation tool includes standardized clinical, functional and muscle strength testing 6, 8, 10, and 12 months after surgery. Individual test results guide progression in sports participation and the content of further rehabilitation according to a standardized algorithm.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fewer than half of athletes with ACLR return to competitive sports, and, for those who return, 1 in 5 sustain reinjury. Insufficient functional recovery and poor psychological readiness to RTS are thought to contribute to these low RTS rates and high reinjury rates. Previous research has shown that return to sport (RTS) should be delayed until the athlete passes the criteria of a clinical decision-making tool for RTS. However, to successfully improve RTS and reinjury outcomes, it is imperative that a decision-making tool (1) guides RTS decisions at a specific point in time, and (2) directs the planning and execution of treatments that eventually enable the athlete to safely RTS.

Nonprofessional athletes are often discharged from rehabilitation prior to RTS, and most are treated by rehabilitation clinicians who do not have access to the sophisticated and expensive test equipment used in previous research on functional readiness for RTS. The RTS and rehabilitation tool is therefore designed in collaboration with athletes, coaches and primary care physical therapists as a low-cost intervention that is feasible to implement on a broad scale.

The athletes who follow the RTS and rehabilitation tool will be recruited from Oslo, Norway, while the control group that receives usual care will be recruited from the Swedish Knee Ligament register (SPARX study Dnr 2019-04546).

Predefined adjustment factors for the comparative analyses are: age, sex, specific preinjury sport, family history of ACL injury, time from injury to surgery, meniscal and cartilage injury at ACLR, meniscal repair, and ACL graft type. The analysis of reinjury will be adjusted for sports exposure.

Objectives

* To compare 1 and 2-year sports participation, psychological readiness to RTS, knee function and reinjury outcomes between athletes with ACLR who follow a treatment algorithm with a RTS and rehabilitation tool and those who follow usual care
* To assess adherence and barriers to adherence in athletes with ACLR who follow a treatment algorithm with a RTS and rehabilitation tool

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Return to sport
  - Reinjury

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Better and safer return to sport (BEAST)
  - OTHER: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04049292
