CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03797287
Title: Arthroscopic trensosseous vs. Anchored Rotator Cuff Repair
Official Title: Arthroscopic trensosseous vs. Anchored Rotator Cuff Repair: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study will compare arthroscopic trensosseous versus anchored rotator cuff repairs in terms of clinical outcomes, rotator cuff integrity, and cost-effectiveness. With the collection of patient-reported outcomes the health of patients undergoing each rotator cuff repair technique will be assessed. The aims of this study will be achieved through a clinical randomized controlled trial and a cost-effectiveness analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Design: After the decision to proceed with arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, patients will be asked to participate in this prospective randomized clinical trial.

Study Procedures:

Before Surgery: The Informed Consent process will be completed prior to any data collection. Consent will be completed after explanation of each treatment group and the data to be collected. Baseline and demographic data will be collected prior to surgery:

Randomization: Subjects will be randomized prior to surgery into one of the two rotator cuff repair technique groups using REDCap software. Randomization will be stratified by gender.

Patient Visits:

Patients will complete their questionnaires and testing before surgery then within 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years After the first week of surgery, patients will be given a pain diary to record all narcotic pain medications they consume during the 1st week post-op.

An ultrasound will be done during their 6 month, 1 year, and 2 year follow up.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in condition of the shoulder as assessed by American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon (ASES) Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Tensor Tunnler
  - PROCEDURE: Anchor Rotator Cuff Repair

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03797287
