CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03379636
Title: Effects of Kinesiotaping on Muscular Activity, Mobility, Strength and Pain After Rotator Cuff Surgery
Official Title: Immediate and Short-term Effects of Kinesiotaping on Muscular Activity, Mobility, Strength and Pain After Rotator Cuff Surgery: A Cross-over Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Kinesiotape (KT) is widely used in musculoskeletal rehabilitation as an adjuvant to treatment but minimal evidence supports its use. The aim of this study is to determine the immediate and short-term effects of shoulder KT on muscular activity, mobility, strength and pain after rotator cuff surgery. Our hypotheses were that KT should not improve muscle function, mobility, strength or pain in a clinically meaningful way.

Methods: Thirty-nine subjects with shoulder rotator cuff surgery were tested 6 and 12 weeks post-surgery, without tape, with KT and with a sham tape (ST). KT and ST were applied in a randomized order. For each condition, muscular activity of upper trapezius, three parts of deltoid and infraspinatus during shoulder flexion, range of motion (ROM) and pain intensity were assessed. At 12 weeks, isometric strength at 90° of shoulder flexion, with related muscular activity and pain intensity were also measured. Subjects maintained the last tape applied for three days and recorded pain intensity at wake-up and during the day.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sample size was calculated a priori using STATA Version 13.1 software (StataCorp, College Station, USA). Based on data of muscular activity from the article of Hsu et al 20 and considering a statistical power of 80% and a Type I error of .05, a need for at least 36 subjects was necessary to highlight a group difference. We finally enrolled 39 subjects between January 2013 and October 2016. Informed written consent was obtained from all subjects and all rights of the participants were protected.

Testing procedure:

Subjects were invited to come at the Clinique romande de réadaptation in Sion (Switzerland) on two occasions: 6 and 12 weeks after their surgery. Each time, they first filled the French version of the quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire in order to assess their physical function and symptoms. This 11-item questionnaire is valid, reliable and responsive in shoulder disorders.14, 17 They also estimated their pain intensity at rest using a 100-mm visual analogue scale (VAS).

A baseline measurement was then realized, without any tape (NT). The subjects were seated on a chair without resting on the backrest, the arms along the body. Shoulder rotation was neutral, elbow extended and forearm in neutral position. The subjects had to lift their arm in the sagittal plane as high as possible, hold the position for 5 seconds and then return at initial position. The movement was repeated once after one minute rest.

During the second session, at 12 weeks, the subjects realized in addition a maximal voluntary isometric contraction measure (MVIC). The measure was realized at 90° of shoulder flexion, neutral rotation, elbow extended, pronation of the forearm and fist closed. The strap of the dynamometer was applied at the level of the wrist.5 The subjects had to develop the maximal force during a 5-seconds period. After one minute rest, a second trial took place. The whole session was videotaped for further analysis. At the end of the testing sessions, the subjects were instructed not to remove the last tape applied for 72 hours.

The sequence always began with the NT condition. Then the two tapes were applied in a randomized order and the subjects repeated the same procedure. Group allocation, KT vs ST group, corresponded to the last tape the subject received and had to wear for the next three days. A computer block (n=8) randomization process was performed and sealed opaque envelopes were used. The physiotherapist who applied the tape was not blinded but he did not participate in outcome assessment. The main investigator (first author) who collected the data was blind as subjects wore a long-sleeve shirt which hid the tape and the tape was administered behind a folding screen.

Statistical analysis:

Comparisons between baseline characteristics of the two groups were computed using nonparametric tests comparing the medians for continuous variables or chi-squared tests for categorical variables.

The outcome variabl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - muscular activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: kinesiotape
  - DEVICE: sham tape

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03379636
