CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03764020
Title: Trial of Oral Melatonin in Elevated Blood Pressure
Official Title: A Triple Blinded Randomized Controlled Trial of Oral Melatonin in Elevated Blood Pressure Individual (MRCTEBP)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Since, lowering blood pressure (BP) in elevated blood pressure individuals represents an excellent opportunity to for primary prevention of hypertension (HTN). Therefore, it is planned to use a safe treatment option - oral melatonin supplementation - associated with lifestyle interventions according to the American college of cardiology/American heart association (ACC/AHA) 2013 guideline in elevated blood pressure individuals to mitigate systolic and diastolic BP and ultimately, to prevent the development of HTN.

Hypothesis:

Melatonin therapy can lower the systolic and diastolic BP of elevated blood pressure individuals Melatonin can attenuate levels of circulatory biomarkers of hs-CRP, Cholesterol, LDL-c and triglyceride

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design: Randomized controlled trial (RCT)

Study population: Elevated blood pressure individuals who present themselves at the outpatient clinics of Tehran Heart Centre(THC) , seeking blood pressure treatment and who have a systolic blood pressure of 120-129 mmHg or a diastolic blood pressure of =80 mmHg.

Treatment groups: Melatonin 3 mg versus placebo

sample size: 160 per group ( 320 overall)

Treatment allocation: After completing informed consent and prior to randomization, all participants undergo complete physical examination and laboratory test. Baseline levels of inflammatory biomarkers and pregnancy test (for women in reproductive age) will be performed. Sleep quality, actual sleep time, and sleep latency will be recorded.

Treatment plan: Three weeks melatonin 3 Mg or placebo one hour before bedtime has been planned. All of the melatonin and placebo capsules will be supplied from a single hospital pharmacy and free of charge to the participants. Melatonin and placebo capsules will be identical. Participants will receive a three weeks supply at the assignment time. Besides, all participants will receive a careful plan of adherence to a heart-healthy diet, regular exercise, instruction for avoidance of tobacco use and maintenance of a healthy body mass index (BMI) according to 2013ACC/ AHA guideline.

Follow up: Three weeks

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean change in systolic blood pressure from baseline
  - Mean change in diastolic blood pressure from baseline
  - Mean change in cholesterol
  - Mean change in low density lipoprotein
  - Mean change in fasting blood sugar

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Placebo oral capsule/placebo comparator
  - DRUG: Melatonin/experimental

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03764020
