CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03490734
Title: Neurobehavioral Plasticity to Regular Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Intake: An fMRI Experiment
Official Title: Neurobehavioral Plasticity to Regular Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Intake: An fMRI Experiment
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 160
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The proposed project will examine the strength, specificity and persistence of neurobehavioral adaptions that occur in the initial period of repeated consumption of a branded sugar sweetened beverage (SSB).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed project addresses critical gaps in the understanding of the strength, specificity and persistence of neurobehavioral adaptions that occur in the initial period of repeated consumption of a branded sugar sweetened beverage (SSB). Half of Americans consume SSBs on any given day.

Regular SSB intake is considered a contributing factor to excess energy intake, weight gain, and obesity, which impacts 70% of Americans. A contributing factor to repeated SSB consumption is sugar intake causes the release of dopamine (DA) and opioids in the striatum, providing positive reinforcement. As such, multiple brain-based models of food reward-driven obesity have been proposed, largely focusing on the striatum and executive functioning. These brain-based models of obesity have elucidated risk factors for overconsumption of high-sugar foods; however, data supporting these competing models rely heavily on observational studies in small samples.

Importantly, previous reports from the investigators lab and others directly implicate eating behavior patterns as a vital contributor to aberrant neurobehavioral responses to food stimuli. However, without experimental evidence, there are fundamental gaps in the investigators knowledge about the neurobehavioral adaptations that occur as an individual begins to regularly consume a SSB prior to weight change.

As observational data suggest, it is also crucial to examine individual difference factors that may exacerbate or protect against adaptations associated with regular SSB intake, as well as whether these adaptions are specific.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Voxel-wise Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD) Including Outliers Using Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) of Brain Activation Signals in Response to Beverage Taste and Logo

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Black Cherry and Orange Flavored Beverage with added sugar
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Strawberry Kiwi &Lemonade Flavored Beverage with added sugar
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Black Cherry and Orange Flavored Beverage no added sugar
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Strawberry Kiwi & Lemonade Flavored Beverage no added sugar
  - OTHER: Water

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03490734
