CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07158866
Title: DanceOn50+: Effects of a Dance Program on Physical and Psycho-emotional Health
Official Title: Dance On 50+: Effects of a Dance Program on Physical and Psycho-emotional Health
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Aging is associated with a decline in physical and cognitive function affecting autonomy and the ability to perform daily living activities. Interventions aiming the promotion of healthy aging and life-long learning are required to improve physical and cognitive health in a social context.

Dance is a cultural and physical activity that can be well adapted for older adults. Dance might counteract physical and cognitive functional decline and promotes social and emotional interactions. Importantly, dance can be individually adjusted in terms of physical fitness and cultural background. However, to date, there is a lack of research on the effects of a dance intervention with older adults setting to promote healthy aging and lifelong learning. Thus, this research project aims to explore the impact of a dance-based intervention with older adults from the community on physical, cognitive and psycho-emotional health while simultaneously generating inclusive artistic experiences and lifelong learning opportunities.

The study includes a quantitative quasi-experimental design. The study sample consists of healthy individuals from the community aged ≥ 50 years recruited through community programs and social media platforms. Those who agree to participate will be informed of the project objectives and procedures. Participation in the study is voluntary, and all participants will be required to sign a voluntary informed consent form.

Participants will be assigned to a dance training group, Multicomponent Exercise Group or the control group (no intervention). Outcomes will be measured using the Astrand Cycle Ergometer Submaximal Test, Open Circuit Pirometer Technique, Battery Senior Fitness Test, Isokinetic Dynamometer and Handgrip Dynamometer to assess physical fitness, Accelerometer, and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index to assess physical activity, sedentary behaviour, and sleep; psychoemotional questionnaires validated on Portuguese subjects to assess psychoemotional variables; tape measure and bioeletric impedance balance to assess body composition; digital sphygmomanometer and spirometry to assess cardiovascular and respiratory function; neurocognitive and psychological tests to assess cognitive function; and electroencephalography to assess electrophysiology.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The benefits of a dance intervention for Older Adults (OA) may go beyond those associated with PA. A dance program for OA showed improvements in strength, aerobic endurance, flexibility, motor agility/dynamic balance and suggested that PA that endorses cognitive stimulation is more effective in promoting psychological benefits. Dancing for OA based on choreographies, increased volumes in brain regions related to higher cognitive processes including, working memory and attention. Dancing stimulates a large number of physiological processes at the same time: spatial orientation, movement coordination, balance, endurance, interaction and communication, counteracting age-related declines in brain structure. An elegant review suggests the protective effect of a dance intervention on cognition in OA and states that the possibility of adapting intensity and style to suit possible physical limitations makes this activity very suitable for OA. There are also suggestions that, even in older intermediate-level dancer, the practice of social dance might positively influence body composition and also increase fitness performance, memory and anxiety.

Dance requires the synergy of physical and cognitive faculties, using the body to communicate and create an aesthetic form of artistic expression, promoting social and emotional interactions. Dancing improves mental wellbeing and fitness, promoting a sense of community, intimacy, enjoyment and self-fulfillment. Krekula's interviews with OA show that age can be challenged through dance, with the ageing body viewed as a 'source of passion', rather than problematic and people feeling younger, which correlates with higher subjective wellbeing.

Although dance can promote health-related benefits in OA, it is recognized that the few studies in the field seem very heterogonous regarding the trial designs, characteristics of the interventions, outcomes assessments, and methodological quality. Additionally, there are a lack of studies reporting the effects of different styles (i. e. creative, ballroom, traditional dances and others) and its intensity on physical function, particularly in OA. From our knowledge, there are limited studies, on OA, characterizing:

1. the intensity of ballroom dance sessions;
2. physical and cardiorespiratory adaptative responses induced by a ballroom dance program;
3. cognitive and psycho-emotional benefits induced by a ballroom dance program. Therefore, in order to recommend dance as a health promoter intervention for OA, it is urgent to evaluate health-related outcomes of a structured dancing community program.

The present project is a community-based intervention. The majority of existing studies on dance focus on specific populations that have been screened for certain conditions, whereas we will encompass a general population of older adults. To our knowledge, there is a lack of information regarding dance sessions characterization, as well as the health outcomes that a group dance int

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Psychological testing (Depression) - GDS
  - Psychological testing (Anxiety) - EADS-21
  - Peak oxygen uptake (VO2 peak)
  - Lower-body strength and power
  - Physical-Functional Fitness (strength of the lower and upper body)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Ballroom Dance
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multicomponent Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07158866
