CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04795843
Title: Exercise and Patient Education Compared With Usual Care in Patients With Hip Dysplasia
Official Title: MovetheHip-trial: The Effectiveness of Exercise and Patient Education Compared With Usual Care on Self-reported Pain in Patients With Hip Dysplasia
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This effectiveness trial will investigate if patients with hip dysplasia randomised to exercise and patient education have a different mean change in self-reported pain measured by the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) compared with those randomised to usual care over a six-month follow-up period.

Participating patients will be allocated to either exercise and patient education or usual care. Alongside this, a health-economic study and a process-evaluation study will be conducted.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a parallel-group superiority randomised controlled trial. Alongside this, a health-economic study and a process-evaluation study will be conducted. Participating patients will be allocated to either exercise and patient education or usual care at a 1:1 ratio. The primary outcome is change in self-reported pain measured with Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) from baseline to 6-month follow-up.

The effectiveness of exercise and patient education compared with usual care will be reported in the primary trial paper, including the primary outcome and the following secondary outcomes: HAGOS symptoms, HAGOS function in daily living (ADL), HAGOS function in sport and recreation (sport/recreation), HAGOS participation in physical activity (participation), HAGOS quality of life (QOL), the impact of hip disease with the Short Version of the International Hip Outcome Tool (iHOT-12), lower limb reach length (anterior, posteromedial, posterolateral), single-leg hip for distance (SLHD) test and hip muscle strength (flexion, extension and abduction).

The primary aim of this effectiveness trial is to investigate if patients with hip dysplasia randomised to exercise and patient education have a different mean change in self-reported pain measured by the Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) compared with those randomised to usual care over a six-month follow-up period.

The primary hypothesis: Patients randomised to exercise and patient education will have a between-group mean change score on the HAGOS pain that is at least 10 points higher than those randomised to usual care over a 6-month follow-up period.

The secondary aims are to compare mean changes between the two groups on the other HAGOS subscales over a 6-month follow-up period. Similar comparisons will be made on self-reported mean changes in the Short Version of the International Hip Outcome Tool (iHOT-12) and mean changes in performance, balance and hip muscle strength.

A full trial protocol will be published and made publicly available. All primary and secondary outcomes will be analysed with the intention-to-treat principle. Between-group differences from baseline to 3-month and 6-month follow-up of continuous outcomes will be estimated using repeated measurement analysis in a mixed-effects model, including patient as a random effect, with a fixed factor for group and time and the corresponding interaction (Group × Time), adjusted for baseline values. Between-group differences of continuous outcomes from baseline to 6-month follow-up will be analysed with an unpaired t-test, where between-group differences of categorical data from baseline to 6-month follow-up will be analysed with a binominal regression model using risk difference as a measure of association. In this paper, all collected outcomes will be listed, and it will be described that the below listed will be reported in other papers (i.e. health-economic study and process-evaluation study) and secondar

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in self-reported pain measured with The Copenhagen Hip and Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) (continuous data)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise and patient education
  - OTHER: Usual Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04795843
