CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01810848
Title: Pilot Study of Therapy With Hylan G-F 20 Exercise Capacity
Official Title: Pilot Study of the Impact of Viscosupplementation Therapy With Hylan G-F 20 (Single Injection) on Exercise Tolerance - Implications for Patients With Cardiovascular Risk
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis of the knee is a degenerative joint disease that involves degradation of the joint. Symptoms include joint tenderness, pain, stiffness, locking, and occasionally an effusion. Over 40 million Americans also have cardiovascular disease in addition to their OA. Initiation and maintenance of even low-levels of physical activity is critical for management of cardiac risk. Patients with osteoarthritis have been shown to have poorer aerobic conditioning, lower daily physical activity levels and lower self-efficacy for exercise than non-OA cohorts.

It has been established that there exists a consistent gradient across activity groups indicating greater longevity and reduced risk of CHD, CVD, and stroke, in more active individuals. Available research suggests the greatest gains in cardiovascular fitness occur in moving a sedentary individual to even low levels of physical activity, and 12 weeks is enough to demonstrate change in the risk profile of at-risk individuals.

Finally, appropriate levels of aerobic and strength training have been shown to be beneficial in treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of hylan G-F 20 (single injection preparation) in promoting greater levels of physical activity and fitness as measured by MET level compared to an exercise-only cohort; evaluating both the change in physical function as well as the cardiovascular risk profile. This is a randomized, single-blinded clinical trial comparing injection of the knee joint with Hylan GF-20 to sham procedure. Subjects will undergo a regular exercise program for 6 months following randomization.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MET Level (Exercise capacity)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Hylan G-F 20
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01810848
