CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00476775
Title: Ethnic Dance and Screen Time Reduction to Prevent Weight Gain in Latina Girls
Official Title: Ethnic Dance and Screen Time Reduction to Prevent Weight Gain in Latina Girls
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 233
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
A randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of an after school ethnic dance program plus a culturally-tailored, home-based screen time reduction intervention to reduce weight gain (body mass index) among lower socioeconomic status, pre-adolescent Latina girls.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
We propose a 2-arm, parallel group, randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of an after school ethnic dance program plus a culturally-tailored, home-based screen time reduction intervention to reduce weight gain (body mass index) among lower socioeconomic status, pre-adolescent Latina girls. The control group will receive an "active-placebo" information-based health education intervention. A total of 240 7-9 year old girls will be randomized to the two conditions, and both interventions will last for the full 2-year period of the study for each girl.

Latina girls are at increased risk of obesity and obesity-related morbidities. However, effective and generalizable obesity prevention programs for this rapidly growing population are not available. After school ethnic dance programs are highly motivating, and an innovative approach to providing a large "dose" of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity for Latina girls. After school programs may also indirectly reduce sedentary behavior and improve diet. Dance is fun for pre-adolescent girls, it plays an important social and cultural role in Latino communities, and after school dance classes are a potentially generalizable "environmental" intervention strategy. Our past pilot studies and ongoing trials of ethnic dance interventions demonstrate that (1) dance is a highly attractive and feasible form of activity for pre-adolescent girls and (2) a dance intervention can result in reduced weight gain (BMI) and increased fitness among girls.

Latina girls are also heavy consumers of screen-based media, television, videotapes/DVDs and video games. Excessive screen time is considered one of the most modifiable causes of childhood obesity. We propose a culturally-tailored, home-based screen time reduction intervention, delivered by bilingual, Latina, Community Health Advisors (CHAs). Our prior and ongoing studies demonstrate the feasibility and potential efficacy of (1) reducing children's screen time to reduce weight gain and (2) providing home-based behavior change interventions to low-income Latino families using CHAs. All interventions will be further developed, revised, and pilot-tested with Latina girls and their families through formative research.

240 girls Latina girls will be recruited over 18 months from six public elementary schools serving low-income Latino communities in northern CA. Measures will be collected in girls' homes at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, including height and weight, waist circumference, triceps skinfold thickness, blood pressure and resting heart rate, physical activity monitoring by accelerometry, media use, 24-hour dietary recalls, weight concerns, depressive symptoms, school performance, sexual maturation, and demographics. Body Mass Index (BMI) is the primary outcome measure. The primary outcome analysis will compare individual trajectories of change in BMI in the treatment and control groups over the entire two-year course of the trial, using random regr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Mass Index (BMI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: after school ethnic dance program - ballet folklorica
  - BEHAVIORAL: culturally-tailored, home-based screen time reduction
  - BEHAVIORAL: culturally-tailored health and nutrition education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 9 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00476775
