CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06391047
Title: Impact of Mulligan Squeeze Technique on Meniscal Derangement in Knee Osteoarthritis Patients
Official Title: The Impact of Mulligan Squeeze Technique as an Adjunct to Conventional Physiotherapy on Meniscal Derangement in Knee Osteoarthritis Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to find out the effects of Mulligan's Squeeze technique added as a complementary treatment to the conventional physiotherapy for the management of meniscal derangement in knee osteoarthritis patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was performed to determine the consequences of conventional physical therapy with and without Mulligan's Squeeze technique for meniscal derangement treatment in patients with knee osteoarthritis. This research study was a randomized controlled trial. The sample size was of 26 subjects. The subjects were nominated in accordance to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. They were equally and randomly divided into two groups. One group received Mulligan's Squeeze technique along with conventional physiotherapy exercises, with hot pack prior to the exercise session. The control group was only given conventional therapy exercises with hot pack application prior to any exercise. The treatment was given for two weeks and a total of six sessions, three sessions each week. The primary outcome measures were Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) for pain rating and goniometer to record range of knee flexion. The secondary outcome measures were Patient-specific functional scale (PSFS) and Knee-injury osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS). The measurements were taken at baseline, at end of first week and after the second week. The data was analyzed by using IBM SPSS software version 27.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS)
  - Goniometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mulligan's Squeeze Technique - manual therapy
  - OTHER: Conventional Physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06391047
