CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02114775
Title: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone or Sildenafil as Therapies for Fatigue in Mild- Traumatic-brain-injury (MTBI)
Official Title: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone or Sildenafil as Therapies for Fatigue in MTBI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The overall goal is to determine whether perceptual or performance fatigue can be reduced in MTBI patients with and without growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone (GH) deficiency by treating them in a crossover fashion based upon GH status.

A battery of functional, fatigue, cognitive, imaging and blood flow tests will be performed to assess the efficacy of the two drug interventions, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and Sildenafil.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Three primary outcome measures are proposed:

1. Perceptual fatigue as measured weekly using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) (59).
2. Performance fatigue as measured at baseline and month 3, 6 and 12 usinGHand and leg dynamometry.
3. Neuropsychological function as measured at baseline and month 12.

Secondary outcomes will include:

1. Modified 6 minute walk performance as measured at baseline, and month 3, 6 and 12.
2. Mood and quality of life using the Profile of Mood States, Quality of Life Assessment of GH Deficiency in Adults questionnaire, and a grief assessment (60) (POMS), measured at baseline, and month 3, 6, and 12.
3. Sleep quality using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), baseline, and month 3, 6, and 12.
4. Multidimensional fatigue using Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory (MFSI) at baseline, and month 3, 6 and 12.
5. Skeletal muscle mass, as derived from lean body mass determinations, using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (iDEXA) at baseline, and month 3, 6, and 12.
6. Physical Activity, measured daily using accelerometry.
7. Cerebral blood oxygen saturation measured at baseline and month 12.
8. Leg blood flow measured at baseline, and month 3, 6 and 12.
9. Blood Hormones at baseline and month 3, 6 and 12.
10. Characterization of brain tissue using structural, "resting state" and diffusion functional MR at baseline and month 3, 6, and 12.
11. Indirect calorimetry measured at baseline and month 3, 6 and 12.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Performance fatigue as measured by usinGHand grip dynamometry at baseline
  - Performance fatigue as measured by usinGHand grip dynamometry at 3 months
  - Performance fatigue as measured by usinGHand grip dynamometry at 6 months
  - Performance fatigue as measured by usinGHand grip dynamometry at 12 months
  - Performance fatigue as measured by using leg dynamometry at baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone
  - DRUG: Sildenafil
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02114775
