CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04309201
Title: insulin Resistance, Sarcopenia and Plasma BAIBA Levels
Official Title: Relationship With Muscle Wasting and insulin Resistance in a Group of Non-diabetic Hemodialysis Patients.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
insulin resistance (IR) is an early metabolic alteration in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, becoming almost universal in those who reach the end stage of kidney failure. The skeletal muscle represents the primary site of IR in CKD, and alterations at sites beyond the insulin receptor are recognized as the main defect underlying IR in this condition. The etiology of IR in CKD is multifactorial in nature and may be secondary to disturbances that are prominent in renal diseases, including physical inactivity, chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, vitamin D deficiency, metabolic acidosis, anemia, adipokine derangement, and altered gut microbiome.

IR has been solidly associated with intermediate mechanisms leading to cardiovascular (CV) disease in CKD including left ventricular hypertrophy, vascular dysfunction, and atherosclerosis. Recent studies have identified a muscle factor β-aminoisobutyric acid (BAIBA), which is produced by skeletal muscle during physical activity. BAIBA have been found to link with sedentary life style, abdominal obesity, and impairments in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A few studies have shown that BAIBA can protect from diet-induced obesity in animal models. It induces transition of white adipose tissue to a "beige" phenotype, which induces fatty acids oxidation and increases insulin sensitivity. While the exact mechanisms of BAIBA-induced metabolic effects are still not well understood, the aim of this study is want to study its relationship with muscle wasting and insulin resistance in a group of non-diabetic hemodialysis patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Design and Population

Patients and Methods

This study is an observational, cross-sectional and prospective cohort study. One hundred and fifty patients on non-diabetic hemodialysed patients will be included for the cross-sectional survey; Twenty healthy subjects will be elected as the controls. Prevalent adult HD patients with dialysis vintages over 3 months will be recruited. Patients are maintained on regular HD prescription, three times a week, for four-hour sessions. Subjects with significant comorbid conditions such as cancer, heart failure, or severe liver disease and chronic infection such diabetic foot will be excluded. This study is conducted according to the guidelines laid down in the Declaration of Helsinki, and all procedures were reviewed as well as approved by the Regional Hospital Ethics Committee. All subjects should give their written informed consent to participate in the study. Subjects' demographic and clinical characteristics, including age, gender, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), dialysis vintage, and Kt/V will be recorded, and comorbidities and current therapies will be collected.

Anthropometric and biochemical assessments

Systolic and diastolic blood pressures are taken with the subjects in the supine position. A measurement of height and weight was performed on all subjects. Waist circumference was measured at the midpoint between the lower border of the rib cage and the iliac bone. The concentration of plasma insulin was assayed by radioimmunoassay. Fasting plasma glucose was measured using the glucose oxidase method. HbA1c was measured by affinity chromatography. Total cholesterol, triglyceride, and HDL cholesterol levels were measured enzymatically using an autoanalyzer (Hitachi 747; Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). Serum insulin concentrations are determined by IRMA. Adiponectin and leptin concentrations are measured using a commercially available ELISA kit.

Sample preparation

In each subject, the blood samples are drawn from the arteriovenous fistula in of each participant in the morning after fasting for at least 8 h and on the day of hemodialysis. The samples are properly processed, refrigerated at 2-8 C, and the plasma is separated immediately by centrifugation. Each serum sample is heat-inactivated by incubation at 65 C for 30 min. Fetal bovine serum (FBS; Gibco BRL, Grand Island, NY, USA), a negative control, is treated with activated charcoal (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) overnight at 4 C and filtered to remove all small molecules and AhR agonists that might have been present. TCDD, a positive control for AhR agonists, was purchased from Sigma Co. Plasma BAIBA levels are assessed by a Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method, as previously described (15). Cell-based AhR ligand activity (CALA) assay and ELISA assay will be performed (16)

HOMA-IR, HOMA-%B, HOMA-%S, and disposition index are calculated by the following formulae.

HOMA-IR1 = \[fasting insulin (mU/l) × fasting gluco

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Analysis of biomarkers of β-aminoisobutyric Acid( L-BAIBA) levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04309201
