CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01175382
Title: Combined Behavioral and Drug Treatment of Overactive Bladder in Men
Official Title: Combined Behavioral and Drug Treatment of Overactive Bladder in Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 204
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The primary aim of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of combined behavioral + drug therapy compared to behavioral treatment alone and drug therapy alone as a way to improve outcomes in the treatment of OAB symptoms in men. We hypothesize that combined therapy will result in better outcomes than either behavioral or drug therapy alone. The second aim is to compare two methods of implementing combined therapy: simultaneously as initial therapy vs. stepped therapy, in which therapies are combined following initial behavioral or drug therapy alone. The third aim is to examine the costs and cost-effectiveness of combined behavioral + drug therapy compared to behavioral or drug therapy alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overactive bladder (OAB) is a very common, distressing condition that manifests as bothersome symptoms of urgency, frequent urination, urge incontinence, and nocturia, and impacts the lives of millions of men. OAB symptoms are most often treated with pharmacologic therapies (alpha-blocking agents and/or antimuscarinic agents) or behavioral treatments. Although drug therapies (even combined drug therapies) and behavioral treatments reduce OAB symptoms, few patients are completely cured with either treatment alone. Therefore, there is a need to improve interventions for this common problem. The primary purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of combining behavioral treatment and drug therapy as a way to improve outcomes in the treatment of OAB symptoms in men. This is a 3-site, 2-stage, 3-arm randomized clinical trial of behavioral treatment, drug therapy, and combined drug + behavioral therapy for men with OAB, to examine the efficacy of combined therapy and whether it yields higher success rates than either therapy alone. 204 men with OAB were enrolled and randomized to 1) drug therapy alone followed by combined therapy, 2) behavioral treatment alone followed by combined therapy, or 3) combined therapy as initial treatment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Frequency of Urination After 6-week Intervention (Last Observation Carried Forward)
  - Change in Frequency of Urination From 6 Weeks to 12 Weeks (Last Observation Carried Forward)
  - Change in Frequency of Urination From Baseline to 12 Weeks (Last Observation Carried Forward)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral training
  - DRUG: Tolterodine + tamsulosin
  - OTHER: Combined Behavioral + Drug Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01175382
