CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06236360
Title: Metastatic Melanoma Patients on Immunotherapy With Nutritive Intervention Based on Mediterranean Diet
Official Title: The Effect of Individualized Nutritive Intervention Based on the Mediterranean Diet on the Changes in the Gut Microbiome, Quality of Life, and Radiological and Biochemical Response to Immunotherapy in Metastatic Melanoma Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This research will study the effect of Mediterranean diet intervention in patients undergoing immunotherapy treatment for metastatic melanoma and its relationship with gut microbiome and quality of life. One group of patients will continue with their regular diet, while the other will receive dietary tele-intervention with trained nutritionist during the 12-week period. Gut microbiome, quality of life questionnaires, blood parameters and radiological examination will be evaluated before and 12-weeks after the start of the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Metastatic melanoma is a malignant tumor of melanocyte origin that has spread to other organs. The basis of treatment is systemic therapy, most commonly anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1) and anti- cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA- 4) immunotherapy, although for some patients, thyrosine kinase inhibition is also a treatment option. Survival of metastatic melanoma patients has been significantly extended over the last decade, and the use of immunotherapy has led to a median overall survival of 72 months and a response rate of up to 60%. However, not all cancer patients respond equally to immunotherapy, and the variation in response may be attributed to the individual's microbiome, which is heavily influenced by dietary habits. Over 2/3 of patients will progress during the 6.5 years of follow-up and currently there is a limited number prognostic and predictive parameters to assess the response to immunotherapy. However, understanding and manipulating the microbiome through dietary interventions offers a potential avenue for enhancing immunotherapy outcomes in cancer patients and, consequently, may serve as a complementary therapeutic strategy. Due to previous data, as well as investigators' previous publication on the importance of gut microbiome as a co-denominator for immunotherapy response, and aiming towards constructing a protocol on dietary intervention for enhancing immunotherapy response in metastatic melanoma patients, the investigators evaluated a systematic search for the data showing association with an improved immunotherapy response.

A diet with moderately elevated sodium use (2.3-4 g daily), diet rich in fiber (20-25 g daily), fruits and vegetables (≥5 servings daily), vitamin D, 23 omega-3 fatty acids and whole grains (≥3 servings daily) has been associated with a more diverse and beneficial microbiome, which in turn promotes the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA). All the listed foods belong to the Mediterranean diet (MD), which is based on fresh fruits and vegetables, legumes, olive oil, and unrefined fiber. MD also includes a lower intake of meat, eggs, processed foods, sugars, and saturated fatty acids, which may all lead to a less diverse and potentially less favorable microbiome and health outcomes. Various clinical studies already demonstrated the beneficial effect of MD in non-oncology patients. As for oncology patients, the benefit of the MD in reducing the incidence of cancer has been known for many years, especially for breast cancer patients. Furthermore, a published cohort study with 52 patients receiving immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) treatment for various solid tumors revealed that higher fecal SCFA concentrations were associated with longer progression-free survival. Another cohort study comprising patients with advanced melanoma in the UK and the Netherlands, demonstrated that a stronger adherence to the MD principles was linked to a higher likelihood of responding positively to ICB treatme

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in the level of ingested flavones
  - Change in the level of ingested anthocyanins
  - Change in the level of ingested omega-3 fatty acids
  - Change in the level of ingested vitamin D
  - Change in the level of ingested fibre

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mediterranean Diet Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06236360
