CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05106985
Title: A Reminder App for Supporting Adherence to Treatment Goals in Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: A Single Case Experimental Design Study of a Reminder App for Supporting Adherence to Personalised Treatment Goals in Parkinson's Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 7
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Parkinson's Disease is a progressive condition which affects the nervous system causing tremors, slowed movement and often causes problems with memory and initiation. Treatment management can be complex and challenging for patients and families. Poor memory in Parkinson's disease has been shown to reduce a person's ability to manage activities of daily living, including tasks associated with treatment such a taking medications. However, patients with Parkinson's have been shown to benefit from external reminders.

The aim of this research project is to investigate whether the use of a reminder app that has been designed for use by people with cognitive difficulties improves completion of activities related to therapy goals in people with Parkinson's Disease, aiding self-management of their condition.

Patients seen in movement disorder clinics in NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde with a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease, and a partner or carer who can monitor progress, will be invited to participate. Measures of memory, emotional wellbeing and quality of life will be completed to characterise each participant. Participants will have a randomly allocated initial baseline period of either 10, 16 or 22 days in which their rate of completion of intended activities will be monitored. Then, during the intervention period of 3 weeks (21 days) the ApplTree app will be introduced to remind participants of treatment goals. Participants will create specific and personalised treatment goals at the beginning of the monitoring period. Goals will be everyday activities relevant to the management and treatment of Parkinson's disease. The number of goals is not limited and will depend on how frequent targeted behaviours are. However, at least one target behaviour a day in total will be recommended. E.g. Completing daily exercises. Partners will monitor their goal attainment, via a daily/weekly monitoring form in both phases of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aims:

The aim of this project is to investigate whether the use of a recently developed reminder app ApplTree improves attainment of personalised specific treatment goals in people with Parkinson's disease (PD).

Hypothesis:

The hypothesis of this study is that introduction of the reminder app will significantly improve attainment of treatment goals.

Methods

Design:

A single case experimental design (SCED) will be utilised with multiple baselines across participants with randomisation of the onset of the intervention phase for each participant.

Participants:

Participants will have a clinical diagnosis of PD. Further, the Parkinson's care team or the individual will have expressed concerns about adherence or attainment of treatment goals. Due to the design of the study, participants will be required to own a smart phone and have a partner or significant other who is able to, and consents to, monitor and support the participant's goal attainment as the nominated person.

Recruitment:

PD patients will be recruited via the movement disorder teams and movement disorder neurology clinics in Greater Glasgow and Clyde NHS Trust (GGC) via their Parkinson's consultant, named Parkinson's nurse specialist, occupational therapist, or physiotherapist within the team.

Measures:

Pre intervention measures:

All measures are validated for PD and recommended by the Movement Disorder Society (MDS).

* A cognitive screen will be completed with all participants, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment.
* Parkinson's Disease Quality of Life Questionnaire. A proxy-rating version will also be utilised.
* Prospective and Retrospective Memory Questionnaire (PRMQ). A proxy-rating version of the PRMQ will also be utilised to alleviate limitations of self-report measures and build a broader picture.
* Apathy Scale (AS).
* Currently, no measure of anxiety is recommended by the MDS, therefore, the Generalised Anxiety Disorder severity index (GAD-7) and the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) will be used to assess emotional wellbeing.

A weekly/daily monitoring form will be used by the partner during all phases of the intervention to record completion of intended goal related tasks (e.g., taking medication on time, completing prescribed exercises, nutritional snack, attending support group).

Procedure:

The study will run in batches of three participants, with replication of the design across the second set of three. The data collection phase for each participant will vary based on completing at least 5 data points within both the baseline and intervention phase and will range from 31-43 days for each participant. It is hoped that the timeframes for goals will require at least one reminder activity per day and so a two-day period will represent one datapoint. Participants will be assigned to a baseline period of 10, 16 or 22 days and an intervention period of 21 days (3 weeks).

Schedule:

1. Members of the movement disorder teams in GGC will be asked to review caseloads 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Goal-related tasks completed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: ApplTree reminder app

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05106985
