CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05750602
Title: Combined Effect of LIMICOL and Physical Activity on LDL Cholesterol and Muscle Function.
Official Title: Effect of the Food Supplement LIMICOL on LDL Cholesterol and Muscle Function in Subjects Who Undergo a Program of Physical Training (Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Study).
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Cardiovascular disease (CVD), foremost among which ischemic heart disease and stroke, are the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in France. These diseases are multifactorial origin and even if it is not possible to act on risk markers such as age, sex, or heredity, risk factors like high cholesterol, smoking , hypertension, obesity, diabetes and physical inactivity, are the main target of prevention strategies. Dydlipidemias have a role in the formation of CVD in participating in the genesis of atherosclerosis. The cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol in particular is subject to oxidation process in plasma. The molecules of oxidized LDL-cholesterol, small and dense, easily penetrate the arterial endothelial wall and are greeted by macrophages. Following a succession of different processes including inflammation, atherosclerotic plaque is formed. The result is either an arteriopathy when the arterial lumen narrowing, or atherothrombosis in the event of plaque rupture. Given this pathophysiology, reduce blood lipids, including LDL-cholesterol and reducing oxidation and inflammation are interesting strategies in the context of cardiovascular prevention. Several scientific study showed that nutritional supplementation with some plant extracts such as artichokes, garlic, red yeast rice, or the sugar cane policosanol helps to reduce several cardiovascular risk factors including regulate concentrations of circulating lipids.

In this study, we hypothesize that the food supplement LIMICOL contributes to reducing LDL cholesterol in the context of care for patients (dietary measures and physical activity)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - LDL-cholesterol levels (g/l) at the end of study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: LIMICOL
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: PLACEBO

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05750602
