CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04691258
Title: Back Squat Exercise Treatment for Low Back Pain: Clinical Trial
Official Title: Back Squat Exercise for Low Back Pain: Avoiding Butt Wink vc Full Range Clinical Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Summary: Low back pain is the leading cause of deficiency and loss of productivity worldwide. No evidence of any particular exercise was more effective than another for treating nonspecific low back pain. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of two resistance training protocols, with different techniques for performing lower limbs exercises, in improving vertebral posture and reducing symptoms of low back pain. Methods: Randomized parallel clinical trial with two arms: Restricted Group (GR) performed all squat and Stiff exercises with neutral vertebral posture and the Complete Group (CG) performed the same exercises prioritizing the complete range of motion. Both groups had a 12-week intervention with 36 resistance training sessions. This study was conducted between November 2020 and April 2021 in Goiás (Brazil). Thirty-two participants aged 18 to 69 years with nonspecific low back pain were recruited in the extension project of the Faculty of Physical Education and Dance of the Federal University of Goiás (UFG), at the Hospital das Clínicas - UFG and at the Campos Samambaia Health Center. To ensure blindness, participants did not know why the technique of movement between them was different. The movement technique was monitored by one teacher per participant throughout the training and cannot be altered by participants at risk of compromising the results. Spinal posture was evaluated by three-dimensional reconstruction and posture quantification using dynamic posture software and pain symptoms were evaluated by the Brief Pain Inventory and Rolland Morris Questionnaire. Statistical analysis was performed in the Software SPSS and MATLAB. The Shapiro-Wilk and Bartlett tests were used to confirm the normal distribution and similar variances in the distribution of the data. The other quantitative and qualitative variables were analyzed by nonparametric statistical methods. Quantitative data with normal distribution were reported by means of means and standard deviation, minimum and maximum values, and the other data by median, interquartile range, minimum and maximum values. The pre-intervention conditions of the groups were compared by independent t-test. Two-way ANOVAs (groups X time) were used for group intervention effect comparisons for quantitative data variables with normal distribution. Significance level of 5%. The size of the effect of the results will be calculated using cohen's test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Back Squat Exercise for Low Back Pain: Avoiding Butt Wink vs Full Range Clinical Trial.

Background The deterioration of muscle strength of the back was the most important factor to decrease the range of motion of the spine and were related to the worsening of quality of life. Back pain is the leading cause of deficiency and loss of productivity worldwide. Resistance training has become increasingly a great ally in the benefit of health and especially in the functional capacity of the human being, and reduction of injuries.

Squat is one of the most popular exercises in resistance training, widely used to achieve health, rehabilitation, performance and aesthetic goals.

Vertebral posture has been much questioned in the scientific literature whether or not it may undergo changes in its curvature associated with high overloads during the execution of the squat, believing that this may cause or increase back pain. Further studies are needed before abandoning the current standards of the squat technique that defend a neutral position of the lumbar spine during a deep squat.

OWEN et al. (2020), concluded that no evidence of any particular form of exercise was more effective than others for treating back pain. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy of two resistance training protocols, with different techniques for performing squat exercise, in improving vertebral posture and reducing low back pain.

Methodology

Participants, Randomization and Blindness

This study is a randomized clinical trial involving 32 participants aged 18 to 69 years, all with symptoms of low back pain, controlled by participant, in the effectiveness of the movement technique with a teacher for each exercise.

The participants were recruited in the Faculty of Physical Education and Dance, Federal University of Goiás (UFG), at the Clinical Hospital and Samambaia Campus Health Center.

Research participants must watched 85% of the classes during the 12 weeks of exercise/intervention treatment.

For randomization, they were distributed in a ratio of 1:1, in order of the registration number and parallel intervention. The intervention groups were: 1) Restricted Group (RG) and 2) Complete Group (CG). All perform the same exercises, the only difference between the groups was the technique of movement of the Squats and Stiff.

To ensure blindness, participants not knew why the technique of movement between them was different. The movement technique was monitored with one teacher per participant throughout the training and cannot be altered by participants at risk of compromising the results.

For the participants of the research, a first meeting was scheduled to present and clarify the research and schedule the evaluations.

Ethical procedures All participants signed the Free and Informed Consent Form in two ways according to the Ethics Committee on Human and Animal Research of UFG, opinion number 2,458,324.

Evaluation of vertebral posture with videogramm

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Low Back Pain
  - Change in Vertebral Posture

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Experimental: Complete Group
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active Comparator: Restricted Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 69 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04691258
