CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06591260
Title: Role of Endomyocardial Biopsy and Aetiology-based Treatment in Pediatric Patients with Inflammatory Heart Disease in Arrhythmic and Non-arrhythmic Clinical Presentations: an Integrated Approach for the Optimal Diagnostic and Therapeutic Management (MYOPED)
Official Title: Role of Endomyocardial Biopsy and Aetiology-based Treatment in Pediatric Patients with Inflammatory Heart Disease in Arrhythmic and Non-arrhythmic Clinical Presentations: an Integrated Approach for the Optimal Diagnostic and Therapeutic Management
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Myocarditis is a complex inflammatory disease, usually occurring secondary to viral infections, autoimmune processes or toxic agents. Clinical presentations are multiple, including chest-pain, heart failure and a broad spectrum of arrhythmias. In turn, outcome is largely unpredictable, ranging from mild self-limiting disease, to chronic stage and progressive evolution towards dilated cardiomyopathy, to rapid adverse outcome in fulminant forms. Subsequently, myocarditis is often underdiagnosed and undertreated, and optimal diagnostic and therapeutic strategies are still to be defined. This study, both retrospective and prospective, originally single-center and subsequently upgraded to multicenter, aims at answering multiple questions about myocarditis, with special attention to its arrhythmic manifestations.

Optimal diagnostic workflow is still to be defined. In fact, although endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) is still the diagnostic gold standard, especially for aetiology identification, it is an invasive technique. Furthermore, it may lack sensitivity because of sampling errors. By converse, modern imaging techniques - cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) in particular - have been proposed as alternative or complementary diagnostic tool in inflammatory heart disease. Other noninvasive diagnostic techniques, like delayed-enhanced CT (DECT) scan or position emission tomography (PET) scan, are under investigation.

Biomarkers to identify myocarditis aetiology, predisposition, prognosis and response to treatment are still to be defined.

Arrhythmic myocarditis is largely underdiagnosed and uninvestigated. Importantly, myocarditis presenting with arrhythmias requires specific diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic considerations. At the group leader hospital, which is an international referral center for ventricular arrhythmias management and ablation, a relevant number of patients with unexplained arrhythmias had myocarditis as underlying aetiology. The experience of a dedicated third-level center is going to be shared with other centers, to considerably improve knowledge and management of arrhythmic myocarditis.

The role of CMR, as well as alternative noninvasive imaging techniques, in defining myocarditis healing is a relevant issue. In particular, optimal timing for follow-up diagnostic reassessment is still to be defined, in patients with myocarditis at different inflammatory stages, either with or without aetiology-dependent treatment.

Uniformly-designed studies are lacking, to compare myocarditis among different patient subgroups, differing by variables like: clinical presentations, myocarditis stage, associated cardiac or extra-cardiac diseases, aetiology-based treatment, associated arrhythmic manifestations, diagnostic workup, and devices or ablation treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study, previously designed as a single-center experience, is multicenter, observational and both retrospective and prospective.

Retrospective phase includes all clinical data occurring before the index event (hospitalization or clinically suspected myocarditis) and myocarditis diagnosis. Prospective phase includes all data following index event and myocarditis diagnosis.

This study has multiple aims.

To compare EMB with noninvasive diagnostic techniques (CMR, DECT, PET scan, either alone or in association).

To assess the role of blood biomarkers for identification of aetiology, predisposition, prognosis, response to treatment, inflammatory activity, clinical presentation.

To describe myocarditis presenting with arrhythmias, with special focus on ventricular arrhythmias at different myocarditis stages and in different clinical contexts. To validate and generalize the leader hospital model for optimal diagnostic and therapeutical management of arrhythmias in myocarditis patients (given the role of the leader hospital as an international referral center for arrhythmias ablation and management).

To evaluate the timing needed for myocarditis healing in different patients subgroups, as assessed by noninvasive imaging techniques (CMR, DECT, PET scan), either alone or in association.

To compare patients subgroups of myocarditis, in terms of epidemiology, aetiology, prognosis, and diagnostic-therapeutical strategies. Among the others, the main study subgroups will be:

A. Arrhythmic vs. non-arrhythmic myocarditis. B. Arrhythmic myocarditis subgroups. C. Non-arrhythmic myocarditis subgroups (i.e.: fulminant, acute coronary syndrome-like, pericarditis-like, heart failure, non-ischaemic dilated/hypokinetic cardiomyopathies of unknown aetiology…).

D. Infectious vs. autoimmune vs. toxic myocarditis. E. Myocarditis treated by aetiology-based treatment vs. isolated cardiac medical treatment.

F. Myocarditis at different disease stages: acute, hyperacute, fulminant, chronic active, post-inflammatory, or active vs. previous vs. non-myocarditis.

G. Myocarditis presenting as organ-specific diseases vs. in the context of a genetic disorder or systemic disease.

H. Myocarditis vs. peri-myocarditis/myo-pericarditis. I. Other analyses.

Any adult patient with clinically suspected myocarditis, of any clinical presentation and any degree of severity, will be considered as suitable for study enrollment.

Patients will undergo diagnostic and therapeutical strategies considered as clinically indicated in a patient-tailored manner, as suggested by international guidelines recommendations and best local clinical practice. Patients will be free of either accepting or refusing any diagnostic or therapeutical proposal. Whenever accepted, data will be simply collected and analyzed.

Based on clinical presentation, patients will be divided into two groups, arrhythmic (group A) and non-arrhythmic (group NA, including any other clinical presentation).

Independently of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Occurrence of major cardiac events
  - Occurrence of major cardiac events
  - Occurrence of major cardiac events
  - Occurrence of major cardiac events
  - Occurrence of major cardiac events

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: support treatment, cardiac medical treatment, aetiology-specific treatment, device implant, arrhythmia ablation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 0 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06591260
