CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06674590
Title: Effects of Motor Relearning Program Versus Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation on Balance and Gait in Stroke
Official Title: Effects of Motor Relearning Program Versus Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation on Balance and Gait in Stroke
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
A randomized control trial will be done on diagnosed stroke patients of chronic stage in DHQ Hospital Mirpur and FF Hospital Rawalpindi physical therapy Department.The purpose of the study is to determine Effects of Motor Relearning Program Versus Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation on Balance and Gait in Stroke .

Subjects will complete Berg Balance Scale (BBS). 10-meter walk test for gait speed will be used for measuring walking speed in meters per second over a short distance, Timed-Up-And-Go (TUG) Test will be used for test of functional mobility and gait parameter. All these measures will be taken at baseline, then after 6 weeks of intervention. There will be 4 sessions per week. The control group will receive Group Motor relearning programe while the Study Group (B) will receive Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation(PNF)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVES:

The objectives of this study are:

1. To determine the effects of Motor Relearning program Versus Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation for Improving Balance in stroke patient.
2. To determine the effects of Motor Relearning program Versus ProprioceptiveNeuromuscular Facilitation on Gait Parameters in stroke patient.

HYPOTHESIS:

Alternate hypothesis:

Motor Relearning program as compared to Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation effective for balance and gait parameter in chronic stroke patient.

Null hypothesis:

Motor Relearning program as compared to Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation not effective for balance and gait parameter in chronic stroke patient.

Research Design: Experimental study. Randomized Control Trial

Clinical setting: DHQ Hospital Mirpur , Fauji Foundation Hospital . Study duration: 1 year

Selection Criteria:

Inclusion Criteria

1. more than 6 month post stroke
2. Can ambulate 25 feet/10 meter (with or without assistive device).
3. Age between 25 to 65 years.
4. Grades for MAS (Grade 2 0r less )/stage of brunstrom approach (stage 4 or up )

Exclusion Criteria

1. History of neurologic disease other than the chronic stroke.
2. Orthopedic disorder involving any joint of lower limbs that interfere with study.
3. Gross visuospatial deficits .
4. Unhealed fracture of lowerlimb .
5. Peripheral arterial occlusive disease.
6. Uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes .

Sampling technique: Non Proability Purposive sampling

Outcome Measures:

Data will be collected on Demographics and general information Berg Balance Scale (BBS) is used to objectively determine a patient's ability (or inability) to safely balance during a series of predetermined tasks. It is a 14 item list with each item consisting of a five-point ordinal scale ranging from 0 to 4, with 0 indicating the lowest level of function and 4 the highest level of function .

10-meter walk test for gait speed The 10 Meter Walk Test is a performance measure used to assess walking speed in meters per second over a short distance.

Timed-Up-And-Go (TUG) Test:

test of functional mobility in which the participant stands up from a standard armchair, walks to a line on the floor 3 m away, turns around, walks back to the chair, and sits dow

Control group (A) = MRP divided into different task , duration will be 30 minutes. MRP for sitting to standing MRP for stand to sit MRP for walking trening of hip extension throughout stance phase trening of knee control for stance phase trening of lateral horizontal pelvic shift trening of flexion of knee at start of swing phase trening of knee extension and foot dorsiflexion at heel strike Practice of walking trensference of trening into daily Experimental Group (B) =PNF of 30 minutes duration will given in aromasingle session.

Pelvic anterior elevation and posterior depression of the hemiplegic side. rhythmic initiation slow reversal agonistic reversals Pelvic anterior depression and posterior elevation of the h

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - gait parameter

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation
  - PROCEDURE: Motor Relearning Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06674590
