CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03040518
Title: Game of Stones: A Research Study That Texts Men to Help Them Lose Weight
Official Title: Feasibility Study of How Best to Engage Obese Men in Narrative SMS (Short Message System) and Incentive Interventions for Weight Loss, to Inform a Future Effectiveness and Cost-effectiveness Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 105
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
In 2014, 24% of UK men were obese. However men rarely participate in weight loss programmes. This study looks at whether two interventions which show promise can help obese men lose weight and keep it off.

INTERVENTION 1: Sending text messages to a mobile phone. These will be written as though they come from other men who are also losing weight and include 'how to do it' diet and physical activity tips, combined with friendly humour and support.

INTERVENTION 2: The same texts plus promising men money at the start contingent on weight loss achievement. The money will vary over a year according to whether weight targets are met. This is called an endowment incentive and is based on research showing that modest payment helps people change their diet and physical activity. At the 3, 6 and 12 month weighing appointments, men will have the option of continuing with the original weight loss targets of 5%, 10% and 10% or setting lower targets of 5% of body weight at 6 months and 5% at 12 months. This is to maintain motivation and hope for men who do not meet the more ambitious weight loss targets.

This study examines if the texts work better with incentives than alone. Both interventions are delivered from a computer and have potential to reach large numbers, including men who don't use health services. This work is done together with obese men and a charity for men to help us find the best ways to deliver the interventions to as many men as possible, including men in difficult life situations.

This study will examine whether it is acceptable and feasible to randomise obese men to three groups: texts only; texts and incentive; or to a 'control group' who wait a year and then get the texts for 3 months. The feasibility of recruiting 105 obese men from two regions of Scotland will be assessed. Half of the men will get an invitation letter from their GP. The other half will be approached in the community, given information about the study and invited to take part. Men can take part if their waist circumference is 40 inches and more or their Body Mass Index is 30 or higher. The study examines how long it takes to find 105 obese men who want to take part, how many come back to suitable venues at 3, 6 and 12 months to get weighed and answer questions about their quality of life, lifestyle and motivation. At the end participants will report about their experiences of weight loss and of being in the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Decision whether to proceed to full RCT (Composite Measure)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Narrative SMS
  - BEHAVIORAL: Endowment Incentive

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03040518
