CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05735600
Title: Latinx Family Wellness
Official Title: Leveraging Cultural Health Beliefs and Actions to Improve Latinx Family Wellness
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 57
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Childhood is an opportune time to intervene in obesity because behaviors that are developed during this time can have long-lasting effects and disrupt trajectories of obesity. This proposal aims to test the feasibility (i.e., participant acceptance, adherence, and retention) of a family-oriented intervention "AyUDA" (Aprender y Utilizar Decisiones Apreciables-Learning and Utilizing Significant Choices). The culturally tailored, two-arm adapted intervention to engage Latinx parents in healthy feeding and lifestyle practices for their children 2-5 years old, thereby reducing early childhood overweight and obesity. The investigators will use concepts of the Social-Ecological Framework for Obesity among Latinx, and the Social Learning Theory that emphasizes the importance of observing, modeling, and imitating behaviors. This approach includes a community engagement partnership with one clinic that serves a great number of Latinx families with 2-5 aged children in Central Kentucky (General Pediatric Clinic-Clinica Amiga). The investigators propose a two-arm randomized clinical trial (RCT) randomly assigning participants to either a telehealth deep cultural level group or a culturally traditional educational group in a sample of 40 Latinx families who will be followed for six months after the intervention. Moreover, investigators will explore short-term changes of the intervention on dietary behavior changes and anthropometric measurements among family members. The feasibility study will inform effect sizes that will be used to estimate statistical power for a future R01 on Community Level Interventions to Improve Minority Health and Reduce Health Disparities, National Institute of Health (NIH).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The feasibility and effectiveness of a family-oriented intervention entitled "AyUDA" will be tested. The AyUDA intervention will provide Latinx families with culturally tailored modules to take control of modifiable behaviors and help them avoid obesogenic behaviors. This study has a longitudinal RCT study design. The study will be conducted in the University of Kentucky Friendly Clinic (Clinica Amiga). Participants will be followed for six months after the intervention. At least one adult who agrees to participate will sign the informed consent and HIPAA authorization, including the children's assent form. We anticipate that recruitment would include non-English speaking subjects due to Latinx self-identity, and for this reason, consent will be obtained in Spanish. The PIs, Co-I, and RP are fluent in English/Spanish and familiar with Latinx culture. Randomization: Randomization occurs after the baseline interview. Researchers will prepare ordered envelopes that contain the treatment assignments, one set for each stratum. Within each stratum, the treatment assignments will be placed in blocks of 10 (i.e., five assignments to each of the treatment conditions). To minimize attrition, complete contact information from participants will be collected and they will be asked to provide the phone number of two individuals who will know how to contact them in the future. Escalating incentives will be provided during data collection encounters to maximize retention. Reminders will be sent monthly for the duration of the study. Data Collection: Data will be collected by the trained RS who are blind to the study conditions at the following times: T1-baseline at recruitment-pre-intervention and randomization, T2-two weeks after the intervention, T3-Three months after the intervention, and T4-Six months after the intervention.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in scores of the Child Feeding Questionnaire
  - Change in scores of the Caregiver's Feeding Style Questionnaire
  - Recruitment for AyUDA
  - Intervention completion for AyUDA.
  - Retention for AyUDA.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: AyuDa Virtual: Aprender y Utilizar Decisiones Apreciables (Spanish) - Learning and Utilizing Significant Choices (English)
  - BEHAVIORAL: AyuDa Written: Aprender y Utilizar Decisiones Apreciables (Spanish) - Learning and Utilizing Significant Choices (English)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05735600
