CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00552591
Title: Family Heart Health Program: Randomized, Controlled Trial
Official Title: Family Heart Health Program: Randomized, Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 426
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Family members (spouses, siblings, offspring) of patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) may themselves be at increased risk for developing CHD for genetic, biochemical and/or behavioural reasons. Targeted approaches aimed at family members of those with established CHD may be a cost-effective way to identify high-risk persons and link them to effective risk factor modification. During pilot testing we found 29% of family members of patients recently hospitalized at our institution had ≥ 3 CHD risk factors. Encouragingly, they indicated high levels of "readiness" to change underlying risk behaviours such as cigarette smoking and physical inactivity. We have developed a 12-week family heart health program featuring a personal plan for achieving risk factor goals and weekly contact with a heart health educator. This intervention needs to be fully tested.

Research Aims:

In this study, we will:

1. Compare the effects of a targeted family heart health (FHH) screening, counselling and follow-up program versus usual care (UC) for reducing participants total cholesterol/high density lipoprotein (TC/HDL) ratio 52 weeks after program entry, in family members of patients recently hospitalized with CHD;
2. Compare the effects of the FHH program versus UC on modifiable components comprising the Framingham score, including: smoking status; systolic blood pressure; total cholesterol; and high density lipoprotein cholesterol;
3. Compare the effects of the FHH program versus UC on: lifestyle-related factors (dietary patterns, leisure time exercise, body composition); medication use (anti-lipemic medications, anti-hypertensive medications, pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation); and use of healthcare resources (physician visits, hospitalization days, number of laboratory and diagnostic tests and procedures).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - TC/HDL ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: 12-week risk reduction program, managed by a Heart Health Educator

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00552591
