CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04733287
Title: Heat Therapy and Muscle Function Study
Official Title: Improving Critical Power and Muscle Function in Older Adults With Heat Therapy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 148
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Exercise tolerance decreases with age and a sedentary lifestyle. Muscle critical power (CP), is a sensitive measure of exercise tolerance that is more even more relevant to and predictive of endurance performance than VO2max.

While recent evidence indicates that CP and muscle function decrease with aging, the cause of this decrease in CP and the best way to mitigate the decrease in CP are unknown.

This study will:

1. Measure knee extensor CP in young and old individuals and determine the extent to which changes in muscle oxygen delivery (e.g. resistance artery function, maximum exercise blood flow), muscle mass and composition (e.g. whole-muscle size, muscle fiber cross-sectional area) and mitochondrial oxygen consumption (e.g. maximal coupled respiration of permeabilized fibers biopsied from the knee extensors) contribute to the decrease in CP with age.
2. Examine the effectiveness of two different therapies (1. High Intensity Interval Training, HIIT and 2. Muscle Heat Therapy) at improving muscle function and critical power in young and older adults.
3. Examine the impact of muscle disuse (2 weeks of leg immobilization), a potential contributor to the decrease in muscle function with aging, on muscle function and critical power and determine if heat therapy is an effective means of minimizing the impact of disuse on muscle function and critical power.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Critical Power

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval Training of the Knee Extensors
  - OTHER: Muscle Heat Therapy
  - OTHER: Muscle Disuse
  - OTHER: Sham Heat Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 95 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04733287
