CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04204551
Title: Effect of High Intensity Interval Training on Mechanisms of Neuroplasticity in Parkinson's Disease Patients
Official Title: Effect of High Intensity Interval Training on Mechanisms of Neuroplasticity and Psychomotor Behaviours in Parkinson's Disease Patients: a Randomized Study With 1-year Follow up
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
There are experimental evidences of the important role of high intensity physical exercise in Parkinson's disease (PD) treatment, that induces similar effects to pharmacotherapy. So far, the mechanisms of the impact of these changes on the brain subcortical and cortical regions functioning, motor activities and cognitive functions are still not clear.

The aim of this longitudinal (prospective) human experiment is to examine the effects of two cycles of 12-weeks high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on: (i) the level of dopamine (DA) in putamen in striatum, (ii) neurophysiological function of subcortical and cortical motor structures and skeletal muscle activity, (iii) psychomotor behaviors critically associated with dopamine dependent neural structures functioning and (iv) neurotrophic factors' secretion level in blood.

The investigators will recruit 40 PD individuals, who will be divided into two groups: one of them will perform two 12-weeks cycles of HIIT (PD-TR), and the other will not be trained (PD-NTR) with HIIT. The investigators will also recruit 20 age-matched healthy controls (H-CO) as additional control group who will not perform the HIIT. The PD-TR group will perform the two 12-weeks cycles of the HIIT, that induces beneficial, neuroplastic changes and alleviates the PD symptoms, what was found in earlier studies. All PD subjects (PD-TR and PD-NTR) will be examined during their medication "OFF-phase" (it means after dopaminergic drugs withdrawal) before (Pre) and after (Post) training cycles (first training cycle - HIIT 1; second training cycle - HIIT 2), and namely: Pre HIIT 1, 1 week-, 1.5 month- and 3 months-Post HIIT 1; and then similarly 1 week-, 1.5 month- and 3 months-Post HIIT 2. The subject from H-CO will be tested only once.

To examine the assumed HIIT-induced changes in brain functioning the investigators will apply: (i) the positron emission tomography (PET), (ii) the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), (iii) electroencephalography (EEG) and (iv) an analysis of neurotrophic factors secretion level in blood. The investigators will also assess motor and non-motor symptoms of PD and psychomotor behaviors based on neuropsychological tests of cognitive functions and manual dexterity.

The results of this project will help to answer the fundamental questions about HIIT induced mechanisms of neuroplasticity in PD patients, what is important from scientific and treatment-strategy point of view.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
I. Research Project Objectives

Aim 1. To examine the effect of two HIIT cycles on presynaptic striatal DA availability (in dorsal putamen) in the tested PD patients using PET imaging method with the 18F-dopa - \[18F\]fluorodopa uptake, which provides in this case a very good index of restored striatal presynaptic dopaminergic function (Brooks and Pavese, 2011).

Hypothesis 1. The presynaptic striatal dopaminergic function will improve (18F-dopa uptake increase) after the first and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to baseline in the PD-TR group, and will sustain in 1 year follow up time frame (3 months after the second HIIT cycle cessation). In the PD-NTR group, the presynaptic striatal dopaminergic function will not improve or even will be worsened (18F-dopa uptake decrease) in the same time interval. Importantly for this hypothesis the annual decrease of putaminal 18F-dopa is about 10% in early PD (Morrish et al., 1995).

Aim 2. To characterize an influence of two HIIT cycles on neurophysiological functions (NPFs) of: (i) motor and cognitive subcortical and cortical structures, (that are critically dependant on the presynaptic DA availability), using fMRI and EEG, and (ii) skeletal muscles engaged in motor task, using surface EMG. The following neurophysiological functions of central nervous system (CNS) will be tested during performance of the DA availability-dependant self initiated index finger motor task and during mental imagery of this motor task (cognitive task): (i) a level of activation of subcortical and cortical structures, and (ii) strength of functional coupling (functional connectivity) between neural structures. For skeletal muscles NPFs', the investigators will study a strategy of motor units activation. Also, since the investigators will record EEG and EMG simultaneously, the investigators will assess strength of cortico-muscular coupling.

Hypothesis 2. NPFs will improve after the first and second bout of HIIT cycle compared to baseline in the PD-TR group, and will sustain in 1 year follow up time frame. Namely, the investigators speculate that for the motor task and mental imagery task in CNS activity, it will be: (1) an increase of activation in substantia nigra (SN), putamen (PUT), primary motor cortex (M1), supplementary motor area (SMA); (2) decrease of activation of lateral premotor cortex (PMC) and cerebellum; with simultaneous (3) increase of functional coupling of: SN with PUT; PUT with M1, PMC, SMA and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC); and DLPFC with M1, PMC, SMA and cerebellum; (4) decrease of functional coupling between M1, PMC, SMA, cerebellum and parietal cortex; and (5) for the mental imagery task the investigators additionally assume an increase of parietal and decrease of occipital cortex activation. For the skeletal muscle function it will be an improvement in recruitment strategy of motor units. Taking into the data from the simultaneous recording of electrical activity of brain cortex and skeletal m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with 18F-dopa - PET imaging with [18F]fluorodopa uptake.
  - Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with 18F-dopa - PET imaging with [18F]fluorodopa uptake.
  - Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with 18F-dopa - PET imaging with [18F]fluorodopa uptake.
  - functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) - metabolic activity of brain recorded with MRI scanner.
  - functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) - metabolic activity of brain recorded with MRI scanner.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: high-intensity interval training (HIIT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: conventional physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04204551
