CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07289373
Title: Moderate Versus High-intensity Interval Training in Children With Diplegia.
Official Title: Moderate Intensity Training Versus High Intensity Interval Training on Gait and Energy Expenditure in Children With Spastic Diplegia.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The aim is to compare the effects of moderate-intensity training and high-intensity interval training on gait, energy expenditure, and functional mobility in children with spastic diplegia. Methods: Thirty children with spastic diplegic cerebral palsy were allocated randomly into two groups (n=15 each). The group A and the group B. Assessment of functional mobility and energy expenditure and gait analysis for all children of both groups were assessed before and after the suggested period of treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Methods: Thirty children with with spastic diplegic cerebral palsy were allocated randomly into two groups ( n= 15 each). The group A (received aerobic training with moderate intensity endurance training "MIET" by walking or running on a treadmill) and the group B (received aerobic training exercises in a form of high intensity interval training "HIT" by walking or running on a treadmill). Treatment was delivered for 20minutes, 3 times per week for two successive months. Assessment of functional mobility and energy expenditure using Timed Up and Go(TUG) test and Energy Expenditure Index Heart Rate(EEIHR) respectively, while gait analysis for both lower limb angles of (hips and Knees) assessment using 2d gait analysis by( Kinovea) software. All children of both groups assessed before and after the suggested period of treatment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gait
  - Functional mobility
  - Energy Expenditure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Moderate intensity training
  - PROCEDURE: High intensity interval training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07289373
