CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04426929
Title: Effectiveness of Structured Closed Kinetic Chain and Video Based Game Exercise Program in Rotator Cuff Lesion
Official Title: Investigation of Effectiveness of Structured Closed Kinetic Chain and Video Based Game Exercise Program in Rotator Cuff Lesion
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Rotator Cuff muscles are injured due to frequent use, repeated subacromial loadings and circulatory failure, traction, compression, contusion, subacromial abrasion, inflammation, injection and age-related degeneration, causing Rotator Cuff ruptures.Rotator Cuff treatment strategies vary according to the stage of the disease. While conservative treatment is preferred in Stage 1 and Stage 2 of Rotator Cuff injuries, surgical approaches are performed in stage 3. The most common conservative methods used in its treatment are corticosteroid injections, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and physiotherapy methods. When the literature is examined, there is no consensus about physiotherapy methods among conservative treatment approaches. It is stated in the literature that there is no standard exercise protocol for Rotator Cuff rehabilitation and specific exercise programs are needed. In addition, the virtual reality treatment approach, the most common example of the use of technology in rehabilitation, has begun to take part in rehabilitation studies. The aim of the project is to examine the effectiveness of video-based game exercise therapy in individuals with Rotator Cuff rupture, to develop a new exercise protocol with closed kinetic chain exercises and to investigate the most effective treatment method for Rotator Cuff ruptures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION: Rotator Cuff muscles are injured due to frequent use, repeated subacromial loadings and circulatory failure, traction, compression, contusion, subacromial abrasion, inflammation, injection and age-related degeneration, causing Rotator Cuff ruptures. The prevalence of rotator Cuff ruptures increases with age, it usually starts at the age of 40, and its incidence increases by 54% at 60, and 60-80% at 80. Rotator Cuff treatment strategies vary according to the stage of the disease. While conservative treatment is preferred in Stage 1 and Stage 2 of Rotator Cuff injuries, surgical approaches are performed in stage 3. The most common conservative methods used in its treatment are corticosteroid injections, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and physiotherapy methods. When the literature is examined, there is no consensus about physiotherapy methods among conservative treatment approaches. It is stated in the literature that there is no standard exercise protocol for Rotator Cuff rehabilitation and specific exercise programs are needed. In recent years, closed kinetic chain exercises have become the preferred exercises for the rehabilitation of musculoskeletal system problems. In the clinic, these exercises are preferred because they put less stress on the healing tissue, which is more functional and safe. In the literature, the study involving closed kinetic chain exercises related to Rotator Cuff ruptures is very few, and there is no structured exercise protocol in this regard. In addition, the virtual reality treatment approach, the most common example of the use of technology in rehabilitation, has begun to take part in rehabilitation studies.

AIM: The aim of the project is to examine the effectiveness of video-based game exercise therapy in individuals with Rotator Cuff rupture, to develop a new exercise protocol with closed kinetic chain exercises and to investigate the most effective treatment method for Rotator Cuff ruptures.

METHOD: The project will include 45 Rotator Cuff partial ruptures in accordance with the inclusion criteria in the Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Policlinic in Esenler Medipol University Hospital. Individuals who have been diagnosed with Rotator Cuff partial rupture between the ages of 18-60, who do not have a professional sports history, who have had pain for more than 4 weeks, and have not undergone any shoulder surgery will be included in our project. Individuals with symptomatic neurological findings of cervical origin, having an additional orthopedic problem on the shoulder, having mental problems, and individuals with neurological, vascular, cardiac problems that limit function will not be included in our project. Pain with Visual Analog Scale, pain threshold with algometer, Functionality with Arm, Shoulder and Hand Problems Survey, quality of life with Life Quality Scale with Rotator Cuff Patients, normal range of motion and proprioception with Fizyosoft applications, shoulder aproximation force 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - VAS
  - pain threshold
  - Normal range of motion and proprioception
  - Shoulder aproximation force

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Conventional exercise therapy
  - OTHER: Closed Chain Exercise Group
  - OTHER: Video Based Exercise Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04426929
