CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04052308
Title: Decrease in Blood Pressure in PARQVE
Official Title: Decrease in Blood Pressure in PARQVE
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The tripod of OA clinical treatment is education, weight loss and exercise. A sedentary lifestyle has been characterized as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Studies have shown the inverse association between the level of physical activity and the incidence of cardiovascular disease. High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT), which consists of repeated high-intensity exercise sessions interspersed with passive recovery. Active, has been studied as a new therapeutic approach and has been shown to be effective in controlling blood pressure (BP) and arterial stiffness in treated hypertensive individuals. HIIT training has also been shown to be able to reverse the hemodynamic, metabolic and hormonal changes that are involved in the pathophysiology of essential hypertension, leading to improved arterial stiffness and BP response, endothelin-1 and nitrite / nitrate to exercise, increased cardiorespiratory fitness when compared to moderate-intensity continuous exercise in young women with a family history of essential hypertension. Six weeks of HIIT training (3 times / week) reduced body fat and waist circumference in young women. , while increasing fat-free mass, maximum running speed and aerobic fitness. Two recent studies evaluating body weight change in overweight patients have shown that HIIT training is comparable to moderate-intensity continuous exercise, but HIIT is more efficient compared to time spent training, which may facilitate the inclusion of daily routine training of patients. Previous work performed by the authors patients undergoing an education and physical activity program showed improvement in WOMAC. The investigators believe that the inclusion of an HIIT training protocol may lead to improved BP and hemodynamic variables in patients with knee osteoarthritis. To evaluate the effect of high intensity interval physical training associated with an educational program on BP, hemodynamic variables of individuals undergoing treatment for knee OA. 63 patients with knee OA will be randomized into 3 groups: interval exercise (21), continuous exercise (21) and control (21). Patients will be evaluated for BP using ABPM, arterial stiffness and endothelial reactivity by measuring carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity and quality of life using the Euroqol scale.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT), which consists of repeated high intensity exercise sessions interspersed with passive / active recovery, has been studied as a new approach to hypertension therapy and systemic arterial hypertension. HIIT training has also been shown to be able to reverse how the hemodynamic, metabolic and hormonal changes that are involved in the physiology of essential hypertension, leading to improved arterial stiffness and BP response, endothelin-1 and nitrite / nitrate to exercise, Increased cardiorespiratory capacity when moderate-intensity continuous exercise was performed in young women with a history of essential arterial hypertension.

Six weeks of HIIT training (3 times / week) reduced body fat and waist circumference in young women while increasing fat-free mass, maximum running speed, and aerobic fitness. Two recent studies evaluating body constitution change in overweight patients have shown that HIIT training is comparable to moderate-intensity continuous exercise, but HIIT is more efficient compared to the time spent during training, and HIIT can deliver savings of approximately 40% of the training time, which can facilitate the inclusion of training in the daily routine of patients.

In previous work by the investigators, patients undergoing an education and physical activity program showed improvement in WOMAC. Researchers believe that the inclusion of an HIIT training protocol may lead to improved BP and hemodynamic variables in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effects of high intensity exercise on blood pressure in individuals undergoing treatment for knee osteoarthritis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ABPM
  - BEHAVIORAL: The arterial stiffness and endothelial reactivity
  - BEHAVIORAL: Euroqol EQ-5D-5L
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lectures about knee OA
  - BEHAVIORAL: Continuous intensity exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04052308
