CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03972059
Title: High Intensity Interval Circuit Training on Resting Metabolic Rate in Overweight Adults
Official Title: The Effect of High Intensity Interval Circuit Training With Portable Equipment on Changes in Resting Metabolic Rate in Overweight Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
This is the first study to examine changes in resting metabolic rate up to 72 hours following an exercise session, and how these changes may be affected by 12 weeks of high intensity interval circuit training (HIICT). Various training programs that have been implemented in previous studies have investigated changes in resting metabolic rate only for the first 2-8 hours following an exercise session.

Briefly, the results of this study will provide insight into the following:

1. To what extent and for how long does HIICT increases the resting metabolic rate following an exercise session?
2. How can this exercise program enhance metabolism without any dietary or other exercise intervention?
3. What is the caloric deficit that will result from 3 months of HIICT and how to what extent this deficit will influence body weight reduction?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
According to the World Health Organization, overweight and obesity are defined as as abnormal or excessive fat accumulation, that presents a risk to health. Body Mass Index (BMI) is a useful population-level measure of overweight and obesity in adults, defined as follows: BMI = \[weight (kg)\] / \[height (m)\^2\]. Individuals with BMI\>25 kg/m\^2 are considered overweight, whereas individuals with BMI\>30 are considered obese. The higher the BMI, the greater the risk of developing non-communicable diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus and various forms of cancer. Obesity is now the most widespread disease in the developed world. It has been estimated that over 1.9 billion adults (39% of the population) are overweight, of whom 600 million (13% of the population) are obese. These rates are translated into a significant economic impact on a county's health care system; therefore, drastic measures are needed. The major cause of obesity is an energy imbalance between caloric intake and energy expenditure in favor of the former. Thus, changes in lifestyle that affect the energy balance, such as participation in an exercise program, can reduce body weight and, therefore, contribute to obesity treatment.

The recommendation of physical activity for significant weight loss involves prolonged exercise of moderate to high intensity that gradually increases to \~250 minutes/week. Resistance training is also recommended as it activates the neuromuscular system and can improve functional ability. On the other hand, High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT), which mainly involves a cardiovascular exercise strategy alternating short periods of intense anaerobic exercise with less intense recovery periods, are proposed because they are time-efficient. In addition, HIIT improves aerobic capacity and body composition, which is related to resting metabolic rate and mitochondrial metabolism of skeletal muscle in both healthy and overweight and obese adults. Changes caused by HIIT in mitochondrial function may explain the greater efficacy in inducing positive metabolic adaptations compared to traditional endurance or resistance protocols, even when not accompanied by dietary weight loss strategies.

Resting metabolic rate is defined as the energy expenditure required to maintain the normal physiological processes of the body at rest and accounts for 60-75% of the total daily energy expenditure. Small increases in resting metabolic rate could long-term positive effects on weight management. Energy expenditure is increased not only during exercise, but also for some hours post-exercise. To date, it has been observed that this increase in resting metabolic rate can last for up to 48 hours following an exercise session, especially following resistance training. More specifically, in a study where 7 women (22-35 years old) participated in a resistance training program (100 minutes/session, 10 exercises of 5 sets with 10-15 repetitions per set), there wa

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Resting metabolic rate (kilocalories)
  - Resting metabolic rate (24 before an exercise bout) (kilocalories)
  - Resting metabolic rate (24 following an exercise bout) (kilocalories)
  - Resting metabolic rate (48 following an exercise bout) (kilocalories)
  - Resting metabolic rate (72 following an exercise bout) (kilocalories)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training - Phase 1
  - OTHER: Exercise training - Phase 2
  - OTHER: Exercise training - Phase 3

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03972059
