CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05545579
Title: Comparative Effects of Circuit Training and Trunk Stabilization Technique in Basketball Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Circuit Training and Trunk Stabilization Techniques on Speed, Power and Dynamic Balance in Basketball Players
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
In the sports world, physical training is the most important factor because physical training increases the efficiency and the effectiveness of the sports. The players performance depends on various factors, but the main factor of players performance is physical training. Training contributes tremendously towards the achievement of such aims of this area in sports. The circuit training is a non-stop, high intensity, basketball specific workout. It increases overall speed and quickness, explosive power, upper and lower body strength, vertical jump and, most of all, the athlete's conditioning.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a randomized control trial and will be conducted in National stadium and Ravians Basketball club Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of six months. Non-probability convenience sampling technique will be used to collect the data. The sample size of total 24 athletes will be taken in this study. The participants will be divided into two groups i-e, one group will receive circuit training and other group will receive trunk stabilization exercises.

Circuit training consisted of 6 exercises, divided in 2 blocks (1st block contains ½ squats, bench press and pushups and 2nd block contains burpees, squat thrust and lunges) of 3 minutes. The stabilization exercise group will repeat 6 exercises (Balance Ball with Pocket Knife, Reverse Crunch, Russian Return, Shuttle, Leg Lift, and Back extension) for 6 weeks. Lane agility drill, Sprint test, Vertical jump test, Star excursion test will used to evaluate outcomes

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Agility test
  - Vertical jump test
  - Star excursion balance test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: circuit trainng
  - OTHER: trunk stabilization techniques

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05545579
