CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03221452
Title: Adaptation of a Cognitive Training Intervention for Diabetes Self-Management
Official Title: Adaptation of a Cognitive Training Intervention for Diabetes Self-Management
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 29
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The aims of this project are: (1) to refine an existing cognitive rehabilitation intervention and tailor it for persons with T2DM by using current literature and interview data from 10 participants with T2DM and (2) to conduct a feasibility study of the adapted intervention with 20 participants with T2DM. The intervention consists of 8 weekly group educational sessions to teach compensatory cognitive strategies. Participants will also use a web-based, game-like program to build on the didactic information and practice activities to improve cognitive health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) increases the risk for cognitive impairment and doubles the rate of cognitive decline after diabetes is diagnosed. In turn, the presence of cognitive dysfunction can make diabetes self-management more difficult. Few interventions have attempted to focus on cognitive function in the context of diabetes and none, to date have tested an intervention to improve cognition in order to improve diabetes self-management. Therefore the aims of this project are: (1) to refine an existing cognitive rehabilitation intervention and tailor it for persons with T2DM by using current literature and interview data from 10 participants with T2DM and (2) to conduct a feasibility study of the adapted intervention with 20 participants with T2DM. The intervention consists of 8 weekly group educational sessions to teach compensatory cognitive strategies. Additionally, participants will use a web-based, game-like program to build on the didactic information and practice activities to improve cognitive health. The project will provide baseline data for further research on diabetes self-management in the context of cognitive dysfunction.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Diabetes Self-Care Activities

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Memory, Attention, and Problem Solving Skills for Diabetes

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03221452
