CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04400240
Title: Care Coordination Approaches to Learning Lupus Self-management
Official Title: Care Coordination Approaches to Learning Lupus Self-management
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The Care-coordination Approach to Learning Lupus Self-Management (CALLS) study was designed to examine whether modeling and reinforcement from a lay patient navigator/care coordinator improves disease self-management, indicators of disease activity, health related quality of life (HRQOL), and 30-day readmission in SLE inpatient admissions. We recruited 30 patients (\~15 questionnaires and phone sessions and 15 questionnaires only) with active SLE upon hospital admittance at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC). The lay patient navigator/care coordinator was trained to deliver intervention content by twelve weekly telephone sessions carried out across the course of the study. All participants were assessed using validated measures of patient reported outcomes at baseline, mid-intervention (6 weeks post-enrollment), and immediately following the intervention (12 weeks post-enrollment). Outcomes for patients who agreed to phone sessions were compared with the outcomes of patients who opted to participate in questionnaires only. The study lasted 12 months, with recruitment and enrollment over 6 months, 3 months for intervention delivery and 3 months for data analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overview of Study Design. The Care-coordination Approach to Learning Lupus Self-Management (CALLS) study is a double arm, pre-post pilot designed to examine whether modeling and reinforcement from a lay patient navigator/care coordinator improves disease self-management, indicators of disease activity, health related quality of life (HRQOL), and 30-day readmission in SLE inpatient admissions. We will recruit 40 patients (20 questionnaires and phone sessions and 20 questionnaires only) with active SLE upon hospital admittance at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC). The lay patient navigator/care coordinator will be trained to deliver intervention content by twelve weekly telephone sessions carried out across the course of the study. All participants will be assessed using validated measures of patient reported outcomes at baseline, mid-intervention (6 weeks post-enrollment), and immediately following the intervention (12 weeks post-enrollment). Outcomes for patients who agree to phone sessions will be compared with the outcomes of patients who opt to participate in questionnaires only. The study will last 12 months with recruitment and enrollment over 6 months, 3 months for intervention delivery and 3 months for data analysis.

Study Population. The target population for this study will be SLE inpatient admissions at MUSC. There are approximately 35 SLE and Scleroderma hospital admissions each month, so it is expected that over a 3-month recruitment period, we will be able to recruit 40 participants (20 questionnaires and phone sessions and 20 questionnaires only).

Recruitment of Lay Patient Navigator/Care Coordinator The PI will identify a suitable lay patient navigator/care coordinator based on their maturity, emotional stability, and verbal communication skills. Suitable candidates will have at least a high school diploma or equivalency with at least one year of patient care experience in a health care facility; or a Certified Nursing Assistant; or successful completion of a Nursing Assistant or Medical Assistant course at an accredited institution or equivalent training; or EMT or Paramedic certification; or a Bachelor's degree. They will possess the ability to understand and implement a variety of detailed instructions in the execution of therapeutic procedures and the ability to make accurate physical observation of patients.

Recruitment of SLE patients Admitted SLE patients will be referred by their physician for participation in the study, who will provide a letter that will explain the study and provide participants a number to call if they have questions or concerns prior to agreeing to participate. Participants who indicate interest in the study will be immediately screened for eligibility, and if eligibility criteria are met, informed consent will be obtained. Once a patient has been consented, they will be randomized to membership in one of the two study arms. assigned to the intervention (complete questionnaires and pho

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Self-management measured using the Patient Activation Measure (PAM)
  - Satisfaction in Quality of Life as assessed by the LUP-QOL (Lupus Quality of Life Questionnaire)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CALLS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04400240
