CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03615638
Title: Community-based Rehabilitation and Fall Prevention Program After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Community-based Post-operative Rehabilitation and Fall Prevention Program Following Total Knee Arthroplasty - a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a common musculoskeletal disorder among older people. Since the prevalence of knee OA increases with age, it is anticipated that the prevalence and burden of knee OA will increase significantly given the aging population.

Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is used to treat patients with severe knee OA. While TKA has been shown to improve knee pain, function and quality of life of patients with knee OA, up to 50% of patients with post-TKA may suffer from falls within in the first year after TKA. Given that Tai Chi can significantly improve the balance and function of older people, a fall prevention program may improve balance, pain, and function of post-TKA patients.

As such, the current 3-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to compare the effectiveness of a post-operative community-based fall prevention program in improving knee pain, function and balance of patients with unilateral TKA against a group of TKA patients receiving standard post-operative care, and age- and gender-matched asymptomatic controls over 1 year.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is the third most disabling musculoskeletal compliant in the world. Knee OA is the most common type of OA. Since the prevalence of knee OA increases with age, it is anticipated that the prevalence and burden of knee OA will increase significantly given the aging population.

Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a surgical intervention for treating patients with severe knee OA. Research has found that TKA reduces knee pain, and improves patient's function and quality of life. However, studies have also found that patients with post-TKA may be more likely to fall as compared to age- and gender-matched asymptomatic counterparts. It is estimated that around 20% to 50% of patients fall within in the first year after TKA. As such, it is essential to improve the balance of post-TKA patients.

Studies have found that Tai Chi can significantly improve the balance and function of older people. Therefore, a fall prevention program aiming at strengthening, proprioception, balance training, and behavioral modification may improve balance, pain, and function of post-TKA patients.

As such, the current 3-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to compare the effectiveness of a post-operative community-based fall prevention program in improving knee pain, function and balance of patients with unilateral TKA with a group of patients receiving standard post-operative care, and age- and gender-matched asymptomatic controls over 1 year.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Chinese version of Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Fall prevention program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03615638
