CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04380571
Title: Biofeedback Vs Electrical Stimulation in Treatment of Fecal Incontinence
Official Title: Biofeedback Versus Bilateral Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation in the Treatment of Functional Non-retentive Fecal Incontinence
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 93
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Fecal incontinence is one of the most psychological frustrating problems. It occurs in children due to many causes. There is a wide range of non-invasive therapeutic approaches like Kegel exercise, Biofeedback, and posterior tibial nerve stimulation. However, up till now, there are no established guidelines for treatment.

the objective of this study is to evaluate and compare the early effect of Biofeedback therapy versus bilateral transcutaneous posterior tibial nerve stimulation (TPNS) as non-invasive methods in the treatment of functional non-retentive fecal incontinence (FNRFI) in children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Functional non-retentive fecal incontinence (FNRFI) requires prolonged treatment with a wide range of non-invasive therapeutic approaches like Kegel exercise, Biofeedback, and posterior tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS). However, up till now, there are no established guidelines for treatment.1 The aim of this study is to evaluate and compare the early effect of Biofeedback therapy versus bilateral transcutaneous posterior tibial nerve stimulation (TPTNS) as non-invasive methods in the treatment of (FNRFI) in children.

Methodology: The current prospective randomized controlled study included 93 children with FNRFI who were randomly divided and allocated into three groups. Group A treated by conventional methods through dietetic regulation and Kegal exercises. Group B treated by biofeedback therapy while group C received bilateral (TPTNS). Initial manometric findings including resting pressure, squeeze pressure, 1st sensation, 1st urge, and intense urge were recorded and repeated after 3 and 6 months together with incontinence score recorded in using St' Mark's (Varizey) with the primary endpoint of improvement of the incontinence score more than 50%.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incontinence score using St' Mark's (Vaiszey)
  - incontinence score using St' Mark's (Vaiszey)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Biofeedback
  - DEVICE: Electrical stimulation
  - OTHER: Traditional treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 15 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04380571
