CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06017180
Title: Effects of Myofascial Release Technique on Mobility, Sensorimotor Function and Performance in Volleyball Players
Official Title: Investigation of the Effects of Myofascial Release Techniques on Shoulder-Elbow Mobility, Sensorimotor Function and Performance in Volleyball Players
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Sports that require overhead activities (volleyball, tennis, basketball) include components such as rapid displacement, strength and movement control.Volleyball is also called as an overhead sport in terms of the way it is played. In the realization of these sports; Sub-parameters such as proprioceptive sense, strength, throwing rate, flexibility play a role. During these activities, the shoulder and elbow joints are overloaded. To meet this load, the joint must provide the necessary mobility and stability. Proprioceptive sense in increasing the quality and width of movement as well as providing dynamic joint stability in overhead sports; Increasing the range of motion of the joint, reducing muscle stiffness and thus increasing flexibility are effective in providing mobility. That's why it's important to develop them. Likewise, muscle strength should be increased in order to maintain movement performance and prevent injuries. The use of myofascial release techniques as an exercise method has increased in recent years. Application; The effects on parameters such as strength, performance and flexibility were investigated. Studies have focused more on the lower extremities and acute effects. There is no study on the subject examining proprioceptive sensation in volleyball players in the upper extremity. Therefore, our aim is to examine the chronic effects of the application on shoulder and elbow joint mobility, sensorimotor function and performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sports that require overhead activities (volleyball, tennis, basketball) include components such as rapid displacement, strength and movement control.Volleyball is also called as an overhead sport in terms of the way it is played. In the realization of these sports; Sub-parameters such as proprioceptive sense, strength, throwing rate, flexibility play a role. During these activities, the shoulder and elbow joints are overloaded. To meet this load, the joint must provide the necessary mobility and stability. Proprioceptive sense in increasing the quality and width of movement as well as providing dynamic joint stability in overhead sports; Increasing the range of motion of the joint, reducing muscle stiffness and thus increasing flexibility are effective in providing mobility. That's why it's important to develop them. Likewise, muscle strength should be increased in order to maintain movement performance and prevent injuries. Performance is the evaluation of how much the psychological, physiological and biomechanical requirements required for a sportive activity are provided. Individual and team sports, by their very nature, result in winning and losing. In this respect, it is important that the performance is at the highest level. In addition to strength, speed is also an important parameter in performance. With the programs made by combining these parameters, sportive performance and athletic success can be increased. The ability to effectively perform parameters such as throwing, throwing and hitting the ball in overhead sports affects performance results. Athletes competing in branches where overhead movements requiring high muscle activity are used intensively; In addition to strength and flexibility, which are key components of performance, sensorimotor accuracy is also of great importance.

Fascia; It is a body network that is the continuation of the connective tissue and is shaped by stretching, and it surrounds all organs and body structures. If the fascial tissue can be trained at the appropriate level (appropriate level of flexibility and elasticity), it can be beneficial in terms of protection from injuries as well as increasing sports performance. When we look at the literature, we see that the importance of this issue has increased in recent years. Myofascial release is an up-to-date method that appears to be effective in improving joint and fascia mobility, increasing body awareness, and aiding muscle reduction. Myofascial release application has become popular around the world in recent years, and it shows itself as one of the exercise trends of athletes.The use of myofascial release techniques as an exercise method has increased in recent years. Application; The effects on parameters such as strength, performance and flexibility were investigated. Studies have focused more on the lower extremities and acute effects. There is no study on the subject examining proprioceptive sensation in volleyball players in the upper extremity. T

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proprioception (elbow and shoulder)
  - Muscle Strength (elbow and shoulder)
  - Mobility (shoulder)
  - Performance (Speed)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Myofascial Release Techniques
  - OTHER: Sham myofascial release technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06017180
