CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05689593
Title: Comparison of Low-intensity Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy and Low-intensity Laser Effects in Adhesive Capsulitis
Official Title: Comparison of the Efficiency of Low Intensity Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy and Low Intensity Laser Therapy in Adhesive Capsulitis Treatment: a Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 65
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to compare the effects of extracorporeal shock wave therapy(eswt) applied in addition to conventional physical therapy on pain, mobility, functional ability, sleep quality and activities of daily living in patients with adhesive capsulitis compared to low-level laser therapy and to investigate whether they are superior to the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this study, 60 adhesive capsulitis with age range 18-65 who applied to Kırsehir Ahi Evran University Training and Research Hospital were examined.Adhesive capsulitis is also called arthrofibrosis, which involves excessive adhesion formation along the glenohumeral joint. It is a disease of unknown etiology and is classified as primary and secondary. Primary adhesive capsulitis includes cases of idiopathic origin resulting from chronic inflammation with fibroblast proliferation. Secondary adhesive capsulitis, central nervous system involvement, arm immobilized for a long time, trauma or fracture, infectious diseases, etc. Includes post-mortem situations.

Adhesive capsulitis progression is characterized by four stages, each stage presenting a distinctive clinical picture.

low-level laser therapy supports cell proliferation and tissue regeneration with its anti-inflammatory and photobiostimulation properties.The pressure waves of ESWT pass through fluids and soft tissues and exert their effects in areas of impedance change such as bones and soft tissue spaces. These waves have mechanical and cellular effects. The most important of these effects are temporary damage to the neuronal cell membrane or increased permeability. These mechanisms may facilitate neovascularization and cellular regeneration in tissues.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual analogue scale (VAS)
  - Visual analogue scale (VAS)
  - Visual analogue scale (VAS)
  - CONSTANT (MURLEY) SCORE (CS)
  - CONSTANT (MURLEY) SCORE (CS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low-intensity ESWT Group
  - OTHER: Low-intensity laser Group
  - OTHER: Conventional Control Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05689593
