CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05615961
Title: Effect of Probiotics on Endurance Athletes' Microbiome at Rest and Post-race
Official Title: Effect of Probiotics on Endurance Athletes' Microbiome at Rest and Post-race
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
This study is intended to investigate the use of probiotics (LAB4 probiotics, Cultech, Port Talbot, Wales, UK) and the effect this has on gastrointestinal symptoms experienced during elite long-distance triathlon (ironman) competition, as well as the composition of the gut bacteria in the athlete.

Long-distance triathlon events frequently induce gastrointestinal discomfort due to the duration of the event (8-17 hours), the intensity of the exercise and the ingestion of large amounts of sugars throughout the event.

Data will be collected from athletes participating at the Kona ironman World-championships. Participants will supplement with either probiotic tablet, or placebo (sugar-pill) for 4-weeks prior to competition.

Athletes will be both male and female age-group athletes from any qualifying age category (age categories are as follows: 18-24; 25-29; 30-34; 35-39; 40-44; 45-49; 50-54; 55-59; 60-64; 65-69; 70-74; 75-79; 80-84).

The main investigation of the study will be the occurence/frequency/severity of gastrointestinal symptoms during trening and competition between groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will recruit ironman triathletes who havEQualified for the Kona ironman World-championships in Hawaii. Participants will be allocated into either probiotic (Lab4 Probiotics, Cultech, Port Talbot, Wales, UK) or placebo (Maltodextrin) groups, in a double-blind fashion (Blinded by supplement supplier).

Those recruited into the study will have their trening load and gut symptoms monitored for 8-weeks prior to competition via the completion of onlinEQuestionnaires (previously validated).

Four-weeks prior to competition participants will provide a stool sample for microbiome analysis, they will then proceed to supplement with probiotic or placebo for 4-weeks. 24-h prior to competition they will provide a stool sample as well as providing a sample from the first bowel movement post-race, which will be used for microbiome analysis.

Data will be collected for pre-race and raceday nutrition, as well as outcome measures for raceday performance and gastroitestinal symptoms experienced, again via onlinEQuestionnaire.

Stool samples will be analysed by an independent laboratory that specialises in microbiome analysis.

Primary outcome measures will be the composition of the gut bacteria and the metabolites (substances produced) of the gut bacteria at baseline, pre-race and post-race. As well as the occurrence (frequency, duration, severity) of gastrointestinal symptoms during trening and competition.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composition of the gut microbiome
  - Gastrointestinal symptoms during trening and competition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotics (Lab4 probiotics, Cultech, Port Talbot, Wales, UK)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05615961
