CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03369379
Title: Valuation of Efficacy and Safety of Vitamin D3 Use in 80 Women Diagnosed With Fibromyalgia. Using FIQ Score and VAS.
Official Title: Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Trial to Measure the Efficacy and Safety of Vitamin D3 in Patients With Fibromyalgia.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Fibromyalgia is a disease that significantly decreases the quality of life of people who suffer from it, has great repercussions at the socio-economic level due to the incapacity it produces. It is characterized by generalized pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, psychological stress and mental alterations, besides presenting painful points in different parts of the body to physical examination. Having few effective treatments is necessary to explore new options in their management to improve the general conditions of the patient. Previous studies have shown that patients with fibromyalgia have had low levels of vitamin D in the blood, a favorable response from post-vitamin D supplementation has been seen. This vitamin has been associated with pain pathways and with increased The perception of the same when it is in smaller amount. We will select patients with Fibromyalgia diagnosis from the external consultation of Rheumatology of the University Hospital "Dr. José Eleuterio González "of the UANL, over 18 years old who have not been previously supplemented with vitamin D, will initially be measured in blood of vitamin D, in addition to calcium as a safety measure, we will have a group that will only receive placebo and Another that will be supplemented with 50 thousand units weekly for 12 weeks, we will apply a questionnaire that measures pain scale and another one that measures the impact of the disease in the daily life of the patient, this will be done in a beginning and at the end of the 12 weeks .

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fibromyalgia is a disease characterized mainly by generalized pain, with great repercussion in the patient's quality of life as well as in his work and social performance. There are different therapies that have not been totally effective for the management of this pathology, for that reason it is necessary to look for cost-effective options and the reach of all the patients to obtain remission of the symptoms.

Fibromyalgia affects 1-4% of the general population, patients manifest chronic pain and other comorbidities such as sleep disorders, fatigue, depression, psychological stress and cognitive disturbances. It is a significant cause of loss of employment and disconnection from the social environment.

A longitudinal, prospective, randomized study with patients diagnosed with Fibromyalgia will be performed at the outpatient clinic of the Rheumatology Service at the University Hospital "Dr. José Eleuterio González "of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León.

DEFINITION OF VARIABLES

Dependent variable:

Vitamin D levels Conceptual definition: it is considered as pro-hormone, its active metabolite 1-25-dihydroxyvitamin D functions as a hormone since it has its own receptors found in all human cells.4 Operational definition: Normal levels\> 30-100 ng / ml, 10-30 ng / ml insufficiency and a deficit \<10 ng / ml as defined by the laboratory.19 Measurement scale: qualitative.

Independent variables:

Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) Conceptual definition: a questionnaire that assesses the impact of FM in physical capacity, the possibility of doing the usual work and, in the case of performing a paid work, the degree to which FM has affected this activity as well As subjective items very related to the FM picture (pain, fatigue, tiredness and stiffness) and emotional state (anxiety and depression).

Operational definition: consists of three domains functionality, global impact and symptomatology. It consists of 10 items. The first is the only one containing several sub-items (a-j), in number of 10, each with a rank of 4 points (from 0, always, to 3, never) according to a Likert scale.

This item evaluates the functional capacity of the patient through questions about activities related to daily life: buy, drive, etc. The second and third items correspond to numerical scales that refer to days of the week: the second on a scale from 1 to 7, and the third from 1 to 5. The rest of the items are valued using analog visual scales (EVA) From 0 to 10.

Type of variable: Quantitative dichotomous.

Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) Conceptual definition: approach used to measure pain. In one line the patient scores a point that best describes the intensity of his pain.

Operational definition: a scale that allows to measure the intensity of pain, draws a line that divides from 0 to 10, on the left corresponds to the use of pain with the number 0, on the right is the maximum degree of pain corresponds to 10 .

Type of variable: quantitative

Other variables:

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - FIBROMYALGIA IMPACT QUESTIONNAIRE

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: D3 Vitamin
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03369379
