CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00552643
Title: Study to Evaluate Polyheal-1 in Treatment of Recalcitrant Wounds
Official Title: Study to Evaluate Polyheal-1 in Treatment of Recalcitrant Wounds
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to evaluate the performance of Polyheal-1 compared to Saline in the treatment of recalcitrant wounds including venous, post-operative and post-traumatic chronic wounds with different etiologies including wounds with exposed bone and/or tendons.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic ulcers affect millions of people, and are a growing clinical problem seen most frequently in the elderly. Non-healing or slow healing wounds represent a major health burden and drain on resources, contributing to substantial disability, morbidity, and cost. Wound healing involves a well-orchestrated, complex process leading to repair of injured tissues. Basic principles of good wound care involve removal of necrotic tissue by mechanical, surgical or enzymatic debridement, wound bed preparation, and treatment of infection. In general, wounds that are being appropriately managed show measurable progress within 2-4 weeks. However despite delivering good wound care that includes providing the right dressings, nutritional support, topical care, and offering top-of-the-line support surfaces, wounds often become stagnated. Wounds refractory to treatment for 2-4 weeks are dubbed recalcitrant. Such wounds need sometime some stimuli to start the healing cascade. Polyheal-1, is thought do be potentially useful in triggering the healing process and can be particularly beneficial in stimulating the granulation process in chronic wounds of different etiologies e.g. venous, diabetic wounds, decubitus ulcers and post trauma/surgery complicated wounds. For instance exposed bones and tendons that are particularly difficult to be treated, were previously demonstrated to benefit from stimulation of granulation coverage by application of Polyheal 1.

In this protocol we intent to perform comparative study aimed at comparing performance of Polyheal I to Saline in treatment of recalcitrant wounds of different etiology such as venous and various post-operative wounds including cases were the exposed bone needs granulation coverage. Furthermore, patients with post- operative surgical complications such as sternum or partial foot amputation in diabetic patients will also be a subject of present investigation. Polyheal 1 will be compared to saline as this is the most commonly used treatment intended at keeping the wound moist and enabling progress of granulation and epithelization.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Primary Outcome Measures:The primary endpoint will be achievement of at least 75% light red granulation tissue, (grade 7 or 8 on the granulometer),

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Suspension of polystyrene beads (POLYHEAL 1)
  - DEVICE: Saline (0.9% NaCl)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00552643
