CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01626079
Title: Cardiovascular Outcomes Assessment of the MitraClip Percutaneous Therapy for Heart Failure Patients With Functional Mitral Regurgitation (The COAPT Trial) and COAPT CAS
Official Title: A Clinical Evaluation of the Safety and Effectiveness of the MitraClip® System for the Treatment of Functional Mitral Regurgitation in Symptomatic Heart Failure Subjects (COAPT Recruitment Closed). COAPT CAS (Recruitment Closed)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 776
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the Cardiovascular Outcomes Assessment of the MitraClip Percutaneous Therapy for Heart Failure Patients with Functional Mitral Regurgitation (COAPT) Trial is to confirm the safety and effectiveness of the MitraClip System for the treatment of moderate-to-severe or severe functional mitral regurgitation (FMR) in Symptomatic Heart Failure Subjects who are treated per standard of care and who have been determined by the site's local heart team as not appropriate for mitral valve surgery. This randomized controlled trial will provide the opportunity to strengthen or add labeling claims regarding safety and clinical benefits of the MitraClip System for symptomatic heart failure patients with moderate-to-severe or severe functional mitral regurgitation.

Approximately 610 subjects will be randomized at up to 100 investigational sites with approximately 305 subjects targeted to receive the study device. COAPT study completed recruiting subjects in June 2017.

As part of the COAPT trial, a subset of patients will be registered in the cardiopulmonary exercise (CPX) sub-study. The objective of this sub-study is to evaluate the exercise responses in a sub-cohort of COAPT subjects who receive MitraClip device (Device group) compared to the Control group who do not receive MitraClip device. (Note: the CPX Sub-study subjects will contribute to the analyses of the COAPT primary and secondary endpoints)

As an extension of the COAPT RCT trial, COAPT CAS study will be conducted after COAPT enrollment is complete under the same investigational device exemption (IDE(G120024)). The objective of this study is to evaluate the MitraClip® NT System for the treatment of clinically significant functional mitral regurgitation (FMR) in symptomatic heart failure subjects who are treated per standard of care and who have been determined by the site's local heart team as not appropriate for mitral valve surgery. The anticipated Study Completion Date is July 2024. COAPT CAS completed recruiting subjects in March 2019.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Prospective, randomized, parallel-controlled, multicenter clinical evaluation of the MitraClip device for the treatment of clinically significant functional mitral regurgitation in symptomatic heart failure subjects who are treated per standard of care and who have been determined by the site's local heart team as not appropriate for mitral valve surgery. Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the MitraClip device (Device group) or to no MitraClip device (Control group).

As part of the COAPT trial, a subset of patients (at least 50 up to 100 in total) will be registered in the CPX Sub-study, which is designed as a prospective, randomized (1:1 ratio to the MitraClip or no MitraClip device), parallel-controlled, multicenter study registering approximately 50-100 subjects in up to 50 qualified US sites from the COAPT trial. Subjects registered and randomized in the CPX Sub-study will contribute to the total enrollment approximately of 610 subjects in the COAPT trial. Roll-in subjects will not participate in the CPX Sub-study.

The COAPT CAS study is designed as a prospective, multicenter, single arm, continued access registry study. A maximum of 800 subjects (anticipated) will be registered from up to 75 sites in the United States. The enrollment will end once pre-market approval (PMA) of the proposed expanded indication of MitraClip System is obtained. Active follow-up of patients will be performed through 12 months with scheduled visits at 30 days and 12 months. The national Trans catheter Valve Therapy Registry (TVT Registry) will be used for data collection through 12 months. Annual follow-up data from 2 years through year 5 post-implant will be obtained by linkage to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Claims database.

COAPT CAS data may be used to support the PMA application of the labeling claims for the treatment of moderate to severe or severe FMR in symptomatic heart failure subjects. This single arm registry will provide valuable new information regarding use of the MitraClip® NT System under more "real world" conditions.

COAPT study completed recruiting subjects in June 2017. COAPT CAS completed recruiting subjects in March 2019. A total of 162 subjects were enrolled in the COAPT CAS Group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Primary Safety Endpoint - Percentage of Participants With Freedom From Device Related Complications at 12 Months
  - Primary Effectiveness Endpoint

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: MitraClip System

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01626079
