CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01972594
Title: Pedometer Based Intervention After Total Hip Replacement-A Pilot Study
Official Title: A 12 Week Pedometer Based Walking Intervention to Enhance Physical Activity Performance Following Total Hip Replacement-A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Total hip replacement is designed to alleviate pain, reduce disability and improve function and physical activity levels. Whilst pain, disability and function are often measured following surgery, actual physical activity is not. The aim of rehabilitation after total hip replacement would be to obtain optimal strength and range of movement at the hip along with cumulative endurance and balance. It is taken for granted that, once function is restored, the patient returns to physical activity levels associated with good health. In a previous study conducted by the same team it was observed that patients, at the end of 3 months after hip surgery, do not reach the levels of physical activity which are proven to be beneficial for health. Physiotherapy plays an important role in improving function and increasing levels of Physical activity in total hip replacement patients, but there is limited literature to substantiate this claim. There is a need to enhance levels of physical activity in patient after total hip replacement towards levels that are associated with good health. This study aims to demonstrate a method of enhancing physical activity levels after total hip replacement using a pedometer based intervention over a period of 3 months. Patients will follow a customized progressive stepping activity schedule aimed at establishing levels of physical activity that are associated with good health. To fully understand recovery patterns subjective and objective measures of strength of the hip muscles, range of motion at the hip, overall endurance, balance and speed of walking of the patient will be assessed. Questionnaires will be utilized to assess quality of life both before and after total hip surgery. The physical activity levels of the patient will be measured with a physical activity monitor. This study will be completed at the Golden Jubilee National Hospital at Glasgow.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Physical activity can be defined as the time spent engaging in non-sedentary behaviour. This would include sit to stand episodes, periods spent upright and periods spent stepping. Physical activity can be considered as purposeful free living activity with major health benefits. According to the World health organisation, Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles that requires energy expenditure. Physical inactivity has been identified as the fourth leading risk factor for global mortality causing an estimated 3.2 million deaths globally. Improvement in Physical activity levels has a direct and indirect add-on effect in reducing various comorbidities which may or may not exist in a patient including cardiac diseases, stroke, diabetes and osteoporosis. These facts can also be applied to orthopedically challenged individuals undergoing total hip replacement or recovering from it.

Total hip replacement (THR) or total hip arthroplasty (THA) is one of the most common orthopaedic surgeries performed and has been termed as the "operation of the century". It has been suggested that impairment and physical limitations persisted in the long-term following a THR, even in the absence of pain, with reduced muscle strength, postural stability and flexibility. These factors would indirectly affect the physical activity levels of a patient which neutralizes one of the purposes of the total hip replacement. Reduction in the ability to be physically active is one of the reasons a patient undergoes a total hip replacement, others being pain and disability. One of the goals of the orthopaedic surgeon is to bring a patient back to an acceptable level of physical function and activity, post-surgery. This depends on both compliance with rehabilitation programmes and ability of the patient. Previously is has been found that there is only a small increase in patients' actual physical activity at post THR surgery, possibly due to the lifestyle changes adopted by the patients to manage their condition prior to undergoing surgical intervention.

Physiotherapy is the mainstay of treatment for post-operative total hip replacements as it attempts to address the issues of impairment, disability and function. The use of physiotherapy as an intervention either before or after surgery has been investigated, with evidence to suggest that there are benefits to outcome. Post-operative physical training which includes physiotherapy is beneficial to patients with a THR, even if they have co-morbidities. It has been proposed that early and late post-operative protocols should include treadmill training, resistance training for the quadriceps muscles, arm interval exercise training with weight bearing exercises and eccentric training of the hip abductors. These protocols appeared to provide benefits for the participants, increasing strength, endurance and balance. However, they may not be applicable clinically in the current socio economic scenario.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical Activity following Hip Replacement.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Targetted protocol with pedometer
  - DEVICE: Accelerometer(ActivPAL)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01972594
