CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04925895
Title: Effects of Dynamic Soft Tissue Mobilization in Reducing Hamstring Tightness in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Dynamic Soft Tissue Mobilization vs Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation in Reducing Hamstring Muscle Tightness in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: a Randomized Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this randomized control trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of dynamic soft tissue mobilization in comparison with the proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (hold-relax) technique in reducing hamstring muscle tightness, pain and improving physical functions in patients with knee osteoarthritis by using Visual Analog Scale-10 cm, Active Knee Extension Angle Test in degree and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score. This study will be carried out at Sindh Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Dow Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi on the basis of non-probability purposive sample technique with screening for study criteria through a consultant physician (blinded) . After taking informed consent all participants will be randomly allocated into 2 groups i.e. 24 in interventional group 'A' and 24 in interventional group 'B' through second researcher who is not involved in screening, baseline assessment and providing intervention.The interventional group 'A' will received dynamic soft tissue mobilization on hamstring muscle along with cryotherapy on knee joint and isometric strengthening exercises for knee osteoarthritis while the interventional group 'B' will received proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (hold relax) technique on hamstring muscle along with cryotherapy on knee joint and isometric strengthening exercises for knee osteoarthritis. Twelve sessions will be given each of 30 minutes.Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and at last session.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All the participants will referred by the physiatrist as diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis. All the data will be collected within ethical constraints. Only principal investigator will access to the data as it will be in her custody. Patient recruitment, data collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for adverse events, and change management will be strictly performed within codes of ethics.

The sample size of 48 patients (24 in one group) is calculated by using open epi software version 3, Paired Means Power Analysis with 99% Confidence Interval and 95% power of test, mean ± S.D of VAS 5.27 ± 0.8 in group A and 3.81±1.4 in group B on the basis of previous findings. The missing data will be considered during analysis and results interpretation for any inconsistency in results.Data were stored and analyzed using IBM-SPSS version 23.0, Mean with standard deviation will be calculated for all quantitative variables. Counts with percentages will be presented for quantitative variables. parametric or non parametric tests will be used to compare outcome variables within and between groups after sessions completion. P-values less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual analogue scale in centimetre
  - Active Knee Extension Angle Test in degree

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dynamic soft tissue mobilization
  - OTHER: Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation stretching
  - OTHER: Cryotherapy
  - OTHER: Isometric knee strengthening excercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04925895
