CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06599034
Title: Strategies to Increase Adherence to Physical Activity in a Phase III Cardiac Rehabilitation Program
Official Title: Strategies to Increase Adherence to Physical Activity in a Phase III Cardiac Rehabilitation Program
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
This study consists of a randomised clinical trial of two parallel groups conducted in patients with ischaemic heart disease after completing phase II of Cardiac Rehabilitation (RHBC) at the Centro de Especialidades Mislata (CEM),Hospital Manises. The objective is to assess adherence to structured and unstructured physical activity in the long term (6 and 12 months). In addition to the usual recommendations in the Control Group (CG), a motivational programme will be added to the Intervention Group (IG), which will consist of establishing an individualised exercise plan reviewed monthly, in addition to maintaining continuous contact with the physiotherapist.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Regular physical activity is an important measure in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. In the phase II Cardiac Rehabilitation programme, the acquisition of healthy lifestyle habits is taught and encouraged, with physical exercise as a fundamental pillar of the programme. Physical exercise should be maintained throughout life (RHBC phase III) in order to continue to produce cardiovascular benefits. However, few studies focus on strategies to increase adherence to physical activity, despite its benefits in disease control.

Motivation is one of the main barriers described by patients as well as the lack of contact with healthcare staff once the acute disease process is over. Therefore, we propose a simple, practical and economical intervention to increase adherence to physical activity, through a motivational programme, based on the establishment of objectives for each patient, carrying out an individualised physical exercise programme according to their preferences and needs, also establishing continuous contact with the physiotherapist to review and establish new objectives.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient Adherence to Physical Activity
  - Participants Adherence to Physical Activity. Steps Control

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06599034
