CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05293353
Title: Neokare Safety and Tolerability Assessment in Neonates With GI Problems
Official Title: A Prospective Tolerability and Safety Study of a Powdered Human Milk-based Breastmilk Fortifier (Neokare) in Neonates With Gastrointestinal Problems
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
With an increasing body of evidence to support a causal link between drinking milk that contain cow's milk protein (CMP) and the development of gastrointestinal disturbance in infants, many clinicians avoid the use of CMP containing feed in high risk babies.

Delivery of adequate nutritional intake is one of the great challenges in the care of newborn infants, particularly those born preterm or with gastrointestinal problems. Whilst there are recognised benefits of human milk, a diet of exclusive human milk may not meet the nutritional demands of the infant. To close this gap, breast milk fortifier (BMF) is typically added to human milk. However, addition of BMF may be associated with gastrointestinal disturbance, possibly due to the fact that it contains CMP.

This research study is to test the tolerability and safety of a new human milk-based BMF in neonates with gastrointestinal problems. It is hoped that this may provide an opportunity for high risk infants, to receive the benefits of human milk whilst minimising the risks reported to be associated with CMP.

Eligible infants will be those in whom nutritional supplementation of breast is deemed clinically necessary, a weight of greater than 1.0kg at the time of starting fortifier and at least one of:

* previous gastrointestinal surgery
* congenital gastrointestinal anomaly
* medically treated gastrointestinal disease
* previously suspected intolerance of CMP based breast milk fortifier in the absence of other gastrointestinal disease

Infants will be started on human milk-based BMF once they are tolerating 100 mls per kilo per day of human breast milk. The human milk-based fortifier will be commenced at half the recommended dose for 48 hours then increase to full strength. This will be continued until the infant reaches 44 weeks corrected gestational age, or until such time as they are deemed to no longer require the additional nutrition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND There is an increasing body of evidence to support a causal link between ingestion of cow's milk protein (CMP) containing milks and the development of gastrointestinal disturbance in preterm and term infants. In particular the development of necrotising enterocolitis (NEC) has been associated with use of CMP containing feed in both epidemiological studies and a small number of prospective trials. It may be that this is due to a lack of the protective effect of breast milk, rather than CMP pe se. In addition to NEC, CMP containing feed may be implicated in the development of other gastrointestinal disturbance in preterm infants and as such many clinicians avoid the use of CMP containing feed in high risk infants. One such group are preterm infants who have already had an episode of NEC. Others include those born with a congenital anomaly of the gastrointestinal tract such as gastroschisis.

One of the great challenges in the care of the preterm neonate is the delivery of adequate nutritional intake to support growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and development. Whilst there are recognised benefits of human milk for preterm infants, a diet of exclusive human milk does not meet the nutritional and metabolic demands of the preterm infant(4). To close this nutritional gap, breast milk fortifier (BMF) is typically added to human milk. BMF is manufactured from cow's milk, and so contains hydrolysed CMP. However, there is concern that this addition of BMF may be associated with gastrointestinal disturbance, and this may be due to the fact that it contains elements of CMP. In view of this potential association, there is an understandable reluctance to use standard BMF in infants who have already had evidence of gastrointestinal disturbance, such as NEC or gastrointestinal surgery.

RATIONALE Recently a human milk based breast milk fortifier (NeoKare) has become available and is currently being evaluated in the preterm population when compared to current standard feeding practice. Provision of such an exclusive human milk diet may not carry the same risk of gastrointestinal disturbance and may represent an opportunity for high-risk preterm infants that have had NEC, undergone gastrointestinal surgery or had other gastrointestinal disturbance felt to be related to type of milk, to receive the benefits of human milk together with the nutritional benefits of milk fortification, whilst minimising the risks reported to be associated with exposure to CMP. Being able to improve nutrient intakes in this way usinGHuman milk based fortifier, may reduce the need for parenteral nutrition, and in turn reduce the risk of complications of parenteral nutrition, length of stay and hospital costs. To date this human milk-based breast milk fortifier has not been formally evaluated in this group of infants.

There is a need to establish if NeoKare is tolerated by infants with pre-existing gastrointestinal disturbance, and see if it can be safely used in this population. There is also a need t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Days of feed intolerance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: NeoKare Breast Milk Fortifier

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 44 Weeks
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05293353
