CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06906796
Title: The Effect of Diaphragmatic Breathing Exercise and Posture Exercises in E-Athletes
Official Title: The Effect of Diaphragmatic Breathing Exercise and Posture Exercises on Posture, Pain and Quality of Life in E-Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
There are many studies in the literature on diaphragmatic breathing exercise and posture exercises, but there are limited studies examining the effects of diaphragmatic breathing exercise and posture exercises on posture, pain and quality of life in e-athletes.

The investigators aim to contribute to the literature by examining the effects of diaphragmatic breathing exercise and posture exercises on posture, pain and quality of life in e-athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Electronic sports (E-sports) can be defined as a sport where individuals can play games from anywhere in the world via the internet or where people from various parts of the world play thanks to international and local organizations held at certain times. E-sports is a very popular sports field thanks to the ability to play on computer-based game systems in a globally competitive arena.

E-sports can be seen as a recreational activity outside of work hours. With its easy accessibility, area of influence and it is benefits to the individual involved, e-sports emerged as a popular recreational activity of the technology age. On the other hand, it is also considered a kind of gaming addiction. It is stated that the average gaming time is 5.2 hours per day. However, it is reported that these athletes can spend up to 14 hours per day on training or matches.

Although e-sports athletes sit at their desks for long periods during competitions, they exhibit highly coordinated movement patterns in the virtual world. The health problems seen in e-sports players are like those seen in general office workers. Musculoskeletal problems that develop due to staying in the same position for a long time can be seen in these athletes. Chronic pain that develops due to the musculoskeletal system can be shown as an example of these problems.

The increasing competitive pressure on e-sports players and the process of reaching elite performance levels can make them prone to mental health symptoms. According to research conducted on e-football players, the prevalence of mental health deterioration symptoms is high in e-football players, with 22% showing anxiety symptoms and 37% showing depression symptoms. On the other hand, e-sports players are known to have a higher prevalence of insomnia and anxiety than non-gaming participants.

Many studies have indicated that breathing exercises significantly affect both the physical and mental state of the individual. Regular practice of diaphragmatic breathing exercise leads to significant improvements in sleep quality and overall well-being, as well as reductions in respiratory rate, depression, and anxiety levels. Such exercises are deemed essential not only for the rehabilitation of patients but also for safeguarding against conditions that adversely impact the quality of life, including depression and anxiety, in healthy individuals. Scientific studies indicate that posture exercises coupled with diaphragmatic breathing exercise, positively influence pain levels and enhance quality of life.

The investigators aim to contribute to the literature by examining the effects of diaphragmatic breathing exercise and posture exercises on posture, pain and quality of life in e-athletes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Posture Analysis
  - The Visual Analog Scale (VAS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Diaphragmatic breathing exercise and posture exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06906796
