CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05988905
Title: The Effects of Gait Performance and Brain Activity After Robot-assisted Gait Training (RAGT) On Patients With Lower Extremity Thermal Injury
Official Title: The Effects of Gait Performance and Brain Activity After Robot-assisted Gait Training (RAGT) On Patients With Lower Extremity Thermal Injury : a Prospective, Randomized, Single-blinded Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Gait enables individuals to move forward and is considered a natural skill. Gait disturbances are very common in patients with burn injury. Major causes of gait disturbances are pain and joint contractures. Recent studies focused on the application of robot-assisted gait training (RAGT) for improving gait functions. This study aimed to elucidate the efficacy and investigate the mechanism of motor recovery after RAGT on patients with lower extremity burn. To investigate the clinical effects, the investigators compare the results of RAGT group to the results of matched conventional (CON) rehabilitation group.This single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial involved 40 patients with lower extremity burns. Patients were randomized into a RAGT or a CON group. SUBAR® (CRETEM, Korea) is a exoskeletal-robot with a footplate that assists patients to perform gait motions. RAGT enables training of automatically programmed normal gait pattern. Patients underwent 30 min of RAGT using SUBAR® and conventional exercise rehabilitation each for 30 min once a day for 5 days a week for 8 weeks. The CON group focused on gait training such as active range of motion (ROM) exercise, weight bearing training, manual lymphatic drainage, and hypertrophic scar care for 60 min once a day for 5 days a week for 8 weeks.A wearable functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) device has been developed for studying cortical hemodynamics. Changes in cortical activity has not previously been documented in patients with burn injury. The primary outcome was the prefrontal cortical activity in the both groups. The walking-related cortical activity using an fNIRS device before and after 8 weeks training were measured. To evaluate functional recovery, functional ambulation category (FAC) scores and 6-minute walking test (6MWT) distances were measured. Numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to rate the degree of subjective pain during gait movement: 0 points were assigned when no pain was noted, and unbearable pain was assigned 10 points.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gait enables individuals to move forward and is considered a natural skill. Gait disturbances are very common in patients with burn injury. Major causes of gait disturbances are pain and joint contractures. Recent studies focused on the application of robot-assisted gait training (RAGT) for improving gait functions. This study aimed to elucidate the efficacy and investigate the mechanism of motor recovery after RAGT on patients with lower extremity burn. To investigate the clinical effects, the investigators compare the results of RAGT group to the results of matched conventional (CON) rehabilitation group.This single-blinded, randomized, controlled trial involved 40 patients with lower extremity burns. Patients were randomized into a RAGT or a CON group. SUBAR® (CRETEM, Korea) is a exoskeletal-robot with a footplate that assists patients to perform gait motions. RAGT enables training of automatically programmed normal gait pattern. Patients underwent 30 min of RAGT using SUBAR® and conventional exercise rehabilitation each for 30 min once a day for 5 days a week for 8 weeks. The CON group focused on gait training such as active range of motion (ROM) exercise, weight bearing training, manual lymphatic drainage, and hypertrophic scar care for 60 min once a day for 5 days a week for 8 weeks.A wearable functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) device has been developed for studying cortical hemodynamics. Changes in cortical activity has not previously been documented in patients with burn injury. The primary outcome was the prefrontal cortical activity in the both groups. The walking-related cortical activity using an fNIRS device before and after 8 weeks training were measured. To evaluate functional recovery, functional ambulation category (FAC) scores and 6-minute walking test (6MWT) distances were measured. Numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to rate the degree of subjective pain during gait movement: 0 points were assigned when no pain was noted, and unbearable pain was assigned 10 points.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - near infrared spectroscopy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: robot assited gati training
  - OTHER: conventional traiing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05988905
