CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06254586
Title: Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training on Exercises in Healthy Individuals.
Official Title: Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training on Heart Rate, Blood Pressure, Mean Arterial Pressure, and Limb Girth During Resisted Exercises Versus Aerobic Exercise in Healthy Individuals.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 480
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Partial restriction of blood flow to working muscles during exercise is proven to increase muscle mass and strength even with low-intensity of exercise. Blood Flow Restriction Training (BFRT) is also beneficial to improve the maximum rate of oxygen consumption (VO2max), bone health, and vascular health. Recent studies focus on its effects beyond the musculoskeletal system. Post-exercise hypotension is a known acute physiological response that happens after intense exercise. Early studies demonstrated BFRT might amplify the acute hypotensive effects with low intensity of exercise. However, it's not clear what type of exercise would help to lower blood pressure when it is combined with BFRT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Partial restriction of blood flow to working muscles during exercise is proven to increase muscle mass and strength even with low-intensity of exercise. Blood Flow Restriction Training (BFRT) is also beneficial to improve the maximum rate of oxygen consumption (VO2max), bone health, and vascular health. Recent studies focus on its effects beyond the musculoskeletal system. Post-exercise hypotension is a known acute physiological response that happens after intense exercise. Early studies demonstrated BFRT might amplify the acute hypotensive effects with low intensity of exercise. However, it's not clear what type of exercise would help to lower blood pressure when it is combined with BFRT. Considering BFRT, it's safe to implement among hypertensive individuals as per recent studies. It's still unclear what type of exercise would benefit maximum in reducing blood pressure while using it along BFR. The study aims to determine whether BFRT can influence BP, MAP, HR, and muscle girth differently while doing resisted exercises and aerobic exercise. Understanding the effects of BFRT on these parameters can provide valuable insights for optimizing exercise protocols and improving overall health outcomes. In general, this study can also add to the increasing amount of studies about the possible advantages and drawbacks of BFRT, and provide guidance on how to design exercise programs for people with borderline hypertension or in those with early phase of hypertension.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Heart rate
  - Heart rate
  - Heart rate
  - Heart rate
  - Heart rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Aerobic exercises
  - PROCEDURE: Resisted exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06254586
