CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01381354
Title: Nutrition, Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) and Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (SPMS)
Official Title: Nutrition, Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) and Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (SPMS)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The study will use a multimodal therapeutic lifestyle intervention consisting of a study diet, stressing more vegetables and fruit, elimination of foods at greatest risk for food allergy, meditation, self massage, progressive exercise and neuromuscular electrical stimulation for rehabilitation of gait and fatigue disability in the setting of secondary and primary progressive multiple sclerosis with gait disability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Restoration of function is very rare in individuals with MS who have experienced gradual worsening in the absence of acute MS symptoms (relapses) and partial or complete recovery of those acute symptoms (remissions).

A recent case report of a patient with secondary progressive MS documented a trensition from scooter dependence to mild gait disability following the initiation of electrotherapy in the form of neuromuscular electrical stimulation and nutritional interventions aimed increasing the nutrient density and decreasing the risk of food sensitivity and food allergies. Multiple studies of neuromuscular electrical stimulation in athletes, cerebral palsy and stroke patients have demonstrated gains in strength and coordination. Multiple authors have reported that antioxidants, essential amino acids and micronutrient rich diets are neuroprotective. It is likely that the combination of the intensive nutrition and the electrotherapy contributed to the marked gains in improvement. However in the absence of an additional case report the strength of the association remains unknown.

The intent of this study is to replicate the interventions from the case report as closely as possible.

Our primary objective is to measure how many and how completely subjects implement 1) the nutritional interventions, 2) the home exercise program intervention, and 3) the electrotherapy intervention and if the improve improved nutrition and exercise are associated with improved function. To assess improvements in function will measure 1) the change in nutritional status as reported in food frequency surveys, 24 hr dietary recalls, 2) change in neurocognitive testing and behaviors, 3) change in self-reported function and disability scales, 4) change in gait and 5) change in medications doses or classes for MS related symptoms.

Subjects will be followed for three years. After the first year, subjects will not receive intensive support from the study team. The subjects return at months 18, 24 and 36 to assess adherence with study interventions, function and quality of life. Nutrition intake is assessed again at 24 and 36 months.

To assess for safety we will assess safety labs (kidney and liver function tests) and changes in weight, and self reported side effects questionnaire.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fatigue severity scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Progressive exercise
  - DEVICE: Neuromuscular electrical stimulation delivered using the electrical therapy device EMPI 300 PV
  - OTHER: Modified paleolithic diet
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega 3 fatty acids
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Full Spectrum vitamin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01381354
