CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03329079
Title: Engaging Rural Men With Mobile Technologies for Weight Loss
Official Title: Engaging Rural Men With Mobile Technologies for Weight Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Overweight and obese men in rural Northeast Nebraska are an unrepresented, at-risk group exhibiting rising rates of cardiovascular disease, poor access to preventive care, and a rural milieu that contributes to their sedentary physical activity and unhealthy diet. This study proposes to use a pragmatic randomized controlled trial and community engaged research approaches to 1) determine the feasibility and acceptability of a commercially available, smart phone self-monitoring app (premium-version) plus text-based coaching and daily weighing via Wi-Fi scale intervention for achieving weight loss, 2) determine preliminary efficacy of this intervention group to a comparison group receiving only a self-monitoring app (basic-version) in achieving the outcomes of weight loss (kilogram) and improved dietary and physical activity behaviors (secondary) at 6 months post-baseline, and 3) determine quantitative and qualitative indicators of community capacity to support a contextually relevant weight loss intervention. Eighty men (ages 40-69) with body mass index of 28 or higher, randomly assigned (1:1 ratio) to intervention group or comparison group. Men will complete baseline assessments (weight, % body fat, body mass index height, blood pressure, health history, dietary intake, physical activity frequency/intensity) and receive orientation to the mobile technologies (app features, text messaging, Wi-Fi scale). Men will track their dietary intake, physical activity, and weight on the app for 12 weeks. After the 3-month intervention, post-measure assessments (weight, % body fat, BMI, dietary intake, PA frequency/intensity, technology usability surveys) will be collected at 3 and 6 months post-baseline. At 6 months post-baseline, two groups (n=8 each) of intervention completers will be purposively selected to share their perceptions of the intervention efficacy in an evaluative focus group. A community advisory board comprising local leaders within the men's social network, together with investigators and rural student nurses will guide community outreach efforts for study recruitment, implementation and evaluation. Study findings will be evaluated with the community to inform local dissemination, future intervention revision, and determination of community capacity for support of a larger clinical trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is a major public health problem that disproportionately affects rural men and promotes the development of chronic conditions such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, arthritis, and cancer. This study proposes to evaluate a mobile self-monitoring application (app) with Wi-Fi scale and text messaging intervention (MT+: mobile technology plus) for achieving weight loss in overweight and obese rural men. This proposal aligns with 1) Healthy People 2020's aim to eliminate health disparities by increasing physical activity and reducing obesity in adults; 2) the NIH's strategic plan to prioritize obesity reduction research among underserved rural populations; and, 3) the NINR's strategic focus on technology to promote health. Sixty nine percent of rural men in Nebraska are overweight or obese with increasing prevalence during midlife 40-59 (40%) and older (36%). Rural men are more likely to smoke, be obese, be physically inactive, and have shorter lifespans (2 years) than urban men. Rural men are also more likely to be uninsured/underinsured, less likely to engage in preventive health services, and report overall poorer health than urban men. Despite the burden of obesity, no self-monitoring mobile technology interventions targeting weight loss in rural, U.S. males exist, though the investigators preliminary study demonstrated rural men will use mobile technology for eating and activity self-monitoring. Studies show self-monitoring as one of the most effective behavior-change techniques for weight loss. MT+ provides an accessible means of real-time self-monitoring support for targeting lifestyle behaviors that lead to weight loss.

The investigators propose a pragmatic, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a MT+ intervention for weight loss in overweight and obese men in a practical, real-life rural environment. This 6-month pilot RCT includes a 3-month intervention with 6-month post-baseline follow-up. The intervention group (n=40) will receive a 3-month MT+ intervention using a commercially available, premium-version mobile phone app with social comparison group, behavior change text messaging, and daily self-weighing via Wi-Fi scale. The comparison group (n=40) will receive the basic-version mobile phone app only (MT). Primary efficacy outcome will be loss of body weight (kg \& % body weight) at 3 and 6 months. Secondary outcomes will be improved diet and increased physical activity (PA). A multi-method formative evaluation of the intervention (student outreach, community advisory board (CAB), community capacity surveys, focus group, community dissemination) will occur across the study. Primary feasibility outcomes will include recruitment/retention rates and community resource development for program sustainment. The multi-modal feedback will help 1) facilitate recruitment of a hard-to-reach population, and 2) inform intervention feasibility and acceptability. These local 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Change in Weight by Randomized Group

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mobile Technology Plus
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mobile Technology

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 69 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03329079
