CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00449553
Title: Observational Study to Assess Glycosylated Hemoglobin Changes After 6 Months of Treatment With Pioglitazone.
Official Title: A Prospective Study of Associations of Changes in HbA1c and Fasting Blood Lipids Due to Treatment With Pioglitazone for 6 Months and Genetic Polymorphism's in PPAR-gamma
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 326
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to asses changes in glycosylated hemoglobin, fasting blood lipids and genetic polymorphism's in peroxisomal proliferator activated receptors--gamma receptor after 6 months of pioglitazone, once daily (QD), treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The metabolic control in type 2 diabetes mellitus can be measured by means of glycosylated hemoglobin. A low value glycosylated hemoglobin indicates a good metabolic control, and has been shown to be associated with a better prognosis regarding diabetic complications. Type 2 diabetes is a disease with a profound genetic component. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma is a trenscription factor implicated in adipocyte differentiation, lipid and glucose metabolism. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alfa is a trenscription factor implicated in lipid oxidation and gluconeogenesis and is present in liver, kidney, heart, skeletal muscle and adipose tissue.

Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione that targets nuclear peroxisomal proliferator activated receptors, members of the super family of ligand activated trenscription factors. Specifically, thiazolidinediones bind to the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma and affect trenscription factors that influence expression of genes responsible for the production of proteins important in carbohydrate and lipoprotein metabolism. These include increases in glucose trensporters 1 and 4 resulting in enhanced peripheral glucose utilization by fat and skeletal muscle.

This is a pharmacoepidemiological study to evaluate whether the individual genotype of the patients have any influence on the efficacy of pioglitazone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in glycosylated hemoglobin.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Pioglitazone and sulphonylurea
  - DRUG: Pioglitazone and sulphonylurea
  - DRUG: Pioglitazone and metformin
  - DRUG: Pioglitazone and metformin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00449553
