CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06551714
Title: The Effect of Neurophysiological Facilitation Techniques on Health Parameters in Early Stages After Open Heart Surgery
Official Title: The Effect of Neurophysiological Facilitation Techniques on Pulmonary Function, Respiratory Muscle Strength and Functional Capacity in The Early Stage After Open Heart Surgery
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
In this study, researchers aimed to investigate effects of neurophysiological facilitation on functional capacity and respiratory parameters of patients who underwent open heart surgery.

Do neurophysiological facilitation techniques improve individuals' respiratory parameters more than phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation?

Do neurophysiological facilitation techniques improve individuals' functional capacity more than phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation?

Researchers will apply phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation to both groups to see the effectiveness of neurophysiological facilitation techniques.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this study, researchers aimed to investigate effects of neurophysiological facilitation on functional capacity and respiratory parameters of patients who underwent open heart surgery.

The study was performed on 32 patients who underwent open heart surgery. Patients divided into two groups which study group (n=18) and control group (n=14).

Range of motion, breathing and mobilization exercises within the scope of phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation program were applied to the control group; in addition to the phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation program, neurophysiological facilitation techniques (perioral stimulation, intercostal tension, anterior basal lift, vertebral pressure, moderate manual pressure and abdominal co-contraction) were applied to the study group.

Sociodemographic features and disease-specific findings were recorded on the first postoperative day .

Vital signs, functional capacity, pulmonary function, fatigue and dyspnea of every patient were recorded before and after each treatment on the first four postoperative days.

Functional capacity was evaluated using Timed Up and Go (TUG) test and 2-Minutes Walking test (2MWT). Pulmonary function was examined using a peak flow meter and respiratory muscle strength was measured using an intraoral pressure measurement device. In addition, fatigue and dyspnea perception was measured using Modified Borg Scale.

Before the first day treatment and after the last day treatment of the four-day treatment, patients' fatigue severity were assessed with using Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), anxiety and depression level with using Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), fear of movement with using TAMPA Kinesiophobia Scale and life quality with using the Minnesota Heart Failure Questionnaire.

Before each treatment chest circumference measurements were taken, and the perceived pain severity was recorded using Visual Analog Scale (VAS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - İnspiratory muscle strength
  - Expiratory muscle strength
  - 2 Minute Walk Test
  - Time Up and Go (TUG)
  - Vital sign

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Phase 1 cardiac rehabilitation
  - PROCEDURE: Neurophysiological facilitation techniques

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06551714
