CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07000734
Title: Fortifying Healthy Behaviors, Optimizing Medical Therapies and Enhancing Cognitive Function in Older Adults-pilot Study
Official Title: Fortifying Healthy Behaviors, Optimizing Medical Therapies and Enhancing Cognitive Function in Older Adults-pilot Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to explore ways to improve motor, cognitive and immune functions for aging adults using multiple techniques like lifestyle changes and risk factor management, as well as medications and supplements believed to have a positive effect on health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal in this pilot open-label study is to conduct a feasibility test of a multi-component, personalized intervention designed to improve the aging human healthspan. The trial will recruit at least 20 adults aged 50-70, both male and female. The total time of study participation is up to 5 months.

The intervention will last for approximately 3 months, with testing of motor, cognitive, and immune outcomes before and after the intervention.

The intervention consist of three components:

1. Fortify Healthy Behaviors: behavioral lifestyle management that combines an exercise program, healthy eating behaviors and optimizing sleep quality;
2. Optimize Medical Therapies: reviewing the participants cardiovascular risk factors, smoking cessation when indicated, treatment with the senolytic medication dasatinib combined with the antioxidant quercetin , and dietary supplements relevant for brain, bone and immune system functioning; and
3. Enhance Cognitive Function: vortioxetine (an antidepressant shown to have pro-cognitive properties), in combination with digital cognitive training to improve fluid cognition and memory, and deprescribing of drugs with CNS toxicity (i.e. those that cause cognitive difficulties).

The outcome assessments will be measured both pre- and post-intervention and up to three times at each time point. These assessments will look at biomarkers related to aging. Assessments will include strength and endurance tests, validated neuropsychological tests, and a blood drawn to look at immune function.

An MRI scan will also be offered to participants who are able to undergo the scan to look at brain health and aging, both pre- and post-intervention.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants who completed the outcome measure assessments and intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Risk managment
  - DRUG: Dasatinib
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Quercetin (dietary supplement)
  - DRUG: Vortioxetine

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07000734
