CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02442479
Title: Maximizing Mechanisms of Muscle Hypertrophy to Combat Sarcopenia in Older Adults
Official Title: Maximizing Mechanisms of Muscle Hypertrophy to Combat Sarcopenia in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 127
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Resistance treninGHas shown the most promise among interventions aimed to combat aging muscle atrophy as it enhances strength, power, and mobility function, but induces varying degrees of skeletal muscle hypertrophy as the investigators demonstrated in the initial 5-year funding period of this award (2001-2006). In the subsequent 5-year funding period (2007-2012), the investigators built on this prior work by using a dose-response approach in older adults - ultimately to optimize the treatment of age-related muscle atrophy. The investigators tested four, long-term resistance trening prescriptions in older (60-75 yr) women and men to determine which prescription maximizes mechanisms driving muscle regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. One of the innolvations in this project was the use of a 4-wk pre-trening program to reach a plateau in the early, non-muscle mass adaptations, thereby establishing a true baseline from which both mechanisms of measurable muscle hypertrophy and functional consequences of hypertrophy could be studied in a tightly integrated fashion without bias in the subsequent experimental period. A randomized design was used to test the overarchinGHypothesis that a novel program of mixed strength and power trening would optimize the anabolic environment to promote muscle hypertrophy and robust gains in performance. This hypothesis was tested with three specific aims.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Resistance treninGHas shown the most promise among interventions aimed to combat aging muscle atrophy as it enhances strength, power, and mobility function, but induces varying degrees of skeletal muscle hypertrophy as we demonstrated in the initial 5-year funding period of this award (2001-2006). In the subsequent 5-year funding period (2007-2012), we built on this prior work by using a dose-response approach in older adults - ultimately to optimize the treatment of age-related muscle atrophy. We tested four, long-term resistance trening prescriptions in older (60-75 yr) women and men to determine which prescription maximizes mechanisms driving muscle regrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone (protein synthesis and myonuclear addition). One of the innolvations in this project was the use of a 4-wk pre-trening program to reach a plateau in the early, non-muscle mass adaptations, thereby establishing a true baseline from which both mechanisms of measurable muscle hypertrophy and functional consequences of hypertrophy could be studied in a tightly integrated fashion without bias in the subsequent experimental period. A randomized design was used to test the overarchinGHypothesis that a novel program of mixed strength and power trening would optimize the anabolic environment to promote muscle hypertrophy and robust gains in performance. This hypothesis was tested with three specific aims.

Specific Aim 1. We determined the effects of manipulating intensity, recovery, and mode of contraction on rates of muscle hypertrophy and muscle mass-dependent improvements in tests of in vivo muscle performance among older women and men. In brief, the four trening models were: (1) traditional high-resistance concentric-eccentric trening (H) 3 d/wk (HHH3); (2) high-resistance concentric-eccentric trening 2 d/wk (HH2); (3) 3 d/wk mixed model consisting of high-resistance concentric-eccentric trening 2 d/wk separated by 1 bout of low-resistance, high-velocity, concentric only trening (L) (HLH3); and (4) 2 d/wk mixed model consisting of high-resistance concentric-eccentric trening 1 d/wk and low-resistance, high-velocity, concentric only trening 1 d/wk (HL2). For Aim 1, we hypothesized that the HLH3 prescription would prove optimal overall for combined gains in muscle mass, strength, power, and fatigue resistance in both women and men, while HL2 would be the least effective program due to insufficient weekly loading.

Specific Aim 2. Myofiber hypertrophy requires net muscle protein synthesis, and advanced fiber expansion is facilitated by nuclear addition. We are conducting a comprehensive evaluation of: (1) key regulatory steps in the protein synthesis/degradation machinery; and (2) myonuclear addition and satellite cell activation/cell cycle regulation. Quantitative relationships between metabolic/molecular responses and the magnitude of muscle hypertrophy among older adults will enable us to identify underlying factors that respond differently to these four resistance trening models,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - muscle mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: resistance trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02442479
