CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04607356
Title: Blood Flow Restriction Exercise in the Treatment of Lateral Epicondylalgia Traditional Treatment
Official Title: Blood Flow Restriction Exercise in the Treatment of Lateral Epicondylalgia vs Traditional Treatment
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 104
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to compare the clinical effectiveness and outcomes between current evidence based clinical care and use of personalized blood flow restriction training in the treatment of lateral epicondylalgia ("tennis elbow").

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Lateral Epicondylalgia, or "tennis elbow", has been shown to affect up to 3% of the population and is a common musculoskeletal condition which also affects military service members. This study will compare clinical effectiveness of two treatment programs in individuals with lateral elbow pain.

Design: Prospective randomized controlled clinical trial

Methods: Participants, between the ages of 18-65, presenting to the NMCSD or NHCP Occupational or Physical Therapy Clinics with complaint of lateral elbow pain will be eligible for consideration to participate in this research. Patients that meet the inclusion criteria and elect to participate in the study will be randomized to either (1) a standardized, evidence based rehabilitation program or (2) an exercise volume matched group using personalized blood flow restriction (BFR) exercise.

Upon entry to the program subjects will complete measurements of height, body weight, physical activity level (Marx Activity Scale), annotation of their dominant upper extremity (UE), the patient-rated tennis elbow evaluation (PRTEE) questionnaire, Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS), Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System version 1.2- Global Health (PROMIS scale v1.2- Global Health), and grip strength using the JAMAR dynamometer. At the end of each treatment session subjects will complete the Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) and the OMNI-Resistance Exercise Scale (OMNI-RES) rating of perceived exertion (RPE) survey.

The standard rehabilitation group will perform active wrist extension, forearm supination, and gripping. These exercises may include isometric, concentric, or eccentric forms of strengthening contingent upon clinical decision making. Specifics of exercise performance (to include magnitude of resistance and volume of exercise) will be documented in the treatment record.

The Delphi Personalized Tourniquet System (PTS) will be utilized for the BFR exercises. The Delphi PTS measures an individual's personalized tourniquet pressure (PTP) using doppler technology similar to a blood pressure cuff. In the BFR exercise condition, subjects will perform a 30-15-15-15 repetition progression of 1-3 exercises as selected by the therapist.

Participants will be provided in-clinic treatment for a maximum of 12 sessions, one to three treatment sessions weekly, and may be discharged prior to that based upon shared decision making between the participant and therapist. The NPRS, grip strength, PROMIS scale v1.2- Global Health, and PRTEE will be completed at the last clinical appointment, as well as three and six-week, and three and six month follow up appointments. Twelve months following completion of occupational/physical therapy clinical care participants will be contacted and asked to complete a verbal NPRS, PROMIS scale v1.2- Global Health and the PRTEE outcome scale. Additionally, at 12 months following discharge from Physical or Occupational Therapy, the participants' EMR will be re

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numerical Pain Rating Scale
  - Patient-rated tennis elbow evaluation (PRTEE)
  - Grip Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Blood Flow Restriction (BFR)
  - OTHER: Evidence-informed care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04607356
