CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02123641
Title: Physical Activity as Intervention Against Age-related Loss of Muscle Mass and Function
Official Title: Physical Activity as Intervention Against Age-related Loss of Muscle Mass and Function
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 451
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
A minimum of 450 healthy individuals (62-70 years old) will be recruited.

Each individual will be randomized into one of three groups stratified according to gender (M/F), BMI (≤28/\>28), and 30 sec chair stand (≤11/\>11). The three groups are Heavy resistance training (n=150), moderate intensity training (n=150), and control (n=150, no training).

Assessments will be performed at baseline, after 12 months of intervention. Furthermore, follow up will be performed after 2,4,7, and 10 years.

The primary outcome is change in leg extensor power after the intervention and during follow up.

The primary hypothesis is that by applying the intention-to-treat analysis, the moderate intensity training group will increase leg extensor power just as much as the heavy resistance training group. The two training groups will increase muscle power more than the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Retirement has been recognized as a critical turning point in determining physical activity behaviours in old age. The literature gives a varying picture regarding change in physical activity level with work retirement but often a reduction in total physical activity has been reported. Retirement typically takes place at a time where the skeletal muscle mass, -strength and -power declines by 1-3% per year.

Interventions to promote physical activity in adults aged 55 to 70 years have been shown to be effective at 12 months but it is very unclear if the effect is maintained thereafter. Both exercise at home or at a center improves health and physical function - but home based programs appear to be superior to center based programs in terms of adherence to exercise especially in the long-term.

In older adults, strength training at 60% of 1RM has been shown to be sufficient for large effect on muscle function and muscle protein synthesis, and potentially lower loads (45-60% 1RM) have effect when adding more repetitions.

The overall objective of the study is to assess the long-term effects of 12 month of supervised high-intensity center based resistance training or "guided" moderate-intensity home-based resistance training relative to a non-exercising control group upon muscle power, -strength and -mass, physical function, physical activity level and health in older people around the time of retirement.

The hypotheses are:

1. Supervised high-intensity center based resistance training over one year results in the best improvement in muscle power and bodily function
2. "Guided" moderate-intensity home-based resistance training will result in a more active lifestyle and thus in sustained elevated activity level after the 1-year intervention period. Thus in the long run (several years) "guided" moderate-intensity home-based resistance training has superior effects compared to supervised high-intensity center based resistance training upon functional ability, health and potentially also cognitive function.

450 participants recruited through advertisements in local newspapers will be included in this three-armed, single-blinded randomized trial. After baseline assessment they will be randomized to one year of 1) supervised, high-intensity progressive, resistance training conducted in machines three times weekly in a local fitness center 2) "guided" moderate-intensity home-based resistance training conducted with elastic bands and body weight three times weekly. "Guided" means that the participants are offered supervised resistance training once weekly in addition to home based resistance training 2 times weekly or 3) various social and cultural activities that do not require physical activity.

All participants complete a wide range of tests before and after the 12 months intervention period and the primary time point for outcome assessment will be at 12 month. The same "test battery" is conducted in the subsequent years (2, 4, 7, and 10 years later) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in leg extensor power

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Heavy resistance training
  - OTHER: Moderate intensity training
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 62 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02123641
