CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04612686
Title: Characterising Frailty Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Official Title: Physiological Phenotyping of Frailty Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 51
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Ageing is associated with the development of various negative conditions, such as frailty. Defined as a decreased ability to combat negative stressors (e.g. injury and illness), frailty is highly prevalent in elderly adults and significantly increases an individual's risk of adverse events such as falls, illness and death. The underlying physical characteristics of frailty are currently incompletely understood, with many previous studies focusing on one tissue (e.g. the brain) in isolation. However, frailty is known to affect many tissues simultaneously, and to further our insight into the biological basis of frailty and how to treat it, we must determine how different organs are affected at the same time.

The study will look at the physical characteristics of non-frail and frail elderly females (aged 65 years and over), who are attending geriatric clinics across the Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust. We will aim to recruit 51 participants with this cohort broken down into non-frail (n=17), pre-frail (n=17) and frail (n=17) subgroups. Participants will be allocated to these groups based on their Electronic Frailty Index, Clinical Frailty Scale and Fried frailty phenotype scores. All participants will undergo basic muscle function tests (grip strength, leg strength and muscle activity) and questionnaires on their first visit to University of Nottingham laboratories. At a second visit, they will then undergo one Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanning session, at the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre within the University, to gather information about the structure and function of their heart, brain and skeletal muscle. MRI scan protocols will take approximately 45-60 mins. Data gathered from MRI scanning will be compared across non-frail, pre-frail and frail groups to investigate differences across frailty states, with the aim of highlighting the defining physical characteristics of the frail state which may help to develop future treatment interventions to combat the condition.

We hypothesise that frail females will present with common physical characteristics, the clustering of which will be indicative of frailty severity. We also hypothesise that certain physical traits present in the frail will not be present in the non-frail.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will recruit females aged over 65 years (n=51), from those attending hospital clinics for older people at both campuses of Nottingham University Hospitals National Health Service (NHS) Trust. A member of the clinical care team working within the clinic will identify potential participants who are 'frail', 'mildly frail/vulnerable' and 'non-frail' using the Clinical Frailty Scale (measured as part of routine care), and the electronic Frailty Index. Clinic staff will make the initial approach to patients about the study and if the individual is interested in taking part, clinic staff will inform the research team. A researcher will then approach the interested individual and provide a study information sheet outlining study procedures. Potential participants will then be given a week to consider participating in the research.

If individuals wish to participate, they will be invited to the David Greenfield Human Physiology laboratories at the Queen's Medical Centre. Here, researchers will explain the study again to volunteers and answer any questions that they may have. Volunteers will be asked to sign an informed consent document prior to any other study procedures being undertaken. Participants will initially have their height and body mass recorded and will complete questionnaires assessing their suitability to have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, their cognitive ability and independence across activities of daily living.

Each participant's frailty status will be confirmed via the Fried Frailty phenotype assessment which will include a timed 15ft (4.57m) walk, hand grip strength, and questionnaires (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, Minnesota Leisure Time Activity Questionnaire). Participants who do not exhibit any frailty components will be classed as non-frail, those showing one or two frailty components will be classified as pre-frail, and those presenting three or more components will be classed as frail. These measures of frailty severity will take approximately 30 minutes to complete.

Knee extensor strength and power measurements will then be made. They will involve participants being seated in a chair and supported within the measuring apparatus (a padded chair with back support at 90°) using straps (similar to a seat belt) which go across their hips and shoulders. The participant's ankle will be positioned against a lever arm of the equipment and again held in place by a padded support. The isometric strength assessment will involve the participant pushing against the lever arm with maximum effort whilst it is fixed and unable to move. A total of 3 contractions lasting \~2 seconds will be performed with a 1 min rest between each. Muscle power and fatigue will be assessed on the same machine but this time the lever arm will move at a fixed rate. Participants will be asked to extend their leg (as if kicking a ball) 10 times with the lever arm speed at a slow speed (60 degrees per second) and 10 at a fas

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand grip strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04612686
