CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06176209
Title: Validating a Brief Screening Tool With Biomarkers for Prediction of Chronic Post Traumatic Neck Pain
Official Title: Validating a Brief Screening Tool With Biomarkers for Prediction of Chronic Post Traumatic Neck Pain: A Prospective Cohort Study
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 155
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Early screening of posttraumatic neck pain after accidents

\- A clinical prediction tool with biomarkers predicting chronic posttraumatic neck pain.

The goal of this prospective cohort study is to develop a clinical prediction tool with biomarkers for early prediction of chronic posttraumatic neck pain.

Aims:

1. validate and further develop an existing prediction and screening tool for post traumatic neck pain using biomarkers for stress (i.e. HRV). The investigators hypothesize that the addition of a HRV to the existing screening and prediction tool in the acute phase (i.e. \< 72 hours) post-accident can contribute to better and earlier identification of high-risk patients who continue to experience moderate to high degree of impairment after 12 months (i.e. NDI \>32%).
2. examine whether the health economic costs for the group that does not improve are greater after 12 months. The investigators hypothesize that the health economic costs for the group that does not improve are greater after 12 months (labour market attachment and health services) compared to those who improve (NDI score \< 10% vs. \> 32%).
3. evaluate the role of low HRV on the development of PTSD 3 month after the accident. the hypothesis is that low HRV is a predictor of the development of PTSD.3 month after an accident.
4. Evaluate whether PTSD mediates the association between low HRV and pain sensitization 3 months after the accident. The investigators hypothesize that the development of pain sensitivity 3 month after an accident is associated with low HRV and PTSD.

Following inclusion participants will undergo evaluation of:

Hart rate variability using Fristbeat Bodyguard II, neurologic screening, Cervical range of motion screening.

At followup (1- and 3-months) participants will undergo evaluation of. Evaluation of cervical range of motion, Quantitative sensory testing (pressure pain threshold, cold pressor test followed by pressure pain threshold.

Questionnaires: Acute self-reported stress (NRS), Expected improvement (0-100%), Pain (Short Form -McGill pain questionnaire) Neck disability index, Stress, anxiety and depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, Pain catastrophizing, Quality of life, Global rating of change, Self-reported sleep, Comorbidity, Physical Activity.

At 6- and 12- month: Evaluation of heart rate variability and the questionnaires from 1- week and 3 months will be repeated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Post-traumatic neck pain sustained after accidents are frequent (1) and represents a huge human and societal burden that can cause significant long-term pain and disability (2-4). It has been estimated that there are 6,000 new annual cases of traffic accidents resulting in post-traumatic neck pain in Denmark (5). However, recent international research indicates that the figure may be more than double (6-8). While up to half of those injured continue to experience symptoms a year after the accident (1-3), 15-25% experience significantly more severe symptoms and functional impairment (9,10) and are at risk of leaving the labour market. The accumulated cost of post traumatic neck pain in Denmark has not been evaluated in a scientific study but it is estimated the direct and indirect economic costs of post traumatic neck pain are approximately DKK 14 billion annually (11).

Post-traumatic neck pain after accident is often accompanied by a myriad of symptoms such as headaches, fatigue, concentration problems, and sensitivity to light and sound (4,12-16). A number of studies also point to frequent psychological symptoms after injuries such as symptoms of stress, depression, and anxiety (15-17), and early post-traumatic stress has been reported to predict poorer recovery over time (18,19).

Previous studies have identified the same risk factors after whiplash injuries (20-26). Risk factors are age, high pain intensity, hypersensitivity to pain, and post-traumatic arousal symptoms (i.e. increased stress) immediately after the accident. The results suggest that the lack of efficacy of existing treatments (27-30) :is caused by not specifically targeting risk patients and the underlying related mechanisms.

Ritchie and colleagues have developed and validated a clinical prognostic screening tool to identify patients at risk of developing post traumatic neck pain (31,32). The optimal use of the screening tool is immediately after accidents. Based on simple screening questions that can be answered in less than 5 minutes regarding pain and related functional limitations, post-traumatic stress disorder (hyperarousal) and age, the screening tool can with 90% accuracy be used to identify those that do not improve after the accident and with 80% accuracy those who recovers completely. However, there is a need to test the screening tool in a Danish context in the emergency department and investigate whether biomarkers for stress can improve the predictive value of the tool.

In Denmark, the standard emergency department treatment after non traumatic accident is a thorough physical evaluation coupled with good advice, which is appropriate for a significant proportion of patients. Unfortunately, it is difficult to distinguish a normal reaction from a treatment-requiring reaction, which in turn can lead to a worsening of traumatic neck pain. In this instance the prognostic tool (31,32) will be simple and quick to use. Collection of objective biomarkers for e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Neck disability index
  - Neck disability index
  - Neck disability index
  - Neck disability index
  - Neck disability index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: screening tool with biomarkers for prediction of chronic post traumatic neck pain

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06176209
