CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03718637
Title: Efficacy Bioinductive Implant for Tennis Elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis)
Official Title: Efficacy Evaluation of Surgical Treatment Using Bioinductive Implant for Tennis Elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The investigators are testing the efficacy of a new, FDA-approved bioinductive patch in lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow) patients. A bioinductive patch is an implant that may foster tendon regrowth and healing following surgery. Patients will be randomize into one of two groups: control and investigational. Patients in the "control group" will receive the normal surgery for patients who do not respond to physical therapy, lifestyle changes, and anti-inflammatory treatment. Patients in the "experimental group" will receive the same surgical treatment, with the addition of the bioinductive patch. This patch will be implanted during surgery. Then, using a combination of ultrasound studies and other measures, the investigators will assess how well the patch works compared to surgery alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A bioinductive patch is an implant that may foster tendon regrowth and healing following surgery. Patients will be randomized into one of two groups: control and investigational. All surgical patients will have failed non surgery options for 6 months (physical therapy, lifestyle changes, anti-inflammatories, injections) Patients in the "control group" will receive the standard surgery (open lateral epicondylectomy) . Patients in the "experimental group" will receive the same surgical treatment, with the addition of the bioinductive patch. This patch will be implanted during surgery. Then, using a combination of ultrasound studies and other measures, the investigators will assess how well the patch works compared to surgery alone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - PROMIS CAT Scores
  - Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for Pain
  - Range of Motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: Smith & Nephew Bioinductive Implant
  - PROCEDURE: Lateral Epicondylectomy
  - RADIATION: Ultrasound Imaging

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03718637
