CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01708980
Title: Descriptive Study of Strength Training Exercises to Activate the Muscles of the Operated Leg After Total Knee Replacement
Official Title: Neuromuscular Activity of the Operated Leg During Strength Training Performed in Machines and in More Simple Forms After Total Knee Replacement
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Background:

In the early phase after a total knee replacement (TKA), patients experience multi-level weakness in the operated leg, which is caused primarily by reduced central (CNS) activation failure of the muscles - especially the knee extensors. This considerable loss of muscle strength relates to reduced functional performance. The investigators recently reported that early-commenced physiotherapy, including progressive strength training performed in machines, seems feasible after TKA. The question is, if neuromuscular activity of the muscles in the operated leg, elicited during strength training in machines, can be reached during strength training in more simple forms? Many clinicians are faced with the problem of not having strength training equipment at their institution, or having to prescribe simple strength training exercises for home-based training.

Purpose and hypothesis:

The purpose of this study is to determine which strength training exercises that activate the muscles in the operated leg the most after TKA. The hypothesis is that strength training exercises performed in machines is more effective compared to strength training performed in more simple forms (using elastic bands or own body weight, etc.).

Participants and methods:

Twenty participants with a unilateral TKA, operated between 4 to 8 weeks prior to the first investigation, will be included. The participants are investigated twice. During the first investigation, the absolute load (kilograms) corresponding to 10 Repetition Maximum (RM) (a load that can be lifted exactly 10 times) will be determined for all the exercises. At least 72 hours later, the participants will undergo an electromyographic analysis, which determines the neuromuscular activity of the thigh muscles in the operated leg.

Ethical issues:

From a pilot study, the investigators found that strength training exercises commenced early after TKA seems feasible as the exercises did not increase knee joint swelling or knee pain. None of the financial supporters, or any of the authors, have any potential conflicts of interest with regard to the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Normalized neuromuscular activity (EMG) of the quadriceps and hamstring muscles

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Six different strength training exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01708980
