CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05587270
Title: CLIMB: Climbers' Longitudinal Attitudes to Injuries, Mental Health and Body Image
Official Title: CLIMB: Climbers' Longitudinal Attitudes to Injuries, Mental Health and Body Image
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 366
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Eating disorders (ED) are serious mental illnesses with high mortality rates and significant impact on an individual's quality of life. These disorders are characterized by preoccupation of weight and shape, leading to restrictive eating behavior and compensatory behaviors (purging and excessive/compulsive exercise). Comorbidities with mental health problems are common. Athletes in leanness-focused sports report higher levels of EDs compared to athletes from sports without such focus . Energy Availability (EA) has been suggested the key variable in "Relative Energy Deficiency in Sports" (RED-S) with studies reporting impairment of reproductive function and bone formation.

Climbing is a weight sensitive sport where athletes generally, benefit from a lean body shape and low weight, a risk factors for ED. Therefore, climbing athletes can be expected to be at high-risk to develop these conditions. To our knowledge, there are no studies on the prevalence and magnitude of EDs among climbers. Due to the overrepresentation of EDs reported in sports and the poor treatment prognosis, early detection and prevention of ED symptoms are essential. The present study will study the prevalence of ED symptoms, changes over time and trajectories of key variables along with related problem areas such as bone health and mental health problems in order to take steps towards tailored strategies for the prevention of EDs in climbing.

The overall purpose of the project is to study prevalence and changes over a two-year period (with a planned follow-up period of up to five years) of eating disordered (ED) symptoms, mental health problems, overuse injuries, bone health as well as indications of relative energy deficiency (RED-S) in elite vs. sub-elite Swedish climbers. Climbers will be compared to a group of normal controls. Further, differences will be studied in groups with high vs. low levels of EDs, comparing occurrence of mental health problems, overuse injuries and bone health. Trajectories of mentioned variables over time will be analyzed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study objectives:

The overall purpose of the project is to study prevalence and changes over a two-year period (with a planned follow-up period of up to five years) of eating disordered (ED) symptoms, mental health problems, overuse injuries, bone health as well as indications of relative energy deficiency (RED-S) in elite and sub-elite Swedish climbers. Climbers will be compared to a group of normal controls. Further, differences will be studied in groups with high vs. low levels of EDs, comparing occurrence of mental health problems, overuse injuries and bone health. Trajectories of mentioned variables (with the exception of bone health) over time will be analyzed.

Specific research questions:

A) BASELINE

To determine the prevalence of disordered eating behaviors, mental health problems, compulsive training, self-reported symptoms of LEA, overuse injuries and bone density in advanced to elite climbers compared to controls.

Are there gender differences among climbing athletes as far as ED symptoms, body image, compulsive training, perfectionism, mental health problems, sleep quality and overuse injuries?

Do climbing athletes at higher levels of competition (elite vs. advanced) report differing levels of symptoms related to disordered eating behaviors, mental health problems, compulsive training, self- reported symptoms of LEA, overuse injuries and bone density than normal controls?

Are there difference between climbing athletes reporting differences in ED symptoms respectively with regards to bone health as measured by Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA).

B) FOLLOW UP

To study the trajectories of mentioned variables over time and examine the association between modifiable risk factors and ill health and outcome measured by DASS21, EDEQ and OSLO SPORTS OVERUSE INJURIES QUESTIONNAIRE.

Study design:

The study design is longitudinal using a web-based questionnaire with four measures over a two-year period (baseline, 6-, 12- and 24 months) and additional follow-ups at 3 and 5 years after baseline. The whole eligible population of Swedish climbers on elite- or sub-elite levels of competition will be invited to participate in the study. Participants will be both male and female, 13 years and older. There is a minimum of 40 climbers eligible at elite level and a minimum of 80 climbers at sub-elite level of competition. A non-elite athlete control group (n matched of the climbing group) from the general population, will be invited to participate in the study.

In addition to the web-based questionnaire, participants will be invited to the measurement of bone health using DXA at the baseline measurement.

Source population:

The whole eligible population of Swedish climbers on elite- or sub-elite levels of competition will be invited to participate in the study. Participants will be both male and female, 13 years and older.

Sample size: To our knowledge, no previous research has been presented and since the climbing population is small, and

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Eating disorders
  - Relative energy deficiency

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Web based surveys
  - RADIATION: DXA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05587270
