CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06911047
Title: Dementia Prevention Internet-Based Intervention: Randomized Controlled Trial and Knowledge Translation
Official Title: Dementia Prevention Internet-Based Intervention: Randomized Controlled Trial and Knowledge Translation
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
In this proposal, the investigators plan to study the effectiveness of a web-based intervention on dementia prevention knowledge, intentions, and behaviour change related to dementia risk. Participants will be randomized to one of two groups - intervention and control. Participants randomized to the intervention group will receive the dementia prevention e-learning. Participants in the control group will be assigned an alternate-topic e-learning lesson. All participants will be given access to all e-learning at the conclusion of the study.

The purpose of this phase is to explore if and how our dementia prevention e-learning influences participants' knowledge, intentions and health behaviours related to dementia risk.

The investigators will also engage in participatory co-design with community partners using focus groups to determine pragmatic ways to effectively disseminate e-learning programs to support knowledge about dementia and preventative measures within equity-deserving groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

With our aging population, the prevalence of dementia is increasing dramatically. Developing a better understanding of how dementia can be prevented and sharing information about how Canadians can reduce their risk of developing dementia or delay its onset is critical to keeping Canadians healthy and improving quality of life. Web-based interventions in dementia have been shown to be effective for a range of outcomes, but very few have been widely implemented or rigorously studied; additionally, national, and provincial guidelines have all highlighted the importance of online resources to improve dementia prevention education. This has been further brought into focus by the coronavirus pandemic. While there have been studies of web-based health information on intentions and behaviour change, the vast majority of those studies have looked at text-based health information, rather than internet-based interventions that have incorporated best practices in instructional design for e-learning. The investigators developed a high-quality, award-winning web- and email-based dementia prevention education platform for care partners, which includes asynchronous, multimedia e-learning lessons and email-based 'micro-learning' content to reinforce the learning. The investigators recently conducted a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) of an internet-based, multi-media, instructionally designed dementia prevention intervention (DementiaRisk) in Canadian adults without a diagnosis of dementia. Results, which are currently being prepared for publication, showed that the DementiaRisk resource improved knowledge, intentions to engage in healthy behaviours, and health behaviours related to dementia risk reduction, and was positively rated and well accepted by participants. This resource is now publicly accessible at DementiaRisk.ca.

However, we know that people who live in poverty are more likely to develop dementia compared to people of higher socioeconomic status. Lower level of education in childhood is a known risk factor for dementia, but there are many other social determinants of health (e.g., income, employment, housing, and others) that may impact knowledge and behaviours related to dementia risk or protective factors. A range of positive effects have been shown for web-based interventions for various target audiences (e.g., health care providers and family/friend care partners), on a wide range of outcomes (e.g., knowledge, attitudes, burden, stress, and others). Interventions delivered through the web also allow for greater accessibility to a multitude of users, facilitating scale and spread. We therefore wish to study the impact of the DementiaRisk resource in a new equity-deserving population.

Objective:

In this proposal, the investigators plan to study the effectiveness of our web-based intervention on dementia prevention knowledge, intentions, and behaviour change.

Methods:

Design, Setting, and Participants:

This study is a sequential 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 1. Knowledge change (custom 15-item knowledge questionnaire related to key dementia prevention modifiable risk factors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Education Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Education Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06911047
