CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02664428
Title: Measuring the Impact of Dietary Supplementation With a New Baking Product on Gut Microbiota and Cholesterol Metabolism
Official Title: Measuring the Impact of Dietary Supplementation With New Baking Product PreBIOil on Gut Microbiota and Cholesterol Metabolism
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 65
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Study hypothesis: Diet integrated with food prepared with olive, buckwheat, peas and chestnut flour as in PreBIOil product combination can modify the gut microbiota and the cholesterol metabolism.

Primary objectives of the study are to assess whether the test product to be able to change:

1. fecal microbiota profile;
2. Plasma cholesterol LDL, total, total LDL and HDL ratio;
3. plasma triglycerides;
4. Apolipoprotein ApoA-I, ApoB, and Lp.

Secondary objectives of the study are:

1. anthropometric indices;
2. secondary metabolites of polyphenols in human biofluids;
3. mass spectrometry plasma and urine metabolite profile;
4. blood glucose and fasting insulin levels; 5,6) C-reactive protein (PRC or hsPRC);

7\) urinary isoprostane F2; 8) oxidized LDL in plasma.

Study Design: placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind parallel trial.

Inclusion criteria: Aged 30-65 years; BMI 20-29,9 kg/m\^2. Total Cholesterol 180-240 mg/dl

Exclusion criteria: Fasting blood glucose \>150 mg/dl; triglycerides \>500 mg/dl; uncontrolled hypertension (blood pressure \[BP\] \>160/100 mm Hg under antihypertensive therapy); any long term medical therapy; food intolerances; alcohol intake \>5 drinks per day or use of narcotic substances; use of dietary supplements, pro or pre- biotics; special diet; pregnancy, tobacco smoking.

Methodology: Determination of eligibility: for each volunteer aged between 30 and 65 years, will undergo to clinical and biochemistry evaluation. Clinical visit, clinical tests, and blood drawing will be performed after an overnight fasting at visit T-1 at the Casa di Cura Eremo di Arco (TN). In this T-1 visit the eligibility will be established and the participants will be randomized to receive supplementation with either PreBIOil biscuit (90g/day) or Control for 8 weeks in a double-blind manner. Clinical tests, blood drawing, and stool and urine collection will be performed during visits at the beginning and end of each treatment period (T0 and T1). A 4 day-food diary record will be collected before visits T0, at the beginning of T0 and before T1.

Efficacy Assessments Arterial BP; BMI; ratio of waist to hip circumference; food questionnaires; blood sample analysis (total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL and LDL cholesterol, oxidized LDL, serum glucose and insulin, C-RP, Apolipoproteins, Isoprostane; urinary and plasma metabolite profiling; fecal microbiota analysis.

Safety assessments. Adverse events registration.

Statistical analyses. The differences between the two group will be evaluated with univariate and multivariate statistical methods. The medium before and after the intervention will be compared with the General Linear Model (ANOVA) for repeated measures or for paired data. Simple and multiple linear regressions will be performed to determine the relationships between independent variables; also we will run the t-test to evaluate differences in compliance detected in the types of supplementation. The results are expressed as mean +/- SEM and the differences will be considered significant when P \<0.05.

Duration: Subjects will make three visits (visit T-1, beginning visit T0, and end of treatment period visit T1, week 8 from T0). The treatment duration is 8 weeks; a daily portion of about 90 g of biscuit is introduced.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The first results of in vitro testing of the project PreBIOil have delineated the capacity of a flour of olives to modulate the microbial population of the human intestine in a manner comparable to that of inulin recognized as polysaccharide with a capacity prebiotic. Based on these results, and to others in the literature, the bakery product PreBIOil has been formulated. The product contains, flour of olives, buckwheat, pea, and chestnut.

The overall objective of the study is to assess whether the introduction in the diet of a bakery product prepared with olive flour, mixed with buckwheat, pea and chestnuts flour can change the profile of the intestinal microbiota and the plasma cholesterol, in particular LDL. The study is set up as dietary supplementation, double-blind, randomized, parallel with the control group, in which the following product will be compared:

i) a new bakery product designed study PreBIOil (test); ii) a bakery product control isoenergetic (control).

Description of the Food supplemented in the Trial The test product is new baked product formulated with a mixture of flour from olives, buckwheat, pea and chestnut and has the appearance of a salty biscuit.

Participants will be required to consume daily about 90 grams of test or control product. The exact quantities of each product batch will be determined following the assessment of the nutritional characteristics of the finished product in order to provide the same calorie intake with the two products.

Digestibility, fermentability and modulation of the microbiota Buckwheat is considered a non-cereal that in addition to containing fiber, minerals and vitamins, such as B2 and B6, also represents a source of antioxidant compounds due to the content of flavonoids.

The pea flour contains important components for human diet (starch, protein and other nutrients). The health benefits associated with consumption of peas primarily derived from the concentration and properties of starch, protein, fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals. The fiber contained in the integument and in the cell walls of the cotyledon contributes to gastrointestinal function. The starch content in pea flour is characterized by lower glycemic index. The proteins from pea may produce peptides with antioxidant activity. The vitamin and mineral content of peas can play an important role in the prevention of deficiency diseases, in particular those relating to the deficiencies of selenium and folate. Peas contain a variety of phytochemicals. These include polyphenols that may have antioxidant and anticancer, saponins which are present hypo colesterolemica and anticancer activities, and oligosaccharides of galactose that can exert prebiotic benefits in the large intestine.

The nutritional components of chestnut flour consist of carbohydrates, protein and fat in the composition such as to provide an energy value about 350-400 kcal / 100 g. Chestnuts have been voted to have a positive effect on the metabol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Faecal microbiota analysis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: PreBIOil
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02664428
