CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06133894
Title: Effect of Exercise-education Program PERMANENTO in Late Life
Official Title: Effect of Exercise-education Program Inspired by Developmental Kinesiology on Determinants of Sarkopenia and Frailty in Late Life
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The general aim of the present study is to create and empirically evaluate (RCT trial) an online education and exercise program (called PERMANENTO) to help older adults to understand the wider consequences of being active and offer them easy to follow exercise program inspired by developmental kinesiology.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There is no doubt about the importance of a physical activity at a later age, yet it is often missing in the lives of seniors and the current epidemiological situation deepens this deficit even further. It is known that insufficient physical activity has a major effect on the decline of functional fitness components, premature development of sarcopenia or frailty syndrome, threatening self-sufficiency, health and consequently quality of life. This is associated with an increased burden on the health care system and related social services, with implications for public budgets. The aim of this project is to eliminate the onset or premature manifestation of negative aspects of aging by prevention. The content is to research a unique intervention inspired by the principles of developmental kinesiology with a presumed positive effect on the health status and the development of a comprehensive exercise and educational program for older adults. The main planned result of the project is a methodological manual and a web application containing education and exercise program for both older adults as well healthcare professionals.

The project responds to the priorities of the Applied Health Research Program for the years 2020-2026 and its focus contributes to a long-term solution of the population aging issue. With regard to demographic change, health and social care systems will be unsustainable without the adoption of preventive measures by seniors themselves. Exercise-educational intervention can lead to lasting changes and can help seniors to actively and responsibly participate in the course of their own aging. Main objective: to reduce negative health related aspects of aging, resp. their premature manifestation, by a preventive exercise-educational program. Sub-objectives: - to develop a specifically targeted exercise-educational program; - to demonstrate effectiveness of the program on health and social related indicators; - to assess acceptability, sustainability and other personal contexts - to create a methodological manual and a web platform for home-dwelling as well as institutionalized older adults containing complex information for independent exercise (how, as well as why).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Timed up-and go test
  - Limits of stability on NeuroCom
  - The Sensory Organization Test on NeuroCom
  - Body composition on InBody 720
  - Handgrip strength on dynanometr

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise program PERMANENTO inspired by developmental kinesiology

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06133894
