CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06719037
Title: Comparision of Endoscopic Discectomy and Microdiscectomy for the Treatment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis
Official Title: Efficacy and Safety of Endo-Surgi Plus Endoscopy, UBE Endoscopy, and Microdiscectomy Decompression Techniques for the Treatment of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis: A Prospective Multicenter Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 324
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to conduct a multicenter comparison of the clinical efficacy of Endo-Surgi Plus endoscopic technique, UBE endoscopic technique, and microdiscectomy technique in the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis, and to compare the differences in the incidence of complications, surgical trauma, and other aspects among the three surgical techniques for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis.

Each group of patients received either Endo-Surgi Plus endoscopy, UBE, or microdiscectomy decompression through the Quadrant channel. All patients were routinely administered low-dose hormones, dehydrating agents, and neurotrophic drugs postoperatively. Patients were required to strictly avoid strenuous activities and heavy lifting in the lumbar region for three months after surgery. Upon discharge, patients were provided with the same lumbar and back muscle rehabilitation exercises and other postoperative recovery-related discharge education. Each group of patients was followed up for at least one year, with follow-up including outpatient visits, physical examinations, questionnaire scoring, and necessary auxiliary examinations.

Both two endoscopic surgeries, as surgical techniques that have been used in clinical practice for many years, have their efficacy confirmed by various studies. The investigator proposes that these two techniques may have similar clinical efficacy to microdiscectomy, while also offering the advantage of being less invasive. The aim of this study is to validate these assumptions. At the same time, there may be some differences between the two endoscopic surgeries that require further verification.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The lumbar spine is the part of the spine that bears the most weight, consisting of five vertebrae. Each vertebra is connected by an intervertebral disc, and together they form a barrier to protect the spinal cord nerves within the spinal canal. Lumbar spinal stenosis refers to the reduction of space within the lumbar spinal canal, which compresses the spinal cord or nerve roots, leading to a series of symptoms. Depending on the cause, lumbar spinal stenosis is mainly divided into congenital lumbar spinal stenosis, which is due to abnormal development of the spinal canal, and acquired lumbar spinal stenosis, which is caused by degenerative changes such as lumbar disc degeneration and joint process hyperplasia. Lumbar spinal stenosis is a common cause of low back and leg pain, with a reported incidence rate as high as 11% in the general population and 19.4% in those over 60 years old, with a trend of increasing with age. With the aging of the population, the incidence of lumbar spinal stenosis is also on the rise.

The treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis mainly includes conservative treatment and surgical treatment. For patients whose symptoms severely affect their lives and do not respond well to conservative treatment, surgery should be performed as soon as possible to relieve nerve compression. The main goal of surgical treatment for lumbar spinal stenosis is to relieve nerve compression, stabilize the spine, and restore the normal volume of the spinal canal. Although traditional posterior lumbar decompression surgery can achieve definite decompression effects, it has issues such as severe destruction of posterior column structures and large surgical trauma. Minimally invasive techniques are a hot topic in various clinical fields, and microdiscectomy (MD) through a minimally invasive channel is a mature minimally invasive technique for treating lumbar spinal stenosis. As early as 1999, prospective randomized controlled studies confirmed that it has the same excellent clinical efficacy as open surgery but with less surgical trauma. It has now become a classic surgical method for treating lumbar spinal stenosis, with related articles published in the top spinal clinical journal JBJS.

In recent years, with the development of new equipment, endoscopic techniques have been gradually applied to the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis. Unilateral biportal endoscopic discectomy (UBE) has the characteristics of convenient operation and flexibility because its endoscopic channel and working channel are separate and can use traditional open instruments. It can achieve good decompression effects and has been widely used in various medical centers. Percutaneous endoscopic lumbar discectomy (PELD), as a new generation of endoscopic technique, has less surgical trauma and shorter operation time. It has also been successfully applied to the clinical treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis and achieved good results. However, due to the limitations of the single-en

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Oswestry Disability Index scores

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Endo-Surgi Plus endoscopic surgery
  - PROCEDURE: Unilateral biportal endoscopic surgery
  - PROCEDURE: Microdiscectomy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06719037
