CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04307602
Title: Long-term Exercise Effects from Robotic Walking
Official Title: Long-term Exercise Effects from Robotic Walking Among Children with Severe Cerebral Palsy
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The vision of the Long-term Exercise Effects from Robotic Walking (LEER) research program is to develop optimal, individualized exercise strategies that would in turn enhance the health and well-being of non-ambulatory children with cerebral palsy (CP).

To date, it has not been possible to study exercise among non-ambulatory children with cerebral palsy in a structured and standardized manner. Improved possibilities to carry out such studies are now offered by the robotic medical device Innowalk, which allows various trening options in an upright weight-bearing position. In order to design optimal exercise strategies for children with cerebral palsy, the investigators will examine the effects of two tailored trening programs, using Innowalk. Changes in cardiopulmonary and metabolic parameters, and in the levels of brain derived neurotropic factor (BDNF), nerve growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (NGF) and vascular endothelial growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (VEGF) will be examined.

The investigators will assess the acute (1 day), adaptive (16 weeks), and long-term (1 year) effects of the exercise programs through indirect calorimetry and blood samples at multiple time points. The investigators will also study the environmental and behavioral factors facilitating and hindering participation in exercise, by semi-structured interviews.

The goal is to design improved individualized exercise programs that will increase health and well-being in the children and their families, thereby decreasing the use of medications and healthcare.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A randomized controlled intervention trial with a crossover design with a one-year follow-up will be performed to explore the differential acute and long-term effects of A) high intensity interval trening (HIIT) and of B) steady state trening (SST) among non-ambulatory children with CP, ambulatory children with CP and non-disabled children. Non-ambulatory children with CP will walk in the robotic medical device Innowalk. Ambulatory children with CP and non-disabled children will cycle on a cycle ergometer. As the numbers of eligible children in Skåne County, Sweden, are low and due to heterogeneity among the children with CP, a crossover design is chosen to maximize statistical power.

Aim 1: Acute response to exercise Objectives: The aim is to elucidate the acute effects form one bout of SST and one bout of HIIT in the three groups of children.

Research question: Are there differences in the physiological responses in BDNF, NGF, VEGF and metabolic bio-markers from one acute bout of HIIT and one acute bout of SST exercise among non-ambulatory children with CP, ambulatory children with CP and non-disabled children? Methodology: Indirect calorimetry will be used during one acute bout of HIIT exercise and SST exercise to assess markers of ventilation, circulation, fat versus carbohydrate oxidation, and energy expenditure during exercise. Blood will be collected before and after the exercise testing to assess differences in BDNF, NGF, VEGF and metabolic bio-markers. Temperature at the feet will be assessed to analyze vasodilation.

Deliverables: To demonstrate biomarkers of cardiopulmonary and metabolic function and BDNF, NGF, VEGF, that are the most effected by one bout of HIIT and one bout of SST among non-ambulatory children with CP, ambulatory children with CP and non-disabled children and to elucidate if there are differences between the three groups of children.

Aim 2: Adaptation to exercise Objectives: The aim is to elucidate the adaptation to 16 weeks of two types of structured trening regimes (HIIT vs. SST) on cardiopulmonary and metabolic parameters and BDNF, NGF, VEGF, in the three groups of children.

Research question: Are there differences in the physiological adaptation to HIIT exercise and SST exercise among non-ambulatory children with CP, ambulatory children with CP and non-disabled children? Methodology: We will use supervised exercise trening of 16 weeks with HIIT -16 weeks Washout -16 weeks with SST, starting and ending with the exercise testing described in Aim 1 to evaluate adaptation to HIIT and SST.

Deliverables: To demonstrate changes in cardiopulmonary and metabolic parameters and BDNF, NGF, VEGF in adaptation to HIIT and SST and to elucidate whether there are differences between HIIT and SST among the three groups of children.

Aim 3: Adherence to physical activity and exercise; child-family perspective Objectives: The aim is to study the adherence to the two exercise regimes among non-ambulatory children with CP, a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brain derived neurotropic factor (BDNF)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise - High Intensity Interval trening (HIIT)
  - OTHER: Exercise - Submaximal Steady State trening (SST)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04307602
