CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06802341
Title: Energy Metabolism and Acute Effects of Protein Diets in Metabolically Obese Normal Weight Individuals
Official Title: Energy Metabolism and Acute Effects of Protein Diets in Metabolically Obese Normal Weight (MONW) Individuals
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Asians tend to develop type 2 diabetes (T2D) at lower body mass index (BMI) levels and younger ages compared to other populations. This leads to a longer duration of suffering from long-term complications associated with the disease, ultimately resulting in shorter life expectancy. Notably, approximately 40% of newly diagnosed T2D cases in Asians occur in individuals considered lean, with a BMI reported to be less than 22 kg/m2. This phenomenon is termed the "Metabolically Obese Normal Weight" (MONW) phenotype. MONW individuals are characterized as having a normal body weight but exhibiting obesity-related metabolic disturbances, including excess body fat with ectopic fat deposition, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Asian populations have higher prevalence of abdominal obesity, accounting for \~60% of the global diabetic population. Type 2 diabetes (T2D) developing at lower BMI levels and younger ages compared to Western populations, suggest underlying metabolic issues in Asian. A cluster of metabolically obese, normal weight (MONW) individuals are identified in 40% of newly diagnosed Asian T2D.

MONW individuals have normal body weight but exhibit obesity-related metabolic disturbances, such as excess body fat, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia, predisposing them to develop metabolic symptoms such as T2D and cardiovascular disease. They also show reduced physical activity, lower aerobic capacity, low muscle quality and impaired thermogenesis. Elevated plasma amino acids are associated with insulin resistance, resembling obesity, diabetes and sarcopenia. Given the complex nature of MONW, further examination is needed for early diagnosis and effective prevention strategies. Increased protein intake is known to improve satiety, thermogenesis and muscle health, while enhancing insulin sensitivity and fat oxidation. High-protein diets can aid in weight loss and are often preferred over traditional calorie restriction for combating obesity. In our previous study, a 5% weight loss from calorie restriction improved body composition and metabolism in MONW individuals. Hence, this study aims to 1) better understand the physiology and energy balance of MONW individuals; 2) identify biomarkers for early diagnosis; and 3) examine the effects of high-protein diets on the metabolism of MONW individuals. The study will involve participants of Chinese descent, evaluating metabolic biomarkers in energy balance and the impact of different protein sources on their acute metabolic effects.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gycaemic control
  - Energy expenditure and fuel utilization
  - Postprandial amino acids and proteomics profiles

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Normal protein diet
  - OTHER: Animal protein diet
  - OTHER: Plant based diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06802341
