CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03326687
Title: Pairing Word Retrieval and Physical Endurance Tasks to Treat Anomia in People With Aphasia
Official Title: Pairing Word Retrieval and Physical Endurance Tasks to Treat Anomia
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Many individuals have difficulty with word retrieval, also called anomia, following cerebrovascular accident (CVA). These difficulties impede effective communication in everyday conversations and can negatively impact the resumption of pre-injury activities. Even after rehabilitation specifically targeting these areas, many individuals report persistent difficulties with anomia. Additionally, most individuals report that these difficulties worsen when distracted, fatigued, or when attempting to divide attention between tasks. Given that everyday activities frequently require efficient communication when attention is divided (e.g., walking and talking), it is important to investigate viable interventions to improve these skills.

Recovery from CVA and resumption of pre-injury activities is best supported by rehabilitation interventions that are functional and directly related to the tasks individuals aim to resume. For example, a therapy task requiring an individual to generate a grocery list and then go to a grocery store to acquire the items on the list has a greater impact on recovery for the underlying language and cognitive skills than a series of generic language and cognition tasks completed in a therapy room. In addition to this, interventions that incorporate dual-task practices tend to have better outcomes than more traditional single-task practices.

The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of pairing word retrieval tasks with physical endurance tasks versus presenting them in isolation. Additionally, this study will investigate whether improvements in word retrieval and physical endurance generalize to the functional, everyday task of holding a conversation while walking. The researchers hypothesize that participants will perform better on word retrieval tasks after participating in dual language and physical tasks than after participating in language tasks presented in isolation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All data collection will occur at Quality Living (QLI).

The researchers will administer a set of standardized assessments prior to initiating the intervention program to determine eligibility for study participation as well as to gather descriptive information about the language abilities of participants. Assessments will include the Western Aphasia Battery - Revised and the Boston Naming Test. In addition to performing language assessments, participants will respond to demographic and injury-related questions and will identify preferred topics of conversation. The researchers will obtain information about each participant's physical status by referring to the physical therapy assessments and associated documentation completed by a QLI physical therapist shortly after the individual's arrival at QLI.

Intervention will occur five days per week and will take place during participants' regularly scheduled speech therapy sessions. Two intervention sessions will occur daily, one held in the morning and the second held in the afternoon. Depending on the activities performed on a given day, the total time devoted to intervention sessions will be 10 to 30 minutes (i.e., 5 to 15 minutes per session).

During each intervention session, the researchers will measure performance on one or more of the following tasks: (a) five trials of generative naming given a unique category and one-minute response period per trial, (b) distance traveled using an exercise machine for five minutes, (c) generative naming given unique categories and one-minute response periods and distance traveled using an exercise machine when performing both tasks simultaneously for five minutes, (d) number of words generated in five minutes in response to conversational topic prompts, (e) distance traveled when walking for five minutes, and (f) number of words generated in response to conversational topic prompts and distance traveled when walking when performing both tasks simultaneously for five minutes. The first three measures comprise intervention tasks, and the remaining three are generalization measures.

Intervention and generalization sessions will follow an overlapping ABAB or BABA format, with the first day of each phase being an overlap day. Participants will be randomly assigned to begin the intervention either with an A or B phase. On overlap days, the researchers will collect measures on all six intervention and generalization activities, with three being performed during a fifteen-minute morning session and three being performed during a fifteen-minute afternoon session. For participants in the A phase, the researchers will collect measures two times daily for each of the subsequent four days on the generative naming and exercise machine activities performed as independent tasks; for participants in the B phase, the researchers will collect measures two times daily for each of the subsequent four days on the generative naming and exercise machine activities performed as s

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of words named in a category

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Treatment ABAB
  - BEHAVIORAL: Treatment BABA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03326687
