CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03572855
Title: The Effect Spinal Bracing System on Gait in Adult Scoliosis Patients
Official Title: The Effect of Peak Scoliosis Spinal Bracing System on Gait and Pain Level in Adult Scoliosis Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Degenerative adult scoliosis (ADS) results from age related changes leading to segmental instability, deformity and stenosis. Patients with scoliosis demonstrate an altered gait pattern.Furthermore, scoliosis patients exert 30% more physical effort than healthy subjects to ensure habitual locomotion, and this additional effort requires a reciprocal increase of oxygen consumption. Bracing has been found to reduce pain within a short time in ADS patients. A new brace has recently become available, the Peak™ Scoliosis Brace (Aspen Medical Products), designed to alleviate pain in adult patients with chronic pain secondary to scoliosis. The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of spinal bracing using Peak™ Scoliosis Brace on pain and lower extremities kinematics of gait.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Degenerative adult scoliosis (ADS) results from age related changes leading to segmental instability, deformity and stenosis. Although the etiology is unclear, degenerative adult scoliosis is associated with progressive and asymmetric degeneration of the disc and facet joints, which typically leads to stenosis. By virtue of the narrowed spinal canal associated with the degeneration these patients frequently develop back pain, as well as leg pain, weakness, and numbness. With an aging population in the USA and an increased attention to quality of life versus cost issues in the current healthcare environment, degenerative adult scoliosis has become a considerable healthcare concern.

Patients with scoliosis demonstrate an altered gait pattern.Such differences include decreased step length and reduced range of motion in the upper and lower extremities asymmetry of trunk rotation and ground reaction force in three-dimensions. Previous research found a decrease in the muscular mechanical work associated with an increase of energy cost and a decrease in the muscular efficiency in a scoliosis population compared to healthy controls. Furthermore, scoliosis patients exert 30% more physical effort than healthy subjects to ensure habitual locomotion, and this additional effort requires a reciprocal increase of oxygen consumption. This altered gait pattern demonstrated by subjects with scoliosis may be due to changes in global postural control strategies caused by pain and the spinal deformity.

Previous research showed that scoliosis patients do not have impaired postural balance when compared to healthy controls, while several others did find an effect of scoliosis on postural balance. This discrepancy in findings may be due to differences in curve characteristics included and their effects on postural balance, curve types (single or double), number of different curve types, location of curves (thoracic and lumbar), and/or Cobb angles.

Bracing has been found to reduce pain within a short time in ADS patients. Custom-made rigid torso braces, similar to those commonly used for children, are sometimes used in ADS patients; however, only anecdotal evidence of their efficacy is available and problems with comfort and compliance are quite frequent. A new brace has recently become available, the Peak™ Scoliosis Brace (Aspen Medical Products), designed to alleviate pain in adult patients with chronic pain secondary to scoliosis. The Peak Scoliosis Brace led to some improvement of pain at 1 month in a group of adult women with scoliosis and chronic low back pain, but the quality of life did not change significantly. This is may be due to the very short follow-up time. The effect of these braces on functional tasks and activities of daily living including walking have not been studied either.

The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of spinal bracing using Peak™ Scoliosis Brace on pain and lower extremities kinematics of gait.

METHODS Design This st

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Kinematic Variables Change assessed with human motion capture system

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Scoliosis Brace

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03572855
