CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03696589
Title: Feasibility and Acceptability of a Physical Activity Behavior Change Intervention for Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Feasibility and Acceptability of a Physical Activity Behavior Change Intervention for Improving Self-efficacy, Automaticity, and Physical Activity Levels in People With Parkinson's Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility, in regards to acceptability and implementation, of the Pre-Active PD intervention for increased high intensity goal-directed aerobic exercise engagement in people with early-stage Parkinson's disease (Hoehn and Yahr stage I \& II). In addition, the study aims to explore the effect estimates of the Pre-Active PD intervention on self-efficacy, motivation, stage of behavior change, and physical activity levels in people with early stage Parkinson's disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will recruit 14 individuals with early stage Parkinson's disease (Hoehn and Yahr stage I \& II). The investigators will conduct a single arm cohort. (pre and post intervention) pilot feasibility study over 4 months with embedded process analyses of Preactive-HD, a physical activity coaching intervention program. Previous studies conducted by the investigators will be utilized to adapt the Engage-HD physical activity coaching program to people with early stage PD. The intervention will include a participant/coach interaction and disease-specific workbook grounded within the framework of self-determination theory. The coaching sessions will be conducted by an occupational therapist and will entail six coaching sessions (either face-to-face or remote video sessions via secure Webex connection via computer or smart phone, or phone call if internet/smart phone is not available to participant). The first session (approximately 45 min) will lay the groundwork for the program, and the remaining sessions will serve to provide directed support in relation to regular physical activity and exercise. Participants will develop physical activity goals and will be supported with individual physical activity progression. Participants will be given Fitbit devices as a motivational tool and to track activity progression.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change From Baseline Moderate-Vigorous Physical Activity Using Actigraph at 4 Months
  - Change From Baseline in the Behavioural Regulation In Exercise Questionnaire (BREQ-2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity Coaching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03696589
