CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05696015
Title: Impact of Telehealth Education in Diabetes Patients
Official Title: Impact of Telehealth Education After Hospital Discharge on the Self-care of Patients With Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to to evaluate the effectiveness of continuity of in-hospital care with the application of a structured telemonitoring protocol in self-care activities in patients with type 1 or type 2 Diabetes Mellitus or those who have an HbA1c level greater than or equal to 6.5% during hospitalization, regardless of the reason for hospitalization. The main question\[s\] it aims to answer are:

• Is telehealth education effective for improving self-care for type 1 or type 2 Diabetes Mellitus or those with an HbA1c level greater than or equal to 6.5% during hospitalization will be included, regardless of the reason for hospitalization? Participants will answer the Diabetes Self-Care Activity Questionnaire Researchers will compare patients in the intervention group, in addition to the hospital's standard hospital guidance, will receive an educational approach through structured telemonitoring, reinforcing and validating the points addressed in the face-to-face guidance, which are considered the foundations of self-care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study have two groups of patients. Group 1 will be carried out at discharge, discharge orientation of the patient with diabetes and application of the Diabetes Self-Care Activity Questionnaire (QAD). For this group, a new contact will be made within 30 days after discharge, where the QAD will be applied again.

Group 2 will be performed at the time of discharge, guidance for discharge of patients with diabetes. This group will receive 3 contacts, the first will be carried out within 72 hours after discharge, the second contact within 10 days after the first contact and the third within 30 days after discharge, where diabetes education guidelines will be given to the patient in all contacts. At the time of discharge, and in the third contact, 30 days, the QAD will also be applied.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline discharge orientation of the patient with diabetes and application of the Diabetes Self-Care Activity Questionnaire (QAD) at 30 days follow-up. (Standard education)
  - Change from baseline discharge telehealth orientation and application of the Diabetes Self-Care Activity Questionnaire (QAD) at within 72 hours after discharge, 10 days after and within 30 days after discharge

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard education
  - BEHAVIORAL: Ampiled Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05696015
