CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05181267
Title: Effects of Intermittent Fasting on Insulin Resistance, Cardiac Metabolism, and Cerebral Perfusion
Official Title: Effects of Intermittent Fasting on Insulin Resistance, Cardiac Metabolism, and Cerebral Perfusion
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: beta alanine

SUMMARY:
The overall purpose of the study is to investigate whether three weeks of intermittent fasting (alternate-day fasting, (ADF)) result in a more pronounced "metabolic shift" towards the use of ketone bodies than three weeks of Western diet. The investigators will use state-of-the-art PET/CT tracer techniques and well-established steady state kinetics methods for glucose and fatty acids. The study results will provide new insights into the physiological basis of the potential cardio-protective effects of ketone bodies during ADF and will determine whether ADF can help prevent and treat heart failure.

Ketone bodies are produced in the liver as an alternative fuel when blood glucose levels are low, as can be seen with various types of diets or after strenuous exercise. The energy produced by breaking down ketone bodies has been shown to require less oxygen than breaking down glucose and fatty acids. In a previous study, the investigators observed that ketone bodies act as a kind of "super fuel" for the heart and improve the heart's energy utilization. It is still unknown how high ketone levels are needed to see these cardio-protective effects. As patients with insulin resistance and/or heart failure have a lower glucose uptake in cardiac tissue, and as energy production by the breakdown of fatty acids is oxygen-demanding, an elevated level of blood ketones can therefore potentially reduce the morbidity seen in patients with type 2 diabetes and ischemic heart disease.

PET/CT is a non-invasive well-established imaging modality suitable for tracking the fate of metabolites, as most substances or metabolites can be labeled by a suitable PET isotope. PET has sufficient spatial and temporal resolution to enable direct quantification of e.g. uptake and oxidation rates and has been successfully used by the investigators' department to assess heart efficiency, oxygen consumption, and fatty acid metabolism. Currently, the investigators are in the process of validating the PET tracer 11C-beta-hydroxybutyrate (11C-3-OHB) as a radio tracer for human studies. The tracer will be able to detect changes in biodistribution and kinetics of ketone bodies during both Western diets and ADF.

The subjects must go through two study periods of each 3 weeks in which the intervention is western diet (no restrictions) and intermittent fasting (fasting every other day), respectively. After both study periods, there will be an examination day with PET scans and various laboratory examinations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Ketone bodies are produced in the liver as an alternative fuel when blood glucose levels are low, such as during high-fat low-carb diets, prolonged calorie restriction, or after strenuous exercise. Ketone bodies from the blood are easily absorbed by energy-consuming tissues such as the heart and the brain, where they are oxidized to produce energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP).

ATP production by oxidation of ketone bodies requires less oxygen per mole of ATP produced than fatty acid oxidation, and therefore, ketone bodies have been called a "super fuel". As patients with insulin resistance and/or heart failure are characterized by a decreased glucose uptake into the heart tissue, and as ATP production by fatty acid oxidation is oxygen-demanding, an elevated level of ketone bodies in the blood (hyperketonemia) therefore has the potential to reduce myocardial ischemia-related morbidity in individuals with insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and ischemic heart disease.

The investigators have previously demonstrated that the heart easily switches from glucose to ketone body consumption when ketone body levels are rapidly increased by an infusion, resulting in a 50% reduction in cardiac glucose consumption. In addition to the presumed beneficial effects on oxygen consumption, the investigators also observed a marked increase in cardiac output; findings which they subsequently confirmed with studies of heart failure patients in which a linear dose-response relationship between the level of ketone bodies and cardiac output was observed.

Calorie restriction (CR) is a term used for continuous energy restriction representing 30% or more of the basic energy requirement. CR has consistently and not surprisingly been shown to promote weight loss but also reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. However, CR is associated with several side effects, including decreased bone mass and bone mineral density, and relative leukopenia, which can potentially increase the risk of infections. In addition, individuals undergoing CR diets complain of hunger, irritability, and decreased concentration. This results in a low, and often non-lasting, long-term success rate.

Intermittent fasting (IF) is a term that describes different dietary patterns that involve complete or partial limitation of energy intake at different time periods and at specific time intervals. IF has been shown to result in roughly the same beneficial effects as CR. IF causes a weight loss, as the calorie intake on the days without fasting does not fully compensate for the calorie deficit on days with fasting. Various forms of IF exist, including 5:2 diet, complete alternate-day fasting (ADF), modified ADF, and time-restricted feeding. However, it is only during the 5:2 diet and the complete ADF that the fasting periods exceed 20 hours, which has major consequences for the hormonal and metabolic environment of the fasting persons. Fasting for 20 hours or more results in lo

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in cardiac uptake and metabolism of hydroxybutyrate
  - Change in myocardial perfusion and flow reserve
  - Change in insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle, liver and adipose tissue
  - Change in cardiac uptake and metabolism of fatty acids
  - Change in cardiac uptake and metabolism of glucose

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Intermittent fasting

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05181267
