CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03698669
Title: Treating Chronic Pain in Buprenorphine Patients in Primary Care Settings
Official Title: Treating Chronic Pain in Buprenorphine Patients in Primary Care Settings
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 163
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Treating Opioid Patients' Pain and Sadness (TOPPS) focuses on the relationship of pain, depression, opioid and other substance misuse, and functioning. It has a structured agenda, uses behavioral activation, involves explicit and ongoing psychoeducation, and includes a behavioral health specialist (BHS) trened extensively in the nature of pain and opioid misuse, includinGHow to assess for red flags of opioid relapse. Devised specifically for primary care patients receiving buprenorphine, TOPPS is collaborative (PCP, BHS, and patient) and focuses on pain and physical symptoms in order to decrease the need to turn to substance misuse to avoid pain, and to foster patient's abilities to achieve their long-term life goals. In this study, TOPPS is compared to a health education contact-control condition among 250 persons with opioid use disorder recruited from two primary care based buprenorphine programs. The investigators will provide both interventions over 3 months, and follow the patients for a total of 12 months in order to observe both short-term and longer-term effects of TOPPS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Nearly 2.5 million individuals in the United States have opioid use disorder (OUD), with the vast majority (2 million) reporting abuse of prescription opioids. Patients with a history of substance use are particularly vulnerable to experiencing pain. Indeed, a large percentage of patients with OUD who receive the effective opioid agonist treatments (OAT) buprenorphine or methadone (MMT), report that pain preceded any use of addictive substances, and that the primary reason for starting opioid use was to reduce pain. Among methadone patients, 37-61% suffer from chronic pain that is often severe and interferes with daily activities. Similarly, in studies of chronic pain in buprenorphine patients, approximately 48% of patients report chronic pain. OAT recipients report far higher rates of chronic pain than the wider US population.

Chronic pain has been associated with negative substance use outcomes in persons receiving buprenorphine for opioid detoxification and in people receiving MMT. Providers may prioritize the treatment of substance use in OUD patients, leaving the concurrent pain untreated. Lack of treatment encourages patients to use illicit opioids for pain relief. Indeed, for persons using buprenorphine, greater pain severity in a given week was significantly associated with increased likelihood of opioid use in the following week.

Pain contributes to other negative outcomes. Pain is an independent risk factor for suicide including in samples of substance use disorder patients. Further, compared to MMT patients without pain, those with pain have significantly greater health problems and psychological distress. Pain, poor health, and low energy are the most commonly cited reasons that OAT patients are physically inactive. The continued physical and social problems in patients with pain influence the perception of (lack of) treatment benefits by both patients and providers.

Duration of opioid agonist treatment (OAT) is a key predictor of long-term abstinence and outcomes improve across a variety of domains if patients remain in care for at least one year. Although buprenorphine is a growing ambulatory treatment, retention in care remains problematic. Across practice sites and, despite variations in visit frequency, the 12-month retention rate ranges from 50-80% with the majority of treatment drop-out occurring during the firsT3 months of treatment. Though few studies have yet examined the role of pain, pain has been found to negatively impact buprenorphine treatment retention.

Studies estimate that approximately one third to one half of MMT and buprenorphine recipients suffer from depression. Several studies have reported that opioid dependent patients with chronic pain have greater depressive symptoms and a greater probability of occupational disability compared to patients with lower level or no chronic pain. Amongst MMT patients, higher psychiatric distress is associated with lower general functioning. Methadone counselors report

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Interference Based on the Brief Pain Inventory
  - Pain Severity Based on the Brief Pain Inventory
  - Depression Based on the Patient Health Questionnaire-9

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Treating Opioid Patients' Pain and Sadness (TOPPS)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health Education (HE)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03698669
