CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05695352
Title: Oral Levonorgestrel Plus Meloxicam, IG-002 Delays Ovulation in Normal Menstruating Women by Seven Days
Official Title: A Phase II Study to Evaluate the Delay in Ovulation Following Oral Levonorgestrel Plus Meloxicam Compared to Placebo in Normal Menstruating Women
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial determines if an oral medication taken within 2 days of anticipated ovulation will delay ovulation by 7 days. The study compares oral placebo tablets (control) to oral levonorgestrel, a synthetic hormone, and meloxicam, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (treatment) in 21 healthy women between the ages of 18 to 40. The control or treatment are taken 48 hours apart in the first and second menstrual cycle, respectively. The first dose is taken when the ovarian follicle has a diameter of 17 mm measured by transvaginal ultrasound. This follicle diameter is found 2 ± 1.0 days before ovulation. Ovulation is determined by a change in urinary hormone levels analyzed in first morning daily urine. The Investigators anticipate that the control cycle will have an interval to ovulation of ≤ 3 days from first placebo to ovulation while a delay of ≥7 days is found between first treatment to ovulation. A second question is to determine the side effects between control versus treatment based on symptoms such as nausea or abdominal cramping, change in blood pressure or pulse rate and the interval in menstrual bleeding.

Each study participant has approximately 9 visits during each of two menstrual cycles. The visits between menstrual day 9 (first visit) to largest follicle are 3 to 6 depending upon follicle growth. A blood sample with a transvaginal ultrasound for ovarian follicle diameter is obtained at each visit. The appropriate medication is taken when the ovarian follicle largest diameter is 17 mm. The second dose is taken 2 days later with interim and final visits at 5 and 10 days following first dose. Each participant collects first morning urine from menstrual day 9 to 23. A teaspoonful of morning urine is placed in a storage tube and kept in a refrigerator freezer section until returned at a scheduled visit. All urine samples are kept frozen until analyzed for the metabolites of estrogen and progesterone by a central research laboratory. A change in the ratio of estrogen to progesterone metabolites is indicative of ovulation because more progesterone is secreted after ovulation from the ovary.

The primary research outcome compares the interval in days from first dose of medication to ovulation between control and treatment. Secondary outcomes are menstrual cramps, vaginal bleeding, nausea, and headache, and changes in blood pressure, pulse, and interval between menstrual periods in control compared to treatment cycles.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will perform a single site single blind clinical trial to determine the delay in ovulation following administration of placebo or levonorgestrel plus meloxicam in normal menstruating women aged 18 to 40. The Hypothesis is: There will be a delay of \>7 days between the first dose of combination drug and the occurrence of ovulation compared to \<3 days following placebo.

The investigators will screen 26 potential participants to enroll and complete 21. Each participant after signing an Informed Consent and meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled on menstrual day 9 of the subsequent menstrual cycle following a negative urine pregnancy test. Each participant will be asked to collect a first morning voided urine sample beginning on menstrual day 9 for 13 days completing on menstrual day 22. The participant will undergo a transvaginal ultrasound on menstrual days 9, 12, 13 and possibly day 14 to determine ovarian follicle diameters in two planes frontal and sagittal using transvaginal ultrasound. When the largest follicle diameter is 17±1.0 mm the participant will be given the assigned intervention. Placebo tablets will be given in two doses 48 hours apart in the 1st control cycle and levonorgestrel 1.5 mg plus meloxicam 15 mg two doses 48 hours apart in the 2nd treatment cycle. The ovarian follicle diameter occurs approximately in the middle of the woman's window of fertility which is the four days preceding the day of ovulation. We anticipate that ovulation will take place within 72 hours after the first placebo dose in \>90% of the participants and will be delayed ≥7 days following the first dose of levonorgestrel 1.5 mg and meloxicam 15 mg orally in ≥85% of the participants.

The primary outcome is the delay in days from the first dose of medication to evidence of ovulation the formation of a corpus luteum. The daily urine samples will be assayed for luteinizing hormone, estrone-3-glucuronide, and pregnanediol-3-glucuronide by our central laboratory. Changes in the urinary metabolites of estrone and progesterone are used to identify the day of the luteal-follicular transition (DALT) indicating ovulation. Urine luteinizing hormone will be analyzed on a subset of the daily urine samples to confirm a LH increase in the placebo cycle (Days 12 to 17) and the delay in the LH increase in the levonorgestrel plus meloxicam cycle (Days 12 to 19).

Secondary outcomes are: a) the comparison of the symptoms and menstrual interval between treatments, b) safety parameters consisting of blood pressure and pulse obtained at each visit and the incidence of treatment emergent adverse events captured by the participant using a daily diary card. The participant will be instructed to write down any symptoms or problem along with medications taken including study drug and other medications. The occurrence, percentage and relationship of minor and moderate adverse events will be noted and categorized using Medical Dictionary for Re

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Interval to ovulation in normal women following placebo is 3 days compared to 7 days following levonorgestrel plus meloxicam

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Levonorgestrel 1.5mg
  - DRUG: Meloxicam 15 mg
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05695352
