CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06581601
Title: Physiotherapy Management in Women With Urinary Incontinence
Official Title: Physiotherapy Management in Women With Urinary Incontinence Considering Postural Stability, Postural Pattern, Pelvic Type, Quality of Life, and Sexual Aspect
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Main objective:

The primary aim of the study is to assess whether the author's exercise programme has an effect on reducing urinary incontinence and pelvic floor dysfunction after childbirth, considering vacuum extractor, forceps and caesarean section deliveries.

Secondary objective:

The secondary objective is to determine whether the duration of the author's exercise programme is sufficient to achieve positive changes in women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will involve women with stress urinary incontinence, urge urinary incontinence, and mixed urinary incontinence. Participants will be women aged 20-80 years (meeting inclusion criteria: urinary incontinence, regular menstrual cycles, pre-and post menopausal period, natural childbirth or cesarean section, and deliveries using forceps and vacuum extractors; exclusion criteria: no urinary incontinence, irregular menstrual cycles, no childbirth, abdominal surgeries/procedures, active cancer, no gynecological check-up in the last 12 months, recurrent urogenital infections, joint hypermobility). A total of 300 women will be examined, including 100 women meeting the inclusion criteria, 100 women meeting the inclusion criteria but not interested in exercising, and 100 healthy women. Participants can withdraw from the study at any stage.Study Group Division

Based on the evaluation of posture type, pelvic pattern, and postural stability, participants will be divided into three groups:

1. Women meeting inclusion criteria performing the author's exercise program - experimental group.
2. Women meeting inclusion criteria but not interested in performing the author's exercise program - control group.
3. Healthy women - control group. The experimental group will perform the author's pelvic floor muscle exercise program daily for six weeks, at a fixed time each day, under weekly physiotherapist supervision and independently on other days (after proper instruction by the physiotherapist).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Modified 1-Hour Pad Test, measurement in grams
  - Floor Disability Index
  - Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire Short Form
  - Sexual Satisfaction Scale
  - Neck Disability Pain Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: physiotherapy, exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06581601
