CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04678180
Title: Treatment Outcome of Combined Virtual Tic Training in Children and Adolescents With a Chronic Tic Disorder
Official Title: Randomized Clinical Study Evaluating the Treatment Outcome of Combined Virtual Tic Training in Children and Adolescents With a Chronic Tic Disorder
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 31
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Tics are unwanted, repetitive movements or sounds that are either simple or complex in appearance. Tic disorders often have a huge impact on children's life. The investigators have previously shown a positive outcome of tic training combining habit reversal training (HRT) and exposure response prevention (ERP) either as an individual therapy or in a group setting. However, young people and families are often busy, and having to use a full day as to attend to tic training often is difficult both for the young person and their families. Therefore, the present study focuses on the clinical outcome of combining virtual training with training at the hospital

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Tics are unwanted, brief, repetitive, non-rhythmic movements or sounds that are classified as either simple or complex. Dependent on duration, tics are divided into transient tics and chronic tics. Tic disorders often have an early age of onset and may have a major impact on a young person's life. Treatment of a chronic tic disorder primarily comprises therapeutic intervention which consists of ERP (Exposure Response Prevention) and/or HRT (Habit Reversal Training).

The purpose of the project is to

* Evaluate the treatment outcome of combined video consultation/participating in training sessions at the hospital and of combined self-instructed video training/participating in training sessions at the hospital.
* Compare the treatment outcome of supplementary virtual consultation and supplementary video training via an app with a previous study on the treatment outcome of attending individual therapy (NISSEN, 2018) by means of benchmarking.
* In addition, expound on the significance of sensory modulation (sensitivity), not-just-right experience and the child's perception with regard to the severity of chronic tics and treatment outcome. Also, to investigate whether insight, sensitivity and the not-just-right experience change during treatment.
* As the app is newly developed in relation to the present study, the investigators wish to clarify the participants' evaluation of the app using a newly developed questionnaire (designed for this project). For comparison, a questionnaire has been designed for evaluating the applicability of the supplementary video sessions.

When patients are referred to the Tourette outpatient clinic, Aarhus University Hospital, Psychiatry, a comprehensive diagnostic assessment is carried out. The assessment is based on a modified version of the Schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia for school-age children - present and lifetime version (K-SADS-PL). The K-SADS-PL information is used for confirming the primary diagnosis of chronic tics and for ensuring that none of the exclusion criteria have been met.

Inclusion criteria

The inclusion criteria are defined based on the ICD-10 diagnosis (International Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems):

Chronic motor/vocal tics (DF95.1) Tourette syndrome (DF95.2), Age spectrum: 9-17 years old

Exclusion criteria

The exclusion criteria are defined as follows:

Patients with comorbidity such as mental retardation (IQ = 70 or less), psychosis, severe depression requiring treatment, suicidal behavior/threats or severe eating disorder.

Participated in tics training based on HRT/ERP treatment within the last six months.

Oral and written consent will be obtained from parents and children/adolescents (age 15 years and older).

The study will be an open, randomized controlled clinical study for children and adolescents with chronic tics disorders. The participants will be randomized using computer-generated randomization based on age and sex.

The participants w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of baseline Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS) at 16 weeks, 24 weeks, 40 weeks, 68 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Combined HRT and ERP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04678180
