CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03297632
Title: Improving Muscle Strength, Mass and Physical Function in Older Adults
Official Title: Functionally Designed Resistance Exercise With the Aim of Improving Balance, Muscle Strength, Muscle Mass and Physical Function of the Elderly: a Randomized Controlled Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 210
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Falls and fractures are serious and costly events for elderly individuals: they cause functional impairments, increase mortality and contribute to huge healthcare costs for the society. The number of falls, and following consequences, are expected to increase in society as the proportion of the elderly population will increase, therefore it is crucial to be able to detect and prevent falls and fractures in the population. The investigators have previously published results that objective measurements of postural balance can predict fall risk in 70-year-olds in Umeå and subsequently investigated whether balance can be improved through 4-week balance exercise program. However, preliminary results suggest that the frequency and duration of exercise should be longer than 3 times a week for 4 weeks to produce effects. Furthermore, there is also evidence indicating a link between muscle weakness and fall risk in elderly subjects, while research findings show that it is possible for older individuals to influence muscle strength and muscle mass with resistance exercise. Functional strength training can also positively influence the balance. In this context, the investigators aim to investigate whether a 10-week resistance exercise program may positively affect balance, muscle strength, muscle mass and physical function, with the aim of preventing future falls and fractures in the population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Falls and fall-related injuries are major health concerns for elderly individuals; they cause functional decline and increased mortality, as well as incurring vast health care costs for society. Occurrences and consequences of falls are expected to increase globally with the growing number of elderly individuals. Hence, the improved detection of potential fall risk markers is of importance when predicting individuals at risk for falls and subsequently for improving strategies in fall-prevention. Falling can be the end result of intrinsic and extrinsic factors negatively affecting an individual's ability to maintain balance, which are often revealed during sequences of body movement. Balance can be both dynamically and statically measured, the latter involves having the individual in a stationary standing position, from which results researchers have proposed impaired postural stability as a risk factor for falling. However, evidence regarding the association of postural instability with prospective falls is limited, and population-based cohort studies in this field are scarce. Other shortcomings of previous studies include the use of retrospective study designs, which increase the risks of recall bias and the identification of risk factors as the result of falls.

Postural instability is preferably investigated using objective measures of posturography, which has advantages over regular clinical assessments since it reduces test performance variability and avoids the subjective nature of scoring systems. Recently, researchers has analyzed the performance of the Wii Balance Board (WBB) as an instrument for measuring postural instability, revealing excellent concurrent validity and an ability to complement existing fall assessments. However, these findings needed to be evaluated in a population-based sample with a rich set of covariates. Hence, the investigators performed a prospectively observational study to investigate how objective measures of postural sway predicted prospective falls in a cohort of more than 1800 community-dwelling men and women, all of whom were 70 years of age at the time of the investigation.

The results revealed that impaired postural stability can increase the risk of incident falls by 75 to 90% among older adults in the highest quintile of postural sway, measured during trials of both eyes open and eyes closed. One of the conclusions was that it would be valuable to examine the clinical utility of the investigated parameters in future studies, compare performance to established clinical balance tests, and to investigate whether strategies to improve balance would reduce the fall risk. Thus, in a follow-up study the investigators examined wether they could reduce the increased postural sway of participants who was identified as having abnormal balance values, based on previous measurements. The investigators also examined participants' functional balance through Time-Up-and-GO (TUG) performance, together wit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Postural Stability performance
  - Change in Gait Speed
  - Change in Chair Stand performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Functional resistance exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03297632
