CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02861703
Title: Pilot Feasibility Study of an Online Lifestyle Intervention for Overweight Breast Cancer Survivors
Official Title: The Feasibility, Acceptability and Preliminary Effectiveness of an Online Lifestyle Intervention for Healthy Weight Management and Improved Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Survivors
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Obesity presents serious psychological and physical consequences for breast cancer survivors, including diminished quality of life, poorer prognosis and increased mortality. As such, there is a great need to develop strategies for these women to maintain optimal body weight. Diet and exercise have been shown to lead to successful weight loss among this population but these effects are seldom sustained, plausibly because these efforts alone overlook less obvious, but equally important, psychosocial factors that can interfere with prolonged progress. This study will implement a group-based intervention addressing diet and exercise along with other psychosocial issues related to survivorship such as depression, fatigue, body image and social support. Based on the growing popularity and benefits of computer-based health care, including convenience and anonymity, this intervention will also be offered online, representing the first of its kind. It is hypothesized that the intervention will be feasible to implement and acceptable to its participants. It is also hypothesized that the intervention will yield meaningful and sustained changes in body weight, body mass index, waist circumference (primary outcomes), as well as mental well-being, quality of life, and body image (secondary outcomes). This research has the ability to improve the long-term health of breast cancer survivors by incorporating psychosocial interventions into standard medical care practices and has the potential to increase accessibility of these services using online technology.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common types of cancer in Canadian women, and although the mortality rate is decreasing, there remain numerous challenges for survivorship. Among the most prevalent yet less commonly discussed post-treatment concerns, is substantial weight gain, with approximately 70% of women being overweight at diagnosis and additional weight gain often resulting from treatment. Obesity has serious psychological and physical implications for both pre- and post-menopausal BC survivors; in addition to compromising body image and QoL, it increases risk for recurrence and mortality. Specifically, increased fat results in greater production of estrogen, insulin, leptin and pro-inflammatory cytokines, and lesser production of sex hormone binding globulin, all of which have been linked to the promotion of BC and tumor growth. As such, the development of strategies for the promotion and maintenance of optimal body mass has become a primary focus for BC survivorship.

Trials of lifestyle interventions for this population are in their early stages and have primarily included modification of diet alone, exercise alone, or both. Results have been mixed, especially regarding the effects of dietary change alone but generally support the benefits of exercise and combined diet and exercise on weight loss and improved QoL in cancer survivors. However, despite indications that diet and exercise interventions lead to improvements in physical health and mental health, there remains a lack of consistent evidence that these gains are maintained long-term. As such, there is a need for more systematic follow-up of these interventions to determine their potential to produce enduring effects as well as for development and refinement of techniques that improve long-term weight management.

Beyond developing effective services, a direction for future research should include outreach to underserved populations. Rural BC survivors represent one group, in particular, with limited access to healthy lifestyle interventions, and who could benefit greatly from participation. Compared to their urban counterparts, these women are less likely to have timely diagnostic biopsies and receive optimal treatment, and are diagnosed later, at more advanced stages when prognosis is less favourable. They are also more likely to be obese, be less physically active, have poor eating habits, experience psychological distress, and have less access to mental health resources, placing them at heightened risk for weight gain. Researchers and health care providers have a responsibility to develop ways of redressing such health disparities and helping these particularly vulnerable women make lasting changes to their overall health and QoL.

Society's recent movement toward "eHealth", which refers to "the use of emerging information and communication technology, especially the Internet, to improve or enable health and health care", introduces an exciting opportunity to increase av

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Mass Index
  - Change in Waist Circumference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Online lifestyle intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02861703
