CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02891096
Title: Inspiratory Strength and Respiratory Complications After SCI Injury
Official Title: Inspiratory Muscle Strength and Respiratory Complications After Spinal Cord Injury: a Multicenter, Prospective Cohort Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 550
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The investigators conducting this study to investigate the relation between the respiratory muscle strength and respiratory complications. To understand more about respiratory complications the influence of different factors (such as in- and expiratory muscle strength, lung function parameters, physical activity, smoking, medications,…) on respiratory complications (such as pneumonia) will be investigated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

A spinal cord injury (SCI) often leads to paralysis of respiratory muscles (1), which causes a decrease in inspiratory volume and consequently limits the pre-cough volumes needed to produce an effective cough (2). The ability to cough is essential for airway clearance (3). With reduced cough capacity, the risk for pneumonia is increased (1). Pneumonia is still among the leading causes of death in the SCI population (4, 5). In acute SCI, up to 80% of patients are affected by respiratory complications (6) and in 51 % of these cases pneumonia occurs (7), corresponding to a cumulative pneumonia incidence rate of about 40%. Unfortunately, predictors of pneumonia in SCI are still poorly understood (6).

To the investigators knowledge, there are three studies on predictors of pneumonia in the SCI population (8, 9).

Two of these studies concentrated on factors of injury and shock severity (9) or identified the level and completeness of injury as the fundamental clinical entity predicting pulmonary complications (8).

However, both studies did not investigate potentially modifiable factors. The third study focused on potentially modifiable factors, such as lung function but did not cover respiratory muscle strength and did not define the inclusion of respiratory complications precisely (10). Therefore, to facilitate future evidence-based strategies to reduce the pneumonia risk in acute SCI, prevention targeted studies that aim to identify modifiable risk factors for pneumonia are urgently needed.

The current research proposal is targeted at specific parameters of respiratory function that are conceivably determinants of pneumonia risk as well as modifiable by respiratory muscle training (11,12). In a recent study (EKNZ 2014-293; accepted for Publication in Respiratory Care) the investigators evaluated various respiratory function parameters and identified inspiratory muscle strength as a reliable discriminator between individuals with and those without pneumonia.

Although the investigators identified inspiratory muscle strength as best parameter of respiratory function to discover individuals with SCI at risk for pneumonia, these data are based on a retrospective singlecenter data analysis without any detailed information on the type, time-point and severity of pneumonia. Also data on mortality due to pneumonia and other personal parameters that may influence the risk for pneumonia as well (e.g. smoking, exercise, mechanical ventilation dependency etc.) are missing in this analysis.

Objective:

The main objective of this study is to evaluate 'cut-off levels' of inspiratory muscle strength as predictor for pneumonia in individuals with SCI (diagnostic accuracy). Additionally, to evaluate lifestyle and treatment parameters as well as personal- and lesion characteristics as further potential determinants of pneumonia as well as the impact of pneumonia on quality of life and mortality.

Determination of sample size:

Regarding the in- and exc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pneumonia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: inspiratory muscle strength

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02891096
