CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07458399
Title: Effect of Sciatic Nerve Neurodynamic Sliding on Pain, Disability, and Balance in Patients With Lumbar Radiculopathy
Official Title: Effect of Sciatic Nerve Neurodynamic Sliding Technique on Pain, Disability, and Balance in Patients With Lumbar Radiculopathy
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to evaluate the effect of sciatic nerve slider mobilization on pain intensity. Also, to evaluate the impact of sciatic nerve mobilization on functional disability, and to determine the influence of sciatic nerve slider neurodynamics on functional balance performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Radicular pain in lumbar radiculopathy is a mixture of nociceptive and neuropathic component. Several conservative treatments are available to treat lumbar radiculopathy: moderate evidence (Level B) of effectiveness for the conservative treatment: patient education and self-management, McKenzie method, mobilization and manipulation, exercise therapy, traction (short-term outcomes), neural mobilization, and epidural injections. Two interventions were identified to have weak evidence of effectiveness (Level C): traction for long-term outcomes and dry needling. Three interventions were identified to have conflicting or no evidence (Level D) of effectiveness: electro-diagnostic-based management, laser and ultrasound, and electrotherapy. The efficacy of individual treatment is controversial; a multimodal approach is recommended because it is more effective. However, little high-quality evidence supports the use of conservative treatment.

As well as being amongst the manual therapy techniques recommended to improve patients' pain and disability, neural mobilization (NM) has also been advocated as an analgesic treatment option. NMs are techniques that involve a specific sequence of joint movements to mobilize the involved peripheral nerve in order to enhance nerve gliding and reduce the neural mechanosensitivity.

This study will provide further insight into the efficacy of sciatic nerve neurodynamic Slider technique in reducing pain, improving functional outcomes, and balance, offering a cost-effective management strategy for affected individuals.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain pressure threshold
  - Functional Disability
  - Balance Evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Selected conventional physical therapy program
  - OTHER: Sciatic nerve slider mobilization

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07458399
