CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05585775
Title: Mood and Thought Process Study
Official Title: Affective Executive Functioning as a Mechanism of Treatments for Depression Symptoms
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The primary objective for this project is to test whether affective executive functioning is a mechanism of action of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and Wellness for Wellbeing. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Test the effect of MBCT vs. Wellness for Wellbeing on affective inhibition (i.e., emotionally valenced inhibition as measured via the affective Go/No Go task) using an RCT.
2. Test the effect of MBCT vs. Wellness for Wellbeing on (a) affective updating and (b) affective shifting. Outcomes will be measured with the affective n-Back and the affective Internal Switching Task, respectively.

3a) The investigators will examine whether depression symptom severity co-varies with change in affective executive functioning (i.e., affecting inhibition, shifting, and updating) over time. 3b) The investigators will examine whether compliance with treatment protocol (e.g., number of classes attended, amount of home practice) predicts endpoint executive functioning.

Participants will complete surveys, interviews, and computer tasks, and will be randomized to either Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy or Wellness for Wellbeing.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) is an efficacious treatment for patients with symptoms of depression. However, the processes by which MBCT achieves its outcomes are not well understood. Drawing on literature on basic cognitive functioning and cognitive biases in depression, this K23 will use a randomized controlled trial to test the effect of MBCT vs. Wellness for Wellbeing on affective inhibition (an important component of executive functioning (EF)), and a possible mechanism of action by which MBCT has an impact on depression symptoms. As a secondary aim, this project will also test the effect of MBCT vs. Wellness for Wellbeing on affective updating and affective shifting (two remaining components of EF). In exploratory analyses, the investigators will examine whether depression symptom severity covaries with change in affective EF (i.e., affective inhibition, shifting, and updating) overtime, and whether adherence to the treatment protocol predicts endpoint EF. To accomplish these goals, 76 adult participants with elevated depression symptoms will be recruited from the community and will be randomized to either an 8-week MBCT course at the Mindfulness Center at Brown University or an 8-week Wellness for Wellbeing Class. Participants will complete validated computer-based tasks of affective EF at 4-assessments, 1 before, 2 during, and 1 after, the 8-week MBCT or Wellness for Wellbeing programs.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Affective Go/No-Go
  - Emotional n-back
  - Affective Internal Switching Task
  - Depression Symptoms

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Wellness for Wellbeing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05585775
