CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04694170
Title: Visceral Somatization and Low Back Pain.
Official Title: Physiotherapy of Patients With Low Back Pain of Viscerovertebral Etiology.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to verify the significance of the inclusion of procedures of a comprehensive therapeutic approach according to Eastern techniques to classical physiotherapy and to find out whether these Eastern techniques can contribute to the enrichment of standard physiotherapy. According to TCM and Ayurveda, another goal is to develop appropriate regimen measures to create a yoga regimen suitable for patients who have renal and bladder dysfunction according to TCM and whose main common symptom is chronic non-specific low back pain. The study is based upon comparing a four-week physiotherapy program according to the physician's indication and a physiotherapy program enriched with compiled regimen measures and yoga exercises in selected probands.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Two groups of probands were used - an experimental and control group. There were 6 probands in each group. The four-week therapy effect, which took place twice a week for 60 minutes, was compared. The control group received physiotherapy, as indicated by the physician. According to TCM and Ayurveda, the experimental group underwent physiotherapy as indicated by a doctor enriched with yoga exercises and regime measures. It was asked to perform yoga exercises daily at home. The therapy's effect was evaluated using the Short-form-36 Health-related Quality of Life Questionnaire (HRQoL), the VAS scale of pain intensity, the number of responses in the anamnestic questionnaire the author compiled the kinesiological analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - level of quality of life
  - intensity of pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: additional therapy
  - OTHER: conventional physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 26 Years to 54 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04694170
