CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05435534
Title: Effect of a Multicomponent Intervention on Functional Capacity After Hip Fracture
Official Title: Effect of a Multicomponent Intervention With Telerehabilitation and Vivifrail on Functional Capacity After Hip Fracture: a Randomized Control Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 174
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Due to the clinical, functional, cognitive and social complexity of older adults after fragility hip fractures (defined as those produced by low-impact trauma), the investigators propose an intervention.

This intervention involves a multidisciplinary and multicomponent program consisting of physical exercise with tele-rehabilitation, nutritional assessment and other variables related to comprehensive geriatric assessment.

The investigators want to improve functional status, quality of life and prevent new fractures. In addition, the investigators try to optimize treatments and resources based on the functional status of patients and their life expectancies, improving care and healthcare cost

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study aims

1. Improve functional capacity (Short Physical Performance Battery, SPPB) in older patients with fragility hip fractures through a multidisciplinary and multicomponent program and increase the quality of life (EuroQol-5 Dimension) and reduce the use of resources (admission and readmission to emergency department or in-hospital) at 3, 6 and 12 months compare with usual care
2. Analyze the subgroups of patients that benefit the most from the respective interventions, identifying factors of the patient (sociodemographic, clinical, functional and cognitive) and of the intervention (type of exercise, nutritional supplementation, pain control, etc.), which could explain differences in the effectiveness of the intervention at 3, 6 and 12 months
3. Analyze the effect of multidisciplinary and multicomponent intervention in older adults with hip fracture on cognitive capacity (4-AT, MMSE), risk of falls (number of falls, Falls Efficacy Scale), depression (GDS), pain (VAS), polypharmacy, geriatric syndromes and nutritional status (MNA) compare with usual care at 3, 6 and 12 months
4. Developmentally monitor the changes achieved through the intervention, as well as the factors that determine the perpetuation of the benefits of the long-term.
5. Examine the effect of a multi-component program on muscle mass (DXA), bone formation and resorption (BTMs) at 12 months
6. Estimate the prevalence of frailty, multimorbidity and geriatric syndromes in older adults with fragility hip fracture and the changing at 3, 6 and 12 months.
7. Estimate the use of resources necessary to carry out the intervention program, as well as the average time to carry out the comprehensive geriatric assessment, and which is the most cost/efficient tool in this case.
8. Examine the applicability of a tele-rehabilitation program (ActiveHip) in older adults with hip fracture.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: ActiveFLS intervention
  - OTHER: Usual care group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 75 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05435534
