CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02418975
Title: Pre-operative Very Low-calorie Protein-based Versus Hypocaloric Enteral Nutrition
Official Title: Pre-operative Very Low-calorie Protein-based Versus Hypocaloric Enteral Nutrition to Improve Intra- and Post-operative Outcomes of Severely Obese Patients Undergoing Bariatric Surgery
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Pre-operative weight loss can reduce the risk intra- and post-operative complications but no optimal pre-operative weight loss strategy has been investigated. Very-low-calorie diets (VLCDs) were proven to results in higher metabolic improvements in the short-term than balanced, hypocaloric diets. Therefore, the aim of the study is to investigate whether a VLCD results in lower intra-and post-operative complications compared to a hypocaloric diet. However, to achieve a optimal compliance in patients having experienced multiple dietary intervention failures, administration of the intervention will be performed by the enteral route using a naso-gastric feeding tube.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Bariatric surgery is an important treatment strategy for obese patients having failed multiple diet-induced weight loss attempts. On the other hand, severly obese patients have also a high risk of both intra- and post-operative complications. Pre-operative weight loss can reduce these risks but no optimal pre-operative weight loss strategy has been investigated. Very-low-calorie diets (VLCDs) were proven to results in higher metabolic improvements in the short-term than balanced, hypocaloric diets. Therefore, the aim of the study is to investigate whether a VLCD results in lower intra-and post-operative complications compared to a hypocaloric diet. However, to achieve a optimal compliance in patients having experienced multiple dietary intervention failures, administration of the intervention will be performed by the enteral route using a naso-gastric feeding tube.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Surgery duration

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Very low-calorie protein-based diet
  - OTHER: Hypocaloric diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02418975
