CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04319419
Title: Milk Proteins and Micronutrient Supplementation in Obese Children
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Supplement Containning Milk Proteins, Vitamins and Minerals to Reduce Fat Deposition, Systemic Inflammation and Improve Nutritional Status in Obese School-age Children
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 152
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Milk proteins and micronutrients could be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of obesity.

The objective was to evaluate a supplement with milk proteins and multivitamins and minerals with nutrition education on anthropometry, body composition, micronutrient status, blood pressure, lipid profile, systemic inflammation, leptin and insulin resistance in obese children at baseline and after 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obese children were selected in elementary schools from 5 rural communities of the State of Querétaro. One hundred fifty two obese children (Z-score \>2 standard deviations) aged 6-11y were randomly assigned to receive one of two treatments: 1) 237mL/day of milk proteins and multiple micronutrients supplement (MPMS) plus Nutrition Education (NE) program or 2) NE alone for 24 weeks.

Children in both groups were evaluated at baseline and 6 months after treatment initiated. At both times the following variables were evaluated:

Visit 1 (Screening): Mothers and parents received oral and written information regarding all aspects of the study. Informed consent, medical history, demographic information, weight and height were obtained.

Visit 2 (Clinical Laboratory testing): A blood preasure and sample was taken by an specialist. Blood test included Glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol, Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10), C-reactive protein, insulin and leptin.

Visit 3 (Nutrition Clinic at UAQ): body composition was determined by DEXA. The NE were given at Nutrition Clinic and school to the children's parents each week.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total body fat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Supplement with micronutrients
  - OTHER: Nutrition education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 11 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04319419
