CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02421692
Title: Improving Physical Function in Skilled Nursing Facility Residents
Official Title: Improving Physical Function in Skilled Nursing Facility Residents
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 153
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Each year Medicare spends approximately $31.3 billion on 2.4 million skilled nursing facility (SNF) episodes of care. SNFs rely on interdisciplinary approaches to patient care to maximize rehabilitation potential for return to prior level of function and reduce the risk of adverse events in older adults. However despite a substantial increase in spending on SNF services and minimal change in complexity of the caseload, 68% of patients are below their pre-hospitalization level of function at discharge, 25% return to the community, and 18% are hospitalized. This may be partially explained by current SNF approaches to patient care which foster inactivity and participation in low intensity rehabilitation interventions (preliminary data). Both inactivity and low-intensity interventions may perpetuate further functional decline or impede maximal recovery. The serious implication of risk with functional decline is exemplified by studies which have shown declines in physical function can increase the risk of being re-hospitalized six-fold and may infer other long term effects such as increased risk for mortality, morbidity, and institutionalization. Muscle weakness, reduced cardiorespiratory reserve, and neuromuscular deficits have been attributed to this acute decline in function. However current rehabilitation strategies in SNFs do not promote adequate dose and mode of interventions to induce beneficial systemic adaptations, perhaps due to the lack of evidence on effective rehabilitation protocols for this medically-complex population. Therefore, the investigators have designed an rehabilitation program, which uniquely integrates principles of physiologic tissue overload with strengthening and functional interventions for greater gains in physical function. Data will be collected on the first cohort of patients who cycle through a SNF during Stage 1, in which usual care occurs (5 months). Then, staff training on progressive rehabilitation interventions will occur over 2 months. Finally, data will be collected on a second cohort of patients who cycle through a SNF during Stage 2, in which progressive rehabilitation is implemented by SNF staff (5 months). Given the high turnover of patients in SNFs (average length of stay \~21 days), 2 different cohorts of patients will be studied and the analysis will consist of independent 2-sample t-tests. During Stage 1 and 2, measures of physical function will be assessed on all eligible patients at admission and discharge from SNF. Therapists will be assessed on adherence to the protocol through documentation audits and use of on-site observational checklist. Acceptability of the intervention by the patients will be assessed by a patient satisfaction survey. Any adverse events will be obtained from the medical record and documented. The discharge location of all patients will be documented.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Progressive Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02421692
