CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04209335
Title: Isometric Core Muscle Endurance in Healthy Active and Non-active Working Age Populations
Official Title: Isometric Core Muscle Endurance in Healthy Active and Non-active Working Age Populations
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Objectives: The purpose of this study was to investigate a possible correlation between core muscle endurance and participants' age in healthy adult population. Secondary purpose was to identify other dependent variables influencing isometric core muscle endurance (e.g. low back pain, physical activity, gender, body mass index).

Methods: 48 (35 females, 13 males) healthy adults (aged 21-66 years) performed 4 isometric core muscle endurance tests- Biering-Sorensen, McGill V-sit, right and left side plank. A correlation between core endurance and age, gender, lower back pain (LBP), physical activity level (PAL), and body mass index (BMI) was calculated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is the first study to investigate the core muscle endurance of different age groups and genders with all four endurance tests of the core.

Since strength and endurance are key to keeping healthy as we age and National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and European guidelines advocate them, this study aims to look at the 3 main measurements of core endurance namely flexor, extensor and lateral muscles, and the possible correlations with age, PAL, existence of LBP, BMI and gender. Each participant performed 4 isometric core endurance tests in the same order- 1. Biering-Sorensen, 2.-3. side plank on both sides, and 4. McGill V-sit. All participants were tested by the same tester to reduce potential differences in procedure and testing error. The four tests were each measured using a stopwatch and documented in seconds. Each participant was told the time they had reached during testing to improve their motivation. Pain during testing was documented.

Based on the normative data of abdominal muscle endurance for young adults Null hypothesis (H0)- There is no significant difference in endurance tests for age, presence of LBP or PAL. Hypothesis (H1)- Any significant difference in endurance tests for age, presence of LBP or PAL are due to chance factors. This is a two-tailed hypothesis, as previous evidence shows conflicting results. Pearson's correlation and Independent T-test in SPSS (The Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) were used to confirm or reject the possible correlations between the core muscle endurance and age, LBP, PAL, gender, BMI, and participants' job.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core Muscle Endurance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: isometric core muscle endurance testing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04209335
