CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02145949
Title: Mechanistic Approach to Preventing Atrophy and Restoring Function in Older Adults
Official Title: Mechanistic Approach to Preventing Atrophy and Restoring Function in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
As a function of the growing population of older adults, an estimated 3.48 million total knee arthroplasty (TKA) procedures will be performed annually in the U.S. by 2030. Despite the near-universal success of this surgery in mitigating chronic knee pain, TKA is not successful in restoring long-term physical function in older adults, primarily because of quadriceps muscle atrophy, which explains 77% of the strength deficits. Overall, strength and functional mobility in TKA patients is 30-50% below age-matched healthy controls. Functional tasks such as stair-climbing remain a clinical problem for 75% of patients following TKA. Muscle atrophy occurs in both operative and non-operative legs, and is essentially permanent for older patients because of their impaired ability to increase muscle mass. The purpose of this clinical research is to determine the effects of essential amino acid (EAAs) supplementation on muscle mass, strength, and functional mobility following TKA in older adults. Based on strong preliminary data, the investigators hypothesize that twice-daily ingestion of 23 g of EAAsfor 1 wk before through 6 wk after TKA will increase basal rates of muscle protein synthesis via inactivation of catabolic signaling, and up-regulation of anabolic and cyto-protective proteins. The investigators further hypothesize that short-term atrophy prevention and accelerated return of functional mobility will lead to longer-term structural and functional adaptations, and improved quality of life in older TKA patients vs. Placebo. Identifying the mechanisms up-regulated by EAAstreatment that preserve muscle volume and mobility will have a major impact on rehabilitation science. This study will accomplish two specific aims: (1) determine if EAAselevates basal rates of muscle protein synthesis by up-regulating anabolic pathways and cyto-protective proteins, and inactivating catabolic pathways in the short term vs. Placebo and (2) determine if short-term prevention of atrophy, weakness, and functional mobility leads to positive changes in muscle cell structure and function, and improved quality of life in the longer term vs. Placebo. This work is significant because it advances knowledge of the molecular and cellular changes occurring during muscle atrophy (Placebo) and atrophy prevention (EAAs) in a clinical setting using a treatment that is broadly applicable, is well tolerated, and can be implemented immediately.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigative team has completed recent studies showing that essential amino acid (EAAs) supplementation attenuates quadriceps atrophy and accelerates the return of functional mobility following TKA. For patients on EAAs, quadriceps atrophy was only -6% and -3% in the operative and non-operative quadriceps, respectively, 6 wks after TKA, but -18% and -10%, respectively, in patients on Placebo, a threefold difference. Of clinical relevance, the patients on EAAswere able to maintain strength and demonstrated an accelerated return of functional mobility vs. Placebo 6 wks post-TKA. Positive changes at the cellular level are likely responsible for the reduction in muscle loss and preservation of strength, and to explain the acceleration of the return of functional mobility. As such, we hypothesize that twice-daily ingestion of 23 g of EAAsfrom 1 wk before to 6 wks after TKA will increase basal rates of muscle protein synthesis via inactivation of catabolic signaling (FoxO3a), and up-regulation of anabolic and cyto-protective proteins. We also propose that short-term atrophy prevention and accelerated return of functional mobility will translate into long-term (6 mo and 1 yr post-TKA) structural and functional adaptations, leading to improved quality of life in TKA patients with EAAssupplementation vs. Placebo.

The study will use a two-arm parallel design to determine the effect of EAAssupplementation on post-TKA muscle cell structure and function, and quality of life in the shorter term (6 months post-TKA) and long term (1 yr post-TKA) vs. Placebo. Subjects will be 80 older male and female adults having primary TKA at the Slocum Center for Orthopedics and Sports Medicine, Eugene, Oregon. Slocum study staff will pre-screen/identify potential subjects for recruitment based on inclusion/exclusion criteria. Eligible patients will be invited to join the study. After the completion of informed consent procedures, participants will be assigned a unique patient identification number, and randomly assigned to either EAAsor Placebo on a 1:1 allocation ratio, with blinding of treatment condition to subject and research staff/statisticians collecting data. Twice-daily ingestion of 23 g of supplement will begin 7 days prior to TKA and end at 6 wks post. EAAssubjects will receive EAAsand Placebo subjects will receive the non-essential amino acid Alinine. Subjects will document compliance with the supplement protocol in a log book and will return empty vials. Subjects will be followed for 1 yr.

Key research questions are: (a) Does EAAsprevent shorter-term (6 wks post-TKA) bilateral muscle atrophy, preserve quadriceps strength, and accelerate the return of functional mobility vs. Placebo? (b) Are there shorter-term sex differences on outcome measures? (c) Will EAAsincrease longer-term (6 mo post-TKA) quadriceps strength and functional mobility vs. Placebo? (d) Does EAAsimprove long-term (1 yr post-TKA) functional mobility and measures of quality of life vs. Place

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MRI Quadriceps Involved Leg
  - MRI Quadriceps Contralateral Leg
  - MRI Hamstrings Involved Leg
  - MRI Hamstrings Contralateral Leg

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Essential Amino Acids (EAAs)
  - DRUG: Placebo (Alanine)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02145949
