CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02393469
Title: Effects of Pulmonary Rehabilitation on Respiratory, and Cardiovascular Functional Capacity in COPD
Official Title: Effects of Pulmonary Rehabilitation on Function Cardiovascular, Respiratory and Functional Capacity of People With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in the Municipality of Santa Cruz do Sul - Rio Grande do Sul.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) has shown a progressive increase of morbidity and mortality, suggesting that the lung as a single therapeutic target, has not contributed in the past 20 years, significant changes to the natural evolution of the disease. Direct treatment for systemic changes and comorbidities, in fact, the most responsible for high rates of treatment failure could mean a new hope of life for individuals with COPD. This research project characterized as interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary program will be headquartered in Pulmonary Rehabilitation of the Santa Cruz Hospital which has partnerships with local companies . Its main objective will be to analyze cardiorespiratory and functional capacity in COPD patients not rehabilitated and rehabilitated after the period from 02 to 12 months of treatment in a Pulmonary Rehabilitation program in the municipality of Santa Cruz do Sul - Rio Grande do Sul. Will be included in this survey of COPD patients who were referred to a rehabilitation program with a clinical diagnosis of disease. In research activities to assess cardiorespiratory and functional capacity of COPD, pre and post-program (02 and 12 months) are provided for Pulmonary Rehabilitation. The research subjects will also be subjected to physical exercise protocol as recommended by the GOLD (2009), a period of eight weeks, often 2x / week, where their vital signs are measured before, during and after each session. Thus, it is believed that it will be possible to refine the knowledge of mechanisms by which the judicious use of pulmonary rehabilitation can control the progression of COPD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Selection of project participants

COPD, duly diagnosed with proof of spirometric lung function, who are receiving outpatient care at the Hospital Santa Cruz (HSC) to compose the control group will be selected. For Rehabilitation Pulmonary Group fase 01 (GRP1) and Rehabilitation Pulmonary Group fase 02 (GRP2) will be selected COPD patients who participate in the program Rehabilitation Pulmonary occurring within the HSC, in the municipality of Santa Cruz do Sul - Rio Grande do Sul. The sample size calculation is performed according to the primary endpoint of the study.

All individuals involved in the project have signed a term of informed consent and answer a questionnaire of personal health, containing demographic information, exposure to radiation and drugs, as well as eating habits and consumption of alcohol and cigarettes.

Methodological procedures

The methodological steps of the study will consist of:

1. Selection of subjects according to the criteria of inclusion and exclusion;
2. As an outpatient treatment without Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) assess lung volumes, respiratory muscle strength, dyspnea for Medical Research Council (MRC), functional capacity for Functional Independence Measurement (MIF) and Six Minutes Walk Test (6MWT), grip strength, Quality of Life (QoL), body mass index (BMI), and ankle-brachial index (ITB);

4\) As a submission to Rehabilitation Pulmonary after 02 months of treatment to assess lung volumes, respiratory muscle strength, MRC, functional capacity (MIF and 6MWT), grip strength, QoL, BMI, and ITB; 5) As a submission in Rehabilitation Pulmonary after 12 months of treatment to assess lung volumes, respiratory muscle strength, MRC, functional capacity (MIF and 6MWT), grip strength, QoL, BMI, and ITB

Techniques and tools for collecting

Lung volumes Lung volumes will be assessed through digital spirometry (EasyOne ®, Model 2001, Zurich, Switzerland). It is a tool to provide a record of several volumes and airflows that an individual is able to mobilize, as the gold standard for assessment of pulmonary functions according to the International Guidelines of the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD, 2011). Forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of FVC (FEF 25% -75%), FEV/FVC relationship, (In the present study, the following variables will be evaluated FEV1 / FVC) and peak expiratory flow (PEF) (GONTIJO, 2011). Three measures and the curve that presents the best performance will be compared with the predicted values in the literature and described in percentage of predicted will be realized (Pereira et al., 1992).

Respiratory Muscle Strength (FMR)

The FMR (MIP and MEP) will be evaluated through digital manometer (MDI®, Porto Alegre, Brazil). The MIP will be obtained after the individual expiration to residual volume (RV), the examiner connected with the nose clip and requested inspiration to total lung capaci

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional capacity in COPD patients

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: pulmonary rehabilitation
  - OTHER: Education and self-management for COPD

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02393469
