CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01546103
Title: Vitamin D3 Supplementation Pilot Study
Official Title: Pilot Study of Vitamin D3 Supplementation and Outcomes in Vitamin D Deficient Obese, African American Adolescents
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether taking vitamin D, every day, over a 12 week period will improve the vitamin D status, risks for poor heart health, risks for developing type 2 diabetes, and/or muscle strength in overweight, African American teenagers with low vitamin D levels.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency is common throughout the lifespan, and across all race and ethnic groups. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recently recommended supplementation dose to 400 international units (IU) daily in all children. These recommendations target rickets prevention, but address neither the vitamin D supplementation necessary to optimize bone health nor the nontraditional vitamin D roles in immune disease, insulin resistance, muscle function, and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Moreover, the AAP recommendation noted that it had little pediatric data upon which to base guidelines. The Institute of Medicine also recently published Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium and Vitamin D: the estimated average requirement in children and adults was set at 400(IU) daily and the recommend dietary allowance was set at 600 IU daily. Data on outcomes and supplementation levels in African Americans (a population at particular risk for vitamin D deficiency) and across pediatric age ranges and body habitus types, are lacking. The Vitamin D supplementation requirement in obese, African American adolescents is particularly problematic since obesity is associated with 1) lower circulating vitamin D levels (25OHD) and 2) insulin resistance. This pilot study will examine the effect of vitamin D supplementation upon 25OHD, the serum marker of vitamin D status, in obese, African American adolescents with vitamin D deficiency. Subjects will be randomized to receive cholecalciferol 1000 IU or 5000 IU daily for 3 months. Serum 25OHD, parathyroid hormone, glucose, insulin, CVD risk markers, and measures of muscle function and pain will be obtained at baseline and post-treatment. This pilot study will provide data on serum 25OHD responses to vitamin D at doses more likely to meaningfully impact 25OHD than the current American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) supplementation guideline. Responses to supplementation can then inform future clinical trials aimed at addressing outcomes of vitamin D replacement on insulin sensitivity and CVD risk in obese adolescents.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Serum 25OHD before and after treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cholecalciferol
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cholecalciferol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01546103
