CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02816424
Title: Brief Intervention for Teen Pregnancy Prevention
Official Title: Prevention of Teen Pregnancy Through Screening and Brief Intervention in Primary Care
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 447
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Although the Academy of Pediatrics and the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine recommend that teen health providers screen for sexual risk behaviors and provide education and counseling to those at risk, there are currently no specific guidelines or protocols available to guide such practices, nor have there been any rigorous evaluations of efficacy. Preventing teen pregnancy through brief intervention in primary care holds the promise to have a significant public health impact and reduce health disparities by engaging, educating, and motivating the majority of teens who visit a primary care setting each year. In the current study, we seek to rigorously evaluate the impact of brief intervention vs. informational control on unprotected sexual intercourse among teens with past year unprotected sex at two primary care clinics serving predominately underserved, minority populations in New Mexico. The target population for the current study will be 1350 male and female teens, aged 13-19, from the Atrisco Center for Family and Community Health and the Albuquerque Job Corps Wellness Center. Extensive formative work involving the study population will be conducted prior to the trial to refine the motivational interviewing-based brief intervention. Eligible youth will be randomly assigned to brief intervention or an informational control condition, in addition to regularly offered medically-based contraception consultation and prescription services. Follow-ups at 3- and 9- months will compare rates of unprotected sex and acceptance of long-acting reversible contraceptives. Brief education and counseling interventions could be feasibly implemented during the greater than eight preventive and acute primary care visits that the average US adolescent attends during their teen years. Such an approach could conserve valuable resources required by more intensive interventions for nonresponsive teens with greater need. Furthermore, social determinants of health, such as poverty and race, that may reduce access to more extensive psychosocial interventions, are less likely to prevent access to primary care, increasing health equity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of participants endorsing unprotected sex at 3 month follow up
  - Proportion of participants endorsing acceptance of Long Acting Reversible Contraception (LARC) at 3 month follow up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Teens Exploring and Managing Prevention Options (TEMPO)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 19 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02816424
