CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05318781
Title: Impacts of Bariatric Surgery on the Microbiome and Brain Function
Official Title: Understanding the Impact of Radical Changes in Diet and the Microbiome on Brain Function and Structure: the EMBRACE Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Emerging evidence suggests that dietary and metabolic interventions could potentially target prevention and supportive therapies as well as treatments that may slow the clinical deterioration of neurodegenerative disorders. Though certain dietary patterns can impair specific cognitive domains, e.g., declines in reasoning and global cognition, there is still no consensus on the optimal diet to maintain brain health. Studies have also shown an association between the gut microbiome and neurocognition, as the microbiota can affect neuronal function through neurotransmitters and neuroactive microbial metabolites. Furthermore, studies indicate that diet may strongly influence the gut microbiota. However, the mechanisms for these complex relationships are still poorly understood. Bariatric procedures \[i.e., weight loss surgeries\] create a unique environment, in which a fast change in gut microbiota composition and dietary patterns occurs through surgery-induced intestinal and metabolic modifications, leading to changes in gut-brain communication. Interestingly, improvements in neurocognitive domains including memory and executive function have been reported post-bariatric surgery. However, there is large variability in these outcomes, indicating that the benefits are not universal. The goal of the current study is to explore the associations between dietary patterns and gut microbiota with cognition and brain structure, using bariatric surgery as an efficient naturalistic experimental design. This project will also explore potential mediators of diet-microbiome alterations as they relate to improvements in brain function and structure. A total of 120 adult patients (\> 30y yrs.) scheduled to undergo a first bariatric surgery along with 60 age-, sex-, and BMI-matched waitlist control group will be recruited from the bariatric surgery clinic at the CIUSSS du Nord-de-l'Île-de-Montréal. These individuals will undergo assessments 3 months before surgery, as well as 6- and 12-months post-surgery, or an equivalent time for those on the waitlist. This study will also include 60 age-and sex-matched individuals who are not eligible for bariatric surgery as an additional healthy Canadian comparison group (only one assessment time point). Assessments taken during the data collection period will include: self-report information \[e.g., sociodemographic and background information, health and diet behaviours\]; information from medical records \[e.g., medications usage, peri- and post-surgical complications, etc.\]; physiological measures \[i.e., blood, urine and fecal samples collection\]; cognitive assessment \[i.e., neuropsychological tests battery\]; and brain imaging \[i.e., structural MRI\]. Collectively, this study is designed to provide critical information about potential individually targeted diet-based preventative strategies to reduce the development and progression of neurodegenerative disorders. Moreover, this project will explore potential mediators of diet-microbiome alterations as they relate to improvements in brain function and structure, and as such, it will provide essential information on key mechanisms, stimulating further research and the creation of parallel non-dietary therapeutic options.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Dietary patterns are associated with cognitive function and brain morphology. Though certain dietary patterns can impair specific cognitive domains, e.g., declines in reasoning and global cognition, there is still no consensus on the optimal 'brain diet'. Studies have also shown an association between the gut microbiome and neurocognition. The microbiota can affect neuronal function through neurotransmitters and neuroactive microbial metabolites. Furthermore, studies indicate that diet may strongly influence the gut microbiota, likely via intestinal permeability and inflammation. However, the mechanisms for this complex relationship between diet, gut microbiome and cognition are still poorly understood. Most of the work to date has focused on the negative effects of a Western style diet, with its subsequent microbiota alterations leading to cognitive impairment, via reduced barrier integrity, increased neuroinflammation, and impaired insulin signaling. However, very little is known about positive dietary-microbiome interactions, especially in humans. Bariatric surgery is considered the most effective treatment for severe obesity and it's related comorbidities, with the Sleeve gastrectomy (SG) being the most commonly performed procedures worldwide. These procedures create a unique environment, in which a fast change in gut microbiota composition occurs through surgery-induced intestinal and metabolic modifications, leading to changes in gut-brain communication. Moreover, these same post-surgical alterations to the gastrointestinal tract are accompanied by profound changes in dietary patterns that, in turn, influence microbiota composition. Following bariatric surgery, dietary intake is altered both in quantity and quality; however, considerable individual variations in surgically-induced dietary patterns have been previously demonstrated. Interestingly, improvements in neurocognitive domains including memory and executive function have been reported post-bariatric surgery. However, there is large variability in these outcomes, indicating that the benefits are not universal. Additionally, the extant literature is limited by a small number of studies, meaning that the underling mechanisms remain unclear. Importantly, how bariatric surgery-induced modifications in both dietary patterns and the gut microbiome effect cognitive function have yet to be explored. Finally, the overall changes in the gut microbiome and diet post-surgery may enhance biological pathways (e.g., gut hormones, inflammation, and neuroactive metabolites) which can affect brain function and structure, but the nature of these changes have not been studied extensively. The EMBRACE trial (Evaluation the impact of radical nutrition and Microbiome changes on BRAin funCtion and structurE) is a prospective, 15-month longitudinal study that aims to elucidate the associations between dietary patterns and gut microbiota with cognition and brain structure, using an efficient naturalistic expe

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in cognition from baseline [3 months pre-surgery] to 12 months post-surgery, measured using sensitive neuropsychological test battery [NTB]

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05318781
