CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04943601
Title: Action Observation Therapy for Stroke
Official Title: "Effect Of Action Observation Exercises With Complex Tasks On Upper Limb Function In Acute Stroke."
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Stroke is a medical condition that causes the cessation of blood flow to the brain cells and eventually results in cell death. It's a condition that appears out of nowhere and has long-term implications. It is a common Global health-related problem that is disabling in nature and is the second common cause of death, leading to disability in the geriatric population worldwide. Most of the stroke affects the middle cerebral arteries that's why there will be more disability of upper limb, as compared to lower limb and loss of the upper limb function, is one of the most common deficits that a person experience after stroke.

Action observation training can prime the motor system through the mirror neuron network that offers a mechanism for promoting neuroplasticity and reimbursement of motor control following stroke hemiparesis that would otherwise be restricted to use-dependent therapies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Stroke is a medical condition that causes the cessation of blood flow to the brain cells and eventually results in cell death. It is a common Global health-related problem that is disabling in nature and is the second common cause of death, leading to disability in the geriatric population worldwide. The incidence of stroke is increasing day by day in low-income countries as compared to high-income countries because of the effects of not using evidence-based practice in health-related conditions in low-income countries. Loss of the upper limb function is one of the most common deficit that a person experience after stroke. Most of the stroke affects the middle cerebral arteries that are why there will be more disability of the upper limb as compared to the lower limb. In post-stroke patients, the affected limb develop loss of coordination and dexterity, if rehabilitation not performed effectively then can develop spasticity. Functional recovery of upper and lower limb depends on the size, site and area of the brain that is damaged post-stroke as well as the quality and type of rehabilitative intervention.

A study done in Pakistan shows that about 85% of stroke patients experience initial upper limb paresis even after 3 to 6 months. Stroke is causing motor deficits in both upper and lower limbs however evidence shows that there is only about 12% of complete functional recovery in stroke patients after a time period of 6 months while the remaining 88% of stroke patients have motor deficits in their upper limb that are disabling and are having a negative impact on their activities of daily living. Another study shows that in hemiplegic stroke patients about 30% to 66% of patients' paretic arm is still without function after 6 months post-stroke while in 5% to 20% there is the complete functional recovery of the paretic upper limb. Another study done in Italy by Stefano et al shows that about 38% of stroke patients have partial recovery in dexterity as compared to full recovery in 11.6%. More than 50% of post-stroke patients have impaired upper limb motor function. Rehabilitative interventions are more important because they can regain independence and also promote the recovery of functions that are lost. In the last few years, several approaches have been used for the recovery of hand dexterity after stroke. Among them, task-oriented therapy, robot-assisted rehabilitation and action observation have gained the greatest attention. Action observation training is one of the new developing rehabilitation technique that targets motor learning by the activation of mirror neurons and is the most important approach that targets motor and functional recovery in stroke patients. The mirror neuron system is activated during both the execution and observation of action and is the area responsible for the action observation.In inaction observation training there are actually two phases, the Observation phase and the execution phase. In the observation phase, pa

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fugel Meyer Assessment scale
  - Box and block test
  - The Rating of Everyday Arm-use in the Community and Home (Reach) scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: action observation therapy
  - OTHER: conventional physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04943601
