CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05080101
Title: Effects of Basic Body Awareness Therapy on Pain, Sleep, Disability and Quality of Life in Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effect Sof Basic Body Awareness Therapy on Posture, Pain, Disability, Quality of Life, Sleep Quality and Body Awareness in Individual With Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic low back pain is a common problem worldwide. In treatment, conservative methods usually are used. Basic Body Awareness Therapy is related to mindfulness-based therapies and meditation techniques. It is a method that has been used and found effective in some diseases affecting the musculoskeletal system. Therefore, in this study, body awareness was applied in addition to conventional treatment in patients with chronic low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Throughout a lifetime, chronic low back pain is a common problem that affects approximately 80% of people. Among musculoskeletal system problems, it is one of the most commonly observed issues. There are various treatment methods available. The absence of evidence-based treatment guidelines negatively affects the choice of treatment to be applied. There are medical and conservative treatment options. These methods include acupuncture, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, injection therapy, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and lumbar supports. Basic Body Awareness Therapy is a physiotherapy treatment method that has been developed in the Scandinavian countries over the course of the last two decades. This innovative approach focuses on enhancing body awareness and has gained recognition as an effective therapeutic technique in the field of physiotherapy. Basic Body Awareness Therapy has been applied as a secondary treatment method in various conditions such as fibromyalgia, neck pain, and ankylosing spondylitis, and has been found to be effective. It has yielded positive results when used in addition to conventional treatments for musculoskeletal problems, as demonstrated in the literature. This study aims to apply Basic Body Awareness Therapy to individuals with chronic low back pain, based on its effectiveness in musculoskeletal issues, and create a new treatment combination. Twenty-eight patients were included in the study, and in addition to the standard treatment protocol, Basic Body Awareness Therapy exercises were administered.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Disability Index Score
  - Functional Rating Index Score
  - New York Posture Analysis Score
  - Pain Level assessed by McGill Pain Scale
  - Sleep Quality assessed by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Conventional Therapy Program
  - OTHER: Basic Body Awareness Therapy Group Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05080101
