CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06188091
Title: Joint Movement to Increase Range of Motion in Knee Joint After Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Impact of Active Joint Movement to Increase Range of Motion in Knee Joint After Primary or Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 83
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trail is to investigate if specific active exercises, with a certain daily frequency improves the range of motion (ROM) in the knee joint after primary- or revision total knee arthroplasty (TKA)

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does it make a difference to the ROM of the knee joint to do specific active exercise 2 times a day compared to 8 times a day in an 18 days period of time
* Analyze if range of motion in the knee joint after TKA has an impact on self-reported activity, pain and physical activity

Participants will be instructed by a physiotherapist to do a specific exercise to improve the flexion of the knee-joint and and other to improve the extension of the knee-joint.

One group will be instructed to do the exercises 2 times a day the other group to do the exercises 8 times a day in total of 18 days

The two groups will be compared to see if there is an effect in ROM and if the effect is significant between the groups if the intervention is done 2 times versus 8 times a day.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There is a lack of knowledge about specific rehabilitation in relation to improving joint mobility of the knee joint, especially in terms of frequency and the active roll of the patients. The studies available describe predominantly passive joint mobilization after TKA (machine/therapist). Therefore there is a lack of knowledge about specific training methods regarding how patients can actively help increase joint mobility.

The purpose of the study is to verify whether increased frequency of two specific active joint movement exercises, for reduced flexion and/or extension, respectively, at fixed daily intervals over a continuous 18-day period can further increase joint mobility after TKA.

The hypothesis is that patients can increase joint mobility after TKA by repeating individual movement exercises with a high daily frequency.

Based on previous clinical experience at the department and data from published articles, a realistic assessment is that patients who receive intervention with a high frequency of joint movement exercises (8 times daily) will be able to achieve an increased flexion of approx. 12 degrees compared to low-frequency intervention (2 times daily), where it is estimated that flexion can be increased by 4 degrees from baseline. Thus, there will be a change between the two intervention groups of 8 degrees.

If this kind of focused movement training has an effect, it will have a major impact on the composition of postoperative rehabilitation.

Montebello is a department for specialized rehabilitation under North Zealand Hospital, Capital Region of Denmark. Patients are referred by doctors after determining the need for specialized rehabilitation due to a complicated course of the disease. Thus, it is patients who are accessed as needing a more intensive and specialized course than a usual general rehabilitation offers under municipal communities.

Every year, approx. 1675 patients are received within various specialties, of which between 250-300 patients are referred for knee care.

Thus, knee patients who are referred for admission to Montebello have all experienced complications in relation to their knee function. This can be severe fractures, complicated joint/cartilage damage, TKA with reduced mobility and subsequent brisement, or revision TKA due to infection or anything else related to replacement of the osteosynthesis material.

Intervention Both groups participate in exercise program based on group training in groups of 11 patients focused on improving knee function. The general training consists of strength, conditioning, balance, coordination, walking and movement training. Exercises are adjusted according to the individual's physical level and pain intensity. The daily frequency of physical exercise is between 2-4 sessions per day (approx. 45 minutes per session).

In addition, instruction is given in appropriate training in relation to prosthesis and pain management, education in strength and stability training, inst

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Range of Motion in knee joint

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06188091
