CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03529955
Title: Evaluating Safety & Efficacy of Apremilast in the Treatment of Cutaneous Disease in Patients With Recalcitrant Dermatomyositis
Official Title: A Phase 2, Open Label Single Arm Study for Evaluating Safety & Efficacy of Apremilast in the Treatment of Cutaneous Disease in Patients With Recalcitrant Dermatomyositis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
With limited treatment options available for dermatomyositis, the investigators hypothesize that apremilast, a phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4) inhibitor, is a safe and efficacious add-on treatment in patients with refractory cutaneous dermatomyositis.

The study will investigate the efficacy, safety and toxicity of apremilast given at 30 mg twice daily to patients with refractory cutaneous dermatomyositis. Clinical response will be assessed at 1 and 3 months. Patients will also be evaluated for durability of their response for up to 6 months.

Treatment will be monitored with frequent clinical visits (0, 1, 3 and 6 months) and blood tests (CBC, CMP, creatine kinase, aldolase). Treatment will be discontinued at disease progression or unacceptable adverse events. Disease progression is defined as 4 points increase in the cutaneous dermatomyositis disease area and severity index (CDASI) score, worsening of muscle disease by manual muscle testing (MMT-8) score and 5 points increase in dermatomyositis life quality index (DLQI).

5 mm skin biopsies from lesional skin will be performed before treatment with apremilast and after 3 months of treatment for gene expression profiling and confirmatory immunohistochemical stains.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Sponsor Name (PI): Carole Bitar, MD
2. Sub-PI: Erin Boh, MD, PhD; Brittany Stumpf, MD; Collaborator: Nakhle Saba, MD
3. \# of Participants Sites: 1, Tulane University 4: Participant Countries: United States

II. PRODUCT INFORMATION

1. Study Title: A phase 2, open label single arm study for evaluating safety \& efficacy of apremilast in the treatment of cutaneous disease in patients with recalcitrant dermatomyositis.
2. Clinical Phase: Phase II clinical trial
3. Primary Celgene Product: Apremilast

III. CONCEPT DESIGN AND RATIONAL

1. Therapeutic Area: Immunology
2. Specialty: Connective tissue disease
3. Disease State: Dermatomyositis

4-If other specify: None

5\. Study Rationale: Dermatomyositis is an inflammatory disease that predominantly involves the skin with or without proximal muscle weakness. First line treatment for dermatomyositis is systemic steroids however due to long-term side effects, patients are usually treated with a steroid sparing agent. There is no known consensus on treatment guidelines for dermatomyositis and many anti- inflammatory medications have been successfully used. Tulane University is a referral center for recalcitrant dermatomyositis cases.The investigators present the case of a 57 y.o female patient with multidrug recalcitrant dermatomyositis showing complete remission of her skin disease with apremilast and improvement of her muscle disease. This patient was diagnosed with dermatomyositis. Over a 6-year period, she was treated with adequate trials of multiple immunosuppressive agents, including hydroxychloroquine, mycophenolate mofetil, azathioprine, methotrexate, soriatane, Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), tacrolimus, chlorambucil, infliximab and rituximab. For the last four years, physicians were unable to lower corticosteroids below 40 mg per day. Her disease continued to flare despite these therapies. Chronic steroid use resulted in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus as well as other steroids associated side effects. While on stable doses of mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone and rituximab, the patient developed arthritis and was started on apremilast 30 mg twice a day. Two months into her treatment she noticed significant improvement of her skin disease and then nearly complete clearance of the skin. Her muscle weakness lagged behind and she noticed improvement after 9 months of being on apremilast with normalization of her aldolase and CK. The patient was able to wean off all immunosuppressive agents and prednisone. She was in remission for over 2 years and off all medications. She experienced a mild flare of skin disease recently and she resumed apremilast only and cleared immediately and continues on apremilast as a monotherapy. Patient experienced mild nausea and diarrhea with apremilast that improved four weeks into the treatment. She was able to discontinue insulin, lose weight and she has continued to be clear of both skin and muscle symptoms for over 1.5 years.

This case was accepted as a po

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Primary Endpoint Analysis Would be Overall Response Rate Measured by the Number of Participants Experiencing at Least 4 Points Decrease in CDASI Activity Score at 3 Months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Apremilast 30mg

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03529955
