CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05798052
Title: Effects of Stress on Team Coordination and Performance
Official Title: Managing Medical Crisis - The Effects of Stress on Team Communication, Coordination and Performance
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
Healthcare teams often encounter challenging circumstances where they must deliver high-quality care. For a team to function effectively, its members must not only be individually competent, but they also need to collaborate and cooperate using their respective expertise. Such teams often work under high stress situations, where they need to make high stakes decisions under conditions of uncertainty, time-sensitivity and variable levels of control. Research shows that such emergency situations provoke stress responses in individuals, which can impair attention, memory, reasoning, and decision-making. However, it remains unclear how individual-level stress responses influence team communication, coordination, and performance. The aims of this study are to a) compare team coordination, communication, and performance in low stress versus high stress simulated emergency situations; and b) characterize the relationship between teams' stress profiles and the teams' performance and coordination. The study will be a within-subject experimental design, with teams serving as their own controls. Teams of emergency medicine residents and nurses will participate in two simulation scenarios: one in a low stress condition, and the other in a high stress condition (counterbalanced across the teams).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Healthcare teams often encounter challenging circumstances where they must deliver high-quality care. For a team to function effectively, its members must not only be individually competent, but they also need to collaborate and cooperate using their respective expertise. Effective teamwork has been demonstrated to have a positive effect on patient outcomes and adherence to treatment guidelines. As a result, team trening interventions have become increasingly prevalent in healthcare. These interventions predominantly focus on generic team competencies that can be trensported across different situations and team compositions. A recent meta-analysis found that team trening resulted in large effect sizes for the learning and trensfer of cognitive and skills-based outcomes, but weaker effects on teamwork performance and medical errors. As such, there are calls to better understand the factors that affect teamwork. Teams often work under high stress situations, where they need to make high stakes decisions under conditions of uncertainty, time-sensitivity and variable levels of control. Research shows that such emergency situations provoke stress responses in individuals, which can impair attention, memory, reasoning, and decision-making. However, it remains unclear how individual-level stress responses influence team communication, coordination, and performance. The aims of this study are to a) compare team coordination, communication, and performance in low stress versus high stress simulated emergency situations; and b) characterize the relationship between teams' stress profiles and the teams' performance and coordination.

Methods: The study will be a randomized control trial, with teams serving as their own controls. Teams of emergency medicine residents and nurses will participate in two simulation scenarios: one in a low stress condition, and the other in a high stress condition (counterbalanced across the teams). Based on previous similar studies on the impact of stress on individual performance, where large effects sizes are seen (.7 -.75)8, the study will recruit a minimum of 17 teams (two-tailed test, alpha set at .05 and power set at .80). In both low and high stress scenario versions, the underlying mechanism of disease or injury will be identical, as will be the expected clinical management of the situation. Known stressors will be added to the scenarios, ensuring ecological validity (stressors that occur in real life). The stressors will include a) socio-evaluative stressors (presence of other with ability to negatively judge); b) increases in the severity of the situation (unstable patient); c) increases in the stakes (e.g. woman in early stages of pregnancy), d) noise, as well as e) unexpected brief complications (e.g. brief equipment challenge).

The participants' subjective (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory- STAI11, cognitive appraisal) and physiological stress (heart rate variability) responses will be measured. Stress responses wi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Team performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychological stressors added to simulated clinical scenarios.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05798052
