CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05316467
Title: Weight Management Plus Megestrol Acetate in Early-stage Endometrioid Carcinoma
Official Title: Weight Management Plus Megestrol Acetate in Early-stage Endometrioid Carcinoma: Two Single-arm, Prospective and Open-label Clinical Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 89
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
To investigate the efficacy of weight management plus megestrol acetate in obese patients with early endometrioid carcinoma（EEC）asking for fertility-sparing treatment

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

High-dosage high-efficacy progesterone, such as Megestrol Acetate (MA) and medroxyprogesterone acetate(MPA), is still the first-line treatment for women with early endometrioid endometrial cancer (EEC) who want to preserve fertility. Approximately 70% to 80% of females who meet the criteria for conservation treatment are able to achieve CR after progestin therapy, with a median time of 6-7 months, but about 20% to 30% of patients get no response or need to take longer time to achieve remission (over one year). Overweight/obesity is an independent risk factor for fertility-sparing treatment response and pregnant outcomes in young females with early endometrioid cancer, substantial evidence showed that obesity can cause relatively lower complete response（CR）rates, longer time to achieve completer remission and lower birth rates besides metabolic disorders and other adverse effects caused by obesity. Weight management has been found to improve metabolic disorders, ovarian functions and pregnant outcomes.The hypothesize is that weight management plus progestin therapy may raise CR rates and pregnant outcomes in young female EEC patients asking for fertility conservation. Previous research has shown that metformin plus MA can increase CR rates. Enhanced lifestyle management (diet control, exercise and daily behavioral guidance) may improve metabolic conditions, increase CR rates and pregnant outcomes in obese EEC patients who want to preserve fertility. Till now, no similar studies were found, so the investigators design this study to explore the efficacy of weight control in EEC fertility-sparing patients to provide new evidence for improving conservative treatment.

Objective: To investigate whether weight management plus MA improve the efficacy of preserving fertility when compared to MA alone in obese women with EEC who want fertility conservation.

Design: This study is two single-arm, prospective, open-label. Patients with early-stage endometrioid carcinoma requiring conservation treatment with BMI ≥ 24 kg/m2 will be recruited in this study and they will be divided into two arms, one is overweight group (24kg/m2≤BMI\<28kg/m2) and another is obese group (BMI≥28kg/m2). Each arm and its sample size was designed according to Simon's Two-Stage Design. All enrolled patients will receive enhanced lifestyle management to control weight and take MA for treating EEC. Hysteroscopic examination, metabolic and inflammatory indicators will be performed every 12 to16 weeks while other indexes will be evaluated every month, including weight, heart rates，blood pressure and so on.For the progestin efficacy evaluation, CR is defined as the remission of EEC to proliferative or secretory endometrium; partial response (PR) is defined as regression to simple or complex hyperplasia with or without atypia; no response (NR) is defined as the persistence of the disease; and progressive disease (PD) is defined as disease progression in patients. Two months' ma

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pathological complete response (CR) rates

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intensive Lifestyle Intervention (ILI)
  - DRUG: Megestrol Acetate 160 MG Oral Tablet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05316467
