CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07026786
Title: Using Mindfulness in an Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Protocol to Support Recovery After Colorectal Surgery
Official Title: Using Mindfulness in an Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Protocol to Support Recovery After Colorectal Surgery: aromasingle Center RCT Feasibility Study
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study teaches participants who are having colorectal surgery how to use mindfulness to feel calmer and manage pain better. Participants will be randomized (like a flip of a coin) into one of two groups: Mindfulness Intervention or Standard Treatment. Those in the Mindfulness group will have a 30-minute Zoom session before surgery to learn simple mindfulness exercises like deep breathing, using senses, and staying focused on the present.

On the day after surgery, participants will watch a short video review of the mindfulness exercises.

Regardless of the group assigned, participants may be asked to completEQuestionnaires, and some participants will be asked to complete a semi-structured interview via Zoom, about 2 weeks to 1 month after surgery. Additionally, access to the mindfulness curriculum will be provided to those not randomized to that group. Investigators will collect information such as age, surgery details, pain levels, and pain medication usage. Participants will also fill out surveys before and after surgery to assess physical and mental well-being. All personal information will be kept safe, and interviews or Zoom sessions will be deleted after notes are taken without names attached.

Participants will be in this study for about 4 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of participants who completed all mindfulness interventions as measured by study logs

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07026786
