CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06431230
Title: School-based HIIT and Dose-Response Effects
Official Title: Dose-response Relationship and High-intensity Interval Training Effects During Physical Education Lesson on Health Markers in Adolescents
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 600
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
There are experimental evidences of the importance of high intensity exercises in health outcomes improvement. However, there are limited knowledge about possibility to affect health outcomes in adolescents through exercises programs introduced into physical education (PE) lesson. Moreover, there is lack of the studies identifying people who do not respond to stimuli, as well as examining potential determinants of non-responsiveness. Thirdly, there are no studies examining the modification of exercise dose that should be reflected in the response in such individuals.

Aim of this human experiment is to examine the effects of one cycle of 8-weeks high-intensity interval training (HIIT) implemented in physical education lesson on: (1) body composition (proportions of the body fat to the body muscles), (2) resting blood pressure, (3) physical efficiency.

Study are conducted for two years (two cycles). Each year 300 students of two secondary schools, are involved in project: 15-16-year-olds in first year, 18-19-year-olds in second year. Students are divided in experimental groups -performing 8-weeks (twice a week) cycle of HIIT implemented into PE lesson, and the control groups - students following a typical PE programme. Each cycle consists of two parts. First part is related to the 8 weeks of HIIT training, while second part is related to the dose-expose study.

All participants are examined during project before (Pre), after (Post) and Follow-Up intervention. Second part is planned after a break of several months. Persons who do not respond to the exercise stimulus in the first part will follow individually modified programmes. They will be measured before and after this additional training.

To examine the assumed HIIT-induced changes in participants the investigators will apply: (1) anthropometric measurements: body height and weight, and BMI will be calculated, (2) body mass composition (fat and muscle mass), (3) resting blood pressure, (4) beep test which is field motor specific test to assess physical efficiency.

The results of this project will help to answer the fundamental questions about HIIT induced morphological and physiological effects in adolescents, what is important from scientific and public health point of view. Particularly, in view of the growing pandemic of obesity, common elevated blood pressure and steadily declining physical fitness in children and adolescents.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
I. Background Prevalence of overweight and obesity is well documented in the literature. This applies to both adults and the elderly, but increasingly also to children and school-age youth. Similar to adipose tissue, there is a constant increase in the percentage of young individuals with elevated blood pressure. Moreover, children and adolescents are steadily decreasing their physical efficiency. All these characteristics serve as indicators of overall health, defined as health-related fitness (HRF). Measurements represent the health potential that adolescents bring into adulthood, what is closely related to their efficient functioning in family and professional life.

In the battle against lifestyle diseases during adolescence, there is a growing trend towards implementing intense short-term efforts. Evidence from numerous studies confirms the effectiveness of High-Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) in reducing body weight, improving body mass index (BMI), reducing body fat, and lowering resting blood pressure. Due to the reluctance of children and adolescents to engage in physical activity during leisure time, there is an increasing systemic implementation of HIIT in physical education classes to ensure widespread physical exercise among students.

A separate issue is the lack of response to exercise in some individuals (so-called non-responders). There are few studies that attempt to find the optimal exercise dose to elicit a response in as many participants as possible, ideally in all participants (dose-response relationship). However, the effectiveness of training based on the duration of exercise and rest intervals, the type of exercises (endurance, resistance, etc.), and exercise intensity is still unknown.

II. Research Project Objectives

Therefore, the aims of this research are twofold:

1. to investigate the effectiveness of different forms of short-term, intense interval exercise in reducing body fat and resting blood pressure, as well as improving aerobic and anaerobic physical endurance;
2. after identifying non-responders and applying dose-response procedures, to develop modifications to the standard HIIT program and verify the effectiveness of these modifications in inducing the aforementioned positive changes.

Hypothesis 1. The high-intensity intervention training, practising systematically during regular physical activity lessons, will affect body composition reducing body fat (through increased fat oxidation processes from very intensive exercises) and improve the fat to muscle mass proportions. In the experimental group participants with elevated blood pressure, blood pressure improvements will be observed what is connected with several physiological cardiovascular reactions. Thirdly, intensive physical short-time interval training will improve cardiorespiratory fitness.

Hypothesis 2. There are frequency of participants who will not gain in different outcomes from intervention programme.

Hypothesis 3. Programs of the HIIT 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - body fat weight (BF)
  - skeletal body muscle mass (SMM)
  - systolic blood pressure (SBP)
  - diastolic blood pressure (DBP)
  - physical efficiency (CRF)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: standard high-intensity interval training
  - BEHAVIORAL: plyometric high-intensity interval training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 20 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06431230
