CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00307164
Title: Effects of a Uridine Supplement on HIV Infected Adults With Lipoatrophy
Official Title: A Phase II/III, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial of Uridine Supplementation in HIV Lipoatrophy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 167
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Lipoatrophy, the loss of body fat from particular areas of the body, is a common side effect of antiretroviral therapy (ART). The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of uridine supplementation in treating HIV infected individuals on stable ART with lipoatrophy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lipoatrophy is a distressing long-term complication of ART and is associated with decreased quality of life, an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, and nonadherence to ART. The cause of lipoatrophy in HIV-infected individuals receiving ART is not completely understood. However, past research suggests that mitochondrial toxicity in subcutaneous adipose tissue caused by thymidine analogue nucleoside analogues may be responsible for the development of lipoatrophy.

Uridine is a nucleoside that has been shown to be an effective supplement in treating individuals with mitochondrial toxicity. NucleomaxX is a food supplement that consists of mitocnol, a sugar cane extract that has a high content of nucleosides, including uridine. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of uridine supplementation in the form of NucleomaxX on limb fat in HIV-infected individuals receiving stable ART containing stavudine (d4T) or zidovudine (ZDV). In addition, this study evaluated the safety and tolerability of NucleomaxX.

This study lasted for 48 weeks. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms, stratified by d4T or ZDV use. Arm A participants received NucleomaxX for uridine, while Arm B participants received a placebo for NucleomaxX. Participants in both arms received their assigned intervention three times per day, every other day, for the duration of the study. There were 8 study visits over the 48-week study duration. Blood collection and a physical exam occurred at all study visits, and participants completed an adherence assessment at most visits. Participants underwent dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scans (DEXA) within 14 days prior to or following the screening visit and at other selected visits. Specific fasting tests for glucose and lipid levels occurred at selected visits. ART was not provided by this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Limb Fat (g) From Baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: NucleomaxX
  - DRUG: NucleomaxX placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00307164
