CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00805870
Title: The Effects of High Dose Fish Oil Supplementation on Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness and Inflammatory Markers
Official Title: The Effects of High Dose Fish Oil Supplementation on Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness and Inflammatory Markers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of fish oil supplementation (Lovaza, GlaxoSmithKline) on muscle strength, muscle soreness and inflammation following exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
When a person exercises at a high intensity or starts a new exercise program, muscle soreness will develop. Muscle soreness that peaks between 24-72 hours after exercise and diminishes in 5-7 days is characterized as delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). DOMS is associated with the eccentric phase of exercise, where the muscle is actively creating force while lengthening. The onset of muscle soreness is part of an inflammatory response due to the muscular damage caused by the exercise.

Research has shown that fish oils have anti-inflammatory properties. Direct intake of various polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) alters the cell membrane fatty acid composition, which, in turn modulates cell/tissue response to infection, injury and inflammatory events. These properties may be beneficial to relieve muscle soreness.

Therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine the effects of fish oil supplementation (Lovaza, GlaxoSmithKline, 3 grams per day for 65 days) on muscle strength, muscle soreness and inflammation following exercise.

Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: Lovaza (3 grams/day) or placebo. Participants will consume either the Lovaza or the placebo for 65 consecutive days. On Day 60, participants will have baseline measurements of muscle strength, muscle soreness, creatine kinase activity, and muscle inflammatory marker assessed. Participants will then perform eccentric exercise on an isokinetic dynamometer using the quadriceps muscles in order to induce muscle soreness. On each of Days 61-65, muscle strength, muscle soreness, creatine kinase activity, and muscle inflammatory markers will again be assessed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quadriceps Muscle Strength
  - Muscle Soreness of the Quadriceps Using an Algometer Strain Gauge
  - Creatine Kinase Activity Measured in Blood
  - Interleukin-6 Measured in Blood

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Lovaza (omega-3-acid ethyl esters)
  - DRUG: Wheat Germ Oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00805870
