CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04558268
Title: Low Dose Prednisone Therapy in Women With Recurrent Pregnancy Loss
Official Title: Low Dose Prednisone Therapy in Women With Recurrent Pregnancy Loss
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 242
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
For many years there is a lack of large randomized controlled trials that study the effect of low dose prednisone in women with RPL and thus the evidence of a probable efficacy of prednisone in RPL women remains limited and unclear. As the ESHRE recommended in 2018 (2) we aim to assess the effect of such treatment in a large trial that includes unexplained and abnormal autoimmune profile RPL patients. we also aim to assess the side effects of the treatment in RPL pregnant women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) was defined recently by the European society of human reproduction and embryology (ESHRE) as the loss of two or more pregnancies that occur after spontaneous conception and assisted reproductive technology excluding ectopic, molar pregnancies and implantation failure (1,2). The exact prevalence of RPL is difficult to estimate but most studies including the American society for reproductive medicine (ASRM) repost that RPL affects 5% of women. In approximately half of the women with RPL the etiology will remain unexplained while in the remaininGHalf the cause will be defined as one or more of the following, genetic factors, anatomic factors, endocrine factors, autoimmune and infectious (1,3-6). 15% of patients with RPL are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome which is considered as an autoimmune disease (7,8). The ESHRE and ASRM guidelines recommend treatment of prophylactic doses of unfractionated heparin and low-dose aspirin for RPL women with high titers of antiphospholipid antibodies. For RPL women with the remaining immunological conditions glucocorticosteroids, IvIg , TNF inhibitors, and G-CSF treatment are not evidence-based but can be given in research context (1,4,8). Glucocorticosteroids are drugs that reduce inflammation by blocking the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. They suppress the activity of T cells and decrease cytokines levels- IL6, IL1β, TNFα. This drug is a known treatment for inflammatory diseases including asthma, Crohn's disease, and rheumatoid arthritis (9,10). In a recent review in 2017 Bandoli et al (11) summarized that corticosteroids are often necessary to control the symptoms of various medical conditions in pregnancy, including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Investigations into adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes following corticosteroid exposure have lacked adequate exploration into confounding by disease or disease severity. The evidence for cleft palate alone is not sufficient to summarize. The estimated risk of cleft lip with or without cleft palate from corticosteroid exposure has weakened over time, and no study published after 2003 has reported a statistically significant risk estimate. This review does not find sufficient evidence to support an increased risk of preterm birth, low birth weight, or preeclampsia following systemic corticosteroid use in pregnancy. There is insufficient evidence to determine whether systemic corticosteroids are linked to gestational diabetes mellitus.

Recently, a few studies were conducted with different protocols to investigate the impact of steroid therapy on women with RPL. Eight studies had reported a positive effect of prednisone on live birth rate. Hasegawa et al (12) found a significantly effective live birth rate of 76.5% compared to 8.3% (p\<0.01) in 17 treated RPL patients with antiphospholipid antibody with Prednisolone (40 mg/day) as soon as pregnancy was diagnosed, for 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Live birth
  - Pregnancy loss

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Prednisone
  - DRUG: Progesterone
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: vit D
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Iron Supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic Acid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04558268
