CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07533500
Title: Effect of Autogenic Relaxation Training on Irritable Bowel Syndrome In Adult Females
Official Title: Effect of Autogenic Relaxation Training on Irritable Bowel Syndrome In Adult Females
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to determine the effect of autogenic relaxation training on irritable bowel syndrome in adult females.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is significant as it explores the potential of autogenic relaxation to improve the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome.

Epidemiologic studies have reported that the prevalence of IBS is approaching 11% globally.

Patients with irritable bowel syndrome have a perception of reduced quality of life and a high presence of psychological/ psychiatric disorders such as depression, anxiety, phobias, panic, somatization and obsessive disorder, and in the past these disorders were considered an etiological factor of the syndrome. Psychopathological disorder is currently thought to be a comorbid factor that can exacerbate symptoms. Patients with irritable bowel syndrome also have a high level of perceived stress and in most cases sleep disturbances.

Autogenic relaxation training (ART) is a standardized relaxation technique developed by Schultz around 1930 that uses the mental repetition of six systematic exercises (heaviness, warmth, calm and regular heart function, self-regulation of respiration, warmth in the upper abdomen area, and agreeable cooling of the forehead) to decrease sympathetic tone and induce a general disconnection of the organism. ART is simple to learn and easy to practice following brief training. The repeated practice of the exercises increases the person's capacity to induce ever-deeper relaxation and fosters the accumulation of therapeutic benefits.

The mechanism of action of this relaxation technique lies in the relaxation response, as opposed to the stress response, which involves a complex interplay of the endocrine, immune, neurological, and psychological systems.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Irritable Bowel Syndrome Severity Scoring System
  - Frequency of complete spontaneous bowel movements
  - Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS)
  - The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)
  - Assessment of Quality of Life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Autogenic relaxation training
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercises
  - OTHER: Lifestyle modification

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07533500
