CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00087555
Title: Trial Comparing the Effects of Xyrem (Sodium Oxybate) With Placebo for the Treatment of Fibromyalgia
Official Title: Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group, Multi-Center Trial Comparing the Effects of Orally Administered Xyrem(R) (Sodium Oxybate) With Placebo for the Treatment of Fibromyalgia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 195
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Xyrem (sodium oxybate) is effective when used alone to treat the pain and sleep disturbances of fibromyalgia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fibromyalgia affects millions of Americans, yet there are no FDA approved drugs to treat this debilitating condition. Besides causing pain, it also disrupts normal sleep patterns in many of its victims. Pain and lack of sleep reinforce each other, making patients progressively more miserable. Xyrem is a potent hypnotic that induces and consolidates sleep. In a few small studies Xyrem has been reported to offer relief to some fibromyalgia patients. This trial is designed to test this hypothesis. Patients who enroll in this study will stop taking any prescription medications for fibromyalgia (over-the-counter pain relievers will be permitted). They will then take either Xyrem alone or placebo alone. Patients will be followed for eight weeks to evaluate any relief of the pain or functional impairment of fibromyalgia from their study treatment. Sleep characteristics will also be assessed subjectively and by polysomnographic recordings at baseline and twice during the treatment phase.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Primary Outcome Measure Was a Composite of Changes From Baseline in Three Co-primary Self Report Measures: Pain Visual Analog Scale (PVAS, Electronic Diaries), Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), and Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Xyrem (sodium oxybate) oral solution
  - DRUG: Xyrem (sodium oxybate) oral solution
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00087555
