CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03524521
Title: Body Weight-Based Interval Training in Sedentary Overweight and Obese Adults
Official Title: The Effect of Interval Training Using Body Weight on Body Composition in Sedentary Overweight and Obese Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Body-weight based interval training (IT) performed 3 times per week will lead to reductions in abdominal adiposity and reduce overall body fat percentage in overweight and obese sedentary adults more effectively than moderate intensity continuous training (MICT). Body-weight interval training will improve exercise capacity (peak VO2) in overweight/obese adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two home-based exercise groups.

The MICT group is the standard care group and will be instructed to walk for 30 minutes, 5 days per week at a moderate intensity. The goal is to accumulate 150 minutes of continuous aerobic exercise each week. Participants will be instructed on the use of the Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) scale during baseline testing and will be instructed to reach an RPE of 12-16. A heart rate monitor will be worn to monitor exercise intensity. Heart rate should reach \~70% of maximal heart rate.

The IT group will perform 5 body-weight exercises in three progressive phases. During the first 2 weeks the circuit will be completed twice, 30 second intervals, 90 seconds of rest. The exercises will be performed on 3 days of the week with at least one day of rest between exercise days (ideally Monday, Wednesday, Friday). The number of repetitions will increase to a maximum of 4 while the interval and rest periods increase to a maximum of 45 seconds each. The total time spent performing intervals by week 8 will be 15 minutes. A 2 minute warm up and 3 minute cool down will be performed, such as jumping jacks or simply walking. A heart rate monitor will be used to measure exercise intensity. Heart rate should reach approximately 90% of heart rate max during the intervals. Participants will be instructed on the use of the Rating of Perceived Exertion scale during baseline testing and will be instructed to reach an RPE of ≥17 during the high intensity intervals.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body fat percent

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Interval Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03524521
