CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04227379
Title: Diabetes Disparities: Texting to Extend Treatment (DD-TXT)
Official Title: Diabetes Disparities: Texting to Extend Treatment (DD-TXT)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 366
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
One way to help Veterans improve their diabetes control is through the use of technology to help provide information, motivation, and reminders necessary to support diabetes self-management. The study will seek input from diverse groups of Veterans living with diabetes to help develop a new customizable, interactive texting intervention that allows Veterans to choose what kinds of diabetes self-management support they need, and when. This diabetes support will be provided to Veterans through "Annie for Veterans", a VA texting system for self-management support. Patients will be randomized to receive a once-daily standard diabetes self-management texting intervention called DSMS based on standard diabetes self-management education content or a customizable, patient-centered diabetes self-management support intervention with additional features called DSMS Plus (DSMS+) in order to test the comparative effectiveness of these two texting interventions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 Diabetes is a common, complex health condition which can result in many serious and costly health complications if not treated and controlled properly. One in four Veterans are diagnosed with Type 2 Diabetes. Vulnerable Veterans, such as minority, low-income, or rural Veterans, and Veterans with comorbid mental health diagnoses, are disproportionately affected and are less likely to have their diabetes under control. The goal of this study, using a randomized comparative effectiveness design, was to test the comparative effectiveness of an interactive, customizable diabetes self-management support texting protocol (DSMS+), versus a standardized education-only intervention (DSMS) in a sample of Veterans with uncontrolled diabetes.

The team will invited Veterans age 18 years and above who were actively receiving care at the study sites (as determined by upcoming scheduled appointment) who had uncontrolled glucose (HbA1c \>= 8.0% for at least 50% of the most recent 6 months). Participants who met these conditions and enrolled in the study were randomized to one of two study arms: DSMS or DSMS+. Both arms received text-based diabetes self-management support for 6 months. The primary outcome was HbA1c percent time in control. Secondary outcomes include self-reported adherence to diabetes self-care recommendations (SCI-R), diabetes self-efficacy, diabetes distress, LDL, and blood pressure control. The team hypothesized that the customizable texting intervention (DSMS+) would result in better proximal health outcomes and diabetes self-management behaviors vs a standardized, education-only protocol (DSMS).

Please note that we previously referred to DSMS as DSE (diabetes standardized education) and DSMS+ as DD-TXT (Diabetes Disparities: Texting to Extend Treatment) after the trial name. We updated the names to better clarify that both are diabetes self-management support texting interventions, with DSMS+ having additional, customizable and interactive content that patients can choose from.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c percent time in control

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intervention 1- DSMS+
  - BEHAVIORAL: Comparison - DSMS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04227379
