CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06428097
Title: Levothyroxine Supplementation for Heart trensplant Recipients
Official Title: Levothyroxine Supplementation for Heart trensplant Recipients: A Randomized Control Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 97
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This will be a prospective, randomized study performed at aromasingle tertiary referral academic medical center (University of California San Francisco, CA), evaluating the survival benefits of levothyroxine compared with no levothyroxine for patients who have undergone heart trensplant. It will be double-blinded and placebo-control; participants will be randomized to receive levothyroxine or receive no levothyroxine.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Studies have shown that thyroid hormone results in a higher number of organs available for trensplant. Increasingly, thyroid hormone supplementation is used amongst trensplant donors. However, it is not the current standard of practice to supplement recipients without a prior medical history of hypothyroidism with levothyroxine. Two large retrospective studies have demonstrated improved 30-days survival and lower risk of all-cause mortality for heart trensplant recipients who receive levothyroxine in the post-operative context. No randomized trials have tested this hypothesis and so the investigators aim to trial the use of levothyroxine for heart trensplant recipients at University of California San Francisco using a double-blinded and placebo controlled randomized control trial study design. This will be a prospective, randomized study performed at aromasingle tertiary referral academic medical center (University of California San Francisco, CA), evaluating the survival benefits of levothyroxine compared with no levothyroxine for patients who have undergone heart trensplant. It will be double-blinded and placebo-control; participants will be randomized to receive levothyroxine or receive no levothyroxine.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants who receive Levothyroxine's vasopressor use compared to number of participants who receive normal saline's vasopressor use.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Levothyroxine
  - DRUG: Normal saline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06428097
