CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05261945
Title: Effects of Manual Therapy Versus Stretching Exercise Versus Routine Physical Therapy on Work-related Pain, Among Chefs
Official Title: The Effects of Manual Therapy Versus Stretching Exercise Versus Routine Physical Therapy on Work-related Pain, Among Patients With Non-specific Chronic Neck Pain Working as Chefs: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim of this research is to analyze the effect of Mulligan technique versus stretching techniques and versus routine physical therapy on pain, range of motion and functional disability among restaurant chefs presenting with non-specific chronic pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A Randomized Control Trail study will be conducted, at Riphah International University Faisalabad after the approval of synopsis. Purposive sampling will be used to enroll the patients. Patients will be selected according to the pre-defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The patients who will meet the inclusion criteria are allocated into three groups. The patients of group A will receive Routine physical therapy only. Group B will receive manual therapy and routine physical therapy while Group C will receive stretching exercises and routine physical therapy. The outcomes will be measured by the Neck Disability Index, visual analogue scale and bubble inclinometer. The data of patients will be recorded pre-treatment and post-treatment. The comparison between pre-treatment and post-treatment data will be done after 3 months. Informed consent will be taken from each patient. Data entry and analysis will be done with Statistical Package of Social Sciences Version 20 software.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual analog scale
  - Neck disability index
  - Bubble inclinometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Routine Physical Therapy
  - OTHER: Manual Therapy And Routine Physical Therapy
  - OTHER: Stretching Exercises And Routine Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05261945
