CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06703086
Title: Gene Modulation of NLRP3, IL-1β and TNF-α in Peripheral Blood of Patients With Exogenous Obesity Treated With Berberine
Official Title: Gene Modulation of NLRP3, IL-1β and TNF-α in Peripheral Blood of Patients With Exogenous Obesity Treated With Berberine
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The patients will be invited to participate in a research study aimed at determining the Gene Modulation of NLRP3, IL-1β and TNFα in peripheral blood of patients with exogenous obesity treated with berberine.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will take 6 months in total, in this study will participate patients with exogenous obesity, which is defined as an abnormal accumulation of fat that can be detrimental to health. After the evaluation it will be determined if you meet the section criteria to be able to participate in the study. The patients will be randomly assigned to a group which may be:

Group I. The investigator will give a nutritional plan according to your caloric requirements for lifestyle change and the patients will be scheduled biweekly for 3 months to assess your weight, height, body mass index and percentages of fat or muscle.

Group 2. The investigator will be given a nutritional plan and controlled moderate aerobic exercise that will consist of a goal of 10,000 steps or 150 minutes per week.

The patient will be given a lifestyle change plan in accordance with their nutritional requirements.

Group 3. The investigator will give a nutritional plan, moderate aerobic exercise with a goal of 10,000 steps or 150 min per week; and the phytopharmaceutical Berberine will take 3 tablets every 8 hours for 3 months.

Biweekly sessions will be carried out for 3 months, then monthly for 6 months; blood samples will be taken at the beginning of the study, that is, after the informed consent, at 3 and 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To determine the effects of Berberine on the gene modulation of NLRP3, in peripheral blood of patients with exogenous obesity
  - To determine the effects of Berberine on the gene modulation of IL-1β in peripheral blood of patients with exogenous obesity
  - To determine the effects of Berberine on the gene modulation of TNFα in peripheral blood of patients with exogenous obesity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Berberine Hydrochloride group
  - BEHAVIORAL: nutritional plan
  - BEHAVIORAL: controlled moderate aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06703086
