CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06011499
Title: Internet-Based Lifestyle Intervention to Eradicate Obese Frailty in Prostate Cancer Survivors, iLIVE
Official Title: Internet-Based Lifestyle Intervention to Eradicate Obese Frailty in Prostate Cancer Survivors (iLIVE)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 250
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial tests the effectiveness of an online weight loss plus resistance training intervention (iLIVE) to decrease obesity and improve frailty in men with prostate cancer who received androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Androgen deprivation therapy increases the risk of frailty, weight gain and obesity in prostate cancer survivors. The combination of frailty and obesity can lead to a decrease in quality of life and an increased risk of recurrent falls. Using iLIVE may improve obesity and frailty in men with prostate cancer who receive ADT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To test the effectiveness of a combined online weight loss plus resistance training intervention (iLIVE) on obese frailty in prostate cancer survivors (PCS) on ADT.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To understand the effect of iLIVE on health behaviors, physical functioning, and quality of life II. To understand facilitators and barriers to implementing iLIVE in clinical and community practice

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to arm I or II. Key stakeholders are identified for implementation outcomes

ARM I: Patients receive online access to an interactive weight loss website and participate in online group based resistance training sessions (iLIVE) on study. Patients also use a Fitbit fitness tracker and Aria (registered trademark) smart scale while on study.

ARM II: Patients receive usual care with access to online survivorship and exercise recommendations and use a Fitbit fitness tracker and Aria (registered trademark) smart scale while on study.

Patients are followed for 6 months after completion of intervention.

Key stakeholders complete an interview while on study to assess barriers and facilitators to implementation of iLIVE into clinical practice.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in overweight/obesity
  - Change in sarcopenia
  - Change in slowness
  - Change in weakness
  - Change in inactivity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Internet-Based Exercise Intervention
  - OTHER: Internet-Based Diet Intervention
  - OTHER: Education Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06011499
