CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05086380
Title: Modulation of Sense of Agency With Non-invasive Brain Stimulation and Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction Therapy
Official Title: Modulation of the Sense of Agency Across Different Neurological Disorders Using Non-invasive Brain Stimulation and Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction Therapy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 190
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
A conversion disorder is a dysfunction of the nervous system in which no structural damage can be demonstrated. However, it must be distinguished from other psychiatric disorders such as psychosis or depression. There are a variety of signs of the disease, such as muscle paralysis, uncontrolled tremors or cramps. In rarer cases, blindness, deafness or numbness may occur. Diagnosing this complex disorder has always been a challenge for neurologists and psychiatrists.

This study investigates the effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on the general well-being and symptoms of conversion disorder and other neurological disorders and in comparison to healthy subjects. The TMS method allows to target specific areas of the brain by means of magnetic fields. This technique is not painful and does not have long-lasting effects.

In addition, the study investigates the effects of mindfulness-based stress reduction on the general well-being and symptoms of conversion disorder and other neurological disorders and compared to healthy subjects. This technique is not painful and has no long-lasting effects.

Furthermore, the study examines movement patterns and symptoms of patients compared to healthy controls while they are in a virtual reality.

Finally, the study examines patients' brain activity while playing a game targeting the sense of agency in real time, which is recorded with an MRI scanner.

The study includes a maximum of twelve sessions in total (ten sessions of approximately 1.5-2 hours each and two sessions each overnight). The planned study methods include TMS, (real-time and normal) magnetic resonance tomography of the brain (MRI "tube"), virtual- and augmented reality (AR/VR), questionnaires, blood, saliva, and motion sensors (e.g., fitness bracelet), and participation in the 8-week mindfulness program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in objective Performance Agency Task (TMS)
  - Change in subjective Performance Agency Task (TMS)
  - Change in objective Performance Agency Task (MBSR)
  - Change in subjective Performance Agency Task (MBSR)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-based stress reduction therapy
  - DEVICE: Inhibitory TMS
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychoeducation
  - DEVICE: TMS sham
  - DEVICE: Excitatory TMS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05086380
