CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03192046
Title: Bracing for Walking in Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Impact of Carbon Fiber AFOs on Gait and Resulting Changes in Quality of Life Across Time in Persons With PD
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Parkinson disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disease that results in characteristic gait dysfunction. Gait problems include decreased velocity, decreased stride length, difficulty with initiation of gait, postural stability problems and alteration in joint kinematics.1 In this typically older patient population, these gait deviations affect their participation in household and community activities. The standard of care is currently focused on therapeutic exercise and cueing of various types (visual, auditory, verbal). Current interventions have not been demonstrated to markedly improve gait kinematics, so there is a need to identify interventions that could improve gait performance in this population. Lower extremity bracing is a common and well-established intervention for gait dysfunction with other populations, including stroke and brain injury. The braces allow for improved stability, sensory feedback, and consistent tactile cues to allow patients to have the best gait mechanics with each step. It is reasonable to hypothesize that appropriate bracing may have the potential to improve gait function and kinematics in PD since these patient often have gastroc-soleus weakness. Data from our early pilot studies indicates that bracing individuals with PD can positively impact their mobility. This includes improvements in velocity, step length, and dynamic balance. Additional data supported an upward trend in quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized, repeated measures, matched group study. There will be two groups of participants, 8 participants per group, 35 participants total from time of initial enrollment in this study. Group one (G1) will receive bilateral custom braces and a standardized home walking/exercise program. Group two will receive the standardized walking/exercise program without any brace or AFO. Subjects will be randomized upon enrollment in the study. At the time of consent, random drawing from concealed envelopes with red, blue or green chips will be done to determine group assignment. Subjects will be recruited through the Clinical Center for Movement Disorders at UT Southwestern Medical Center where patients with PD receive routine evaluation and follow-up. Subjects will be followed for 6 months during this study and outcome measures will be collected 3 times over the course of the study. Subjects will be seen every 3 months for the duration of the study for testing as well as for other visits as noted in the table below. Participants will not need to have insurance benefits for initial physical therapy evaluation and for ankle braces. All subsequent visits to the Crowley gait lab for assessments and brace adjustment will be provided at no cost to the participants.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Gait Capacity as Assessed b 6-Minute Walk Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Carbon Fiber Ankle Foot Orthosis (AFO)
  - OTHER: Standardized walking/exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03192046
