CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03135535
Title: Micro-mobile Foot Compression and Diabetic Foot
Official Title: Micro-mobile Foot Compression Device to Improve Motor-function in People With Diabetes and Loss of Protective Sensation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Diabetic foot ulceration (DFU) is a common and largely preventable complication. While most of these ulcers can be treated successfully, some will persist and become infected. Ultimately, nearly one fifth of patients with infected lower-extremity diabetic ulcers will require amputation of the affected limb.Prevention by identifying people at higher risk is the key for better clinical management of such patients. It is not uncommon for patients suffering from diabetes to have concomitant lower extremity edema or even venous insufficiency and they subsequently may benefit from graduated compression. However, because of the common association of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in patients with diabetes, most clinicians are reluctant to apply compressive dressings in fear of exacerbating the symptoms of PAD and the possible resulting gangrene.

A novel micro-mobile foot compression device named Footbeat (AVEX, Inc.) offers alternative means providing lower extremity compression. This device is portable and can be used in a standard diabetic shoes on daily basis, which in turn may improve venous blood and relief from concomitant lower extremity edema. In addition, potential improvement in lower extremity blood flow in response to regular foot compression, could improve balance, gait, skin perfusion, plantar sensation, and overall daily physical activities (e.g. number of taken steps per day, duration of standing, etc).

The purpose of this study is to conduct an observational study with N=30 ambulatory patients with diabetes and loss of protective sensation to assess whether this micro-mobile foot compression device can help improving motor function, lower extremity perfusion, and vascular health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Balance From Baseline to 4 Weeks
  - Change in Skin Perfusion From Baseline to 4 Weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Avex Footbeat

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03135535
