CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06782347
Title: Activating SilverSneakers Benefits for Seniors With Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Activating SilverSneakers Benefits for Seniors With Osteoarthritis: Proactive Versus Usual Care
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1454
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this pragmatic randomized controlled trial is to test the effects of a brief proactive care intervention involving mailed material and two phone calls on: (1) increasing participation in SilverSneakers exercise programs among older adults with osteoarthritis; (2) improving physical, social and psychological outcomes identified as important to older adults with osteoarthritis; and (3) reducing costly osteoarthritis-related health service use. Approximately 1,454 older adults with osteoarthritis who have SilverSneakers access through their Medicare Advantage plan, but no prior SilverSneakers use, will be recruited to participate across the United States. Key outcome measures will be assessed over a two-year follow-up period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Exercise is an evidence-based strategy for managing osteoarthritis, but fewer than 15% of older adults exercise regularly. Lack of access to affordable fitness facilities and resources is often identified by older adults as a key barrier to regular exercise. However, more than half of U.S. older adults are enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans which include no-cost access to SilverSneakers or other similar exercise benefits. SilverSneakers benefits provide access to more than 15,000 fitness centers/gyms nationwide, and access to online- and in-person exercise classes taught at multiple fitness levels-all at no extra cost for older adults who are enrolled in participating Medicare Advantage plans. Remarkably, fewer than one-third of older adults use their insurance-covered SilverSneakers exercise benefits; with most unaware that they have access to these exercise benefits.

The investigators plan to conduct a pragmatic randomized controlled trial to compare the effects of Proactive Care, involving mailed material and phone calls plus a faxed information sheet for older adults' primary care providers, relative to Usual Care, involving the standard insurance-benefit information packet provided to older adults, on: (1) increasing participation in SilverSneakers exercise programs; (2) improving physical, social, and psychological outcomes identified as important to patients; and (3) reducing osteoarthritis-related health service use. Approximately 1,454 older adults who are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan at Humana and have no prior SilverSneakers use will be recruited across the United States. Participants will be followed over a 2-year period for key outcomes, with assessments conducted at baseline, 6, 12, and 24 months. Outcome measures will be obtained from Humana health claims databases and from self-report surveys.

The investigators hypothesize that, relative to the Usual Care group, the Proactive Care group will result in: (1) a greater proportion of participants who enroll in, and use SilverSneakers at least once; (2) a greater proportion of participants who use SilverSneakers at least one time per month at 2-year follow-up; and (3) greater mean improvements in physical functioning between baseline and 2-year follow-up. If these hypotheses are supported, and if proactive care procedures improve exercise participation and health outcomes and reduce costly health-service use, it could lead health insurers to adopt proactive care procedures more widely. Using proactive care procedures on a wider scale holds potential to help millions of older adults with osteoarthritis to access their insurance-covered exercise benefits, and improve the quality of their daily lives. Patient-, primary care-, community- and policy-level stakeholder partners will provide input throughout the project period to ensure the design, delivery and dissemination of proactive care procedures are patient-centered and incorporate diverse stakeholder perspectives.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Function (subscale)
  - SilverSneakers Activation
  - SilverSneakers Long-Term Participation Rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Proactive Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06782347
