CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02829268
Title: A Clinical Trial of Dantrolene Sodium in Pediatric and Adult Patients With Wolfram Syndrome
Official Title: A Phase 1b/2a Trial of Dantrolene Sodium in Pediatric and Adult Patients With Wolfram Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Wolfram syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by juvenile-onset diabetes mellitus, diabetes insipidus, optic nerve atrophy, hearing loss, and neurodegeneration. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of dantrolene sodium in patients with Wolfram syndrome. In addition, we will assess the efficacy of dantrolene sodium on the cardinal manifestations of Wolfram syndrome, including visual acuity, remaining beta cell functions, and neurological functions.

There is a screening period up to 56 days, a 6-month treatment period with an optional extension phase up to 24 months, and a 4-week safety follow-up period. Study assessments include medical \& medication history, physical exams, neurological exams, eye exams, endocrine exams, vital signs, height, weight, electrocardiograms, blood and urine tests, pregnancy test if applicable, and questionnaires.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Primary Objective of this study is:

To assess the safety and tolerability of dantrolene sodium administered orally at upper end of therapeutic dose range for 6 months in patients with Wolfram syndrome with an optional extension phase up to 24 months. Patients who express the wish to continue in the optional extension phase on dantrolene sodium will be offered this possibility.

The Secondary Objectives of this study are:

* Determine the effect of dantrolene sodium on remaining beta cell functions using a mixed-meal tolerance test and monitoring base-line C-peptide levels, blood glucose levels, proinsulin/C-peptide ratios, hemoglobin A1c levels, and urine glucose levels.
* To determine the efficacy of dantrolene sodium on visual acuity (LogMar scores)
* To determine the efficacy of dantrolene sodium on visual functions using Visual Functioning Questionnaire - 25.
* To evaluate the efficacy of dantrolene sodium on neurological functions using the Wolfram Unified Rating Scale (WURS) and standard neurological assessments.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by Liver Function Tests

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: dantrolene sodium

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02829268
