CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07084298
Title: Effects of Iron Supplementation on Skeletal Muscle Properties in Females With Suboptimal Iron Storage
Official Title: Effects of 12 Weeks of Oral Iron Supplementation on Skeletal Muscle Iron Content, Mitochondrial Function, and Indices of Aerobic Fitness in Healthy Females With Suboptimal Iron Stores
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn whether oral iron supplementation will increase skeletal muscle iron storage and its effects on exercise capacity in females with suboptimal iron status. The study will include healthy females, ages 18-40, who either have suboptimal or optimal iron stores.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does iron supplementation increase skeletal muscle iron storage and alter the expression of iron-related and mitochondrial proteins?
* Does iron supplementation improve single-leg exercise performance?
* Is serum ferritin correlated with the abundance of iron-related proteins in skeletal muscle?

Researchers will compare outcomes from females with suboptimal iron status who receive oral iron supplementation to those who receive a placebo to see if supplementation improves muscle iron storage, protein expression, and exercise performance. Additionally, a non-intervention control group with optimal iron status will be included to assess baseline differences.

Participants will:

\- Be randomly assigned to receive 150 mg elemental iron or placebo (maltodextrin) every other day for 12 weeks

Complete pre- and post-supplementation testing, including:

* Blood draws to assess iron status
* Skeletal muscle biopsies to analyze protein content
* Whole-body and single-leg exercise tests to assess performance
* Controls will undergo baseline-only testing to compare physiological and biochemical markers

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is intended to evaluate the effects of oral iron supplementation on muscle iron levels in females with suboptimal iron status. The design involves both a randomized controlled trial (RCT) for those with low blood iron levels, as well as a cross-sectional component, including only healthy controls. Iron supplementation will be administered to half of those enrolled in the RCT portion to evaluate the effects of iron uptake within the muscle. Therefore, the primary goal of the study is to determine if iron is stored within the muscle in meaningful amounts following an extended period of oral iron supplementation in healthy females with suboptimal iron status.

The study's rationale extends from the high prevalence of low iron levels among females globally, especially among those who are involved in endurance sports. At the level of the muscle, iron serves in several key biological functions, including oxygen transport, energy production, and even recovery from exercise, making it essential for performance. Although the investigators understand some amount of iron is stored within the muscle, the investigators are currently unaware whether meaningful changes occur following a period of supplementation. Therefore, the proposed protocol outlined below is designed to test the hypothesis that taking iron for a prolonged period at adequate doses will result in meaningful changes.

Participants involved in this study will include biological females aged 18-40 with suboptimal iron status (blood ferritin ≤50 µg/L), who are otherwise healthy, for the RCT portion, or normal iron status (blood ferritin ≥50 µg/L) for healthy controls. Interested participants will be screened, and those eligible for the RCT will be randomly assigned to either an oral iron supplement or a placebo sugar pill, ensuring that the encapsulation is preserved to promote blinding. Participants will consume the assigned treatment once every 2nd day for 12 weeks. Exercise and other biological tests will be performed both before and after supplementation during the RCT, while healthy controls will only participate in baseline testing.

The following is an overview of the study design:

Baseline testing

This phase involves five visits and approximately 6.5 hours of laboratory testing spread over two weeks. Participants in the RCT and those acting as healthy controls will both complete the baseline testing phase.

Visit I: Blood draw

Participants will report to the laboratory in the fasted condition. They will be verbally informed of the methods of this study by the researcher and given time to ask questions before their written consent is obtained. Participants will complete a short survey to characterize their menstrual cycle. Subsequently, an individual trained in phlebotomy will collect venous blood for analysis from an antecubital vein using appropriate techniques. Following analysis of the blood iron markers, participants will be informed whether they are eligible to partici

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Ferritin

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oral iron supplement
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07084298
