CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04751045
Title: Comparison and Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound Liver Biopsies Versus Percutaneous Liver Biopsies
Official Title: Comparison and Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound Liver Biopsies Versus Percutaneous Liver Biopsies: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Histopathological examination of liver tissue is used to determine the etiology and extent of liver disease. In order for a clinician to make a better-informed decision regarding a patient with liver disease, the liver biopsy specimen has to be adequate and of high quality for pathological interpretation. It is generally agreed that an adequate liver biopsy has to have ≥6-12 intact portal tracts for pathological review and interpretation.(1) Historically, three approaches have been used to obtain a liver biopsy: percutaneous, transjugular (TJ-LB) and laparoscopic approach (LA-LB)- with percutaneous liver biopsy (P-LB) being the most commonly employed. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided liver biopsy (EUS-LB), a newer approach, is now being performed by select skilled endoscopists across the country. EUS-LB is advantageous over existing techniques because it enables visualization and avoidance of vessels that are 1mm in diameter, provides access to both lobes of the liver and theoretically is less painful due to avoiding somatic pain fibers. Further, in patients that are already undergoing esophagogastroduodenoscopy, EUS-LB can be performed simultaneously and spare the patient an additional procedure. Because of the plausibility of reduced pain, number of procedures and possibly complications, EUS-LB may be cost-effective over existing methods. There is limited data evaluating the safety and efficacy of EUS-LB versus percutaneous liver biopsy.

The investigators hope to provide answers in a prospective study comparing between patients, who are already undergoing liver biopsy, randomly assigned to either EUS-LB or P-LB. The investigators will compare outcomes such as pain, bleeding, hospitalization, and tissue diagnosis between the two groups. This will allow us to add to the existing data for the use of EUS-LB. If patients are found to have less adverse events and better outcomes using EUS-LB versus percutaneous-LB this may become the preferred method of diagnosis in this patient population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Date: 01/03/2019 Version Number: 1 Principal Investigator: Ghassan Hammoud MD Application Number: 2011629 Application Title: Comparison and Outcomes of Endoscopic Ultrasound Liver Biopsies versus Percutaneous Liver Biopsies: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Protocol

* Use the section headings to write the Protocol, inserting the appropriate material in each. If a section is not applicable, leave heading in and insert N/A.
* When submitting Protocol (new or revised), enter the date and version number to

Abstract

1. Provide no more than a one-page research abstract briefly stating the problem, the research hypothesis, and the importance of the research.

   Histopathological examination of liver tissue is used to determine the etiology and extent of liver disease. In order for a clinician to make a better-informed decision regarding a patient with liver disease, the liver biopsy specimen has to be adequate and of high quality for pathological interpretation. It is generally agreed that an adequate liver biopsy has to have ≥6-12 intact portal tracts for pathological review and interpretation.(1) Historically, three approaches have been used to obtain a liver biopsy: percutaneous, transjugular (TJ-LB) and laparoscopic approach (LA-LB)- with percutaneous liver biopsy (P-LB) being the most commonly employed. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided liver biopsy (EUS-LB), a newer approach, is now being performed by select skilled endoscopists across the country. EUS-LB is advantageous over existing techniques because it enables visualization and avoidance of vessels that are 1mm in diameter, provides access to both lobes of the liver and theoretically is less painful due to avoiding somatic pain fibers. Further, in patients that are already undergoing EGD, EUS-LB can be performed simultaneously and spare the patient an additional procedure. Because of the plausibility of reduced pain, number of procedures and possibly complications, EUS-LB may be cost-effective over existing methods. There is limited data evaluating the safety and efficacy of EUS-LB versus percutaneous liver biopsy.

   The investigators hope to provide answers in a prospective study comparing between patients, who are already undergoing liver biopsy, randomly assigned to either EUS-LB or P-LB. The investigators will compare outcomes such as pain, bleeding, hospitalization, and tissue diagnosis between the two groups. This will allow us to add to the existing data for the use of EUS-LB. If patients are found to have less adverse events and better outcomes using EUS-LB versus percutaneous-LB this may become the preferred method of diagnosis in this patient population.

   Background (briefly describe pre-clinical and clinical data, current experience with procedures, drug or device, and any other relevant information to justify the research)

   Several studies are emerging on the safety and efficacy of EUS-LB for diagnosis of patients with liver disease, with only one prospective study.(2) Shah et 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - portal tracts obtained

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: EUS liver biopsy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04751045
