CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04889235
Title: Diaphragm Kinetics Following Hepatic Resection
Official Title: Diaphragm Kinetics Following Hepatic Resection, Comparison Between a Sarcopenic and Non-sarcopenic Cohort.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia is associated with reduced pulmonary function in healthy adults, as well as with increased risk of pneumonia following abdominal surgery. Consequentially, postoperative pneumonia prolongs hospital admission, and increases in-hospital mortality following a range of surgical interventions. Little is known about the function of the diaphragm in the context of sarcopenia and wasting disorders or how its function is influenced by abdominal surgery. Liver surgery induces reactive pleural effusion in most patients, compromising post-operative pulmonary function.

Hypotheses:

* Both major hepatic resection and sarcopenia have a measurable impact on diaphragm function.
* Sarcopenia is associated with reduced preoperative diaphragm function, and that patients with reduced preoperative diaphragm function show a greater decline and reduced recovery of diaphragm function following major hepatic resection.

Goals:

The primary goal of this study is to evaluate whether sarcopenic patients have a reduced diaphragm function prior to major liver resection compared to non-sarcopenic patients, and to evaluate whether sarcopenic patients show a greater reduction in respiratory muscle function following major liver resection when compared to non-sarcopenic patients.

Methods and analysis:

Trans-costal B-mode, M-mode ultrasound and speckle tracking imaging will be used to assess diaphragm function perioperatively in patients undergoing major hepatic resection starting one day prior to surgery and up to thirty days after surgery. In addition, rectus abdominis and quadriceps femoris muscles thickness will be measured using ultrasound to measure sarcopenia, and pulmonary function will be measured using a hand-held bedside spirometer. Muscle mass will be determined preoperatively using CT-muscle volumetry of abdominal muscle and adipose tissue at the third lumbar vertebra level (L3). Muscle function will be assessed using handgrip strength and physical condition will be measured with a short physical performance battery (SPPB). A rectus abdominis muscle biopsy will be taken intraoperatively to measure proteolytic and mitochondrial activity as well as inflammation and redox status. Systemic inflammation and sarcopenia biomarkers will be assessed in serum acquired perioperatively.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Diaphragm kinetics
  - Diaphragm kinetics
  - Diaphragm kinetics
  - Diaphragm kinetics
  - Abdominal muscle kinetics

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Major liver resection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04889235
