CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02057068
Title: Improving Sleep in Veterans and Their CGs
Official Title: Improving Sleep In Veterans and Their Family Caregivers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 102
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This study addresses the neglected topic of sleep disturbance in older caregiving dyads-a topic that has important implications for the safety, health, functioning and quality of life of older Veterans living at home and being cared for by a family caregiver (CG). The purpose of the study was to develop and field test non-pharmacological, technology enhanced sleep hygiene, exercise and meditation interventions to improve sleep in Veteran caregiving dyads.The conceptual framework of the intervention incorporated components of cognitive behavioral therapy, psycho-education and self-management support for individuals with chronic conditions with an emphasis on cultivating competence and mastery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Plan:

Sample. Veteran care receivers(CR s) or carepartners (CP) over the age of 60 who require assistance from a spousal or cohabitating caregiver (CG) and Veteran caregivers providing care for a cohabitating carepartner were recruited. Dyads underwent comprehensive baseline assessments consisting of in-person home-based interviews and iPad training (T1) followed by a week-long data collection of contemporaneous actigraphic sleep parameters and twice daily (morning and evening) indices of subjective sleep, activity, mood, behavior and sleep hygiene completed on the Tonic for Health Platform. Dyads were randomly assigned to an immediate intervention or wait-list control group. The immediate group received the intervention described below followed by post-intervention assessments (T2) identical to baseline. Wait-list participants then received the intervention followed by a final post-intervention assessment for the wait-list group only (T3).

Intervention.

Daily Videos: Video modules were delivered daily to the dyads' iPads during the 6-week intervention. All participants received core programming of sleep hygiene education, and guided instruction for daily physical activity enhancement "Move-Out!" and meditation/relaxation/self-care "Stand Down!" sessions individualized to functional ability levels. The baseline data allowed for subsequent compilation and programming of individualized, algorithmically derived, adaptive prescriptions for relevant video modules, sleep hygiene recommendations and cognitive behavioral strategies based upon the three independent streams of objective and subjective data for each dyad member. During the intervention dyads completed brief morning and evening diaries to assess compliance with the intervention and capture daily mood and sleep/sleep hygiene data.

Tele-Video-Conferences: Each dyad participated in two tele-video conferences with the PI. The first was to discuss evaluation results, obtain buy-in for the prescribed intervention and address dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep. The second call was a check-in, encouragement, reinforcement and coaching call. Dyads were re-assessed following the 6-week intervention.

Evaluations:

Standardized quantitative evaluations regarding the utility of the program were completed following the post-intervention assessments on the iPads. A sub-sample of dyads also participated in qualitative interviews.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Subjective Sleep Quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SLEEP-E Dyads Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02057068
