CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06623734
Title: Liver Cancer Prognosis Investigation Study
Official Title: Liver CAncer PRognosis InvEstigation Study (Liver-CARE)
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 5000
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This prospective cohort study is designed to explore the role of environmental, clinical, and genetic risk factors in the progression and prognosis of primary liver cancer (PLC). We will recruit 5000 patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated PLC. The eligible patients will be asked to complete a baseline survey at the time of initial admission and be followed up every 3 to 6 months after discharge.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary liver cancer (PLC) is highly malignant and is particularly prevalent in China. Multiple factors are involved in the development and progression of PLC. Several large-scale, prospective cohort studies have been established to identify environmental and genetic risk factors for the development of PLC in the general population. However, few cohort studies have focused on determining risk factors beyond clinical prognostic factors for the progression of PLC in patients with PLC. Therefore, we will conduct a prospective cohort study to examine the role of environmental, clinical, and genetic risk factors in the progression and prognosis of PLC. We plan to recruit 5000 patients with newly diagnosed, previously untreated PLC. A baseline survey will be conducted at the time of initial admission, with follow-up at 3 and 6 months after discharge for all patients and thereafter every 3 months for patients treated with interventional therapy and every 6 months for patients receiving surgery and other therapies. We will collect information on patients' demographics characteristics, clinical diagnosis and treatment, lifestyle, nutritional status, psychological and mental status, quality of life, anthropometric data, body composition, routine laboratory tests and examinations, and disease progression through structured questionnaires, physical examinations, and medical record reviews. Deaths will be ascertained through medical records, death certificates, and next-of-kin. Additionally, we will collect blood, urine, stool, and liver tissue samples.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Death

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06623734
