CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02002143
Title: GMVs in Primary Care: An RCT of Group-Based Versus Individual Appointments to Reduce HbA1c in Older People
Official Title: Group Medical Visits (GMVs) in Primary Care: An RCT of Group-Based Versus Individual Appointments to Reduce HbA1c in Older People
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 128
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Type 2 diabetes is a major problem of older people; its prevalence is greater than 20% in those aged over 65 years. Treatment such as medication, healthy nutritional choices \& body weight management, as well as physical activity can reduce the impact of diabetes.

Older patients with type 2 diabetes can potentially benefit from Group Appointments, in which 8-12 patients share one appointment of about 60-120 minutes with a team of health professionals.

The team of investigators (3 people) will see the 'Group' 4 times/yr for two years. Their key measure of success will be control of glycosylated hemoglobin - HbA1c.

To address their primary and secondary research objectives the investigators will focus upon patients aged 65 years or older who have T2DM and who are being treated with oral hypoglycemic agents and diet, or diet alone.

The investigators will compare patients randomized to (A) eight Group Appointments over a 24 month period (i.e., 4 per year), led by a primary care physician \[Intervention\] with, (B) patients randomized to eight traditional one-to-one usual care appointments also provided by a primary care physician (Individual Appointment; \[Control\]). The investigators will compare (A) and (B) on selected clinical, patient-rated, and economic outcome measures.

SIGNIFICANCE: Seven Canadian provinces already have Group Appointment billing codes for physicians who lead Group Appointments. If the study's proposed health care innovation demonstrates benefits, it would be possible to 'roll out' / 'scale up' the model province- or nation-wide in Primary Care settings.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in older people is an undisputed health problem. More than 1.1 million people diagnosed with diabetes mellitus (DM) in Canada are over the age of 65 years. Rates of T2DM in older people are accelerating even when adjusted for age. Thus, total community prevalence is increasing based on the greater number of older people, an increased rate among those older people, and improved survival rates of people with DM.

The financial burden of DM to the Canadian health care system will approach $17 billion/year by 2020. Beyond the direct health burden of T2DM, the condition is an independent risk factor for falls and dementia -two of the 'geriatric giants'. T2DM is 'an important unresolved issue previously unacknowledged' and is considered to increase 'biological age' by 2 years in those aged over 70 years.

Although treatment can improve the clinical trajectory of older people with T2DM, many do not receive guideline care. Combinations of drug treatment, physical activity, nutrition advice and body weight management, reduce risk factors, delay onset of disease and lessen the rate of complications.

Group Appointments (GAs) - also called Group Medical Visits or Shared Medical Appointments may contribute to improved T2DM care for older people in the primary care setting. The innovation in this study is to undertake research in one study to determine 1) the clinical effectiveness; 2) quality of life; and 3) economic implications of Group Appointments for older people with T2DM.

'Group Appointments' exist in various forms. Their origin is often attributed to Noffsinger and also Ward. In a Group Appointment, one physician works with a nurse and a 'behaviourist' (described on page 12c) to care for eight to twelve patients during one 60-120 minute appointment.

A recent Systematic Review of Group Appointments in T2DM performed by two current Co-Investigators (HOUSDEN, DAWES) highlighted the need for a Canadian Primary Care RCT that would extend previous research from Italy. The extension of research by this study is to have a Primary Care physician lead Group Appointments and for the RCT to include exclusively men and women aged 65 years and older.

The clinical and societal importance of T2DM in older people is not disputed. 'Diabetes mellitus is a serious condition with potentially devastating complications that affects all age groups worldwide'.

Diabetes epidemiology was reviewed in the 2013 Canadian Diabetes Practice Guidelines and Public Health Agency of Canada's 'Diabetes in Facts \& Figures'. To make this literature 'critical' the investigators will focus on 1) the accelerating rate of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes in older people; 2) the challenge of delivering quality diabetes care affordably in a traditional one-to-one primary care encounter 3) the equipoise that results from international evidence for testing GAs to improve patient self-management in the absence of Canadian Primary Care research in this field; 4) a br

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patients' control (decreased levels) of HemoglobinA1C (clinical)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group Appointments
  - BEHAVIORAL: Individual Appointments (IAs)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02002143
