CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03664713
Title: EMDR in Psychiatric Inpatients With Severe Mental Disorder
Official Title: Efficacy of Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy Compared to Treatment As Usual (TAU) in Psychiatric Inpatients With Severe Mental Disorder and a History of Psychological Trauma
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The study of psychological trauma has become increasingly important in the field of mental health research due to the strong negative impact it has on the course and prognosis of psychiatric pathologies. However, from a clinical point of view it is still an overlooked and even ignored component. There is scientific evidence that treating traumatic events at outpatient hospital services in patients with severe mental disorder improves both trauma-related symptoms and clinical symptoms. A first-line treatment for psychological trauma is Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) therapy. This therapy is recommended by the World Health Organization for treating Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and which has obtained promising first results in patients with severe mental disorder. This project proposes to test whether EMDR therapy in addition to standard treatment is more effective than standard treatment alone in psychiatric in-patients with severe mental disorder, in terms of reducing symptoms related to psychopathology and trauma, and in terms of improving functioning. Our first hypothesis is that EMDR will be more effective than standard treatment alone in reducing the severity of psychiatric symptoms. Our second hypothesis is that EMDR will be more effective than standard treatment alone in reducing the severity of trauma-related symptoms. Our third hypothesis is that EMDR will be more effective than standard treatment alone in improving functioning.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Severe mental disorders (SMD) are a group of diverse conditions which principally affect perception, cognition, emotion and behavioural control (Hyman et al. 2016). SMD has a significant health impact worldwide, both in economic terms as well as in mortality rate due to suicide or associated medical illnesses (Charlson et al. 2016), due to its high prevalence, frequent early age of onset, and its clinical course (usually chronic or with temporary improvements followed by relapse), and the cognitive deterioration of important mental capabilities.

The results of the different meta-analyses have shown that suffering adverse events in infancy significantly increases the risk of developing SMD in adult life (Bortolato et al., 2017; Palmier-Claus, Berry, Bucci, Mansell, \& Varese, 2016). What is more, it is important to take into account that the presence of this comorbidity has important clinical implications, such as an increase in suicides, greater severity of symptoms, an increase in risky sexual behaviours, more hospital admissions, a worse disease course and a greater risk of being retraumatized (Rosenberg et al. 2007; Ford et al. 2007; Oquendo et al. 2005). However, at clinical level it is still an element which receives very little focus and may interfere in the correct evolution of the disease (Mauritz et al. 2013).

Two recently published studies in the severe psychiatric population have shown that the specific treatment of trauma improves in all cases the symptoms related to it in patients diagnoses with schizophrenia (van den Berg et al. 2015) and bipolar disorder (Novo et al. 2014), as well as showing an improvement in other clinical symptoms such as psychotic symptoms, paranoid ideation and hallucinations in the case of schizophrenia, and sub-syndromic symptoms in the case of bipolar disorder. In both studies, the intervention strategy used to treat traumatic events was EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing), a psychotherapeutic approach whose use in recent years has grown exponentially in clinical practice due to its great efficacy and safety, as well as being recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the American Psychiatric Association (APA) as a first line treatment for Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) (Shapiro, 2014). It was developed at the beginning of the nineties by the North American psychologist Francine Shapiro to treat the consequences of psychological trauma. EMDR is an 8-phase psychological treatment composed of protocols and standardized procedures applicable to both adults and children. The eight phases (patient history, patient preparation, evaluation of the main aspects of the memory, desensitization of the traumatic memory, installation of the positive cognition, body scan, close and re-evaluation) and the protocol of the time line of past-present-future, allow a holistic evaluation of the image of the traumatic memory, and allow for the patient to be well-prepared before pr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in clinical severity from baseline to post-treatment at 6 months and follow up at 12 months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03664713
