CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05931874
Title: Optimizing a mHealth Physical Activity Intervention With Mindful Awareness Lessons in Breast Cancer Survivors
Official Title: Fit2ThriveMIND: Optimizing a mHealth Physical Activity Intervention With Mindful Awareness Lessons in Breast Cancer Survivors
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 304
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The primary purpose of the present study is to apply MOST methodology to determine which types of social support and mindfulness training intervention components optimally increase MVPA adoption and maintenance in Breast Cancer Survivors (BCS) in a 24-week intervention with a 48-week follow-up. The researchers will also examine the effects of changes in MVPA on symptom burden, time spent in intensities of other activities (i.e. light and sedentary), and sleep quality and duration.

Aim 1: To identify which components from four mHealth components under consideration for inclusion meaningfully contribute to improvements in MVPA at 24 and 48 weeks.

Aim 2: To examine how changes in MVPA, as a result of the 4 components, may influence additional health behaviors and outcomes including: a) symptom burden (i.e. fatigue, depression, anxiety); b) time spent i n other activity intensities (i.e. light, sedentary time); and c) sleep duration and quality.

Aim 3: To examine potential mediators (i.e. adherence, psychosocial factors such as post-traumatic growth, self-compassion, self-efficacy, and goal-setting) and moderators (i.e., age, time since diagnosis) of the four intervention components on MVPA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary purpose of the present study is to apply MOST methodology to determine which types of social support and mindfulness training intervention components optimally increase MVPA adoption and maintenance in Breast Cancer Survivors (BCS) in a 24-week intervention with a 48-week follow-up. The researchers will also examine the effects of changes in MVPA on symptom burden, time spent in intensities of other activities (i.e. light and sedentary), and sleep quality and duration.

Aim 1: To identify which components from four mHealth components under consideration for inclusion meaningfully contribute to improvements in MVPA at 24 and 48 weeks.

Aim 2: To examine how changes in MVPA, as a result of the 4 components, may influence additional health behaviors and outcomes including: a) symptom burden (i.e. fatigue, depression, anxiety); b) time spent i n other activity intensities (i.e. light, sedentary time); and c) sleep duration and quality.

Aim 3: To examine potential mediators (i.e. adherence, psychosocial factors such as post-traumatic growth, self-compassion, self-efficacy, and goal-setting) and moderators (i.e., age, time since diagnosis) of the four intervention components on MVPA.

Research participants will be identified and recruited at Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center (RHLCC) at Northwestern University (NU). All BCS and Buddies will complete an initial 10-15 minute eligibility screening online, over the phone, or in-person. The study RA will obtain informed consent and HIPAA authorization from eligible participants according to IRB approved procedures.

Assessments. After informed consent completion, the NU study team will send participants an email with an individual, secure link to study questionnaires and notification that an ActiGraph accelerometer packet has been mailed. Participants will be asked to complete the questionnaire within 1 week of receipt. BCS will be provided with detailed written instructions for how to wear the ActiGraph.

Randomization and Study Orientation. After completing baseline assessments, BCS will be randomized to each group using computer-generated randomly permuted blocks. After randomization, the NU study team will send the participant an intervention packet which will include the Fitbit, Fitbit instructions, instructions and a QR code to download the study app, and instructions specific to each condition to which they are assigned. The participant will also be scheduled for an orientation phone or web call with study staff to go over the contents of the intervention packet and expectations of participation for each component in greater detail.

Intervention Components

Core Intervention (Fitbit + Study App). All participants will receive a low-resource self-monitoring intervention consisting of the Fitbit AltaHR (or similar) and the study self-monitoring app. Participants will be asked to download the Fitbit app and wear the Fitbit 24/7 throughout the 48-week study period. The core study app will suppor

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Objective Physical Activity during the 48 week technology supported physical activity interventions in breast cancer survivors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Core Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: E-Coach
  - BEHAVIORAL: Buddy
  - BEHAVIORAL: General Mindfulness Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: MVPA-Specific Mindfulness Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05931874
