CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04066569
Title: Reproducibility and Utility of OGTT in Acromegaly
Official Title: Reproducibility and Utility of Growth Hormone Inhibition by Oral Glucose Tolerance Test for the Diagnosis of Acromegaly
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 109
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Prospective study of reproducibility and utility of growth hormone inhibition by oral glucose tolerance test for the diagnosis of acromegaly, in acromegalic and non-acromegalic subjects, with a randomized double-blind crossover over placebo arm in the group of acromegalic patients

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rational: The initial step of biological diagnosis of acromegaly is based on assessment of IGF-I. According to current recommendations, the diagnosis must be confirmed by an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to show that there is no growth hormone (GH) decrease lower than 1 μg/L (Katznelson , et al., 2014).

Reproducibility of GH suppression by the OGTT has never been evaluated in either acromegalic or healthy subjects, although it is essential to determine the reliability of this test. Spontaneous fluctuations in GH in acromegaly could significantly influence the response of GH to the OGTT and cause low reproducibility of the test in this population. In particular, this reliability could be different according to the typical or moderate clinical presentation because of the persistence of a residual ultradian rhythm of GH secretion.

The usefulness of oral glucose loading and the resulting hyperglycemia (which may limit GH secretion) has never been compared to an appropriate placebo (aspartame, at a dose equivalent to 75 g glucose), which does not cause hyperglycemia. Ingestion of 75 g of glucose is often responsible for nausea and vomiting. More rarely, the drop in blood glucose reactive to hyper insulinemia at the end of the test, can be the cause of discomfort.

Primary objective: To determine the reproducibility of the GH response to OGTT in acromegaly by studying, in subjects with acromegaly, changes in GH concentration within 2 hours after oral administration of 75 g of glucose at 2 repeated tests in the same subject.

Secondary objectives:

1. To analyze the reproducibility of the GH response to the OGTT as a function of the severity of acromegaly ("typical" form, "intermediate" form of acromegaly) and in a group of non-acromegalic subjects.
2. To evaluate the diagnostic value (utility) of OGTT in acromegaly by comparing, in subjects with acromegaly, the response of GH to oral administration of 75 g of glucose (OGTT) and 375 mg of aspartame (placebo).
3. Evaluate OGTT-stimulated insulin secretion in acromegalic and non-acromegalic subjects.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Compare Nadir GH concentration in μg/L obtained in two OGTT in the same subject with acromegaly

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Performed 3 diagnostic tests (2 OGTT tests with 75 g of Glucose and 1 placebo test with 375 mg of Aspartam
  - OTHER: Performed 2 diagnostic tests (2 OGTT tests with 75g of Glucose)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04066569
