CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04668053
Title: Hip Flexor Resistance Training on Pin Young Female Cricket Players
Official Title: Effects of Hip Flexor Resistance Training On Strength, Speed and Agility in Young Female Cricket Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this research is to study the role of hip flexor strength in the act of particular movement tasks generally required in cricket. In young cricket players, hip flexor training protocol may be productive in improving the acceleration time of sprint and shuttle run.

It was a Randomized Controlled Trial conducted in National Cricket Academy Lahore, Lahore zonal Cricket Academy, Multan High Performance Cricket Centre during 6 months. 30 participants were selected through Non Probability Convenience Sampling Technique with inclusion criteria Female cricket players involved in their training programs aged 17-25 years and Participants should be bodily active before the start of trial for minimum 30 minutes a day for 5 days of week. The participants were excluded if Systematic strength training Performed by the athletes for the hip flexors more than a week before the start of trial and if Athlete suffered an injury or having pain in low back area, hips or lower limbs in last 6 months or if they have any diagnosed Neuro-musculoskeletal, musculo-skeletal pathology. The Data Collection Tools were 40-yd Dash Test, Shuttle Run and Dynamometer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cricket has undergone dramatic changes in recent years, with the development of one day and Twenty-twenty cricket altering some of the vital characteristics of the game. The shorter game formats tend to be more physically intensive when related to match duration, incorporating more maximal sprints when fielding, bowling, and batting. As a result of these demands, running speed has become an essential athletic quality for cricketers and therefore must be assessed correctly. Based on the action of the legs, a running cycle can be subdivided into 3 phases-a supporting phase that begins when the foot lands and ends when the athlete's center of gravity (CG) passes forward of it, a driving phase that begins as the supporting phase ends and ends as the foot leaves the ground, and a recovery phase during which the foot is off the ground and is being brought forward preparatory to the next landing. Although quadriceps, hamstrings, and calf muscles are mainly responsible for propelling the body forward during running and jumping exercises, hip flexor muscles also contribute to these actions. Specifically, the hip flexor muscles assist in bringing the free leg forward and upward during the recovery phase of running. Muscular strength is one of the components of physical fitness. Athletes of different sports use resistance training to improve their muscular strength. Among the exercises that are commonly performed by athletes, hip flexion is one of the most ignored exercises in strength and conditioning for sports performance. Hip flexion exercises are often neglected in strength training programs for popular sports such as football, basketball, and soccer. Young et al. in 2011 study of the effects of strength training and reported that 2 sessions per week over a soccer season produced significant gains in isokinetic hip flexor and extensor strength as well as knee extensor and flexor strength. This was accompanied by a significant increase in maximum kicking distance, which was not observed in non-strength trained players. F. Tyler et al reported that the hip strength and flexibility play role in the incidence of adductor and hip flexor strains in ice hockey players. Deane et al. in an RCT compares two types of training programs, it was observed that high resistance training resulted in an improved initial acceleration phase, whereas high-velocity training resulted in an improved initial acceleration and maximum speed. Almost all methods or interventions focus on muscles associated with the driving phase of running (i.e., gluteus maximus, 2 quadriceps, and plantar flexors), whereas the training of muscles responsible for the recovery phase has not been explored. Specific ways of strengthening the hip-flexors in injury prevention or post-surgical rehabilitation have not previously been well described in the sports medicine literature. Acute injuries to the rectus femoris are often experienced in kicking sports, such as in the different football codes, wherea

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand Held Dynamometer:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Traditional training protocol
  - OTHER: Hip flexor resistance protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 25 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04668053
