CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05927909
Title: Validity and Reliability of the Turkish Version of the Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs)
Official Title: Validity and Reliability of the Turkish Version of the Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Patients will be recruited from the Outpatient Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Kestel State Hospital, who have been diagnosed with mechanical LBP for the past 3 weeks (physical examination, neurological examination, spinal radiography and laboratory tests and other causes of LBP were excluded) and who have agreed to participate in the study. Sociodemographic data of patients who gave written informed consent will be recorded to ensure anonymity. Although no consensus has been reached on the cross-cultural adaptation of the questionnaires into different languages, this study will use the guidelines for self-report measurement provided by Beaton et al. Following the formation of the expert committee, the scale will be translated and the pre-form back-translated. Comparisons will be made with the translated versions and the final version of the scale will be created by taking into account the opinions of the preliminary group of participants.

The reliability, test-retest reliability, face validity and content validity of the scale will be assessed by the expert committee. In order to assess the concurrent validity of this scale, all participants will also complete the 'Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire' and the 'Quebec Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire', which have been previously validated and reliable in Turkish.

The Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire consists of 10 items that assess activities of daily living. These are pain intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting, standing, sleeping, social life, travelling and degree of change in pain. Each item has 6 options ranging from 0 to 5 points (12). The Quebec Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire consists of 20 items assessing activities of daily living. Each item has 6 options ranging from 0-5 points.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the validity and reliability and the Turkish version of the Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients will be recruited from the Outpatient Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Kestel State Hospital, who have been diagnosed with mechanical LBP for the past 3 weeks (physical examination, neurological examination, spinal radiography and laboratory tests and other causes of LBP were excluded) and who have agreed to participate in the study. Sociodemographic data of patients who gave written informed consent will be recorded to ensure anonymity. Although no consensus has been reached on the cross-cultural adaptation of the questionnaires into different languages, this study will use the guidelines for self-report measurement provided by Beaton et al. Following the formation of the expert committee, the scale will be translated and the pre-form back-translated. Comparisons will be made with the translated versions and the final version of the scale will be created by taking into account the opinions of the preliminary group of participants.

The reliability, test-retest reliability, face validity and content validity of the scale will be assessed by the expert committee. In order to assess the concurrent validity of this scale, all participants will also complete the 'Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire' and the 'Quebec Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire', which have been previously validated and reliable in Turkish.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the validity and reliability and the Turkish version of the Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs)
  - The Oswestry Back Pain Disability Questionnaire
  - The Quebec back pain disability scale (QBPDS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Low Back Activity Confidence Scale (Lobacs)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05927909
