CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04841759
Title: The Effects of a Multi-factorial Rehabilitation Program for Healthcare Workers Suffering From Post-COVID-19 Fatigue Syndrome
Official Title: The Effects of a Multi-factorial Rehabilitation Program for Healthcare Workers Suffering From Post-COVID-19 Fatigue Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 46
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The SARS-CoV2 pandemic has kept the world in suspense for over a year now. Almost 100 million people around the world have contracted COVID-19 to date and over 2 million people have died of COVID-19 by the end of January 2021.

Despite the tragedy of these deaths, it must be pointed out at this point that the number of COVID-19 survivors is significantly larger. These COVID-19 survivors are now the focus of interest in rehabilitation measures, as it has been shown that survival of the disease does not go hand in hand with a complete cure. Thirty-five percent of all COVID-19 survivors and 87% of the COVID-19 survivors who were hospitalized in the course of their illness suffer from after-effects that are currently summarized as post-COVID fatigue syndrome also known as "Long-COVID".

As health care workers are at higher risk of contracting SARS CoV2 and furthermore, considering their central role in the overcoming of this pandemic, a COVID-19 rehabilitation program for healthcare workers of the Medical University of Vienna, Austria as well as the General Hospital of Vienna, Austria - together the second-largest university-clinic in the world - was developed as part of workplace health promotion. Nowadays, the fatigue syndrome is primarily known as a side effect of cancer treatment and thus from the rehabilitation of cancer patients. Cancer-related fatigue is a massive limiting side effect for patients and the currently most effective treatment strategy against cancer-associated fatigue syndrome is physical training.

The idea for this current project is, that physical exercise might have similar effects on post-SARS-CoV2 fatigue as it has on cancer-related fatigue.

The current study evaluates the effects of this primarily exercise-based rehabilitation program on Long-COVID fatigue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Employees of the Medical University of Vienna, Austria and the General Hospital of Vienna, Austria who survived a SARS-CoV2 infection will be invited to take part in an eight weeks post-COVID-19 rehabilitation program which is part of a workplace health promotion measure. This program consists of eight weeks of exercising (twice per week supervised resistance training + individual, heart-rate controlled endurance training recommendations) with a sports scientist and a sports medicine specialist, complemented by one session of nutrition consultation with a nutritionist and two sessions of psychological consultation with a clinical psychologist.

Parallel to this workplace health promotion program, the scientific evaluation of this intevention will be undertaken via this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) over time-points (baseline - 4 weeks - 8 weeks) assessed during cardio-pulmonary exercise testing (CPET)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04841759
