CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02725047
Title: The Effect of Cryotherapy in Pain Control, Function and Quality of Life in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The Effect of Cryotherapy in Pain Control, Function and Quality of Life in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis - Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to verify the effect of cryotherapy in pain control, function and quality of life in individuals with knee osteoarthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to verify the effect of cryotherapy in pain control, function and quality of life in individuals with knee osteoarthritis. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial, double-blinded. Will participate in the study 60 patients with knee osteoarthritis, diagnosed with clinical and radiographic criteria of the American College of Rheumatology, of both sexes, aged between 40 and 75 years. The total number of subjects will be divided randomly into two groups of 30 subjects each. During four consecutive days, for a period of 20 min, each group will receive one type of intervention around the knee with osteoarthritis: the cryotherapy group will receive an application of ice bags with compression and the placebo group will receive an application of sand bags with compression, the weight and volume of the sand bags will be similar to that used in cryotherapy. Every individual will have the following variables evaluated one day pre- and one day post-intervention: pressure pain threshold (Algometry), pain index (VAS), physical function questionnaires (WOMAC, KOOS) and physical activity (IPAQ). Two physical function tests will also be carried out: the 30s sitting and standing chair and the Timed Up and Go (TUG). Thermographic images will also be obtained for further temperature analysis of the knee with osteoarthritis. Moreover, after a period of 3 months, participants will perform a follow-up in which will be measured the VAS, WOMAC and KOOS questionnaires. Also, some Yes/No questions about the continued use of the therapy will be asked,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale (Pain scale): Change values from the pre evaluation to the post evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cryotherapy
  - OTHER: Placebo - Sand

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02725047
