CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04348617
Title: Effect of Acute Exercise on Food Intake and Energy Expenditure Following a Gastric Bypass
Official Title: A Pilot Study " Effect of Acute Exercise on Food Intake and Energy Expenditure Following a Gastric Bypass: A Better Understanding of Weight maintenance for Better Intervention"
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This pilot study will use a crossover design to explore the effects of acute exercise following bariatric surgery on food intake, energy expenditure, appetite, food reward, appetite hormones, and inflammatory response. Participants will take part in a moderate-intensity exercise session and control condition of 50 minutes. The energy balance will be assessed for 3 days following the condition by giving the participants all the food they can consume for 3 days and having them wear an accelerometer.

The investigators hypothesize that post-gastric bypass participants with higher weight regain will have a higher compensation in response to exercise, thus an increase in food intake and/or a decrease in total energy expenditure after exercise compared to participants with less weight regain; also post-gastric bypass participants with a higher weight regain will have a lower inflammatory response to exercise compared to the group with less weight regain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives.

1. Explore the feasibility of a multicenter study in post-GB patients;
2. Explore the effects of acute exercise on food intake and energy expenditure post-GB;
3. Explore the effects of acute exercise on the hormonal and inflammatory response post-exercise.

This pilot study will employ crossover design. The Behavioural and Metabolic Research Unit (BMRU) at the School of Human Kinetics of the University of Ottawa will coordinate and standardize the project between the sites. The participants will need to go 5 times to one of the 3 evaluation sites (University of Ottawa: BMRU, Montreal: University of Montreal, School of kinesiology and physical activity or University of Sherbrooke: Research Aging Center of CIUSSS - CHUS).

Considering this is a pilot project, no sample size calculations were conducted. Based on existing studies, 30 participants should be sufficient to achieve the preliminary objectives of this study.

The participants will be asked to present themselves at the evaluation centre on 5 occasions (1 preliminary, 2 experimental, 2 to return leftovers and accelerometers).

During the visits 1, 2 and 4 (1 preliminary and 2 experimental (exercise and control)), the participants will arrive at 7:00 a.m. at the laboratory after 12 hours nocturnal fast. At 9:00 a.m., they will consume a standardized personalized breakfast. Participants will choose themselves the breakfast they want from a validated menu. They will be informed that they can consume the desired quantity of each product; the quantities will be measured to assure the breakfast for the other visits is identical.

During the 1st session, depressive symptoms, the body composition (DEXA), resting metabolic rate and anthropometrics (weight, height, waist circumference) will be measured before breakfast. Afterwards, their socio-demographic information, motivation to eat and binge eating behaviors will be assessed. At 10:30 a.m., participants will perform submaximal exercise for 30 minutes to familiarize themselves with the treadmill, determine the speed and incline of the treadmill to achieve 55% estimated HRR and obtain an estimation of EE during the experimental condition. Subsequently to the first visit, the participants will wear an accelerometer for 7 days and bring it back for the 2nd visit. The day before the 2nd visit, the participants will fill out a food intake journal of the last 24 hours in order to consume the exact same foods (items, quantities and timeframe) the day before the 3rd session.

At least one week after the 1st session, participants will present themselves to the evaluation site for the 2nd session to take part in one of the 2 experimental conditions (control and exercise), which will be randomly assigned and spaced a minimum of 15 days and a maximum of 2 months, yet to be performed the same day of the week. Women will only be tested between day 1 and 8 of their follicular phase. During the experimental conditions, participants will perform exerci

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of energy intake between rest and exercise conditions (kcal/d)
  - Change of total energy expenditure post-experimentation between rest and exercise conditions (kcal/d)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Moderate exercise
  - OTHER: Rest

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04348617
