CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06909006
Title: Semaglutide Treatment in Type 1 Diabetes
Official Title: Obesity and Semaglutide in Type 1 Diabetes Therapy: A Multicentre, Randomised, Double-Blinded, Placebo-Controlled, Investigator-Initiated Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 122
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the efficacy of semaglutide on body weight, insulin dose requirements and improvements in glucose control and safety aspects in regards to risk of hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis for patients with established Type 1 Diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a multicentre, randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled and investigator-initiated trial aimed to investigate the efficacy of semaglutide in patients with Type 1 Diabetes.

Patients from all included diabetes care centres will at routine visits be screened for eligibility for the trial and offered participation. If accepted, the patients will be randomised to one of two intervention arms and undergo a series of different examinations prior to start of the intervention.

The two arms consist of treatment with subcutaneous semaglutide injections or subcutaneous injections with semaglutide placebo. The baseline examinations entail documentation of insulin doses, dietary patterns, diabetes distress and treatment satisfaction questionnaires, anthropoimetric data (height, weight and calculation of BMI, waist circumference, waist-hip-ratio), blood work (HbA1c, fasting glucose, fasting c-peptide, lipids, liver and kidney markers incl. Fib-4-scoring, hematology, hs-CRP), ECG, capturing of data from continuous/flash glucose monitors.

The first 40 included in the study from the centres of SDCA and NOH will further be examined through hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamps to determine their insulin sensitivity and asses their transcriptome through muscle and fat cell biopsies in relation to the clamp and also be assessed through DXA scans to look at body composition and bone density.

Patients will then be handed out their trial drug-pens and start the uptitration proces.

The efficacy of semaglutide will be evaluated through the above mentioned array of different investigations by comparing parameters prior to trial drug start, during (throughout the study period), at the end of the drug and at a 6 week post-study followup in an intention-to-treat analysis primarily and secondarily a per-protocol analysis.

The safety will be assessed through evaluation of standardized adverse event reporting (including hypoglycemic events and diabetic ketoacidosis).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Semaglutide 2.4mg
  - DRUG: Semaglutide placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06909006
