CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03994536
Title: Effectiveness of a Transition Program for Adolescents With Type 1 Diabetes in the Transition to Adulthood
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Person-Centred Transition Program to Empower Adolescents With Type 1 Diabetes in the Transition to Adulthood: the STEPSTONES-DIAB Project
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The transfer of young people with type 1 diabetes (T1D) to adult care occurs during a critical period of life, while many young people with T1D have unsatisfactory glycemic control. The preparation to take over responsibility for their health and self-care as well as increasing their participation in care are important aspects for strengthening people's own ability, an important component of person-centered care. STEPSTONES-DIAB aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a person-centred transition program for adolescents with T1D to empower them to become active partners in their care. The study is conducted at two hospitals in Stockholm, Sweden where 140 patients will be randomized to either a structured, person-centered transition program over a 2.5 -year period or to usual care. Outcome measures is empowerment, participation and responsibility in care, health status, glycemic control as well as the participants' experiences of care during transfer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is one of the most common chronic diseases in childhood. Each year, nearly 86 000 children around the world develop T1D. The annual mean incidence rates varies from 0.1-60/100000 with Sweden as one of the "top" incidence countries. Within diabetes care, most health care professionals agree that a lack of effective transfer from pediatric to adult care may contribute to insufficient continuity of health care and increased risk for adverse outcomes in young adults with T1D diabetes. In order to help the adolescent in the transitions to adulthood and adult care, transitions programs have been proposed as a complex intervention with the objective of maximizing lifelong functioning and potential through appropriate healthcare services. Therefore, research on transition and transfer, and on interventions that have the potential to improve both these clinical processes, is important.

Patient empowerment is recognized as an essential element of transition interventions. Through the promotion of patient empowerment the adolescents can become active partners in their care and have the knowledge and capacity to make decisions that affect their life and health status. The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a transition program for adolescents with type 1 diabetes within a randomized controlled trial. During the course of the study, participants will be part of a transition program or receive usual care before being transferred to adult care. The primary outcome is level of empowerment and secondary outcomes include health behavior as well as diabetes specific and transfer specific variables.

The investigators will assess the effectiveness of the transition program by comparing the level of empowerment (primary outcome) between the participants who received usual care and those who participated in the transition program. A higher level of empowerment from the group part of the intervention is expected. The economic evaluation entails an impact budget assessment and a cost-effectiveness analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Level of empowerment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: A Person-Centred Transition Program to Empower Adolescents With Type 1 Diabetes in the Transition to Adulthood: the STEPSTONES-DIAB Project
  - OTHER: Standard care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03994536
