CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03448146
Title: A Trial of PTS Via Intratumoral Injection in Patients With Central Air Way NSCLC Severe Obstruction
Official Title: A Phase III Single Arm Trial of PTS (Para Toluenesulfonamide Injection) Via Bronchoscopy Intervention Intratumoral Injection in Patients With Central Air Way NSCLC Tumor Severe Obstruction
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This trial was to evaluate the efficacy of intratumoral PTS injection in alleviating airway obstruction and dyspnea by improving the percentage of lumen patency of patients with central air way NSCLC tumor severe obstruction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Local intratumoral injection of para toluenesulfonamide (PTS) via bronchoscopy could alleviate airway obstruction for patients with central air way NSCLC tumor severe obstruction, which contributed to the shrinkage of target tumor lesions in a short period, with an objective response rate of 66% and an improvement rate of luminal tumor obstruction of 70% in the end-of-treatment period.
2. Patient's pulmonary function, atelectasis and quality of life were improved significantly after treatment, indicating that PTS treatment cuold relieve the symptoms of air way obstruction and provide clinical benefits to the patients.
3. Adverse events were mainly blood streaked sputum, injection site haemorrhage, cough, pyrexia and oropharyngeal pain, without reporting of potential risks. Common study drug related adverse events included injection site haemorrhage, cough, and blood streaked sputum and oropharyngeal pain. The multi-center clinical study conducted strictly in accordance with Standard Operation Procedures for the Use of a Standard Bronchoscope in Local Intratumoral PTS Injection showed that PTS had good safety and tolerability and that the procedural risks of intratumoral PTS injection via bronchoscopy could be controlled.
4. The advantages of PTS for treatment of airway lung cancer obstruction included significant efficacy, good safety, large applicable population; relatively simple equipment conditions and operation, thus it could be spread easily. PTS is also expected to be used in the treatment of central lung cancer with acute airway obstruction in combination with other treatments (such as stent implantation), which provides a new drug treatment to patients with airway lung cancer obstruction. PTS can complement with other treatments, which is expected to improve the treatment efficacy significantly.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Objective response rate
  - Improvement rate of luminal obstructions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Para-Toluenesulfonamide

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 83 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03448146
