CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01140308
Title: CoEnzymEQ10 in Statin Myopathy
Official Title: CoEnzymEQ10 in Statin Myopathy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 135
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Statins (such as simvastatin or Zocor) are the most effective and widely prescribed medications to lower cholesterol levels and reduce the frequency of heart attacks, cardiac deaths and strokes. Unfortunately, statins can cause muscle discomfort or pain called "myalgia" in patients treated with these drugs. These symptoms often cause patients who need these medications to stop taking the drug. The cause of statin muscle pain is not known, but it is thought that a reduction of a vitamin-like substance called CoenzymEQ10 (CoQ10) during statin treatment may play a role. CoQ10 is a vitamin like substance and is not a drug approved and regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This study will look at the effects of CoQ10 supplements on individuals who develop muscle symptoms while on simvastatin.

The investigators hope to test the hypothesis that CoQ10 supplementation compared to placebo in patients with documented statin myalgia reduces the intensity of pain during statin treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Overview: We estimate, based on the calculations detailed below that 80 subjects with documented statin myalgia will be required to test our hypothesis. Consequently, 135 patients with statin myopathic complaints will be recruited from the Cholesterol Management Center at Hartford Hospital, newspaper and radio advertisements and contact with physicians' offices. Subjects will be withdrawn from all lipid lowering medications for at least 4 weeks. Subjects will then have serum measured for baseline lipids, liver, kidney, and thyroid function, creatine kinase (CK) and CoQ10 values and be randomized to treatment with simvastatin 20 mg daily or matching placebo for up to 2 months. Subjects will be called weekly to assess symptoms. Blood measurements will be repeated and treatment (simvastatin or placebo) will stopped after 2 months or after subjects have experienced muscle symptoms continuously for one week. After 4 weeks, subjects will cross over to the alternative placebo or simvastatin treatment and the monitoring and measurement process will be repeated. Those patients developing myalgia during statin treatment, but not during placebo, will enter the CoQ10 study, again after 4 weeks off treatment. These subjects will have serum lipids, liver, CK, vitamin D and CoQ10 levels measured, 4mL of blood sample will be stored for future white blood cell analysis and they will undergo tests of muscle performance and exercise capacity. They will then be randomized to placebo or CoQ10 treatment arms, "loaded" with placebo or CoQ10 to ensure adequate tissue levels for two weeks, and then retreated with simvastatin 20 mg daily. Subjects will be called weekly to inquire about muscle symptoms. Blood measurements will be repeated, another 4mL of blood sample will be stored for future white blood cell analysis and treatment (simvastatin/CoQ10 or simvastatin/placebo) will be stopped after 2 months or after subjects have experienced muscle symptoms continuously for one week. After 4 weeks subjects will cross over to the alternative simvastatin/CoQ10 or simvastatin/placebo treatment and the monitoring and measurement will be repeated. The primary endpoint will be the intensity of pain at eight weeks, or after subjects have had continuous symptoms for a week (or less in the case of intolerable symptoms), whichever comes first. We will also determine time in days to the onset of repeat myopathic symptoms and measure muscle performance including skeletal muscle strength and endurance and maximal aerobic exercise capacity using techniques used in our present NIH funded research project The Effect of Statins on Skeletal Muscle Function (R01 HL081893). We will measure muscle strength, endurance and aerobic capacity because weakness is a frequent, but largely unquantified, complaint among patients with statin myalgia and its prevention with CoQ10 is therefore important. Also, some investigators have reported changes in the rest and exercise respiratory exchange ratio (

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To test the hypothesis that CoQ10 supplementation compared to placebo in patients with documented statin myalgia reduces the intensity of pain during statin treatment.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: CoEnzymEQ10
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01140308
