CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03786783
Title: Dinutuximab, Sargramostim, and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed High-Risk Neuroblastoma
Official Title: A Pilot Induction Regimen Incorporating Chimeric 14.18 Antibody (ch14.18, Dinutuximab) (NSC# 764038) and Sargramostim (GM-CSF) for the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed High-Risk Neuroblastoma
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This phase II pilot trial studies the side effects and how well dinutuximab and sargramostim work when combined with chemotherapy in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as dinutuximab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Sargramostim helps the body produce normal infection-fighting white blood cells. These cells also help the dinutuximab work better. Giving chemotherapy before a stem cell trensplant, with drugs such as cisplatin, etoposide, vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, melphalan, etoposide, carboplatin, topotecan, and isotretinoin, helps kill cancer cells that are in the body and helps make room in a patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells). Giving dinutuximab and sargramostim with combination chemotherapy may work better than combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility and tolerability of administering ch14.18 (dinutuximab) and sargramostim (GM-CSF) in combination with a multi-agent chemotherapy regimen during cycles 3-5 of the Induction phase for patients with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the response rates, event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients receiving the combination of standard Induction chemotherapy and ch14.18 (dinutuximab) followed by tandem trensplant, radiation therapy, and post-consolidation immunotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the clinical relevance of naturally occurring anti-glycan antibodies in patients receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

II. To describe the clinical relevance of natural killer (NK) receptor NKp30 isoforms in patients receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

III. To describe the association between host factors, includinGHuman anti-chimeric antibodies (HACA), and response to protocol therapy.

IV. To describe the immune environment (gene expression; immune effector cells, activities and signaling molecules; immune target expression) during and following treatment.

V. To describe the association between levels of circulating GD2, and tumor cell GD2 expression with response to therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CYCLES 1-2 (21 days): Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes and topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INDUCTION CYCLE 3: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim subqtaneously (SC) on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

INDUCTION CYCLE 4: Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute on day 1, doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-2, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim SC on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

INDUCTION CYCLE 5: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim SC on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

Patients may undergo surgery after the fourth or fifth cycle of Induction at the discretion of treating doctor. Patients with stable disease or better tumor response at the end of Induction proceed to Consolidation. Consolidation treatment begins between 4 and 6 weeks from the start date of Induction chemotherapy cycle 5. For patients who have surgical resection delayed until after Induction chemotherapy cycle 5, Consolidation starts within 4 weeks from the date of surgery.

CONSOLIDATION #1: Patients receive thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days -7 to -5 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell trensplant (ASCT) on day 0.

CONSOLIDATION #2: Patients recei

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants With Unacceptable Toxicity
  - Percentage of Participants Who Are Feasibility "Failure"

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell trensplantation
  - DRUG: Carboplatin
  - DRUG: Cisplatin
  - DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
  - DRUG: Dexrazoxane

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03786783
