CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02801123
Title: The MATCH Study: Mindfulness And Tai Chi for Cancer Health
Official Title: The MATCH Study: Mindfulness And Tai Chi for Cancer Health A Preference-Based Multi-Site Randomized Comparative Effectiveness Trial (CET) of Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR) vs. Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ) in Cancer Survivors
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 600
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Background: As more people survive cancer, the importance of research on effective interventions for improving quality of life (QOL) amongst survivors is growing. Two interventions with a substantial evidence-base are Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR) and Tai chi/Qigong (TCQ). However, these interventions have never been directly compared.

Objectives: (1) To compare MBCR and TCQ to each other and a waitlist control condition using an innovative, randomized, preference-based comparative effectiveness trial (CET) design that takes into account potential moderating factors that might predict differential response. (2) To investigate the impacts of MBCR and TCQ on a range of biological outcomes including immune processes, blood pressure, heart rate variability, stress hormones, cellular aging, and gene expression.

Methods: The study design is a preference-based multi-site randomized CET incorporating two Canadian sites (Calgary, AB and Toronto, ON). Participants (N total = 600). Participants with a preference for either MBCR or TCQ will get their preferred intervention; while those without a preference will be randomized into either of the two interventions. Within the preference and non-preference groups, participants will also be randomized into immediate intervention groups or a wait-list control. Outcome measures to be assessed pre- and post-intervention and at 6-month follow up include psychological outcomes (mood, stress, mindfulness, spirituality, post-traumatic growth), QOL, symptoms (fatigue, sleep), physical function (strength, endurance), and exploratory analyses of biomarkers (cortisol slopes, cytokines, blood pressure/heart rate variability, telomere length, gene expression), and health economic measures.

Hypotheses: The investigators theorize that both MBCR and TCQ will improve outcomes amongst survivors relative to treatment as usual, particularly if patients have a strong preference for a particular intervention. Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that MBCR may be superior to TCQ on measures related to stress and mood. Conversely, TCQ may be superior to MBCR in improvement of physical and functional measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background While there is ample research documenting the problems people diagnosed with cancer face, including high levels of distress, anxiety, depression and symptoms such as fatigue, pain and sleep disturbance, there is also a limited but growing body of evidence supporting the efficacy of a range of mind-body therapies (MBTs) in alleviating these and other symptoms. The investigators have chosen to focus on comparing MBCR and TCQ because both have level 1 evidence in cancer care, and both have shown potential to affect important biomarkers and clinical outcomes. Both interventions are similarly rooted in meditative practice, but MBCR has greater emphasis on mental practice, while TCQ is more emphatically a body movement-based practice. The investigators also anticipate that many patients will have a preference for one or the other. Evidence for the efficacy of each will be briefly reviewed followed by details of study design and methods.

Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR) Through an ongoing program of research the investigators adapted a group intervention based on intensive training in mindfulness meditation (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction; MBSR) specifically for people with cancer, and called it Mindfulness-Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR), acknowledging the roots of the program but also that its form and content is somewhat different, and focused primarily on the challenges faced by people living with cancer. It is an 8-week program consisting of weekly group meetings of 1.5 to 2 hours, shortened from traditional MBSR based on practical logistical concerns and the needs of the study population. Home practice of 45 minutes per day (15 min yoga; 30 min meditation) is prescribed. As the weeks progress, different forms of meditation are introduced, beginning with a body scan sensory awareness experience, progressing to sitting and walking meditations. Gentle Hatha yoga is incorporated throughout, as a form of moving meditation. Didactic instruction as well as group discussion and reflection, problem solving and skillful inquiry are commonly applied teaching tools.

Since 1998, the investigators have tested its efficacy in a wide range of studies and groups of people with cancer, beginning with psychological outcomes including stress symptoms, mood disturbance including anxiety, anger and depression, then expanding in scope and scale to assess effects on sleep disturbance and fatigue. The investigators also examined positive outcomes including post-traumatic growth, spirituality and benefit finding. To assess potential biological mechanisms of change, the investigators examined the effects of the program on biomarkers including blood pressure, inflammatory cytokines, stress hormones and most recently telomere length using increasingly sophisticated study designs, showing benefit across all of these measures. The investigators work on MBCR for cancer patients and survivors has spanned the spectrum of research from basic mechanistic resear

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Profile of Mood States - Total Mood Disturbance (POMS-TMD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Based Cancer Recovery (MBCR)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Tai Chi/Qigong (TCQ) for Cancer Patients

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02801123
