CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05453266
Title: Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair Performed With Intraarticular Tranexamic Acid Could it Provide Improved Visual Clarity and Less Post-operative Pain? A Prospective, Double Blind, Randomized Study of 64 Patients.
Official Title: Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair Performed With Intraarticular Tranexamic Acid. Could it Provide Improved Visual Clarity and Less Post-operative Pain? A Prospective, Double Blind, Randomized Study of 63 Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Shoulder arthroscopy is widely used for treatment of different shoulder pathologies. Visual clarity is essential for successful and safe surgery. The aim of present study is to determine whether intraarticular use of tranexamic acid (TXA) in surgery fluid can improve visual clarity and early postoperative pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients and Methods After obtaining institutional review board approval (Istanbul Yeni Yuzyil University, Nr: 13.02.2020/009) together with the registry to ClinicalTrials.gov, patients were prospective enrolled in this observational study, which was designed as double-blind, placebo-controlled and randomized.

Inclusion criteria were defined as: being older than 18 years of age, having an MRI confirmed rotator cuff rupture with a history of failure of conservative treatment of at least 6 months, being willing to participate to the clinical trial.

Patient Selection Exclusion criteria were defined as: patients with a history of coagulopathy, deep venous thrombosis, tendency to thrombotic events, patients under anti-coagulant therapy, patients with inferior vena cava filter, patients with abnormal prothrombin time-activated partial thromboplastin time-bleeding time, patients with a history of cardiac/renal/hepatic disease, patients with a diagnosis of TXA allergy, patients with an acute RCT, having been treated conservatively for less than 6 months, being under the age of 18. Table 1.

As a result of the inclusion/exclusion criteria, 42 patients (14 had acute RCT, 12 were receiving anti-coagulant therapy, 9 had history of cardiac/hepatic/renal disease, 5 had abnormal PT-aPTT value at the time of the diagnosis, 2 had received conservative treatments for less than 6 months for RCR) were excluded from 105 patients, who were eligible and were willing to participate. The remaining 63 patients were enrolled in the study. Table 2 (Flowchart). All patients provided informed consents, so that their pre-operative, intra-operative and post-operative data including imaging studies and arthroscopic images could be used for publication by concealing their identity.

Randomization By using computer based randomization software acquired from random.org, patients were randomized into two groups comprising a TXA group (n=32, 24M, 8F) (TXA Group) and a control group (n=31, 22M,9F) (Control Group), while group information was neither shared with patients nor with the operating surgeon as a result of double-blind nature of the study.

Double-blinded preparation of the Irrigation Solutions To conduct a double-blinded, randomized control study, arthroscopic irrigation solutions (normal saline) of 3 liters were prepared by an operating nurse, while 250 mg TXA was injected into irrigation solutions of Group 1, and irrigation solutions of Group 2 were left TXA-free without any injection.

Surgical Procedures All procedures were performed under general anesthesia in beach-chair position by the same surgeon (C.B.) by following the exact same surgical steps in the exact same sequence irrespective of the patient's assignment to TXA group or control group. The surgical procedure comprised thorough evaluation of the glenohumeral joint, together with the rotator interval. In case of a degenerative biceps tendon, a biceps tenotomy was undertaken (TXA Group: 28 patients, Control Gr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Arthroscopic Visual Clarity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Application of Tranexamic acid in arthroscopic irrigation solution
  - PROCEDURE: No application of Tranexamic acid in arthroscopic irrigation solution

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05453266
