CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04831411
Title: Comparison of Early Whole Body Vibration and Progressive Resistance Training in Fast-Track Total Knee Arthroplasty.
Official Title: Comparison of Early Whole Body Vibration and Progressive Resistance Training to Enhance Recovery After Fast-Track Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Randomized Comparative Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Patients who have undergone total knee arthroplasty (TKA) with Fast-Track recovery protocol at the Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology at the Local University Hospital and meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will constitute the study sample. The patients will be divided into 2 groups using the computerized randomization method in the post-operative 4th week; Whole Body Vibration Group and Progressive Resistance Exercise Group. The first evaluation of the participants will be made at the end of the post-operative 4th week. Final evaluations will be made at the end of the post-operative 10th week, following the 6-week training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients who have undergone total knee arthroplasty (TKA) with Fast-Track recovery protocol at the Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology at the Local University Hospital and meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will constitute the study sample. The patients will be divided into 2 groups using the computerized randomization method in the post-operative 4th week; Whole Body Vibration Group and Progressive Resistance Exercise Group. The first evaluation of the participants will be made at the end of the post-operative 4th week. After 2 days and 6 weeks of training a week, final evaluations will be made at the end of the 10th postoperative week. Evaluations will include measures of impairment in body functions and structures, activity limitation measures, balance assessment, and quality of life assessments. Evaluations will be made by a blind researcher. The study will be started with a total of 28 patients, including 14 participants in both groups. The sample size was determined by performing a power analysis. The purpose of the study will be explained to the patients by the researcher and the patients who agree to participate in the planned study will be included in the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Balance
  - Quadriceps muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Total Knee Arthroplasty
  - OTHER: Whole Body Vibration
  - OTHER: Progressive Resistance Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04831411
