CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05395195
Title: Erythropoietin for Neonatal Encephalopathy in LMIC (EMBRACE Trial)
Official Title: Erythropoietin Monotherapy for Brain Regeneration in Neonatal Encephalopathy in Low and Middle-Income Countries
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 504
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
One million babies die, and at least 2 million survive with lifelong disabilities following neonatal encephalopathy (NE) in low and middle-income countries (LMICs), every year. Cooling therapy in the context of modern tertiary intensive care improves outcome after NE in high-income countries. However, the uptake and applicability of cooling therapy in LMICs is poor, due to the lack of intensive care and transport facilities to initiate and administer the treatment within the six-hours window after birth as well as the absence of safety and efficacy data on hypothermia for moderate or severe NE.

Erythropoietin (Epo) is a promising neuroprotectant with both acute effects (anti-inflammatory, anti-excitotoxic, antioxidant, and antiapoptotic) and regenerative effects (neurogenesis, angiogenesis, and oligodendrogenesis),which are essential for the repair of injury and normal neurodevelopment when used as a mono therapy in pre-clinical models (i.e without adjunct hypothermia).

The preclinical data on combined use of Eythropoeitin and hypothermia is less convincing as the mechanisms overlap. Thus, the HEAL (High dose erythropoietin for asphyxia and encephalopathy) trial, a large phase III clinical trial involving 500 babies with with encephalopathy reported that that Erythropoietin along with hypothermia is not beneficial.

In contrast, the pooled data from 5 small randomized clinical trials (RCTs) (n=348 babies), suggests that Epo (without cooling therapy) reduce the risk of death or disability at 3 months or more after NE (Risk Ratio 0.62 (95% CI 0.40 to 0.98). Hence, a definitive trial (phase III) for rigorous evaluation of the safety and efficacy of Epo monotherapy in LMIC is now warranted.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The burden of neonatal encephalopathy is far higher in low and middle-income countries. Recently, the Hypothermia for Encephalopathy in Low and Middle-Income Countries Trial (HELIX) study concluded cooling therapy did not reduce the combined outcome of death or disability at 18 months after neonatal encephalopathy in low-income and middle-income countries. In fact, the results found that cooling therapy significantly increased death alone. This warrants exploration of the efficacy of other treatment adjuncts for these settings.

One medication with potential for monotherapy is Erythropoietin. Erythropoietin is an erythropoiesis stimulating cytokine used for the treatment of anaemia. It is a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drug that is widely used for treatment of anaemia including premature babies and has extensive safety profile in newborn babies.

Erythropoietin is also produced by neurons and glia in the hippocampus, internal capsule, cortex, and midbrain in response to hypoxia. More recently, erythropoietin has been reported as having anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative effects, making it a prime neuroprotective candidate. It also reduces free iron accumulation which occurs due to hypoxic ischemia by inducing erythropoiesis, which promotes neurogenesis. Extensive preclinical small and large animal models have demonstrated neuroprotective and neuro reparative effects of Erythropoietin when used as monotherapy.

A number of small randomised controlled trials have been reported from low and middle-income countries. A systematic review and meta-analysis of Erythropoietin monotherapy in babies with neonatal encephalopathy in LMIC showed pooled data including a total of 348 babies from 5 clinical trials in LMIC suggest 40% relative risk reduction (Risk Ratio 0.62 (95% Confidence Intervals (CI) 0.40 to 0.98) in death or disability at 18 months with Erythropoietin, compared with placebo. None of these clinical trials have reported any serious adverse events of Erythropoietin monotherapy.

Erythropoietin dose used in these trials varied from 300U/kg to 2500U/kg, single dose to a maximum of two weeks of duration starting within 24 hours after birth. The largest of these trials, reported from China have used a low dose (500U/kg) on alternate days for two weeks. This trial recruited 153 babies with moderate or severe encephalopathy and reported that Erythropoietin significantly reduced death or disability at 18 months.

More recently, another randomised controlled trial of Erythropoietin involving 62 normothermic babies with moderate or severe neonatal encephalopathy has been reported from Government Medical College, Aurangabad in India. The investigators used an Erythropoietin dose of 500 U/kg alternate days for 10 days starting within 24 hours. Neonatal mortality was significantly lower (39%; 12/31) in the Erythropoietin group compared with the placebo group (71%; 22/31) (p=0.01). No adverse events were reported in the Eryt

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of babies who die or survive with moderate or severe disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Erythropoietin
  - OTHER: Supportive neonatal intensive care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Hour to 6 Hours
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05395195
