CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03255733
Title: ITU Treatment for Chronic Epicondylitis Musculoskeletal Pain Reduction
Official Title: Intense Therapeutic Ultrasound for Chronic, Subcutaneous Lateral Epicondylitis Musculoskeletal Pain Reduction
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 29
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the effectiveness, safety and patient tolerance for the use of Intense Therapeutic Ultrasound (ITU) for chronic, subcutaneous lateral Epicondylitis musculoskeletal tissue pain reduction began in July 2015 and was completed in March 2017. The More Foundation/The Core Institute: Single-blinded pivotal study for the treatment of chronic lateral epicondylitis. A total 29 patients received 2 treatments, 4 weeks apart on subcutaneous musculoskeletal tissues along with Standard of Care treatments as prescribed by the Principal Investigator. Patients were followed for up to 6 months after the first treatment receiving a physical exam at each follow-up visit (4, 8 and 12 weeks) and provided feedback via Patient/Subject Reported Outcome Measure surveys specific to the treated anatomy at each visit and via phone follow-up at 26 weeks after the first treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Intense therapeutic ultrasound (ITU) is an established ultrasound based therapy in which sound waves are concentrated and focused into selected musculoskeletal tissue, to produce selective thermal coagulative changes over a small controlled area while leaving the surrounding tissue unaffected. These coagulative changes are known to begin the body's tissue response cascade and promote collagen generation in the targeted anatomy resulting in pain reduction.

ITU has been used clinically for treating the subcutaneous musculoskeletal tissue below facial skin for the past decade and it has received CE Mark and FDA 510(k) clearance to market for non-surgical brow and submental tissue lifting. Over 3 Million patients worldwide have been treated using this technology. Clinical studies have shown that 85% of patients receiving this treatment on facial skin tissue showed an improvement in facial lifting with no significant pain, erythema, inflammation or scarring by creating the same coagulative changes to the connective tissue under the skin. Histologically, it has been shown that ITU induces the production of dermal collagen with thickening of the dermis and straightening of the elastic fibers in the reticular dermis.

On-going research in laboratory studies has shown that ITU can improve healing of damaged Achilles tendon in a rabbit model. Preliminary results showed an increase in precursor markers for collagen regeneration (e.g. Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFa), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), Interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β), and Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFβ1)) and subsequent increase in collagen formation in injured rabbit tendons treated with ITU compared to injured, untreated rabbit tendons.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Patients Reporting at Least 25% Overall Pain Reduction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Intense Therapeutic Ultrasound Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03255733
