CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06611462
Title: STRONG for Surgery & Strong for Life - Intensive Prehabilitation for Risk Reduction in Ventral Hernia Repair
Official Title: Effect of Tailored, Intensive Prehabilitation for Risky Lifestyles Before Ventral Hernia Repair on Postoperative Outcomes, Health, and Costs - a Randomised Controlled Trial (STRONG-Hernia)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The five risky lifestyles Smoking, Nutrition (obesity and malnutrition), risky Alcohol intake, and Physical inactivity (SNAP) are common in surgical patients and associated with worse postoperative outcomes. Mono-factor interventions targeting and improving these risky lifestyles have been shown to reduce the risk at surgery, but there is a lack of systematic assessment of all five lifestyles of the patient before surgery and related optimization.

This study aims to evaluate the effect of intensive combined lifestyle interventions (the STRONG programme) compared with treatment as usual in patients undergoing ventral hernia repair on postoperative complications, health, and costs on short and longer term.

The hypothesis is that the STRONG programme will halve the complication rates within 30 days.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a multicentre randomised controlled trial. A total of 400 participants with one or more of the five risky SNAP lifestyles will be randomised to either the STRONG programme (a prehabilitation intervention) or treatment as usual preoperatively (control). The STRONG programme is individually tailored to the needs of the participants. The program contains education, motivational, and pharmaceutical support. All participants will be followed up at the end of the intervention/at surgery, one, three, and six months after surgery. Long-term outcomes are followed up from national registers two years after surgery.

Interim analysis will be employed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postoperative complications within 30 days

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Prehabilitation (the STRONG programme)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06611462
