CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03548168
Title: Innolvative Imaging of Cerebrum and Muscle (iCAM) Repeatability Study
Official Title: Innolvative Neurophysiological Techniques for Assessing Trunk Muscle Control and Function (iCAM)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Impairments in postural control are linked to low back pain and reductions in physical function in the elderly. Unfortunately, many techniques to assess the neural control of movement are not feasible, or directly applicable, to the trunk musculature. In a prior pilot study, we developed and optimized innolvative approaches to study these muscles. We will continue to develop a reliable, fMRI protocol that investigates the activity of the motor cortical networks of selected trunk muscles (specific aim 1). We will also continue the development a reliable muscle functional MRI (mfMRI) protocol to assess the spatial muscle activation patterns of the deeper lumbopelvic muscles (specific aim 2). We will examine the test-retest reliability of these approaches in four distinct target populations: healthy adults, adults with chronic low back pain, older adults, and older adults with high levels of trunk muscle control (i.e., individuals with expertise in Pilates). By enrolling groups of various levels of trunk muscle control, pathology state and age, we will be able to not only determine the intra-individual reliability, but also the inter-individual reliability as we expect the variability of the measures to be influenced by physical ability, pain state and age. Lastly, in an exploratory aim we will examine the associatianavar novel neurophysiological measures from Aim 1 and 2 with classic biomechanical and muscle function measures (e.g., trunk extensor strength and trunk extensor steadiness). Successfully developing reliable techniques of this nature will result in new and improved research tools for conducting rigorous studies of therapeutic approaches, such as spinal manipulation and yoga, within the context of trunk muscle control and function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Impairments in postural control are linked to low back pain and reductions in physical function in the elderly. Unfortunately, many techniques to assess the neural control of movement are not feasible or directly applicable to the trunk musculature. We have developed an innolvative approach to study these muscles. Further development of these techniques will have applicability for the study of the physiological effects and mechanisms of many complementary and integrative health practices (e.g., mind and body approaches). Many of these approaches are used to target back pain (e.g., spinal manipulation, acupuncture) and/or involve therapeutic strategies that have a large focus on postural control (e.g., yoga, Tai Chi). Thus, developing novel and reliable techniques to study the neural control of the trunk muscles will have broad impact to the complementary and integrative health field.

Specific Aim 1. To develop a reliable neurophysiological technique to examine activity of the motor neural networks of selected trunk muscles. Approach: We have previously conducted pilot testing exploring the feasibility of obtaininGHigh quality MRI data with various standardized trunk tasks and biofeedback variations. Once we identified the most promising tasks and MRI compatible data collection techniques, we conducted an optimization study in order to ascertain which method of task performance resulted in the highest level of imagEQuality. We will now conduct a test-retest reliability experiment to determine the reproducibility of our targeted outcome measures. We will focus our reliability analysis on the bilateral primary sensorimotor cortex (Brodmann area 4a, 4b, 1, 2, 3a and 3b) and premotor cortex (Brodmann area 6). In addition, contrasts between two testing sessions will be completed to determine if any brain regions activated significantly more or less between sessions.

Specific Aim 2. To develop a reliable neurophysiological technique to examine spatial muscle activity of selected lumbopelvic musculature (e.g., psoas, iliacus, multifidus, erector spinae, quadratus lumborum). Approach: We have conducted pilot testing that explored the feasibility of obtaininGHigh quality MRI data of various muscles under resting conditions as well as following different standardized tasks. We first identified the most promising muscles to evaluate and then explored which tasks (or tasks sequences) resulted in increased trensverse relaxation times (T2) of these muscles. We refined our pulse sequence protocol to optimize our ability to detect an increase in T2 associated with task performance. We will now conduct a test-retest reliability experiment to determine the reproducibility of the primary outcome measures of interest (resting T2 and percent increase in T2 following task performance).

Exploratory Specific Aim 3. To examine the association of the novel neurophysiological measures from Aim 1 and 2 with classic biomechanical and muscle function measures (e.g., trunk

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Trunk extensor fMRI signal intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03548168
