CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06502587
Title: Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training With Low Intensity Exercises in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Blood Flow Restriction Training With Low Intensity Exercises on Pain,Range of Motion and Quality of Life in Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to examine the effects of blood flow restriction training(BFRT) with low intensity exercises on pain, range of motion and quality of life in Knee Osteoarthritis. A randomized clinical trial will be conducted at Lahore general hospital. Non-probability convenience sampling will be used, and 36 subjects, age 40-65 years will be randomly allocated into two groups by lottery method after meeting the inclusion criteria.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of the study is to examine the effects of blood flow restriction training(BFRT) with low intensity exercises on pain, range of motion and quality of life in Knee Osteoarthritis. A randomized clinical trial will be conducted at Lahore general hospital. Non-probability convenience sampling will be used, and 36 subjects, age 40-65 years will be randomly allocated into two groups by lottery method after meeting the inclusion criteria. Both groups will receive Ultrasound therapy for 7 minutes, as common treatment. Group A will be treated with Blood flow restriction training with low intensity exercises and Group B will be treated with baseline treatment only. 3 sessions per week and total 12 sessions for 4 weeks. The outcome measures will be conducted through NPRS, Womac index for osteoarthritis,kellgren and lawrence scale and goniometry before and after 4 weeks. Data will be analyzed using SPSS software version 26.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NPRS Numeric pain rating scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: blood flow restriction training
  - OTHER: ultrasound therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06502587
