CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01172236
Title: Supplementation With Lactoferrin in Preterm Newborns
Official Title: Supplementation With Lactoferrin in Preterm Newborns
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1300
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The main objective of the study is to evaluate the antioxidant effect of lactoferrin and its ability to reduce free radicals related diseases in the newborn. This evaluation will be done through the assessment of neuro-developmental follow-up.

The secondary objective is to identify a panel of markers for assessing oxidative stress and for a correlation with the lactoferrin antioxidant effect.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study arises from the need to structure care to identify a product natural with antioxidant propriety that may reduce the extent of damage in perinatal neurological disorders related to oxidative stress by limiting the pain for infants and families and simultaneously reducing the cost to the SSN arising from standard pharmacological therapy and rehabilitation in the short and medium term. The research results will remain available to the scientific community and will not be used for profit or commercial. The iron (Fe) is the most abundant transition metal1 in the body and an essential element for growth and welfare of almost all life2 where he played a key role in many biochemical processes3. It is essential as cofactor in many enzymatic reactions and as catalyst in the processes of electron transport, yet is potentially toxic and rarely available. In the presence of oxygen Fe causes harmful action on the cell since it enhances the production by non-enzymatic reactive oxygen species. The hydroxyl radical in particular, can damage various cellular components such as DNA, proteins and membrane lipids. All bodies have therefore developed strategies that allow them to retain Fe was acquired in a soluble, nontoxic and in a form readily available. The Fe excess, also caused by weak bonds that the metal has with nonspecific and specific plasma proteins may carry out its negative effects by generating free radicals through the reactions of Fenton and Heber-Weiss4. Physiological requirements of Fe is higher during periods of rapid growth and differentiation, such as perinatal and nervous system that develops rapidly in late fetal life and early neonatal period, appears to be particularly sensitive to modulations of Fe contents5 In the newborn the inability to regulate, as necessary, the uptake of Fe by the immature gut may be the reason for failure and / or excess metal. Both situations may have adverse effects on neurological development of infants and in case of failure becomes irreversible even6-8 because any supplementation does not improve autcome9-11. In both cases the events that occur in early childhood have adverse effects on neuronal function in adults. The mechanism by which iron deficiency affects brain development is completely unknown but we know that can range up to a general lack metabolic errors of myelination and synaptogenesis and changes in specific funcions12 . It was also suggested that the adverse clinical outcomes in premature infants receiving blood transfusions and / or colonization13 may be related to oxidative damage14-17 \<br\>The main source of food for newborns is breast milk or formula. Breast milk contains heme Fe consequently the non-heme Fe, which is bound to milk proteins and other substances with lower molecular weight, is the main source of Fe in the diet of infants. The child is able to regulate the absorption of iron from the gut, in response to supplementation, only near the first year of life,18 so the inabili

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The main objective of the study is to evaluate the antioxidant effect of lactoferrin and its ability to reduce free radicals related diseases in the newborn. This evaluation will be done trough the assessment of neuro-developmental follow-up.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Lactoferrin
  - DRUG: Lactoferrin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 23 Weeks to 32 Weeks
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01172236
