CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06380413
Title: Tai Chi Chuan Combined With Walking on Physical and Mental Parameters of Older Adults
Official Title: Effects of a 12-week Tai Chi Chuan Combined With Walking Program on Physical and Mental Parameters of Older Adults: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Background: Tai Chi Chuan, a Chinese martial art style, is a mind-body modality that has shown positive impacts on health markers in various populations, particularly older adults. This study aims to investigate the effects of a 12-week program of Tai Chi Chuan exercises based on the Yang 16-movement form and walking on older adults' physical and mental markers.

Methods: This study is a randomized, single-blinded, two-arm, parallel, superiority trial. Forty older adults between 60 and 75 years old who are not engaged in any systematic strength and aerobic training program will be recruited. Candidates with language and cognitive problems, a history of cardiovascular diseases (except controlled hypertension), osteoarticular limitations and fractures, severe injuries, and prosthetic placement in the last six months will be excluded. Participants will be randomly allocated on a 1:1 ratio to a 12-week intervention with Tai Chi Chuan and walking two times per week, or an active-control group with walking two times per week. Physical measures will be muscle strength (i.e., knee extensors maximum strength and lower limbs functional performance -primary outcomes-, dynamic knee extensors endurance, handgrip strength, back-leg-chest strength), functional capacity, static balance, muscle thickness and muscle quality of quadriceps. Mental measures will be quality of life, sleep quality, cognitive function, and depressive and anxiety symptoms. Outcomes will be measured before and after 12 weeks of intervention. The analysis plan will use an intention-to-treat approach and protocol criteria.

Discussion: The conceptual hypothesis is that the intervention training program with Tai Chi Chuan and walking will lead to greater improvements in both physical and mental parameters due to its multi-component character compared to the walking active-control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal dynamic strength
  - Functional test - 30-s Chair-stand test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tai Chi Chuan Plus Walking
  - OTHER: Walking

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06380413
