CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05861882
Title: ASSESSMENT OF THE HANDBALL PLAYERS
Official Title: THE CORRELATİON BETWEEN FUNCTIONAL MOVEMENT ANALYSIS AND CORE STABILISATION AND Y BALANCE TEST IN HANDBALL PLAYERS
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
''This study aims to determine the relationship between functional movement screen (FMS), core stabilization and Y balance test. The study will include evaluations on 30 handball players and 30 sedentary individuals.'' Functional movement analysis is a biomechanical screening and evaluation system to identify limitations and asymmetries in 7 basic movements. This system reveals the kinetic chain interaction between mobility and stability required for basic performance. Unlike conventional assessment methods, FHA focuses on the efficiency and quality of the movement pattern, not on the number of repetitions or weight lifted.

The main aim of the study was to reveal the relationship between functional movement screen and core endurance and Y balance test evaluations in handball players with objective data. Functional movement is the general name of the activities performed by individuals for function and the movements performed by individuals for function are examined with analysis methods. In an effective analysis, if people do not have appropriate stability and mobility, it is determined from which muscle-muscle group or joint the problem originates. Analyses play a role in determining which of the stabilization, mobilization and flexibility factors are problematic at which stage of the function. In addition, these methods are effective in preventing possible injuries while helping to improve balance, strength and power characteristics of individuals. Core stabilization problems cause significant posture and stabilization problems. These problems are reflected in functional movements. Core stabilization problems are thought to have negative effects on functional movement analysis scores. Active athletes with this problem will be more affected. This study also aimed to observe the differences between athletes and sedentary individuals.

Studies defined the core as the part of the body in the musculoskeletal system consisting of the proximal lower extremities, abdominal structures, hips, pelvis and spine and stated that the core muscles are composed of the trunk and pelvis muscles. It is argued that trunk and pelvis stabilization is essential for all movements of the extremities. The transversus abdominis and multifidus work in cocontraction and control excessive anterior pelvic tilt, which is known to be associated with femoral internal rotation and adduction. The musculature of the core is referred to as the muscular corset over the trunk and spine that stabilizes the body with or without limb movement. The strength and stabilization of the core affects the fitness and physical fitness of athletes. Core exercises should be included in exercise programs planned to improve athletic performance. Core endurance tests have been defined to reveal the relationship between core stabilization and performance. Lateral bridge test and trunk flexor test are the preferred core endurance tests in this study. The Y balance test is a dynamic test that requires strength, flexibility, core control and proprioception in a single-legged stance. Functional movement analysis, core stabilization tests and Y balance test are assessment scales that provide objective data on stabilization, postural alignment and spinal alignment. It is envisaged that these three assessment parameters will support each other after the study.

Functional movements are widely used during both daily and sports activities. Core stabilization and dynamic balance are the factors that determine the quality of functional movements. These movements become more important for athletes as they affect their sporting success. Athletes need a good evaluation to ensure and maintain success. Since handball is defined as a sport that requires a lot of effort, the risks increase and it becomes clear that the evaluation should be done with a holistic approach.Injuries in handball develop due to multifactors.Biomechanical, kinesthetic and functional losses in players should be determined to prevent injuries.Functional movement analysis, core stabilization, Y balance test will give us detailed information about posture, limb alignment and asymmetry, spinal smoothness, dynamic balance and will give us the chance to analyze whether there is a correlation between these tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this study, it will be questioned whether functional movement analysis can be considered as a part of core stabilization assessment in sedentary and athletes. The effects of dynamic balance on functional activity will be observed. It is aimed to evaluate the relationship between the test results and injury risks in the individuals participating in the study and what the most accurate exercises can be according to the evaluation parameters of the person to prevent injuries.

This study includes the first evaluations of fms in a young age group. It will be a pilot study in the literature.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - FUNCTİONAL MOVEMENT SCREEN

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: functional movement screen
  - OTHER: survey application
  - OTHER: Y balance test
  - OTHER: Core stabilization assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 22 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05861882
