CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03380923
Title: Precision High-Intensity Training Through Epigenetics (PHITE)
Official Title: Precision High-Intensity Training Through Epigenetics (PHITE)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 239
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The PHITE collaborative team, consisting of Tim Broderick, MD (Overall PI), Wright State University (WSU); Marcas Bamman, PhD (Site PI), The University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB); and Ron Evans, PhD and Joe Ecker, PhD, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, are working with funding from the US Department of Defense (DoD), Office of Naval Research (ONR), to explore the link between physical training and epigenetics. This is a key interest area for the DoD ONR because it provides high-impact optimization of force readiness in warfighters with diverse backgrounds.

The term epigenetics refers to heritable changes in gene expression (active versus inactive genes) that does not involve changes to the underlying DNA sequence; a change in phenotype (the set of observable characteristics of an individual resulting from the interaction of its genotype with the environment) without a change in genotype (the genetic constitution of an individual organism) . This in turn affects how cells read the genes. Epigenetic change is a regular and natural occurrence but can also be influenced by several factors including age, the environment/lifestyle, and disease state. Epigenetic modifications can manifest as commonly as the manner in which cells terminally differentiate to end up as skin cells, liver cells, brain cells, etc. New and ongoing research is continuously uncovering the role of epigenetics in a variety of human conditions. This study is designed to assess whether epigenetics is a primary mechanism modulating how individuals adapt to specific exercise training prescriptions designed to produce a warfighter phenotype.

The PHITE team is organized around a shared test population of human subjects for which UAB will oversee recruitment, training, testing, and sampling. Healthy but untrained volunteers, both men and women, 18-27 y of age-phenotypical of the US warfighter-will participate in a 12-wk, two-arm, single-blind, randomized, exercise dose-response trial comparing two intensities of combined training: Moderate-Intensity vs. High-Intensity. Biospecimens are collected before and after an acute exercise bout in the pre-training state, and again after 12 weeks of 3 d/wk combined exercise training. Numerous phenotyping assessments are collected before after the 12-week intervention period to associate exercise training outcomes with molecular changes in the skeletal muscle and blood biospecimens.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overview:

The US military relies on physical training to increase and maintain force readiness. In this study, we hypothesize that epigenetic modification is a primary mechanism by which specific physical exercise training prescriptions transduce warfighter genotype into warfighting phenotype. Our aim with this program is 3- fold. We will (1) identify training methodologies that modify epigenetic responses; (2) characterize epigenetic regulation of physiological processes, pathways and mechanisms associated with moderate and high-intensity physical training, and (3) produce real-time biomarkers of cardiorespiratory and neuromuscular performance that predict physical training outcomes. We will satisfy these goals through the following six research projects:

I. Phenotyping the Exercise Dose-Response

1. Determine the effect of exercise Intensity on neuromuscular and cardiorespiratory performance
2. Assess the impact of baseline, pre-training phenotype on acute responsiveness and adaptability to different intensity exercise regimens
3. Determine the effect of exercise intensity on mechanisms regulating muscle protein metabolism, myofiber hypertrophy, and muscle oxidative capacity

II. Real-time Genetic and Epigenetic Biomarkers of Performance

1. Identify muscle miRNA that are differentially expressed in response to varying exercise intensities
2. Identify circulating muscle-derived miRNA that are differentially expressed in response to varying exercise intensities
3. Genotype individual athletic potential for biomarker optimization

IV. Epigenomic Signatures of Human Performance

1. Identify and correlate exercise induced methylation changes in blood and muscle
2. Functionally link changes in gene expression signatures and physiologic outcomes
3. Define nuclear receptor induced epigenetic signatures in metabolically active tissues

V. Exercise Induced Histone Modifications and Chromatin Remodeling

1. Profile histone modification and histone subunit usage signatures
2. Assess chromatin as a signal integration platform for long-term stability

VI. Integrative Epigenomics

1. Categorize baseline performance and group subjects
2. Characterize epigenetic changes in response to varied exercise intensities
3. Develop forecasting models from miRNA biomarkers of performance
4. Develop epigenetic regulatory network models using Deep Belief Networks

   UAB will enroll healthy, untrained men and women who resemble the US soldier. They participate in an exercise dose response training trial that lasts approximately 12 weeks.

   There are 2 randomly assigned exercise prescriptions: MOD - 3 days per week on treadmill or stationery cycle ergometer, combined with 2 days per week of resistance training; HI - 3 days per week high intensity interval training similar to military high intensity tactical training, combined with high intensity resistance training 2 days per week.

   Physical performance is evaluated pre-training, mid-training and post-training. Addi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in muscle mass
  - Change in cardiorespiratory fitness (VO2max)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Intensity
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 27 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03380923
