CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06514105
Title: Effect of High-intensity Laser Therapy on Supraspinatus Tendon Elasticity
Official Title: Effect of High-intensity Laser Therapy on Supraspinatus Tendon Elasticity in Subacromial Impingement Syndrome: A Double-blind Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Subacromial impingement syndrome, one of the most common causes of shoulder pain. In studies investigating the effectiveness of high-intensity laser in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, it was stated that high-intensity laser reduced the complaints of patients in the early and late periods. However, there is no research examining the effect of high-intensity laser on the supraspinatus tendon. Therefore, the investigators aimed to investigate the effect of high-intensity laser on the supraspinatus tendon using shear wave elastography.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Subacromial impingement syndrome, one of the most common causes of shoulder pain, occurs when the supraspinatus tendon, subacromial bursa or bicipital tendon becomes compressed between the acromion, coracoacromial ligament, coracoid process and/or acromioclavicular joint during shoulder movements. Several factors contribute to subacromial impingement syndrome, including weakening of the rotator cuff, capsular tension, poor scapulohumeral rhythm, and muscular imbalance in the upward rotation force of the scapula. Steroid and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, physiotherapy applications, laser therapy, manual therapy, ESWT and active and passive normal joint movements involving the shoulder joint are frequently applied treatments in the treatment of subacromial impingement syndrome.

It is stated that high-intensity laser treatment can quickly produce photochemical and photothermic effects in deep tissue. Therefore, collagen production in tendons is promoted and blood flow, vascular permeability and cell metabolism can be increased. As a result of all these processes, tissue healing begins and painful stimuli decrease. In studies investigating the effectiveness of high-intensity laser in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, it was stated that high-intensity laser reduced the complaints of patients in the early and late periods. However, there is no research examining the effect of high-intensity laser on the supraspinatus tendon. Therefore, in this study, the investigators aimed to investigate the effect of high-intensity laser on the supraspinatus tendon using shear wave elastography.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Elasticity Measurement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physiotherapy program
  - OTHER: High intensity laser
  - OTHER: Sham high intensity laser

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06514105
