CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01991639
Title: Healthy Life for Frail Malnourished Seniors Performed Together With Trained Lay Buddies
Official Title: Nutrition Intervention and Physical Training in Malnourished, Frail, Community-dwelling, Elderly Subjects Carried Out by Trained Lay "Buddies"
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Background: In elderly subjects frailty and malnutrition are very common and can lead to serious health hazards, increase mortality, morbidity, dependency, institutionalization and a reduced quality of life. In Austria, the prevalence of frailty and malnutrition are increasing steadily and are becoming a challenge for our social system. Physical training and adequate nutrition can invert it.

Methods/Design: In this randomized, controlled trial 80 malnourished, frail, community-dwelling patients (≥ 65 years) are recruited. Additionally, 80 lay volunteers (≥ 50 years) named buddies are recruited and subsequently trained regarding health enhancing physical activity and nutrition in three standardized training sessions. These buddies visit the malnourished, frail subjects at home twice a week for about one hour during an initial period of 10-12 weeks. While participants allocated to the intervention group (n=40) conduct intervention to improve their fluid intake, their protein and energy intake, perform strength training and try to increase their baseline activities, the control group (n=40) only gets home visits without any special intervention. After 10-12 weeks, both, the intervention and the control group, receive the nutrition intervention and the physical training. Health, nutrition and frailty status, physical fitness and body composition and chronic inflammation of buddies and frails are recorded before the intervention, after 10-12 weeks, and after 6 and 12 months.

Discussion: To the investigators knowledge this trial is the first of its kind to provide nutrition and physical activity intervention to malnourished, frail, community-dwelling subjects by trained lay buddies, in which the health status of buddies is also expected to improve. This study assesses the effectiveness of such an intervention. If successful, the intervention offers new perspectives for the management of frailty and malnutrition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes from baseline in handgrip at 10-12 weeks and at 6 and 12 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Nutritional and physical activity intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01991639
