CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03360500
Title: Cryotherapy Associated With Exercise in Pain Control and Physical Function in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The Effect of Cryotherapy Associated With an Exercise Protocol in Pain Control, Physical Function and Quality of Life in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis - Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to verify the effect of cryotherapy associated with an exercise protocol in pain control, function and quality of life in individuals with knee osteoarthritis

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to verify the effect of cryotherapy associated with an exercise protocol in pain control, function and quality of life in individuals with knee osteoarthritis. This is a randomized controlled clinical trial, double-blinded. Will participate in the study 120 patients with knee osteoarthritis, diagnosed with clinical and radiographic criteria of the American College of Rheumatology, of both sexes, aged between 40 and 75 years. The total number of subjects will be divided randomly into three groups of 40 subjects each. During eight weeks, three times per week, each group will receive one type of intervention: Exercise protocol for knee osteoarthritis + cryotherapy, Exercise protocol for knee osteoarthritis + placebo or Exercise protocol for knee osteoarthritis only. A medical certificate will be requested for all participants, showing the capability of practicing physical activities. Every individual will have the following variables evaluated one day pre- and one day post-intervention process: Pain index (VAS), physical function questionnaires (WOMAC) and quality of life (sf-36 questionnaire). Three physical function tests will also be carried out: the 30s sitting and standing chair, Stair test and fast paced test in 40m. Moreover, participants will perform VAS in every physical function test. A follow-up period will be performed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale (Pain scale): Change values from the pre evaluation to the post evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: EXERCISE PROTOCOL + CRYOTHERAPY
  - OTHER: EXERCISE PROTOCOL
  - OTHER: EXERCISE PROTOCOL + PLACEBO

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03360500
