CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03613766
Title: Physical Activity Program Before Bariatric Surgery
Official Title: A Supervised Exercise Program Reduces Fat Mass and Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Patients Awaiting Bariatric Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Background: Weight reduction, especially of visceral fat in patients awaiting bariatric surgery (BS), may facilitate the surgical process, and reduce postoperative complications. Normally, to achieve weight reductions a nutritional treatment is prescribed, but the effects of exercise on these patients have been little studied.

Objectives: To know the effects of an exercise program on body composition and cardiovascular risk factors in patients awaiting BS.

Methods: Twenty-three patients awaiting BS were divided into two groups: a) an experimental group (EG, n = 12); b) a control group (CG, n = 11). Both groups received the usual care prior to surgery, but the EG also performed a 12-week exercise program in which endurance and resistance training were combined. Body composition, anthropometric measures, cardiovascular risk factors, physical fitness, basal metabolic rate and quality of life were assessed at baseline and at the end of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients included in the presurgical protocol for BS at two University Hospitals were recruited while awaiting surgery. Each patient participated in an initial interview, during which all the aspects of the program were carefully explained, and a written informed consent was obtained. After that, the individual's medical history was checked looking for the presence of the following exclusion criteria: a) cardiovascular diseases; b) severe functional limitations; c) chronic respiratory diseases; or d) being undergoing another exercise program at the time of the study. Finally, twenty-three participants were diachronically enrolled in the intervention at 3 to 6 months before the expected date of surgery. The patients were assigned to the experimental group (EG) or to the control group (CG) in chronological order of recruitment: the first 12 patients were included in the EG, and the other 11 patients in the CG. The study protocol was approved by the local ethics committee and conformed to the Declaration of Helsinki.

Both groups followed the usual presurgical care of their respective hospitals (psychological and nutritional counseling). In addition, the EG performed a 12-week monitored and supervised CEP, while the CG only received advice to follow an active lifestyle. Both groups were assessed at the start (T1) and the end of the study, after 12 weeks (T2). At each assessment session, body composition, anthropometric measures, physical fitness, cardiovascular risk (CVR) and CVR factors, basal metabolic rate (BMR) and health-related quality of life were measured in a laboratory under controlled conditions (temperature 22-24º; relative air humidity 45-60%). Blood samples from each patient were taken and analyzed in their respective hospitals at the same timepoints.

Concurrent exercise program (CEP) The CEP was divided into three 4-week blocks, for a total duration of 12 weeks. In the first-block endurance training (ET) (performed on a cycle-ergometer, arm-ergometer, elliptical and treadmill) and resistance training (RT) (performed in resistance machines for 5 muscle groups: hamstrings, pectorals, quadriceps, latissimus dorsi, and gastrocnemius) were combined in the same session. During the second-block, patients performed 3 sessions per week. One day, only ET was performed. In the other 2 sessions, patients performed a High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) on a cycle ergometer or an arm-ergometer followed by 7 resistance exercises (biceps and triceps brachii were added to the previous 5 major muscle groups trained).

In the third-block, patients trained 4 days a week. Two days a week, HIIT and RT were combined in the same session. RT was performed after HIIT. It consisted in training 4 different major muscle groups in each session (pectorals, quadriceps, biceps, and hamstrings in the first session, and latissimus dorsi, triceps, gastrocnemius and deltoids in the second session). In the other two sessions, only ET was carried out. In all the block

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Body Composition at 3 months
  - Change from Baseline Cardiorespiratory Fitness at 3 months
  - Change from Baseline Muscle strength at 3 months. Dynamic strength measurement
  - Change from Baseline Muscle strength at 3 months. Isometric strength measurement
  - Change from Baseline Cardiovascular risk factors at 3 months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical activity program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 57 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03613766
