CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07173088
Title: Efficacy and Clinical Feasibility of the Ankle Muscle Power (AMP) Program for Return to Duty After an Ankle Fracture
Official Title: Efficacy and Clinical Feasibility of the Ankle Muscle Power (AMP) Program for Return to Duty After an Ankle Fracture
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare two different standardized physical therapy rehabilitation programs on outcomes after an ankle fracture. Researchers will evaluate to see if the addition of ankle muscle power exercises (AMP) improve program adherence, muscle function, physical performance, and patient reported outcomes. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Assess feasibility and define the initial effects of the AMP program on ankle plantar flexor rate of torque development and ankle power.

   Primary hypothesis: an ankle muscle power program will have acceptable feasibility through assessment of 80% adherence, 90% treatment fidelity, recruitment (48 participants who complete the study), 80% retention, and 80% acceptability of the AMP program to facilitate clinical translation and the ability to scale-up the treatment. In addition ankle plantar flexor muscle power, plantar flexor RTD assessed isometrically, and ankle joint power, evaluated during gait and stair ascent/descent, will have significantly greater improvements in the AMP group than the standard of care group at the end of the intervention.
2. Test the effect of the AMP program on physical performance. Primary hypothesis: those completing the AMP program will have greater improvements in the 40 meter fast paced walk test and 11-stair climb test than those completing standard of care at the completion of the intervention.
3. Assess the preliminary efficacy of the AMP program on patient reported outcomes and quality of life.

Primary hypothesis: compared to standard of care, the AMP program will result in improved quality of life on the ankle fracture outcome rehabilitation measure (A-FORM)

Participants will complete rehabilitation and be assessed for outcomes at baseline and after completing the intervention. Additionally exploratory outcomes will be assessed 3 months after completing the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants Adhering to the Intervention
  - Percentage of Treatment That is Able to be Delivered (Fidelity)
  - Percentage of Participants Completing the Intervention (Retention)
  - Percentage of Participants Who Find the Program Acceptable/Satisfactory
  - Change in Isometric Ankle Plantar Flexor Muscle Power

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ankle Muscle Power (AMP) program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard of Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07173088
