CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01979471
Title: The Alberta Vascular Risk Reduction Community Pharmacy Project: RxEACH
Official Title: The Alberta Vascular Risk Reduction Community Pharmacy Project: RxEACH
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 723
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Cardiovascular disease (disease of the heart and blood vessels) is one of the leading causes of death in Canada. It also carries a financial burden on the Canadian economy with a yearly cost close to $21 billion divided between loss of productivity and healthcare costs. The majority of cardiovascular disease cases (90%) are caused by factors that can be controlled and modified. These factors include high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes (high blood sugar), tobacco smoking, unhealthy diet, obesity, physical inactivity and high alcohol consumption. Such factors are very common and not very well controlled and so individuals who have any of these factors would be at risk of having cardiovascular disease. As such controlling these factors will reduce the risk of having cardiovascular disease and improve the individuals' quality of life. Pharmacists frequently work with patients and their family doctor to provide cardiovascular care. Having a pharmacist involved in cardiovascular care may help patients with cardiovascular disease or at risk of having the disease because they are more accessible and may have more opportunities to educate people about cardiovascular medications. This might lead to better prevention and control of cardiovascular disease.

Purpose:

The research study will assess if a community pharmacy cardiovascular risk reduction intervention can help reduce cardiovascular risk.

Procedure:

If the individual has an elevated blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, waist circumference or body weight or is physically inactive, have an unhealthy diet, a smoker or taking medications for any of the previously mentioned conditions, the pharmacist will assess the cardiovascular disease risk \[risk of having a cardiovascular event (e.g. heart attack or a stroke)\] using a computer program. If the individual is at high risk s/he will be asked to take part in the study.

If the individual agrees to take part in the study s/he will be randomly assigned to either the Usual Care Group or the Advanced Care Group. All participants have an equal chance of being assigned to either group. If assigned to the Usual Care Group, the individual will receive the care and services that would normally be provided by the pharmacist. At 3 months, the pharmacist will see the individual who will be offered the Advanced Care at that time.

If assigned to the to Advanced Care Group, the individual will be asked to meet with the pharmacist every 3-4 weeks over a 3 month period. During these meetings, the pharmacist will conduct an assessment that may include blood pressure, waist circumference, height and weight measurements and talk to the individual about their cardiovascular risk and medications. The individual and the pharmacist will come up with a plan for how to try to lower his/her cardiovascular risk. The pharmacist will discuss this plan with their family doctor. The individual will be asked to conduct some laboratory tests before the 3 months visit; these tests may include HbA1c (a blood test to measure blood sugar control over the last 3 months) and cholesterol to assess the effect of the intervention on cardiovascular risk.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide accounting for nearly one third of the total deaths. The majority (90%) of the CVD cases are caused by modifiable risk factors. These factors include tobacco smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, physical inactivity, high fat diet and obesity.

In Canada CVD rates have decreased drastically over the last few decades, yet it is still one of the leading causes of death. It also carries a financial burden on the Canadian economy with a cost close to $ 21 billion every year divided between loss of productivity and healthcare costs.

Despite the risks associated with the major CVD risk factors and the treatment advancement, their prevalence is still substantial in North America. Treatment gaps were also reported amongst such factors. Al Hamarneh and colleagues (2012) reported that almost 50% of the community dwelling patients with type 2 diabetes were not at their HbA1c target. Leiter and colleagues (2013) reported that almost half of the patients with type 2 diabetes did not achieve their HbA1c or cholesterol target, slightly more than one third achieved their blood pressure targets and only 13% achieved the composite triple target.

The guidelines recommend using cardiovascular risk assessment equations to guide CVD prevention and management. Despite being recommended by the guidelines, it has not been integrated in the clinicians' daily routine; in fact the majority of the patients attending physicians' clinics reported that they have never had a cardiovascular risk assessment. This indicates the need for new avenues for the patients to get their cardiovascular risk assessed.

Community pharmacists are front-line primary healthcare professionals who see patients with chronic diseases more frequently than family physicians; as such, they are well positioned to identify patients at high risk for CVD, determine their CVD risk and assist in their disease management. The efficacy of pharmacists' intervention in chronic disease has been well demonstrated in the literature. Two of the largest randomized controlled trials in community pharmacy setting were conducted by our group. Both studies reported positive impact of the pharmacist intervention on the patients' lipid panel and blood pressure.

Objectives

Primary objective

To evaluate the effect of a community pharmacy-based case finding and intervention program in patients at high risk for cardiovascular events on reduction in estimated risk for major cardiovascular events.

Secondary objectives

Clinical:

* Improvements in individual risk factors: LDL-cholesterol, blood pressure, HbA1c (among patients with diabetes), and smoking cessation
* Achievement of recommended cholesterol, blood pressure and glycemic control targets
* Increase in proportion of patients receiving appropriate BP, cholesterol and diabetes medication

Process:

* Increase in number of high risk patients screened for cardiovascular risk
* Assess the ef

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The difference in change in estimated cardiovascular risk between advanced care and usual care groups

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Advanced Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01979471
