CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03721497
Title: Testosterone in Bariatric Patients
Official Title: Muscle Strength and -Mass After Bariatric Surgery - a Possible Effect of Testosterone Replacement Therapy? Randomized, Placebo-controlled and Double-blinded Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Bariatric surgery is an effective method in the treatment of severe obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus achieving high remission rates. However, weight loss also causes loss of skeletal muscle and bone mass which at least partly could be prevented by exercise and dietary intervention although the counselling of obese and sedentary individuals in order to increase their physical activity presents a challenge. As up to 78.8% of men undergoing bariatric surgery have low levels of testosterone, testosterone therapy could be considered an attractive alternative or supplement to prevent the immense loss of muscle mass during weight loss. Furthermore, low testosterone levels are associated with sarcopenia, insulin resistance, increased body fat, reduced quality of life, loss of libido and reduced sexual function. The study is a long-term randomized, placebo-controlled trial investigating the effects of testosterone therapy combined with exercise and diet counselling on body composition, components of the metabolic syndrome, hormones, inflammation, sexual function and quality of life before and after weight loss in obese, hypogonadal men undergoing bariatric surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction Obesity, poor physical fitness and low muscular strength are associated with all-cause mortality. Loss of bodyweight is commonly achieved by diet with or without exercise intervention. However, both diet and diet+exercise programs are often followed by weight regain and it is generally difficult to achieve long-term weight loss.

There are many challenges associated with the counselling of obese and sedentary individuals in order to increase their physical activity (PA), and there may be a need for a tight schematic counselling to achieve positive results. Additionally, promoting PA among patients that have undergone bariatric surgery has also shown to be challenging even though PA may be of a great importance regarding several postoperative outcomes. Lifestyle changes following bariatric surgery may be important for the overall effect of the BS in the long term. Therefore, it is vital to find an appropriate and well-suited setting to improve PA among these patients. When structuring PA counselling, the five A´s (Assess, Advise, Agree, Assist, Arrange) might be a helpful tool and it is considered important to engage the patients in PA counselling both before and after the surgery.

Loss of bodyweight reduces morbidity and mortality. Bariatric surgery is the most effective method to treat severe obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus achieving high remission rates. However, weight loss also decreases skeletal muscle mass which might counterbalance the positive effects of a bariatric surgery since low lean body mass is linked to increased mortality under various circumstances (i.e., heart disease, cancer, burn injuries). Furthermore, a substantial loss of bone mass is seen after bariatric surgery despite weight stability in the second-year post-operative, which could have important clinical implications for long-term skeletal health with increased fracture risk. On the other hand, the loss of muscle and bone mass could merely be a natural adaptation to a lower weight after bariatric surgery. Studies trying to establish whether the loss of muscle mass is disproportionately in patients following bariatric surgery compared to BMI-matched controls are conflicting, showing lower muscle mass in both sexes after surgery compared with their respective matched controls assessed by magnetic resonance imaging in one study whereas another study has shown comparable fat-free mass 24 months post-operative assessed by bioelectric impedance. Currently, there are no effective approaches to prevent the immense loss of muscle and bone mass following bariatric surgery although several approaches can be considered, e.g. exercise and dietary intervention.

Low testosterone levels have been associated with sarcopenia, insulin resistance, increased body fat, reduced quality of life and loss of libido and sexual function. Testosterone therapy increases lean body mass (i.e. muscle mass), improves bone density and decreases fat mass. As up to 78.8% of patients und

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Maximal isometric muscle strength (N) in shoulder muscles

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Undecanoate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03721497
