CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04350827
Title: PRP vs PRP Plus IGF for Patellar Tendinosis
Official Title: Platelet-rich Plasma Versus Platelet-rich Plasma Plus Concentrated insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Factor for Patellar Tendinosis: a Randomized Comparative Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to compare two different platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections for patellar tendinosis.

Aim: To perform a randomized, double blinded study comparing the clinical effect of PRP versus PRP + concentrated insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (IGF) in patients with patellar tendinosis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction/Background:

Patellar tendinosis is a frustrating ailment commonly encountered in sports medicine. Treating this condition continues to be a significant challenge for sports medicine physicians. The tendinosis lesion is characterized by collagen disorganization and increased ground substance. One method of treating this problem is using platelet rich plasma (PRP), which is a concentration of platelets from the patient's own blood that provides a high dose of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors aimed at stimulating tendon healing. These injections have been used extensively to treat many tendon disorders including patellar tendinosis. Several studies have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of using PRP to treat patellar tendinosis.

One growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor that is known to be helpful in tendon healing is insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (IGF). However, IGF is not found in PRP but rather in the free plasma that is spun off during the PRP processing. This free plasma or platelet poor plasma (PPP) is typically discarded but it is a known source of IGF. We have shown that concentrating PPP in the FDA cleared Plasmax device yields an increased concentration of insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor (IGF). Local IGF injections into the patellar tendon have demonstrated improved tendon healing, but the effect on clinical outcomes has never been studied in a controlled fashion.

Research Design: Double blinded randomized comparative trial.

Detailed Study Procedures: 38 patients will be randomly assigned to a treatment arm. 19 patients will receive platelet rich plasma (PRP) and 19 patients will receive PRP plus concentrated IGF. Patient will be blinded to their treatment, but treatment team will not. PRP will be prepared according to standard sterile procedures out of view of the patient to ensure patients are adequately blinded. The injecting physician will not be blinded to randomization scheme.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-patellar Tendon (VISA-P)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Platelet Rich Plasma
  - DEVICE: Platelet Rich Plasma plus IGF

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04350827
