CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04023968
Title: Student Wellness Workshop Study
Official Title: Effects of Two Psychosocial Wellness Workshops on Sleep, Stress Management and Well-being: Exploration of Psychophysiological Mechanisms
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
While efficacy of Sudarshan Kriya Yoga (SKY) has been demonstrated in a number of prior studies, little is known about the effects of SKY taught as part of the Your Enlightened Side (YESplus) workshop designed for college students. Thus, this study aims to assess the effects of YESplus on well-being, including sleep patterns, and physiological stress response.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The transition from adolescence to adulthood, particularly for college students, is accompanied by several major life changes and challenges. For many individuals, this is a period when one moves away from home, begins interacting with different peer groups, and has greater financial and academic responsibilities. The emotional stress associated with these changes is correlated with less time devoted to sleep, increased alcohol intake reduced academic performance and increased rates of anxiety disorders and/or depression.

Your Enlightened Side (plus more) (YESplus) is a life skills workshop with a strong emphasis on breathing practices for reducing stress and increasing well-being. Additional stress management tools including meditation, yoga, and interpersonal exercises that impart social emotional learning skills and stress reduction strategies complement the breathing techniques.

The central practice taught in YESplus is a unique rhythmical breathing technique called Sudarshan Kriya. It is taught along with two preparatory breathing practices: an advanced form of Ujjayi breathing (breathing against airway resistance) and bhastrika (forceful nasal breathing). Collectively, these three breathing practices are referred to as Sudarshan Kriya Yoga (SKY).

Prior literature has demonstrated significant improvements in psychological and physiological outcomes of SKY in adults, including decreases in subjective stress, clinical and subclinical depression and anxiety, posttraumatic stress symptoms,impulsivity, and tobacco use, as well as increases in calm, mental focus, emotion regulation, and overall well-being.

However, little is known about the effects of SKY specifically taught in the YESplus workshop format designed for college students. One randomized controlled trial has demonstrated attenuated levels of subjective stress and several hematological parameters, including lymphocytes and platelet count, during exam periods following SKY training. These findings have not yet been replicated, and the extent to which the effects of YESplus generalize to other health-related changes such as cardiovascular function remain unclear.

Addressing the gap in the literature described above and to provide further preliminary data on the specific effects of YESplus on well-being and stress physiology, this study aims to evaluate measures of self-reported wellness across a variety of questionnaires, in addition to changes in heart rate variability and salivary cortisol levels with a stress induction task. To control for expectancy effects, overall time spent with the workshop, social contact, and exposure to cognitive stress management strategies that may influence the observed effects of YESplus not specific to the yogic breathing and deep social connectedness at the core of the YESplus targets, a comparison workshop with all of these potential supplementary contributors will be included, titled "Wisdom On Wellness" (WOW!).

Participation will include three l

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) from baseline to post-intervention
  - Change in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) from baseline to post-intervention
  - Change in Social Connectedness (SC) from baseline to post-intervention
  - Change in Resting heart rate variability (HRV) from baseline to post-intervention
  - Change in HRV reactivity to stress induction from baseline to post-intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: YESplus workshop
  - BEHAVIORAL: WOW! workshop

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04023968
