CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05828433
Title: Effect of Epley-Canalith Repositioning Procedure and Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy in Diabetic Patients With BPPV
Official Title: Effectiveness of Epley-Canalith Repositioning Procedure Versus Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy in Diabetic Patients With Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo: A Randomized Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is a common inner ear disorder characterized by brief episodes of vertigo caused by changes in head position. The condition can cause significant func-tional impairment and reduced quality of life. BPPV is especially common among diabetic patients. The Epley-Canalith Repositioning Procedure (CRP) and Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy (VRT) are two commonly used interventions for the treatment of BPPV. The objective of this paper is to determine the effective therapy among Epley-Canalith Repositioning Procedure and Vestibular Rehabilitation for improving balance and posture control in Diabetic patients with Benign Parox-ysmal Positional Vertigo. Thirty subjects with Diabetes Mellitus (Type 2) suffering from Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) were recruited for the study and randomly assigned to groups A and B, underwent Canalith Repositioning Procedure and Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy respectively. The outcome measures of the study were Vertigo Symptom Scale- Short Form (VSS-sf) score and Berg Balance Scale Form (BBS) score assessed at pre -treatment (pre) and 4 weeks post treatment (post).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Objectives:To determine the effective therapy among Epley-Canalith Repositioning Procedure and Vestibular Rehabilitation for improving balance and posture control in Diabetic patients with Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo

Methods: Thirty subjects were recruited for the proposed study on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients who are diagnosed with posterior canal BPPV by ENT physician and diabetes by the physician through laboratory investigations, both male and female aged between 20 to 70 years, Positive Dix -Hallpike test, Nystagmus lasting less than 60 seconds, willing to participate in the study and with a minimum score of 25/56 in Berg Balance Scale were included. Whereas, patients taking antivertigo drugs, who had been treated for similar vertigo experience, disease of different origin that may cause vertigo like migraine, multiple sclerosis, stroke, traumatic brain injury, if CRP has been done before, other causes of peripheral vertigo such as Meniere's disease, vestibular neuritis, labrynthitis and perilymphatic fistula, pathologies contraindicated for Dix- hallpike maneuver like prolapse intervertebral disk, cervical spine instability, cervical myelopathy, previous cervical spine surgery were excluded. Those meeting the criteria will be randomized into Group AI.e., Epley-Canalith Repositioning and Group B i.e., Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy through lottery method.

Interventions In Group A (control group), the affected posterior canal (it is the posterior semi-circular canal of the under most ear when the classic nystagmus is provoked) was predetermined by Dix-Hallpike test. The time of latency and duration of induced nystagmus was recorded by an assistant using stopwatch. This provided an estimate of the time required for the canalith bolus trough 90°.

Procedure will be explained to the patients before the intervention. The patients will be asked to keep the eyes open to watch the nystagmus. The patient will be seated length wise on the examination table in search a way that when brought to the Hallpike position, the head should extend beyond the end of the table. An assistant was asked to stand by the side of affected canal.

Step 1: The patient was brought down with the head turned 45° towards the affected canal as in Hallpike test. The neck was extended.

Step 2: The head was rotated 90° towards the unaffected side. The neck will be extended Step 3: The head and body was rotated by further 9°0 from the previous positions (now face down). The neck was in neutral position. Step 4: The patient was brought up in siting position while the head was kept turning towards the unaffected side. Step 5: The head was turned forward and the chin will be kept 20° down for a minute.

Since all the patients were having nystagmus lasting for less than 60 seconds, each position was maintained for 60 second. The procedure will be repeated until no nystagmus will be observed during the last cycle or until no progress

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vertigo symptom scale - short form
  - Berg Balance Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Epley-Canalith Repositioning
  - OTHER: Vestibular Rehabilitation Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05828433
