CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05877183
Title: 'Smart Reminder': a Randomized Controlled Trial on the Effect of a Wearable Device
Official Title: 'Smart Reminder': a Randomized Controlled Trial on the Effect of a Wearable Device to Provide Telerehabilitation for Persons With Stroke
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Using wearable devices in the home setting allows continuous remote monitoring and feedback for intense self-directed training, an effective alternative to in-person rehabilitation. Emerging literature demonstrated that wearable devices are promising tools to enhance and deliver home-based upper limb training in stroke survivors. Nevertheless, previous reviews (Wang et al., 2017; Rodgers et al., 2019) highlighted a paucity of high-quality evidence concerning the clinical application of wearable devices in home-based rehabilitation.

This study examines the effectiveness of the enhanced version of the wearable device as a home-based upper limb rehabilitation intervention to improve the hemiplegic upper limb motor function of persons with stroke. The study seeks to address the research question:

'Is wearable device intervention in the home more effective in promoting arm recovery in stroke survivors than conventional therapy with a sham device after treatment and follow-up?' We hypothesize that the multimodal feedback system and improved features from the wearable device will provide a more effective and sustainable treatment option than conventional therapy with a sham device to promote the motor recovery of the hemiplegic UL function in persons with stroke.

A parallel single-blinded randomized controlled trial will be conducted in Hong Kong hospital outpatient and/or community stroke service settings. There will be two study groups: (1) a wearable device group and (2) a sham group. Forty participants will be randomly allocated into any of the two study groups (1) the experimental (wearable device) group and (2) the sham group (use the pictorial handout and sham device) using a computer-generated random number sequence to conceal the allocation.

Participants in the experimental group will undergo a 4-week wearable device treatment and participants in the sham group will receive a sham device and complete a 4-week conventional training. Upper limb motor outcome measures will be evaluated at the following intervals: baseline, post-treatment at 4-week, and follow-up at 8-week by blinded assessors.

The results of this study will show the possible efficacy of the wristwatch device in promoting motor recovery of the hemiplegic upper limb in stroke survivors and pave the way for an alternative stroke therapy that uses novel wearable technology in the home setting.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline: Fugl Meyer Upper Extremity assessment
  - Change from baseline: Action Research Arm Test (ARAT)
  - Change from baseline: Motor Activity Log (MAL)
  - Change from baseline: Muscle strength of the affected elbow and shoulder
  - Change from baseline: Active Range of motion of the affected shoulder (flexion/extension), elbow (flexion/ extension), and forearm pronation/supination.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Wearable device -'Smart Reminder'
  - DEVICE: Sham device

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05877183
