CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07496203
Title: The Effectiveness of BETY in Knee Osteoarthritis With Intra-Articular Injections
Official Title: An Investigation of the Effectiveness of the BETY Exercise Program, Based on the Biopsychosocial Model, in Individuals With Knee Osteoarthritis Who Have Received Intra-articular Injections
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common condition in middle-aged and elderly populations; it causes pain and physical disability and is characterized by cartilage degeneration, changes in bone tissue, inflammation of the synovial membrane, and an increased inflammatory response. Because pain and depression often co-occur in individuals diagnosed with OA, the concepts of disability and health-related quality of life caused by the disease have become more decisive than radiological joint damage. The chronic nature of the disease, like other chronic conditions, encompasses a range of biopsychosocial impacts, including pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, functional loss, anxiety, depression, and social isolation. This complex structure is accompanied by a pattern in which inflammatory processes are triggered. Recently, intra-articular injections (such as Platelet-Rich Plasma Therapy (PRP), Hyaluronic Acid (HA), PRP+HA combinations, Corticosteroids, Prolotherapy, and Stem Cells) have been accepted as a treatment for OA. Regarding the mechanism of these intra-articular injections, it has been reported that a combination of various anabolic and anti-inflammatory cytokines may treat inflammation associated with the early stages of OA. It has been demonstrated that, through the effects of various growth factors, these treatments have a positive impact on chondrogenesis and mesenchymal stem cell proliferation by increasing anti-inflammatory mediators and reducing pro-inflammatory mediators.

Bilişsel Egzersiz Terapi Yaklaşımı - BETY (Cognitive Exercise Therapy Approach in english) is an exercise approach based on the biopsychosocial model. BETY consists of innovations in function-oriented body stabilization exercises (FoGSE), chronic pain management (BETY-Nociplastic Pain Management (BETY-NPM)), emotion-mood information management (dance therapy-authentic movement), and sexuality information management. The aim of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of BETY, which is often initiated following intra-articular injections-a treatment frequently chosen for individuals diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis (OA).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BETY-BQ
  - Muscle Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: BETY

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07496203
