CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07236346
Title: Effects of Parent-child Co-participation in Physical Activity
Official Title: Effects of Parent-child Co-participation in Physical Activity on Physical Activity Levels and Motor Skills of Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: a Quasi-experimental Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Literature reviews and studies of physical activity (PA) interventions suggest that active parental involvement is an important component of supporting PA levels in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Parents have also viewed these interventions as a valuable source of social support and motivation for themselves and their children with ASD; however, parents have reported a lack of PA interventions specifically involving parental involvement to increase PA levels in their children.

To our knowledge, only a handful of PA studies in the literature have examined PA levels or fundamentals movement skills (FMS) in children with ASD and have included parental involvement. Overall, findings from previous studies have shown that PA interventions that include parental involvement successfully improve PA levels and FMS in children with ASD. Given the potential benefits and the increasing interest in family-based interventions, supporting parent-child co-participation in PA may be a possible strategy to promote PA among children and parents. To date, studies on parent-child co-participation in PA have mostly focused on improving PA levels and FMS in children with ASD using web-based interventions such as social media, websites, and online systems. Furthermore, with the exception of two studies, the focus of these studies was on PA levels and not FMS in children with ASD. Furthermore, not all previous studies have created PA groups with and without parental involvement to explore whether parent-child co-participation truly makes a difference. We addressed these limitations in the current study and used a design that included a parent-child PA group, a child PA group, and a control group to examine both PA levels and FMS in children with ASD. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine the effects of parent-child co-participation on PA levels and FMS in children with ASD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Leisure Time Exercise Questionnaire (LTEQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: A parent-child co-participation in physical activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 11 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07236346
