CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05989594
Title: Home-based Mobile Guided Exercise-based Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Patients Undergoing TAVR
Official Title: A Home-based Mobile Guided Exercise-based Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Patients Undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (REHAB-TAVR): a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
A two-parallel, evaluator-blind, single-center, randomized controlled trial was designed to assess the effectiveness of a home-based mobile guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation among patients undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of our study was to investigate the effect of home-based mobile-guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation on the improvement of exercise capacity among patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement. 90 subjects will be recruited and followed up for a six-minute walk distance, short physical performance battery, exercise adherence, quality of life, frailty, nutritional status, sleep status, readmission rate, and all-cause mortality et al. The subjects will be invited to participate in on-site visits at 1, 3, and 6 months. Patients in the interventional group will receive a home-based mobile-guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation for 3 months. The home-based mobile-guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation is a multi-component intervention strategy including the preparation for discharge, family support, motivational interviews, health education, telephone follow-up, wearable devices, APP, et al. While the patients in the control group will receive routine care. For example, the preparation for discharge of the control group does not include the guidance of mobile-guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation, family support, and motivational interviews. After discharge, nurses will conduct telephone follow-ups once a month for the control group. Baseline data and outcomes will be collected in a Case Report Form.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in 6-minute Walk Distance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home-based mobile guided exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Routine Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 89 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05989594
