CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06338501
Title: Assessment of Heart Rate Variability, Performance and Dehydration in Muay Thai Athletes
Official Title: Assessment of Heart Rate Variability, Performance and Dehydration in Muay Thai Athletes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Known as "Thai boxing," Muay Thai utilizes a combination of upper limb strikes (such as punches and elbow strikes) as well as lower limb strikes (such as kicks and knee strikes), and is thus referred to as the "art of eight limbs." It is practiced worldwide and is a prominent discipline in many mixed martial arts (MMA) training camps. In this sport, training load control involves monitoring and adjusting the quantity and intensity of training according to each athlete's capacity. In the context of combat sports, such as Muay Thai, heart rate variability (HRV) and assessment of body composition by bioelectrical impedance analysis can be used as tools to evaluate training responses. Additionally, HRV can also serve as a tool for assessing recovery after training or competition. If HRV does not return to baseline after training or competition, it may be a sign that the athlete is not fully recovered and may need more time to recuperate before returning to training or competition. Due to the absence of studies in the literature that have assessed a possible association between HRV and dehydration and rehydration processes in amateur Muay Thai athletes, it becomes essential to evaluate this correlation. Given the growing interest in practicing Muay Thai in gyms, assessing the sympathetic-vagal balance, body composition, and performance of these athletes becomes of utmost importance. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between dehydration indicators, HRV parameters, and performance in the frequency speed kick test (FSKT). Participants will be assessed before and after an eight-week training program, conducted three times a week. Assessments will include resting HRV measurement and FSKT; in addition, bioimpedance will be used to estimate the body composition of participants pre- and post-training. It is expected that the results will reveal changes in HRV, performance, and body composition of the athletes after training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HRV during specifical physical test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Specifical Functional Training Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06338501
