CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06734052
Title: Computer-guided Action Planning to Support Physical Activity (CAPPA) for Employees With Chronic Knee Symptoms
Official Title: Computer-guided Action Planning to Support Physical Activity (CAPPA) for Employees With Chronic Knee Symptoms
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a brief health coaching intervention based on an approach known as brief action planning + Fitbit can increase physical activity in employees with chronic knee symptoms who work for Advocate Aurora Health. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Will a greater proportion of people in the health coaching intervention increase physical activity to at least 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity per week than a group of people with an attention-control intervention (Fitbit+health education coaching)?
* Can we predict who will not increase physical activity levels to at least 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity per week by the end of the study (3 and 6 months) based upon Fitbit data captured over the first four weeks?

Researchers will compare a health education coaching intervention + Fitbit to see if providing a Fitbit + attention control will increase physical activity to at least 150 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity per week among members of the attention-control group.

Participants will engage in

* Online study orientation and question and answer session
* Three assessment sessions (baseline, 3 months, 6 months)
* A 12 week intervention with no less than four (4) and no more than twelve (12) health coaching sessions. Physical activity health coaching will make action plans for health coaching. Health education coaching will focus on educating participants on non-physical activity factors related to a comprehensive management of chronic knee symptoms, such as managing fatigue, sleep hygiene, mindfulness, etc.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic knee symptoms (CKS) are associated with pain, loss of independence, and increased mortality. Rates of CKS are increasing, fueled by an aging, obese, and sedentary society. Because CKS first presents in working age adults, it is a major cause of work disability and work productivity loss.

Being physically active improves the health of adults who have ongoing (chronic) complaints of knee pain, knee stiffness, or challenges with moving around. Physical activity helps decrease pain, improve stiffness, and improve physical function as it relates to the knee. It also helps people improve their general health. Unfortunately, it is hard for many people to become more physically active. Physical activity can be inconvenient and uncomfortable for many people, and people who join physical activity programs often drop out of them after a short time (3-6 months). However, people are more likely to reach their physical activity goals if they work with a health coach who supports the process.

Health coaching often includes a combination of self-monitoring such as using smart devices to monitor outcomes plus the support of goal-directed behavior. Previous research has found that Fitbit tracking can improve behavior for some people who have CKS but not for others. Whereas we know people can receive benefit from coaching, the exact amount of coaching needed remains unknown. Discussion with employee stakeholders have informed our intervention desire as they have asked for a low resource form of coaching available through the workplace. The potential exists to support employees with CKS using an acceptable, low-resource coaching strategy.

The goal of this program is to test a brief, scalable PA coaching intervention that can assist employees with CKS attain and maintain healthy PA behavior in worksites in the Midwest. CAPPA is a 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial that will 1) use computer-guided action-planning behavioral intervention to support employees in making physical activity action plans for their health, 2) use data transmitted from a personal fitness tracker (Fitbit) to support coach and employee knowledge about PA performance, and 3) Inform on optimal step up times for participants who do not substantially increase PA. The CAPPA system will put PA feedback in a Movement Dashboard to support study participants. The CAPPA intervention will primarily use video chat to attain and sustain healthy PA behavior across worksites at Advocate Aurora Health.

Follow-up measures of PA, pain and physical function are planned at treatment completion and three months following study completion. Specific aims are to: 1) Estimate the efficacy of the intervention to increase objectively measured physical activity, 2) Examine the feasibility, acceptability and sustainability of the CAPPA intervention for the respective workplaces, and 3) Inform the initial step up time for future stepped interventions among participants not substantially increasing their ph

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of CDC-guideline based physical activity compliance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CAPPA
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06734052
