CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00362453
Title: Tai ChIMind-Body Therapy for Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Tai ChIMind-Body Therapy for Knee Osteoarthritis: a Pilot Single-blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study was to compare the safety and effectiveness of Tai Chi with an Attention Control intervention consisting of a stretching and wellness education program involving 40 patients with osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. We hypothesized that the participants receiving Tai Chi would show greater improvement in knee pain, physical and psychological functioning, and health-related quality of life than participants in the Attention Control group, and that the benefit would be mediated by effects on muscle function, musculoskeletal flexibility and mental health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis in the United States, affecting 21 million older people. Symptomatic knee OA in the elderly is one of the most frequent causes of loss of independence and physical disability. There are currently no satisfactory pharmacological or non-pharmacological therapies for knee OA. New strategies to improve functional capacity, quality of life and reduce long-term disability in people with knee OA are urgently needed. Our long-term goal is to demonstrate the physical and psychological benefits of Tai Chi exercise as a complementary treatment for people with knee OA. Tai Chi is a traditional Chinese discipline with both physical and mental components that appear to benefit a variety of conditions. The physical component provides exercise that is consistent with recommendations for OA (range of motion, flexibility, muscle conditioning and aerobic cardiovascular exercise), while the mental component has the potential to increase psychological well-being, life satisfaction, and perceptions of health. These effects are especially pertinent for the treatment of older adults with knee OA.

Over a three-year period, 40 patients with symptomatic knee OA were randomly assigned to receive a 12-week Tai Chi program or stretching and wellness education program. Outcome measurements were obtained at baseline and on completion of the 12-week program, as well as 24 and 48 week follow-up periods. We compared changes in knee pain, stiffness, and physical function using the well-validated Western Ontario and McMaster Index (WOMAC), as well as clinical knee examination, lower extremity function, knee joint proprioception, and health related quality of life.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in the Western Ontario and McMaster University Index (WOMAC) Pain Subscale Between Baseline and 12 Weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Tai Chi versus Attention Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00362453
