CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04592146
Title: Maintaining and imPrOving the intrinSIc capaciTy Involving Primary Care and caregiVErs
Official Title: POSITIVE: Maintaining and imPrOving the intrinSIc capaciTy Involving Primary Care and caregiVErs
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The POSITIVE platform offers the possibility of unsupervised monitoring of pre-frailty and frailty status in a community setting, to detect the onset of frailty and to assess its evolution.

The primary objective of the study is to evaluate whether the POSITIVE system improves frailty in at least 1 point in the Fried's Criteria and 5 points in the FTS-5.

This is a multi-centre, non-inferiority, randomized, simple blind and prospective pilot study with a 12-month follow up duration. The study will be carried out in Spain, Sweden and Poland. 150 participants will be randomized into two groups. The control group will receive usual medical care. The intervention group will receive, in addition, the POSITIVE frailty home monitoring and intervention system.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary endpoints is to evaluate whether a multimodal intervention supported by the POSITIVE technological ecosystem improves frailty in at least 1 point in Fried's Criteria and 5 points in FTS-5 during a 6-month follow-up period.

This objective will be investigated through a multi-centre, non-inferiority, randomized, simple blind and prospective pilot study with an intervention lasting for 6 months. The study will be carried out in Spain, Sweden and Poland. 150 participants (50 per site) will be randomized into two groups. The control group will receive usual medical care. The intervention group will receive, in addition, the POSITIVE frailty home monitoring and intervention system.

Both groups will be assessed with the same instruments. This assessment will be conducted at baseline (in the beginning of the trial period), at the middle (month 3) and at the end of the intervention (month 6).

A stratified randomization technique will be applied in each of the study groups based on: age group (70-85,\> 85), history of cognitive impairment, history of stroke to guarantee the existence of comparable groups. These factors have been significantly associated with frailty and pre-frailty status (stroke OR =3.11 (1.05-9.18), age, per 1-year OR = 1.14 (1.08-1.21); cognitive impairment OR = 8.37 (4.43-15.83)).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Frailty status 1
  - Frailty status 2

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Frailty multicomponent intervention supported by POSITIVE
  - OTHER: Frailty multicomponent intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04592146
