CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02336243
Title: A Randomized Trial of Docosahexaenoic Acid Supplementation During Pregnancy to Prevent Deep Placentation Disorders
Official Title: Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) Supplementation During Pregnancy to Prevent Deep Placentation Disorders: A Randomized Clinical Trial and a Study of the Molecular Pathways of Abnormal Placentation Prevention
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2400
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the effectiveness of maternal supplementation with Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) early in pregnancy to reduce the incidence of deep placentation disorders: preterm birth, preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction. Half of the participants in early pregnancy will receive DHA 600 mg per day, while the other half will receive placebo. Investigators will study also the ability of DHA supplementation, early in pregnancy, to enhance invasion and transformation of spiral arteries by trophoblast, as deep placentation indicators.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction: uteroplacental ischemia may cause preterm birth, either due to preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, or medical indication (in the presence of preeclampsia or fetal growth restriction). Uteroplacental ischemia is the product of defective deep placentation, that is a failure of invasion and transformation of the spiral arteries by the trophoblast. It has been reported that the failure of normal placentation generates a series of clinical abnormalities nowadays called "deep placentation disorders"; they include preeclampsia (PE), fetal growth restriction (FGR), preterm labor (PL), preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM), in utero fetal death and placental abruption. Strategies to prevent deep placentation disorders have been just partially effective. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an essential fatty acid of the family of long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) or omega-3 fatty acids. Early reports, suggested that a LC-PUFAs rich diet reduces the incidence of deep placentation disorders. Recent randomized controlled trials are inconsistent to show the benefit of DHA supplementation during pregnancy to prevent deep placentation disorders; but most of them showed that DHA supplementation was associated to lower risk of early preterm birth.

Hypothesis: investigators propose that Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplementation, early in pregnancy, reduces the incidence of deep placentation disorders (preterm birth, preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction), by improving deep placentation physiology: invasion and transformation of spiral arteries by trophoblast.

General Goals: in this proposal investigators aimed to

1. Assess the effectiveness of maternal supplementation with Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) early in pregnancy to reduce the incidence of deep placentation disorders: preterm birth, preterm labor, preterm premature rupture of membranes, preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction.
2. Study the ability of DHA supplementation, early in pregnancy, to enhance invasion and transformation of spiral arteries by trophoblast, as deep placentation indicators. Methodology: investigators will conduct a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind, clinical trial of maternal supplementation with DHA (Docosahexaenoic acid) to prevent deep placentation disorders. Women will be recruited before 16 weeks of pregnancy from 5 ambulatory centers, 2.400 pregnant women will be assigned to 600 mg DHA per day or placebo. A composite outcome will be the primary outcome of the study. The components of the composite outcome will be: preterm birth \< 34+0 weeks gestation; early preeclampsia (\<34+0 weeks) and severe fetal growth restriction (lower than the 2 percentile and \< 34+0 weeks). Each of the outcomes of the composite outcome and other clinically relevant maternal and fetal outcomes will be evaluated as the secondary outcomes of the study. Clinical samples will be obta

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite outcome: Preterm birth less than 34+0 gestational weeks or preeclampsia before 34+0 gestational weeks or severe fetal growth restrictions early than 34+0 gestational weeks.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo (for Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA))

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02336243
