CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06951750
Title: Effect of Foot Reflexology on Postpartum Afterpains
Official Title: Effect of Foot Reflexology on Postpartum Afterpains
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to determine the effect of foot reflexology on afterpains after normal labor.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Afterpains are among the most prevalent complaints after natural vaginal delivery. Non-pharmacological treatment modalities to relieve afterpains are an important care priority as they can lead to maternal and neonatal complications including anxiety, sleep disturbances, emotional disorders, depression, inability to care for the baby and continue breastfeeding, delays in early breastfeeding, reduced maternal ability to perform daily chores.

It was reported that pain in the early hours postpartum is one of the most important factors contributing to chronic postpartum pain and depression. Furthermore, pain and stress increase adrenaline release and decrease oxytocin release, thus leading to the cessation of the oxytocin reflex and disrupting breast milk production in addition to causing discomfort for the mother.

Since afterpains is a common problem that affects the physical and mental well-being of mothers, it requires the attention of healthcare providers. There is only one study that investigated the effect of reflexology on the pain level of afterpains after normal vaginal delivery. Moreover, no study investigated the effect of reflexology on either the behavioral response toward pain or the pressure pain threshold. Therefore, this study will be conducted to provide physiotherapists with updated scientific Knowledge concerning the effect of foot reflexology on afterpains after normal labor. This Study may expand the role of physiotherapy in women's health.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assessment of pain intensity
  - Modified version of chamber price pain Rating Scale
  - Pressure pain threshold (PPT):

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Reflexology
  - OTHER: placebo reflexology
  - OTHER: general foot massage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06951750
