CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03750448
Title: Does Rehabilitation After Total Hip and Knee Arthroplasty Work
Official Title: Does Rehabilitation After Total Hip and Knee Arthroplasty Work: A Pragmatic, Randomised, Controlled, Superiority Trial (The DRAW1 Trial)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 168
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Total hip- and knee arthroplasty (THA and TKA) is recommended for relieving pain and restoring function for end-stage osteoarthritis, when non-surgical treatment has failed to relieve symptoms. Following THA and TKA post-discharge physical rehabilitation is common practice, but vary significantly regarding content, duration, intensity and mode of delivery. Recent systematic reviews have found home-based rehabilitation to be as good as outpatient rehabilitation in terms of pain and physical function. Additionally, no long-term benefits seem to persist compared to minimal or no intervention following THA or TKA; questioning the true effectiveness of postoperative rehabilitation. However, a true "no intervention" (e.g. no prescribed exercises) has never been investigated following total THA or TKA. The purpose of this present trial is to compare the effectiveness of telerehabilitation, unsupervised rehabilitation and no rehabilitation to enhance recovery following THA and TKA.

Methods: This pragmatic, randomised controlled trial will include 168 patients following discharge after THA or TKA. Patients will be randomized into one of the three 6-week interventions: telerehabilitation, unsupervised rehabilitation or no intervention. The trial is designed as a superiority trial to test the hypothesis that rehabilitation (telerehabilitation and unsupervised rehabilitation) is superior to no rehabilitation. The primary outcome will be the difference between intervention groups in terms of the mean score of the Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS)/ the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)-subscale: function of daily living at first follow-up (end of the 6-week intervention). Additional follow-up are scheduled at 3 and 12 months. Outcome assessors and data analysts are blinded to group allocation.

Discussion: As the number of THA and TKA procedures are expected to increase, the need to find effective postoperative rehabilitation strategies are warranted. Knowledge on the effectiveness of the three investigated rehabilitation strategies will help guide the future direction of post-discharge rehabilitation following THA and TKA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - For THA's: Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) subscale: function in daily living (ADL).
  - For TKA's: Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) subscale: function in daily living (ADL).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Telerehabilitation
  - OTHER: No intervention
  - OTHER: Unsupervised rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03750448
