CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02607566
Title: Yoga as a Complementary Therapy for Adults With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Yoga as a Complementary Therapy for Type 2 Diabetes: An Initial Investigation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will examine the feasibility and acceptability of a twice weekly yoga program for adults with type 2 diabetes. Changes in perceived stress, salivary cortisol, and HbA1c will also be examined.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the current proposal is to test a yoga intervention for adults with T2DM and to gather data on the feasibility and acceptability of yoga compared to a contact control for glycemic control. The investigators will conduct a pilot randomized controlled study with participants randomly assigned to 1) Yoga intervention, or 2) A standard exercise (SE) group program (comparison-control). Focus groups will be conducted with participants at the end of the intervention to identify facilitators and barriers to yoga practice and to examine their perceptions and beliefs about yoga and its relationship to stress and diabetes management. The investigators will explore the effect of yoga on stress (biomarker = salivary cortisol) that may act as a mechanism of action underlying the efficacy of yoga for improved glycemic control. The investigators will also measure HbA1c levels, fasting and postprandial plasma glucose at baseline, end of treatment (12-weeks), 6- and 9-month follow-ups. Study feasibility and acceptability will be assessed using participant recruitment, attendance and retention rates, and compliance with study protocols and satisfaction with the program. Participants will also attend a focus-group discussion of the program at the end of treatment. Results from this study will provide scientific basis for a future larger clinical trial. Yoga, if found to offer advantages for glycemic control, can have potential for high impact on current practices of diabetes management.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acceptability as measured by session attendance
  - Feasibility as measured by study completion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Yoga
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard Exercise Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02607566
