CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01786265
Title: Finite Androgen Ablation With or Without Abiraterone Acetate and Prednisone in Treating Patients With Recurrent Prostate Cancer
Official Title: A Randomized Study of Finite Androgen Ablation vs. Finite Androgen Ablation in Combination With Abiraterone Acetate and Prednisone in Patients With Prostate Cancer Who Have PSA Progression After Prostatectomy and/or Radiotherapy
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 310
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This phase II trial studies how well finite androgen ablation with or without abiraterone acetate and prednisone work in treating patients with prostate cancer that has come back. Androgen can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy, such as finite androgen ablation, using leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, degarelix, bicalutamide, flutamide, and nilutamide may fight prostate cancer by lowering the amount of androgen the body makes. Abiraterone acetate may help to decrease the production of testosterone, and prednisone may help lower or prevent some side effects. It is not yet known whether giving acetate, goserelin acetate, degarelix, bicalutamide, flutamide, and nilutamide with or without abiraterone acetate and prednisone may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether finite maximal androgen ablation (8 month), as compared to luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) alone, will improve one-year post-treatment prostate specific antigen (PSA)-free survival by 20%.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine testosterone recovery difference between the two groups. II. Calculate the PSA-free survival following testosterone recovery. III. To determine in the steroid biosynthesis metabolome, in the blood and bone marrow of patients at baseline, maximum response (eight months therapy) and upon PSA progression, evidence of minimal residual cancer (MD Anderson Cancer Center \[MDACC\] main campus patients only).

IV. To apply technologies in development able to detect presence of cancer cells ("minimal residual disease") at a clinical study milestone (baseline, completion of therapy and upon PSA progression).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore in archival tissue samples for a candidate predictive signature of outcome applying technologies for interrogation of protein deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) and ribonucleic acid (rna) levels of molecular markers / pathways of interest.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive either leuprolide acetate via injection every month or every 4 months, goserelin acetate via injection every month, or degarelix via injection every month for 8 months. Patients also receive bicalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD), flutamide PO three times daily (TID), or nilutamide PO QD. Patients may crossover to Arm B with disease progression after 8 months.

ARM B: Patients receive leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, degarelix, bicalutamide, flutamide, or nilutamide as in Arm A. Patients also receive abiraterone acetate PO daily for 8 months and prednisone daily. Patients may crossover to Arm A with disease progression after 8 months.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 and 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) free survival (PSA < 0.1 ng/ml)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate
  - DRUG: Bicalutamide
  - DRUG: Degarelix
  - DRUG: Flutamide
  - DRUG: Goserelin Acetate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01786265
