CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06627101
Title: Traditional Medicine Use in Low Back Pain
Official Title: Prevalence of Traditional Medicine Use in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain in Northern Brazil: a Cross-sectional
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 273
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is classified as one of the leading causes of disability worldwide. Furthermore, the painful experience of CLBP can be influenced by some already established factors, such as beliefs, self-efficacy, and kinesiophobia. Beliefs are pre-established ideas that can influence physical functionality, pain experience, social functioning, and adherence to CLBP treatment Clique ou toque aqui para inserir o texto. Among them is Traditional Medicine, a practice carried out by some populations that continue to trust their own popular medicine to meet their health demands. According to the WHO, Traditional Medicine (MT) or Popular Medicine (MP) is a practice reproduced in different cultures and based on beliefs, the sum of experiences and knowledge, whose objective is to prevent, treat or cure illnesses, whether physical or mental. This habit includes the use of home remedies, which are based on the manipulation of plant, animal, and mineral extracts for therapeutic purposes. Furthermore, it is important to point out that, as it is a chronic condition, individuals living with CLBP are strongly influenced by psychological factors, such as kinesiophobia (avoidance of exercise), catastrophizing (intensifying fear of movement, as they feel that pain is a threat), and low self-efficacy in processing and modulating pain, increasing levels of pain and disability. Also, in addition to this, socioeconomic level is one of the determinants of the incidence and intensity of chronic pain. In short, although the practice of TM has been recognized for decades, it is not known whether there is a relationship between this belief and the levels of self-efficacy, kinesiophobia and catastrophizing of individuals with CLBP in Northern Brazil. Therefore, this study aims to identify the use of TM and its impacts on the functional activities and quality of life of individuals with CLBP in the northern region of Brazil. This is a cross-sectional observational study. Individuals participating in this research will be invited to respond online to the questionnaire prepared by the authors of this study. Continuous data will be analyzed descriptively using mean and standard deviation; categorical data will be described in frequency form, and the normality of the data will be analyzed to identify the possibility of using parametric or non-parametric statistical tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - prevalence of Traditional Medicine

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06627101
