CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06331741
Title: Collagen for Treatment of Musculoskeletal Injuries
Official Title: Application of Collagen in Treatment of the Consequences of Injuries and Diseases of the Musculoskeletal System
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study:

Evaluation of the clinical efficacy and safety of the use of collagen matrix/membrane in the surgical treatment of the consequences of injuries and diseases of the musculoskeletal system (anterior cruciate ligament tears, rigid first toe) by using IKDC, KOOS, ACLOAS, VAS, AOFAS, SF-36 scales

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Application of Collagen in Treatment of the Consequences of Injuries and Diseases of the Musculoskeletal System

Indications:

* Damage to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) of the knee joint
* Rigid first toe

Research centers:

University Clinical Hospital No. 1 of the First Sechenov Moscow State Medical University (Sechenov University)

The product under study:

The collagen membrane

Specifications:

-The product is a membrane made of type 1 collagen obtained from the ligaments of cattle. Chemically cross-linked with glutaraldehyde. The size of the membrane is 15x4x0.3 cm in dry form (can be adjusted depending on the patient's need).

Product shape: tape (medical device) Composition: type 1 collagen Packaging: in a sterilization bag Transportation: in a dry place, protected from light, at a temperature of 10 to 30 °C.

Shelf life: 2 years Storage: in a dry place, protected from light, at a temperature of 10 to 30 °C. Purpose: for implantation Storage conditions of the product: in a dry place, protected from light, at a temperature from 10 to 30 °C. Soak in saline solution for 10 minutes before use.

Sterilization: Steripak electron beam sterilization Manufacturer: Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University of the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Sechenov University)

Research objectives:

Tasks for the reconstruction of the ACL using a collagen membrane:

1. Change in the score of the Form for registering the results of the knee joint examination of the International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC);
2. Change in the score of the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) relative to the baseline level;
3. Change in the score of the Modified Lysholm scale relative to the initial level;
4. Assessment of the condition of the transplant based on the results of control MRI data, measured on Anterior Cruciate Ligament OsteoArthritis Score (ACLOAS)

Tasks for the application of collagen spacer of the first metatarsophalangeal joint:

1. Formation of clinical groups of patients with 3-4 stages of Hallux rigidus.
2. The development of personalized collagen, the formation of a membrane of the required size
3. Formation of a unified protocol of the operational manual
4. Development of a program of postoperative orthopedic regimen and rehabilitation

Assessment of the formation of syndesmosis by using instrumental research methods

Safety assessment parameters:

The frequency of adverse events and serious adverse events according to subjective complaints, physical examination, vital signs, ECG (Electrocardiography) and laboratory tests against the background of treatment using the technique of collagen membrane transplantation

The study population:

For the reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament using a collagen membrane:

men and women from 18 to 60 years old, with partial or complete damage to the anterior cruciate ligament, who will undergo autograft surgery, will be included in the work

For the collagen spa

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The International Knee Documentation Committee score
  - The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score
  - Modified Lysholm scale
  - Anterior Cruciate Ligament OsteoArthritis Score
  - American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society, Ankle-Hindfoot Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, using graft, augmented with collagen membrane
  - PROCEDURE: Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, using graft, not augmented with collagen membrane (control group)
  - PROCEDURE: Resection arthroplasty of the first metatarsophalangeal joint with the introduction of a collagen membrane into the joint cavity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06331741
