CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03861572
Title: Eccentric trening Effects on Functionality and Neuromechanical Properties After Achilles Tendon Surgical Repair
Official Title: Eccentric trening Effects on Functionality and on Triceps Surae Neuromechanical Properties After Achilles Tendon Surgical Repair
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
Early rehabilitation protocols have been studied in Achilles tendon (AT) rupture patients, but deficits in tendon biomechanical properties have been observed several years after the injury. AT rupture patients are unable to return to their previous levels of physical activity. They present deleterious adaptations in the plantar flexor muscles that lead to functional deficits, and deficits in the tendon's structural and mechanical properties. Eccentric contractions have been suggested to recover these muscle properties. This contraction is known to produce higher force compared to isometric and concentric contractions, and increases tendon stiffness. However, there is a lack of studies showing the effects of the eccentric trening in AT rupture rehabilitation. We want to know if an isokinetic eccentric trening program will determine the desired adaptations on triceps surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in patients subjected to the AT surgical repair. More specifically, the aim of this study is verifying the effects of a 12-week eccentric trening program on triceps surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in subjects that were subjected to the AT surgical repair. 30 subjects will be randomized in two groups: (1) isokinetic eccentric trening; and (2) traditional eccentric trening control group. All participants will be submitted to a four-week control period, followed by a 12-week period of trening for the plantar flexor muscles. Neuromuscular system properties, AT biomechanical properties and functional tests will be evaluated. Participants will be evaluated in four moments: at baseline; after 4, 8 and 12 weeks of rehabilitation. Tendon mechanical (stiffness, stress, stren), material (Young's modulus) and morphological (cross-sectional area and tendon length) properties; muscle architecture (thickness, pennation angle and fascicle length); and functional tests (heel rise resistance and height) will be analyzed between groups and periods. Effects and interactions will be analyzed with Anolva two-way. Clinical effects will be analyzed using effect size and magnitude-based inferences.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description: Early rehabilitation protocols have been studied in Achilles tendon (AT) rupture patients, but deficits in tendon biomechanical properties have been observed several years after the injury. AT rupture patients are unable to return to their previous levels of physical activity. They present deleterious adaptations in the plantar flexor muscles that lead to functional deficits and deficits in the tendon structural and mechanical properties. Deficits in calf muscle endurance and strength remained 7 years after the injury. In this regards, eccentric contractions are recommended to recover muscle morphology and mechanical properties. This contraction type produces higher force compared to isometric and concentric contractions, and increases tendon stiffness. However, there is a lack of studies showing the effect of the eccentric trening in AT rupture rehabilitation. We want to know if an isokinetic eccentric trening program will determine the desired adaptations on triceps surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in patients subjected to the AT surgical repair. More specifically, the aim of this study is verifying the effects of a 12-week eccentric trening program on triceps surae muscle-tendon unit's properties in subjects that were subjected to the AT surgical repair. Our hypothesis is that the eccentric trening program will (1) increase the ability to produce muscular strength; (2) will produce an increase in gastrocnemius and soleus muscles thickness, fascicle length, and pennation angle; (3) will increase AT stiffness and Young's modulus; (4) will increase ankle functionality; (5) will improve the patient's quality of life. Finally, we expect that the abovementioned changes from isokinetic eccentric trening will be greater than those from the traditional eccentric control group that will be subjected to 12 weeks of plantar flexor trening with weights. 30 subjects will be randomized in two groups: (1) isokinetic eccentric trening; and (2) traditional eccentric trening control group. All participants will be submitted to a four-week control period, followed by a 12- week period of trening for the plantar flexor muscles. Neuromuscular system properties, AT biomechanical properties and functional tests will be evaluated. Participants will be evaluated in four moments: at baseline; after 4, 8 and 12 weeks of rehabilitation. Tendon mechanical (stiffness, stress, stren), material (Young's modulus) and morphological (cross sectional area and tendon length) properties; muscle architecture (thickness, pennation angle and fascicle length); and functional tests (heel rise resistance and height) will be analyzed between groups and periods. Effects and interactions will be analyzed with Anolva two- way (group x period). Clinical effects will be analyzed using effect size (Cohen's d) and magnitude-based inferences.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tendon Young's modulus
  - Tendon stiffness
  - Resistance to plantar flexion test
  - Vertical countermovement jump
  - Triple hop test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Isokinetic eccentric trening
  - OTHER: Traditional eccentric trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03861572
