CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05098626
Title: Investigation of Spinal Health and Internet Addiction of Individuals Working Remotely
Official Title: Investigation of Spinal Health and Internet Addiction of Individuals Working Remotely
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Low back pain and neck pain are common problems that affect people at certain times in their lives. These people constitute a significant part of the disease burden due to their recurrent complaints. People with low back and neck pain often seek medical attention. This situation causes individuals to apply to the hospital frequently and causes a serious cost at the social level.

When the risk factors for neck pain are examined, many factors such as genetics, sleep problems, smoking, obesity, sedentary lifestyle, poor posture, previous neck pain, trauma, back pain and poor general health cause neck pain to develop. Similarly, conditions such as age, obesity, and poor general health appear to be risk factors for low back pain. In addition to these risk factors, it has been reported that occupational factors such as long and sedentary working hours and unsuitable workplace conditions may also cause low back and neck pain. Fixed posture and prolonged sitting are thought to be risk factors for low back and neck pain, but opinions on this subject are not clear.

The COVID-19 pandemic has created a global crisis since 2019 and caused a change in the lifestyle of all people around the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) stated that social distance should be increased and face-to-face contact should be reduced to prevent the spread of the pandemic. For this reason, many institutions have decided to work remotely and trainings have been carried out remotely. The increasing teleworking style with the COVID-19 pandemic has led to an increase in the average screen time of individuals. It was reported that time spent on the Internet increased by 52% compared to the pre-pandemic period.

This study aims to investigate the relationship between increased teleworking hours and internet use during the pandemic period in individuals with low back or neck pain. Researchers think that postural changes that may occur with increased distance working time, increased fixed posture and asymmetrical loading may contribute to the uncertain relationship between low back and neck pain and posture.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of Craniovertebral Angle
  - Evaluation of Sternocleidomastoideus Muscle Architecture
  - Evaluation of Internet Addiction

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05098626
