CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03849794
Title: Chiropractic Care Plus Physiotherapy Compared to Physiotherapy Alone in Chronic Stroke Patients
Official Title: The Effects of 4 Weeks of Chiropractic Care Plus Physiotherapy Compared to Physiotherapy Alone on Functional Outcomes in Chronic Stroke Patients: a Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The Investigator recently conducted a study in patients who had suffered from a stroke where it investigated whether similar findings are observed following a single session of chiropractic care.36 The key findings from this study was that in a group of chronic stroke patients, with lower limb muscle weakness, plantar flexion muscle strength increased on average by 64.6% following a chiropractic care session and the change in muscle strength appears to be modulated by cortical factors as opposed to modulation at the spinal level.

Based on the promising results of this initial study now planning to perform a pragmatic pilot clinical trial that will investigate the effects of 4 weeks of chiropractic care on clinical measures associated with stroke rehabilitation and function

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability in the world. It is estimated that 17 million people per year suffer from a significant stroke worldwide, with 5 million of those people experiencing long term physical disability following the stroke. The global burden of stroke continues to rise even though the rate of stroke-related mortality has decreased over recent years. Stroke often results in prolonged physical, emotional, social and financial consequences for stroke survivors, family, friends, and caregivers. One of the most commonly occurring deficits associated with strokes is hemiparesis, which affects upper limb function, or an individual's ability to stand, balance or walk. The long term impaired nervous system function that accompanies many strokes means millions of stroke survivors around the world are reliant on care-givers to assist them with rudimentary activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, and toileting. The burden of care is immense and has a significant impact on modern society.

This burden is even higher in developing countries. Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), which is a measure of both years of life lost and years lived with a disability, is seven times higher in developing countries compared to high-income countries. While part of this difference is possibly due to differences in age, incidence, and mortality in developing countries; the mortality of stroke has dropped by 20% while the age-standardized incidence of stroke increased by 12% between 1990 and 2010 in low and middle-income countries. This means more people have strokes, more survive, and as a result, the burden of stroke is even greater in developing countries.

Numerous rehabilitative approaches have been shown to promote motor recovery after a stroke, but advanced strategies are constantly being developed and tested in an attempt to improve long term outcomes for stroke survivors. One possible intervention that may improve post-stroke motor recovery, but has to date not been adequately tested, is chiropractic care.

Over the past two decades, numerous research studies have shown that chiropractic care can significantly influence central neural function. Studies have shown changes in somatosensory processing, sensorimotor integration and motor control following as little as a single session of chiropractic care. Sensorimotor integration is the ability of the central nervous system (CNS) to integrate sensory information from different body parts and formulate appropriate motor outputs to muscles. Effective sensorimotor integration is essential when learning new motor skills, or recovering from an injury. Another essential component for accurate movement, learning new motor skills, and/or recovering from an injury is the accuracy of internal representations of our body map, or body schema. It is essential for our brain to be accurately aware of the location of our limbs and core body in 3D space. The spine is linked biomechani

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental Group
  - OTHER: Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03849794
