CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02642666
Title: The Effects of Yoga on Attention, Impulsivity and Hyperactivity in Pre-school Age Children
Official Title: The Effects of Yoga on Attention, Impulsivity and Hyperactivity in Pre-school Age Children With ADHD Symptoms
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This pilot project will evaluate yoga as an intervention to improve attention and reduce challenging behaviors such as hyperactivity and impulsivity, rated by parent and teachers, in preschool age children with or "at risk" for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). "At Risk" for ADHD will be defined as four or more hyperactive/impulsive and/or inattentive symptoms on the ADHD Rating Scale IV-Preschool Version as rated by parents or teachers. Using a randomized wait-list controlled experimental design, the investigators will explore the efficacy of practicing yoga for 6 weeks on behavioral symptoms, attentional control using a computer based tasks of attention, and heart rate variability (HRV), which is a measure of self-regulatory capacity. The investigators hypothesize that practicing yoga for six weeks of will improve ADHD and other behavioral symptoms based on parent and teacher rating scales, which will correlate with improvements in scores on the computer based task of attention as well as with improvements in HRV.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Symptoms of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are often observable by preschool age and can be associated with similar behavioral, social, and cognitive impairments as seen in older children with ADHD. Seventy to eighty percent of preschoolers with symptoms of ADHD continue to display these symptoms in elementary school. Behavioral therapies are recommended as first line treatments in this age group. There have been some small but promising studies looking at yoga as an intervention for school age children with ADHD, but none have looked specifically at yoga as an intervention for preschool age children with ADHD symptoms (Birdee et al, 2009).

Objective: To determine if yoga improves hyperactive/impulsive symptoms and attention in preschool age children with or "at risk" for ADHD.

Study design: A randomized wait-list controlled trial exploring whether 6 weeks of children's yoga improves behavioral symptoms, task-related scores of attention, and increases heart rate variability in preschool age children "at risk" for or diagnosed with ADHD. The investigators plan to enroll a total of 30 children ages 3-5 years old. "At risk" for ADHD will be defined as four or more inattentive or hyperactive/impulsive symptoms rated by parents and teachers on the ADHD Rating Scale-IV Preschool Version.

Procedures: The investigators will evaluate the efficacy of yoga for improving ADHD and other behavioral symptoms using parent and teacher rating scales (ADHD Rating Scale-IV Preschool Version; Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire), as well as objective measures including computer based tasks of attention and executive function (KiTAP, Test of Attentional Performance for Children), and heart rate variability (HRV), a physiologic measure of self-regulatory capacity. HRV will be assessed during an active, attention computer task (using the emWave ® desktop device), as well as during a relaxed state, in a breathing exercise paired with verbal affirmations. The protocol includes baseline, post-treatment and 3 month follow-up assessments. The intervention consists of school and home yoga sessions. School sessions will be held twice a week at Triumph Center for Early Childhood Education, which is a local preschool associated with University of California, Davis. The school based yoga classes will be lead by trained child yoga instructors using a manualized yoga protocol that is 30 minute long. Home session will include use of a children's yoga video featuring the same protocol to practice at home on the days that the children do not participate at school. The goal is for daily yoga practice during the 6 week intervention period. Home yoga practice will be documented daily by parents completing a brief online survey that is emailed to them. Generalization of the skills learned during the yoga sessions to behaviorally-challenging situations will be specifically developed by teaching the parents and teachers to "cue" the children to integrate

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in ADHD Rating Scale-IV Preschool Version Scores
  - Change in Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire Scores
  - Change in KiTAP Test of Attentional Performance for Children Scores
  - Change in Heart rate variability (HRV)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Children's Yoga

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02642666
