CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05771233
Title: Effectiveness of Abdominal Muscle Strengthening and Pelvic Control in the Prevention of Dance Injuries
Official Title: Effectiveness of Core Muscle Strengthening and Lumbo-pelvic Stabilization in Preventing Dance Injuries: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Introduction. After observing the lack of lumbo-pelvic control and the difficulty in identifying the musculature used when performing the different dance positions, it was decided to carry out an exercise intervention to strengthen the abdominal musculature and lumbo-pelvic stabilization with dancers of the Dance Conservatory of Murcia. Approximately 40 students in the 6th year of professional dance of the 4 specialties taught will participate in this study.

Objectives. To improve abdominal musculature, lumbo-pelvic stability, dance technique and proprioception, to favor the correct integration of the dancer's body scheme and muscular synergies, to reduce the risk of injury and to avoid muscular compensations in the specific Arabesque dance position.

Methods. In order to develop the study, two individual and specific assessments of the dancer will be performed, pre and post intervention. In these, data and personal history were collected, assessing joint ranges and asymmetries in the movement of upper and lower limbs, and musculoskeletal assessment of the spine, hip and knee was performed by orthopedic tests. Flexibility of the ischiosural muscles will be evaluated by means of the toes-floor test and the popliteal angle test, and muscle strength in the abdominal and lumbar region for the muscles most involved in the Arabesque movement. In addition, core stability will be assessed by specific tests and hip and knee extension range along with the increase in lumbar curve when performing Arabesque.

The intervention will be carried out through group sessions of 4 to 6 participants, and exercises aimed at muscle strengthening and improving lumbo-pelvic stability will be taught. The intervention will be performed 1 hour per week, with each group, for 2 months and they will be instructed to work this routine two hours per week at home.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction. After observing the inefficient pelvic control and the difficulty in identifying the musculature used when performing the different dance positions, it was decided to carry out a core strengthening and lumbo-pelvic stabilization exercise intervention with dancers of the Dance Conservatory of Murcia. Approximately 40 students in the 6th year of professional dance of the 4 specialties taught will participate in this study.

Objectives. To improve core musculature, lumbo-pelvic stability, dance technique and proprioception, to favor the correct integration of the dancer's body scheme and muscular synergies, to reduce the risk of injury and to avoid muscular compensations in the specific Arabesque dance position.

Methods.For the development of the study, two individual and specific evaluations of the dancer will be performed, pre and post intervention. In them, data and personal history will be collected, assessing joint ranges and asymmetries in the movement of upper and lower limbs, and a musculoskeletal assessment of the spine, hip and knee will be performed by orthopedic tests. Flexibility of the ischiosural muscles will be evaluated by means of the toes-floor test and the popliteal angle test, and muscle strength in the abdominal and lumbar region of the muscles most involved in the arabesque movement. In addition, core stability will be evaluated by specific tests and hip and knee extension range along with hyperlordosis when performing the Arabesque.

The intervention will be carried out through group sessions of 4 to 6 participants, and exercises aimed at muscle strengthening and improving lumbo-pelvic stability will be taught. The intervention will be performed 1 hour per week, with each group, for 2 months and they will be instructed to work this routine two hours per week at home.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - muscle strength
  - Lumbo-pelvic stability
  - Abdominal strength
  - Lumbar Lordosis
  - Muscle stability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prevention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05771233
