CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05098860
Title: Efficacy of Exercise, Manual Therapy and Tele-rehabilitation-Assisted Treatment on Degenerative Cervical Diseases
Official Title: Comparison of the Efficacy of Exercise, Manual Therapy and Tele-rehabilitation-Assisted Treatment on Pain, Anxiety and Quality of Life in Degenerative Cervical Diseases
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The study aims to compare the effectiveness of soft tissue, joint mobilization, and tele-rehabilitation within the scope of Manual Therapy to the exercise program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
60 subjects with cervical degenerative disease will be included in the study after a voluntary consent form is filled out. Subjects will randomly be divided into 3 groups according to the order.

Group 1:Home Exercise Program: After a general education is given to the patients, an exercise program will be taught. Patients will be asked to do home exercises for 30-45 minutes once a day, 5 days a week for 8 weeks, and fill in follow-up charts. In addition, reminder messages will be sent to these patients once a week by the physiotherapist.

Group 2: Manual Therapy Group: After a general education is given to the patients, the same exercise program will be taught. Soft tissue and joint mobilizations will be applied to the patients in this group within the scope of Manual Therapy (MT). Mobilizations of the cervical vertebrae, scapula, and thoracic vertebrae will be included. MT will be applied to the patients 2 days a week for 8 weeks.

Group 3: Tele-Rehabilitation Group: After general education, treatment will be given in the zoom environment. During the 8 weeks, regularly planned exercises will be done via Zoom for 30-45 minutes 2 days a week, accompanied by a physiotherapist. Patients will apply active cervical and thoracic region mobilizations called self-mobilization. Patients will be taught active mobilization applications with the help of a towel for the cervical region, mobilization of the thoracic region with a foam roller. Patients will apply those self-mobilization at home in front of the physiotherapist in a visual environment. Patients in this group will regularly do the same home exercises on the other days without tele-rehabilitation.

Measurement and evaluation will be done four times, as pre-treatment, post-treatment (8th week), first follow-up (12 weeks), second follow-up (6th month).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Pain at 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months
  - Change from Baseline in Anxiety at 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months
  - Change from Baseline in Quality of Life at 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months
  - Change from Baseline in Neck Disability at 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Home Exercise Program
  - OTHER: Manual Therapy Combined with Home Exercise Program
  - OTHER: Tele-rehabilitation Assisted Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05098860
