CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05375162
Title: Optimization of a mHealth Physical Activity Promotion Intervention With Mindful Awareness for AYAO (OPT2MOVE)
Official Title: Optimization of a mHealth Physical Activity Promotion Intervention With Mindful Awareness for Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 304
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the present study is to utilize Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST)1 to test four social support and mindfulness components (e-coaching, buddy, general mindfulness training, and MVPA-specific mindfulness training) in a 12-week mHealth moderate to vigorous intensity physical activity (MVPA) intervention in a sample of young adult cancer survivors (YACS), to improve quality of life (QOL) and decrease adverse effects and symptom burden.

PRIMARY AIM To identify which components from four mHealth components under consideration for inclusion meaningfully contribute to improvements in MVPA at 12 and 24 weeks

SECONDARY AIM To examine how changes in MVPA, as a result of Opt2Move components, may influence additional health behaviors and outcomes including: a) symptom burden (i.e. fatigue, depression, anxiety); b) time spent in other activity intensities (i.e. light, sedentary time); and c) sleep duration and quality

THIRD AIM To examine potential mediators (i.e. adherence, psychosocial factors such as post-traumatic growth, self-compassion, self-efficacy, and goal setting) and moderators (cancer type, age, gender) of the four intervention components on MVPA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the present study is to utilize Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST)1 to test four social support and mindfulness components (e-coaching, buddy, general mindfulness training, and MVPA-specific mindfulness training) in a 12-week mHealth moderate to vigorous intensity physical activity (MVPA) intervention in a sample of young adult cancer survivors (YACS), to improve quality of life (QOL) and decrease adverse effects and symptom burden.

PRIMARY AIM To identify which components from four mHealth components under consideration for inclusion meaningfully contribute to improvements in MVPA at 12 and 24 weeks

SECONDARY AIM To examine how changes in MVPA, as a result of Opt2Move components, may influence additional health behaviors and outcomes including: a) symptom burden (i.e. fatigue, depression, anxiety); b) time spent in other activity intensities (i.e. light, sedentary time); and c) sleep duration and quality

THIRD AIM To examine potential mediators (i.e. adherence, psychosocial factors such as post-traumatic growth, self-compassion, self-efficacy, and goal setting) and moderators (cancer type, age, gender) of the four intervention components on MVPA.

Research participants will be identified and recruited at Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center (RHLCC) at Northwestern University (NU) and at the Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center (WFBCCC) at Wake Forest University (WFU). All YACS and Buddies will complete an initial 10-15 minute eligibility screening online, over the phone, or in-person. The study RA will obtain informed consent and HIPAA authorization from eligible participants according to IRB approved procedures. After consent is received, all additional study procedures (i.e. assessments, orientation, intervention delivery, etc.) will be handled by the coordinating center (NU) to ensure all procedures are implemented consistently and improve efficiency.

Assessments. After informed consent completion, the NU study team will send participants an email with an individual, secure link to study questionnaires and notification that an ActiGraph accelerometer packet has been mailed. Participants will be asked to complete the questionnaire within 1 week of receipt. YACS will be provided with detailed written instructions for how to wear the ActiGraph.

Randomization and Study Orientation. After completing baseline assessments, YACS (n=304) will be randomized to each group using computer-generated randomly permuted blocks. After randomization, the NU study team will send the participant an intervention packet which will include the Fitbit, Fitbit instructions, instructions and a QR code to download the Opt2Move app, and instructions specific to each condition to which they are assigned. The participant will also be scheduled for an orientation phone or web call with study staff to go over the contents of the intervention packet and expectations of participation for each component in greater detail.

Intervention Components

C

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity before and after the 12-week technology supported physical activity interventions in young adult cancer survivors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Core Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: E-Coach
  - BEHAVIORAL: General Mindfulness Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: MVPA-Specific Mindfulness Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Buddy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05375162
