CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05787834
Title: Home-based Respiratory Muscle Training for Minimizing Side Effects in Patients Undergoing Treatment for Breast Cancer
Official Title: Respiratory Muscle Training During Breast Cancer Treatment: Effects on the Autonomic Nervous System and Cardiotoxicity
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 130
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial evaluates whether home-based respiratory muscle training is useful for minimizing side effects in patients undergoing treatment for breast cancer. Over-activation of the nervous system during breast cancer treatment can result in heart- and lung-related side effects which have the potential to reduce a patient's quality of life. Aerobic exercise can help prevent the development of these side effects. However, engaging in regular aerobic exercise may be difficult for breast cancer patients who are actively undergoing treatment. Respiratory muscle training (RMT) involves a series of breathing and other exercises that are performed to improve the function of the respiratory muscles through resistance and endurance training. Home-based RMT may represent a more feasible approach for reducing side effects in patients undergoing treatment for breast cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility of delivering a 12-week RMT program during adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy used to treat breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine how cardiac autonomic regulation, cardiorespiratory fitness, exercise performance, and quality-of-life (QoL) are affected by RMT during breast cancer treatment.

II. To assess how RMT affects patient reported symptoms linked to sympathetic overactivation such as stress, fatigue, dyspnea, when performed during chemotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if RMT reduces circulating biomarkers of autonomic dysfunction, inflammation, and cardiac injury in breast cancer patients undergoing treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: patients receive lower resistance RMT using a respiratory muscle training device for 12 weeks.

GROUP II: Patients undergo higher resistance RMT using a respiratory muscle training device for 12 weeks on study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of patients who participate in the study
  - Proportion of patients who remain on study
  - Proportion of patients who perform >= 3 respiratory muscle training (RMT) sessions/week
  - Proportion of patients who perform > 70% of their RMT sessions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Best Practice
  - OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation
  - PROCEDURE: Respiratory Muscle Training
  - OTHER: Survey Administration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05787834
