CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03798951
Title: Prehabilitation in Esophageal Surgery (PRESS)
Official Title: Evaluation of a Multimodal Program of Prehabilitation in Patients Undergoing Esophagectomy Within an ERAS Pathway
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Despite important clinical improvements, esophageal cancer surgery is still associated to a high rate of postoperative complications. Recent ERAS (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery) Society guidelines underline the possible role of prehabilitations' programs in reducing postoperative morbidity. In this trial, 200 patients, scheduled for esophageal cancer resection, will be randomly assigned to two groups (100 patients for each group). In both groups, patients will perform a basal evaluation with a physiotherapist, a nutritionist and a psychologist. In the treatment group, each patient will receive a tailored prehabilitative program and, during the 4 weeks before surgery, will be monitored constantly by each single specialist. A preoperative revaluation (the day before surgery) and follow up visits at 3 and 6 months will be performed for all patients. The incidence of postoperative complications, the length of hospital stay, and the reach of discharge criteria will be registered.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Multi-modal prehabilitation programs reported positive results in patients undergoing colonic resection. These protocols are, generally, based on physiotherapist, nutritional and psychological implementation programs. Nevertheless, the conflicting results obtained in previous trials demonstrate how many elements have still to be clarified and that, probably, the pre-habilitation interventions must be tailored, as much as possible, on the peculiar characteristics of each single patient, modifying the approach as a function of the clinical specific response. All these considerations suggest a strong basis for tailored interventions in patients undergoing esophageal surgery, highlighting at the same time, as concluded in a recent review, the need of further studies to better define specific peri-operative strategies. This study will be a randomized, not blind, monocentric trial, that will be conducted at Ospedale San Raffaele, Milano, Italia, between January 2018 and January 2021 (three years). 200 patients will be randomly assigned to two different groups. All the patients, included in the study, will receive a preliminary evaluation performed by different professional figures.

Physiotherapist evaluation:

All the patients of both groups will be classified according to specific tests in order to establish their basal condition. Spirometry examination, 6-minute walking test, time up and go test, steep ramp test

strength tests (target muscles will be the quadriceps and the handgrip muscles:

in both cases a specific dynamometer will be utilized) and Modified Iowa Level

of Assistance Scale (MILAS) evaluation will be performed.

The experimental group will follow a home-based prehabilitation program for four weeks; this will be tailored on the patient on the bases of the first functional evaluation and the identified needs. On day 1 the patients will attend a hospital session and will be instructed by a physiotherapist on exercises and program to follow. The patients will then receive instruction support in order to better follow and adjust the program at home. Patients will also record what they do on a diary.

The physiotherapist will make phone calls in order to supervise patients' adherence to the program and help them in adjusting it.

Prehabilitation program will comprise aerobic exercise (cyclette or treadmill, 3 times a week) and IMT (inspiration muscle training, IMT respironics Philips, daily). In adjunction to these ones, further exercises will be prescribed on the bases of the functional assessment and the identification of deficits in any functional capacity assessed and will include two of the following: airway clearance (two sessions 10' a day for 7 days a week), skeletal muscles strengthening (3 days a week), stretching (three times a week), transfer and mobility training.

The control group will follow the actual procedure usually administered prior to surgery: this comprises inspiration exercises through a spirometer incentive witho

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Post-operative complications

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03798951
