CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02860000
Title: Alisertib With or Without Fulvestrant in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic, Endocrine-Resistant Breast Cancer
Official Title: Randomized Phase II Trial to Evaluate Alisertib Alone or Combined With Fulvestrant for Women With Advanced, Endocrine-Resistant Breast Cancer
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This phase II trial studies how well alisertib with or without fulvestrant works in treating patients with endocrine-resistant breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Alisertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells or reducing the amount of estrogen made by the body. Giving alisertib with or without fulvestrant may be better in treating patients with breast cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact on objective tumor response rate (using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria) with the addition of fulvestrant to alisertib in women with endocrine resistant, advanced estrogen receptor positive breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety profile of each treatment regimen. II. To assess the impact on median progression-free survival with the addition of fulvestrant to alisertib.

III. To obtain estimated tumor response rate and the median progression-free survival time during alisertib and fulvestrant treatment in the cohort of patients who progress during alisertib monotherapy, and crossover to receive the combination of alisertib and fulvestrant.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the changes in aurora A kinase, SMAD5 and SOX2 expression and phosphorylation in tumor tissue after first cycle of assigned treatment.

II. To assess the changes in estrogen receptor (ER) expression and function in tumor tissue after the first cycle of assigned treatment.

III. To generate patient derived xenografts (PDX) from tumors collected at baseline and progression of disease (PD) in order to identify mechanisms associated with both de novo and acquired alisertib resistance.

IV. After the first cycle of treatment, to assess changes in aurora A kinase, phosphorylated (p)\~SOX2 and ER expression on circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and to assess concordance between change in expression with tumor tissue and CTCs.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression, may cross-over to Arm II.

ARM II: Patients receive fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) over 1-2 minutes on days 1 and 15 of course 1 and on day 1 of all subsequent courses. Patients also receive alisertib PO BID on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5 years.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tumor Response Rate Defined as 100% Times the Number of Patients Who Meet the Criteria for Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Using RECIST Criteria Version 1.1

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Alisertib
  - DRUG: Fulvestrant
  - OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02860000
