CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05302492
Title: Elderly Sleep Disturbance Through Home Care Solution
Official Title: Feasibility of Improvement for Elderly Sleep Disturbance Through Home Care Solution
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 107
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Humans spend a third of their time on sleep. Therefore, maintaining a deep, stable and consistent sleep is very important for a good quality of life. Aging is often related to a decrease in the ability to fall asleep and maintain sleep. Getting older, various factors can worsen the normal sleep process, which is essential for restoring function and body function. Aging-related diseases, life changes, or own aging can disrupt the normal sleep cycle and seriously affect healthy aging. For example, the circadian rhythm and sleep consolidation will be broken with normal aging. These changes may lead to aging, or become part of the risk factors for diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. How to avoid disability and dementia by improving the quality of sleep to make the elderly healthy and aging, will bring huge effects to the economy, society, and health care.

From this plan, investigators will participate in an integrated plan (main plan)-" Integrating Systematic Data of Geriatric Medicine to Explore the Solution for Healthy Aging". In the main plan, 500 subjects will be enrolled. All subjects consent to provide medical record and will be tested for sarcopenia, including body composition, 4-meter walk, handgrip strength. The subjects screened sleep-affected subjects. It is estimated that 250 people will be invited for home sleep testing, such as continuous positive pressure breathing aid (CPAP) for sleep apnea (OSA) (approximately 120 subjects). For non-OSA and non-periodic limb movement disorder (PLMS) sleep problems, take a phototherapy program (about 60 subjects). The following goals are expected to be achieved:

1. Link to the main project to explore the correlation between common sleep disorders in the elderly and blood pressure, cognition, sarcopenia, metabolomics or intestinal microbiome
2. To verify the prognosis of sleep apnea and sleep disorders after intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline PSQI ( Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index ) at 3 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: CPAP
  - DEVICE: Light box

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05302492
