CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06583707
Title: Real Dry Needling and Placebo Dry Needling Applied With and Without Ultrasound Guidance on the Infraspinatus Muscle
Official Title: Effect of the Application of Real Dry Needling and Placebo Dry Needling Applied With and Without Ultrasound Guidance on the Infraspinatus Muscle in Shoulder Pain and Functionality in Patients Diagnosed With Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The infraspinatus muscle is one of the four muscles that form the rotator cuff. The dry needling technique involves inserting a sterile needle to stimulate a myofascial trigger point with the aim of reducing pain and increasing range of motion and quality of life. This technique can be performed using ultrasound guidance, which allows us to visualize the needle at all times, but it can also be done using anatomical landmarks. This study includes a self-directed exercise plan for rotator cuff tendinopathy. Variables such as strength, shoulder functionality level, grip strength, and active range of motion will be measured. As part of the intervention, two dry needling sessions will be performed, 14 days apart, along with two different exercise programs. Three measurements will be taken, and the intervention will last for 6 weeks. The sample will be divided into four equal groups: Group 1: ultrasound-guided real dry needling; Group 2: ultrasound-guided placebo dry needling; Group 3: non-ultrasound-guided real dry needling; and Group 4: non-ultrasound-guided placebo dry needling

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pathologies affecting the rotator cuff are the most common among shoulder patho-logies. The infraspinatus muscle is one of the four muscles that make up the rotator cuff. Dry needling is a technique used to reduce pain and increase the range of motion. The ul-trasound-guided technique involves using an ultrasound device to visualize the needle and guide it to the target tissue. Physical exercise helps improve tendon recovery. Objective: To evaluate the effect of real dry needling and placebo dry needling, whether ultrasound-guided or not, on pain (VAS), shoulder functionality (SPADI questionnaire), grip strength (Jamar dynamometer), and ac-tive range of motion (electronic goniometer). A total of 76 subjects diagnosed by a physician with rotator cuff tendinopathy based on imaging, aged between 18 and 60 years, and meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria, were divided into 4 groups: Group 1 (real ultrasound-guided dry needling on the infraspinatus muscle + exercise), Group 2 (placebo ultrasound-guided dry needling on the infraspinatus muscle + exercise), Group 3 (real non-ultrasound-guided dry needling on the infraspinatus muscle + exercise), and Group 4 (placebo non-ultrasound-guided dry needling on the infraspinatus muscle + exercise). The dry needling technique will be applied twice: at the beginning and at 14 days. The intervention duration is 6 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain (VAS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Dry needling with and without ultrasound guidance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06583707
