CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06104800
Title: Effect of Weight Loss on Hepcidin Levels and Iron Status in Subjects With Obesity.
Official Title: Effect of Weight Loss on Hepcidin Levels and Iron Status in Subjects With Obesity.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Obesity and iron deficiency are the nutritional disorders with the highest prevalence worldwide. Different mechanisms have been proposed to explain iron deficiency secondary to obesity. Among the most studied is the deficit in dietary iron intake or the increase in blood volume that increases the need for the metal. However, one of the most plausible mechanisms linking obesity and iron deficiency is low-grade systemic inflammation, through the iron metabolism intermediate known as hepcidin. The investigators objective is to evaluate the effect of weight loss by caloric restriction on hepcidin and serum iron concentration in people living with obesity and iron deficiency. The study will be divided into two phases: Phase 1: A cross-sectional study (cases and controls) to compare hepcidin levels, iron status and inflammatory markers in people living with and without obesity. The second phase consists of an open-label randomized controlled clinical trial. Individuals living with obesity who are iron deficient will be recruited and randomized to one of 2 dietary intervention groups with 60-day follow-up. The intervention groups will be: diet with caloric restriction rich in protein (with red meat) and diet with caloric restriction rich in protein (without red meat). Hepcidin levels, iron status and inflammatory markers will be determined at the beginning and end of the intervention. The nutritional intervention will have the following distribution of macronutrients in the diet: protein 1.5 g/kg of ideal weight, 50% carbohydrates and 25-30% fats.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will consist of two phases: Phase 1, which will be cross-sectional, and Phase 2, which will involve a randomized controlled clinical trial.

Phase 1: Cross-Sectional Study A cross-sectional study will be conducted to compare hepcidin levels, iron status and inflammatory markers in people living with and without obesity. Upon obtaining signed consent, participants will undergo a medical history assessment, anthropometric measurements (weight, height, waist circumference), body composition analysis (% body fat, % skeletal muscle mass, % fat-free mass), and blood samples will be collected to determine serum hepcidin levels, iron status, inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, lipopolysaccharides), and oxidative stress markers (MDA).

Additional blood samples will be taken for biochemical tests (glucose, lipid profile, creatinine, urea, liver function tests), insulin, leptin, adiponectin, and, optionally, DNA isolation for polymorphisms determination and those associated with iron metabolism and obesity. Participants will also complete a food frequency questionnaire (SNUT).

Phase 2: Open randomized controlled clinical trial This phase will be conducted to assess the impact of weight loss on hepcidin levels, iron status, and inflammatory markers in individuals living with obesity. Participants recruited for this phase will be selected from those identified in the first phase who exhibit iron deficiency (serum iron \< 50 mcg/dL).

Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two dietary intervention groups, both of which will undergo a 60-day follow-up period with a calorie-restricted diet, reducing caloric intake by less than 25% of the resting energy expenditure determined by indirect calorimetry. The intervention groups will be as follows:

* Calorie-restricted diet with macronutrient distribution: 1.5 g/kg of ideal body weight in protein (including red meat), 50% carbohydrates, and 25-30% fats.
* Calorie-restricted diet with macronutrient distribution: 1.5 g/kg of ideal body weight in protein (excluding red meat), 50% carbohydrates, and 25-30% fats.

Additionally, all participants will receive ferrous sulfate 200mg every 48 hours for three months to correct iron-deficiency anemia.

During the initial and final visits, participants will undergo a 24-hour dietary recall, complete a physical activity questionnaire, and fill out a quality-of-life questionnaire. Additionally, anthropometric measurements and body composition analysis will be conducted. Blood samples will be collected to determine various biochemical parameters in the blood, including lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides), liver function tests, glucose, insulin, creatinine, urea, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein and lipopolysaccharides), and iron status markers. Furthermore, stool samples will be collected to analyze the composition of the intestinal microbiota and metabolomics.


PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Serum iron concentration in mcg/dL
  - Serum hepcidin concentration in mcg/dL

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Calorie-restricted diet with red meat
  - OTHER: Calorie-restricted diet without red meat

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06104800
