CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06235762
Title: The Effects of Nutritional Intervention on Health Parameters in Participants With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Official Title: Nutritional Intervention, Glycemic Control and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Participants With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effects of nutritional intervention on anthropometric, biochemical and cardiovascular parameters in participants with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Participants will be distributed into 2 groups (control and intervention). Participants in the control group will only undergo conventional medical assessment and participants in the intervention group will receive the same medical care, concomitantly with nutritional assessment. The nutritional intervention is expected to reduce anthropometric data, glycemic and cardiovascular parameters in participants with T2DM, as opposed to the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of this clinical trial is: 1- Evaluate the effects of nutritional intervention on anthropometric parameters {Weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), Waist Circumference and Waist Hip Ratio (WHR)}, biochemical parameters {Fasting blood glucose, Glycated Hemoglobin (HbA1c), Total Cholesterol ( TC), LDL Cholesterol (LDL-C), HDL Cholesterol (HDL-C) and Triglycerides} and cardiovascular {Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP), Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) and Heart Rate (HR)}. 2- Evaluate behavioral patterns related to lifestyle, such as skipping breakfast, sleep quality (induction, maintenance and awakenings) and frequency of physical activity. 3-Support knowledge to the participant to build eating autonomy, consequently improving quality of life in the long term.

This research will recruit participants diagnosed with T2DM (of both sexes aged between 18 and 80 years), at the Diabetes Outpatient Clinic and Hypertension at the Faculty of Medicine of São José do Rio Preto. The interventions will be distributed in quarterly meetings. Participants will be randomly distributed into 2 groups (control and the intervention group). The 40 participants in the control group will only undergo conventional medical evaluation and the 40 Participants in the intervention group will undergo the same medical care, concomitantly with nutritional assessment. Nutritional services will be made up of: A) Application of protocols (1-Nutritional History - Anthropometric, Biochemical and Clinical; 2-Habitual Food Record; 3-Sociodemographic protocol); B) Delivery of nutritional guidelines; C) Preparation of an individualized eating plan (inspired by the Mediterranean Diet and DASH diet with moderate carbohydrate content and restriction of saturated fats).

It is expected that interventions modulate the recovery of nutritional status, dietary inadequacies, parameters anthropometric, biochemical, cardiovascular and clinics, thus improving quality of life and reducing the risk of events in participants with T2DM in long term. In this way, the participants in treatment with nutritional support will be able to achieve greater benefit, maximizing the construction of a process of autonomy to feed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight (kg)
  - Body Mass Index (kg/m²).
  - Waist circumference (cm)
  - Waist Hip Ratio (WHR) [Waist circumference (cm)/hip circumference(cm)]
  - fasting blood glucose concentration (mg/dl)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutritional Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06235762
