CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02843048
Title: Bariatric Surgery and Exercise Bone Trial
Official Title: BaSEIB Clinical Trial - Bariatric Surgery and Exercise Intervention Bone Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 86
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Despite being effective in weight reduction in severely obese patients, bariatric surgery (BS) negatively influences bone metabolism and increases the risk of falls thereby potentially increasing the risk of fracture. The mechanisms of BS induced bone loss are unknown but may be related to calcium and vitamin D malabsorption, changes in the energy regulation metabolism and gastrointestinal hormonal physiology. Since the etiology of BS induced bone loss is largely unknown, treatment relies mostly on calcium and vitamin D supplementation, which provide little benefit.

Exercise is an effective strategy to prevent bone mass losses in several health conditions. However, no study so far has examined the effects of an exercise-training program in the prevention of BS induced bone loss. The investigators main goal is to investigate the effects on bone metabolism and fracture risk of an exercise-training program specifically tailored to improve bone health and balance of patients that underwent BS. The investigators will perform a randomized controlled trial on obese patients (n=80; BMI\>40 Kg.m-2) elected to BS. Patients will be randomly assigned into 2 groups i) a group receiving standard follow-up and medical care, or ii) a group that will undergo a 11 months' Exercise Training program designed to improve bone health and reduce fall risk plus the standard follow-up and medical care. All patients will be assessed i) before the surgery, ii) one month, iii) 6 months, and iv) 12 months after the surgery. Assessments include: biochemical markers of bone turnover (BTM), BMD, bone tissue biomechanical properties, hormones involved in the regulation of energy, gastrointestinal and bone metabolism, body composition, BMI, nutritional intake, balance, muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness and daily physical activity. These evaluations will allow the investigators to understand the effects of an exercise-training program on bone metabolism of BS patients, contributing also to further elucidate the mechanisms underlying BS induced bone loss and fracture risk increase. The investigators will use established methods in the literature as well as novel procedures, which will enable them to overcome some of the limitations of previous studies. At the end of the study the investigators expect to have collected consistent data about whether an exercise-training program is or is not able to effectively prevent BS induced bone losses and fracture risk increases.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators main goal is to determine if an Exercise-Training Intervention program (ETI) tailored to improve bone health, strength and balance, is effective in preventing Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) induced fracture risk. To achieve this the investigators will perform a randomized clinical trial (RCT) on volunteer obese patients (BMI\>35 Kg.m-2) undergoing RYGB that will be followed for 13-months (Figure 1). The patients will be recruited, operated and will receive follow-up medical care in the Department of General Surgery from the Centro Hospitalar de São João E.P.E (DSHSJ). After being elected for RYGB and if inclusion and exclusion criteria are met, patients who decide to join the study will be randomly assigned to either i) participate in a 11 months duration ETI tailored to improve bone health and reduce fall risk in addition to the standard follow-up medical care (MFU) (ETI+MFU group), or ii) will receive only MFU (control group). Recruiting patients from only one institution will increase the likelihood of all patients receiving the same surgical and MFU care, reducing the bias related to the use of different clinical protocols. The option to include only RYGB is also to reduce the bias associated with the surgical technique. Participants allocated to the ETI+MFU group will undergo an exercise-training program of 11 months duration, 3 sessions/week, and 60 minutes/session, starting one month after the surgery. Each exercise session will be supervised and will include 5 major components: i) warm-up, ii) multidirectional jumps, iii) balance, iv) strength and, v) cool down. This structure is planned to meet two main objectives: i) enhance bone formation and, ii) reduce fall risk by improving muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness and balance. The ETI will last almost 1 year because the effects of BS on bone metabolism have been shown to be greatest during the first postoperative year (1). As the investigators main objective is to understand, in a broad perspective, the possible therapeutic benefits that an ETI has on the BS patient bone health and fracture risk, the plan is to investigate several variables in this study (bone turnover markers, bone mineral content (BMC) and density (BMD), body composition, body mass index (BMI), nutritional intake, static balance, dynamic balance, muscle strength of the lower limbs and trunk, daily physical activity, cardiorespiratory fitness, bone derived hormones, hormones involved in phosphate and calcium metabolism, adipokines, gastrointestinal and energy-metabolism hormones and gonadal hormones). These will enable the investigators to comprehensively understand the metabolic changes following BS that might affect bone health, and how can exercise influence those changes potentially preventing fracture risk increases.

Each patient will be assessed 4 times during the study (Figure 1). Each assay will match the monitoring protocols already scheduled by the DSHSJ for all patients undergoing B

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bone mineral density
  - Biochemical marker of bone resorption
  - Bone Material Strength index (BMSi)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise training program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard medical care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02843048
