CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05031598
Title: Long-term Fasting: Multi-system Adaptations in Humans
Official Title: Long-term Fasting: Multi-system Adaptations in Humans
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this trial is to investigate the effects of long-term fasting on size, mass, composition and function of metabolic active tissues in several organs that reexpand possibly rejuvenated after 1-4 months. Additionally, the lipid metabolism is investigated in depth.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fasting displays numerous positive effects on metabolism, health and aging. Surprisingly, few considerations are given to long-term fasting periods.

The metabolic switch from food-derived glucose to adipose tissue-derived fatty acids and ketones as primary cellular fuel is the key to fasting metabolism. Fasting has been shown to improve cardiovascular risk factors and gut microbiota in humans. It provokes profound changes in lipid metabolism. However, many questions are still open concerning the mobilization, exchange, and function of lipids during long-term fasting. Furthermore, recent results show the ability of periodic restrictive nutritional strategies to trigger organ regeneration. This promising regenerative power has not been investigated comprehensively in humans. In addition, the knowledge about the role of human faecal microbiota in health and disease is increasing. Only little is known about its composition and function during fasting. We found indications that the gut microbiome could influence energy metabolism and consequently could influence the dynamic of the metabolic switch.

Long-term fasting under medical supervision according to the Buchinger Wilhelmi fasting program has been demonstrated to be safe and well-tolerated.

The current project investigates the effects of a 9±3 days fasting period by a multi-systemic approach focusing on lipid metabolism and the gut microbiome in 100 subjects. Additionally, the body composition in combination with muscle performance will be analyzed in-depth in a subgroup of 32 subjects.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in whole body composition
  - Changes in the composition of the heart
  - Changes in the composition of the liver
  - Changes in the composition of the kidney
  - Changes in the composition of the spleen

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Long-term fasting according to the Buchinger Wilhelmi fasting program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05031598
