CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05489627
Title: Medial Collateral Ligament Reconstruction With Anteromedial Reinforcement for Medial and Anteromedial Rotatory Knee Instability
Official Title: Medial Collateral Ligament Reconstruction With Anteromedial Reinforcement for Medial and Anteromedial Rotatory Knee Instability
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to assess the outcomes of the combined quadriceps tendon-bone (QTB) ACLR and MCLR with anteromedial reinforcement performed as described in the published technique: K. Malinowski, K. Hermanowicz, A. Góralczyk, R.F. LaPrade, Medial Collateral Ligament Reconstruction With Anteromedial Reinforcement for Medial and Anteromedial Rotatory Instability of the Knee, Arthrosc. Tech. 8 (2019) e807-e814. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eats.2019.03.019.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries are one of the most common sports knee injuries, commonly occuring together with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Their effect on the knee joint can be detrimental with patients experiencing medial instability and anteromedial rotatory instability (AMRI), leading to progressive damage of the intraarticular structures. While healing potential of medial knee stabilizing structures is relatively high, medial collateral ligament reconstruction (MCLR) is sometimes indicated. Multiple reconstructions techniques were described, including both procedures utilizing native semitendinosus tendon with distal attachment left intact as well as with auto- or allo-grafts. However, in part of these techniques, AMRI is not addressed.

Therefore, the aim of this study is to assess the outcomes of the combined quadriceps tendon-bone (QTB) ACLR and MCLR with anteromedial reinforcement performed as described in the published technique: K. Malinowski, K. Hermanowicz, A. Góralczyk, R.F. LaPrade, Medial Collateral Ligament Reconstruction With Anteromedial Reinforcement for Medial and Anteromedial Rotatory Instability of the Knee, Arthrosc. Tech. 8 (2019) e807-e814. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eats.2019.03.019.

The primary outcome consists of The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC) and the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The functional assessment with the The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC)
  - The functional assessment with the The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC)
  - The functional assessment with the The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC)
  - The functional assessment with the The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC)
  - The functional assessment with the The International Knee Documentation Committee Questionnaire (IKDC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Medial Collateral Ligament Reconstruction With Anteromedial Reinforcement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05489627
