CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06662916
Title: Gut Microbiota Diversity: Wrong Message in Autism, Wrong Architecture in Formation
Official Title: Microbiota-Diversity Enhancing Diet on Children With Autism Spectrum Disorder: The MIND-DASE Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
Our dietary diversity has changed day by day in industrial age. A low dietary diversity may alter gut microbiota diversity and functional capacity. Wrong messages sourced from gut microbiota were speculated to have a bad influence on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) severity. A new nutritional model aiming to increase microbiota diversity in children with ASD can improve social and communicative behaviors in these children. The investigators compared 220 ASD patients who regularly followed a specific diet program for at least 12 months with randomly selected 100 children with ASD who did not have diet compliance in terms of nutritional status and regular behavioral assessments with special scales (ATEC, ABC, QoLA-P scales). The investigators arised a question that the Microbiota-Diversity Enhancing Diet on Children with ASD (MIND-DASE) which is a specific dietary intervention may have benefits on the neurodevelopmental outcomes of children with ASD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Since industrialization has altered human diet models, we faced with a low dietary diversity, reduced gut microbiota diversity and functional capacity day by day. These changes in gut microbiota have been speculated to associate with severity of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The investigators researched the possible therapeutic effects of a new nutritional model aiming to increase microbiota diversity in children with ASD. Question is: Can we improve social and communicative behaviors in children with ASD by increasing microbiota diversity through a specific diet? A total of 2000 children diagnosed with ASD and followed in Autism Nutrition Research Center in investigators' hospital were screened: a) a total of 220 participants aged between 2-18 years who regularly followed the specific diet program for at least 12 months were identified as a study group, and b) randomly selected 100 children with ASD who did not have diet compliance were identified as control group. Assessments included dietary adherence and behavioral evaluations using baseline, 6th and 12th month Autism Treatment and Evaluation Checklist (ATEC), Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC), ThEQuality of Life in Autism Questionnaire- Parent version (QoLA-P) scales. The investigators compared diet and non-diet groups by evaluating demographic data, clinical symptoms, diet compliance status and ATEC, ABC, and QoLA-P scores in 12-month time period. The investigators foced on The Microbiota-Diversity Enhancing Diet on Children with ASD (MIND-DASE) which is a specific dietary intervention may have significant benefits on the neurodevelopmental outcomes of children with ASD.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in ATEC scores in diet (study) and non-diet (control) ASD participants from baseline to 1 year period.
  - Changes in ABC scores in diet (study) and non-diet (control) ASD participants from baseline to 1 year period.
  - Changes QoLA-P scores in diet (study) and non-diet (control) ASD participants from baseline to 1 year period.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Microbiota-Diversity Enhancing Diet on children with Autism Spectrum Disorder

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06662916
