CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03317977
Title: Translating an Efficacious Illness Management Intervention for Youth With Asthma
Official Title: Translating an Efficacious Illness Management Intervention for Youth With Poorly Controlled Asthma to Real World Settings
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The propose of the study is to test the effectiveness of Reach for Control (RFC) as compared to Michigan MATCH to improve asthma symptoms, asthma management and lung functioning and to decrease ED visits and admissions for youth with poorly controlled asthma when integrated into hospital emergency departments and delivered by community health workers. The study is a hybrid implementation-effectiveness design and will test RFC for use in real world, public healthcare settings.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study was conducted in the emergency department at Children's Hospital of Michigan; CHM). 170 adolescents with poorly controlled asthma and their primary caregivers will be enrolled. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, families were randomly assigned to six months of home-based family treatment consisting of either RFC or Michigan MATCH , a model program endorsed by the State of Michigan for treatment of poorly controlled asthma. Subsequently, all intervention content in both arms was delivered by telehealth. Treatment content of RFC consists of weekly sessions focusing on asthma education, asthma management skills, improving home-school community for asthma, access to care and case management. MATCH includes asthma education but is less intensive and does not focus on family management skills. Treatment was provided by community health workers (CHWs) employed by a community agency providing MATCH as their standard of care. Consent and data collection was completed at baseline with additional data collection visits at 6, 12 and 18 months after baseline. Data collection was completed by project research assistants and consists of questionnaires and interviews with the adolescent and parent to assess asthma management, asthma symptoms and hospital utilization. The data analyses were intent-to-treat, meaning that all randomized participants are included regardless of the intervention dose received. Trial data were analyzed using linear mixed effect models.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Emergency Department Visits

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Reach for Control
  - BEHAVIORAL: MATCH

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03317977
