CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03764397
Title: Prehabilitation for Being Active. A Feasibility Study in Fibromyalgia
Official Title: Development and Piloting of a Prehabilitation Behavioural Change and Physical Activity Intervention for Fibromyalgia Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Twelve people with FM will be recruited from the FM patient support groups. The investigators will develop and test a 4-week prehabilitation educational programme (i.e., a behavioural change intervention) consisting of meeting once per week (each approximately 1 - 1.5 hours). These dynamic and interactive meetings will focus on education and skills training in: exercise, activity cycling, pacing, causes of symptoms in FM (pain, fatigue, sleep dysfunction) and their management.

Participants will be taught to set specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and timed goals (SMART principle) that are valuable or meaningful to them. To do so, the participants will identify a 'committed action' plan. The principles of cognitive behavioural therapy will be used to address maladaptive thoughts (e.g., catastrophizing and fear avoidance) and to manage stress (e.g., skills of relaxation). Participants will learn how to use of pedometers to monitor physical activity.

After the 4-week prehabilitation educational programme, the participants will be encouraged to engage in a 6-week gentle self-paced walking programme (with weekly telephone support).

The 6-week walking programme will consist of a simple pedometer-driven intervention.

Furthermore, the research team will telephone each participant at a prearranged time each week to discuss progress, to document mean daily step count and to discuss a new physical activity target (step count) for the subsequent week. Participants will record daily step counts (pedometer-derived) in a walking dairy which will be used as raw data and mean steps per day calculated. Where a participant declines telephone support, an alternative weekly email or text/WhatsApp messages will be offered instead, where the same information will be given and requested.

Before (baseline measurements) and right after the completion of the 4-week prehabilitation educational programme as well as the 6-week gentle self-paced walking programme the same measurements will be taken. By doing so, the investigators will evaluate short and mid-term changes promoted by the prehabilitation programme. The participants will fill out the following questionnaires: the Revised FM Impact Questionnaire, Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory, Short-Form 36-item Health Survey, International Physical Activity Questionnaire, Sedentary Behaviour Questionnaire, Exercise Self Efficacy Questionnaire, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire, and the modified 2011 preliminary FM criteria questionnaire.

Right after the completion of the prehabiliation intervention, all the participants will fill out the treatment acceptability and credibility questionnaire. Right after the completion of the walking programme, participants will be interviewed (semistructured face-to-face exit interview lasting about 30-45 minutes) to explore their experiences of the study including barriers to participation.

The main outcome of the study will be acceptability and credibility of the prehabilitation intervention (treatment acceptability and credibility questionnaire. Additionally, the success of the prehabilitation programme will be based on (i) number of sessions attended (\>80%), (ii) number of drop outs (\<15%) and reasons for early withdrawal, (iii) number of screening questionnaires completed and returned (\>80%).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acceptability and credibility of the prehabilitation intervention
  - Number of sessions attended
  - Number of drop outs and reasons for early withdrawal
  - Number of questionnaires completed and returned

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Prehabilitation for behavioural change

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03764397
