CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03096951
Title: Prehabilitation in Colorectal Cancer
Official Title: Prehabilitation Before Surgery in Colorectal Cancer With Improved Fast Track Rehabilitation : Part 1
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Objectives To investigate the impact of tele-supervised prehabilitation on functional capacity in colon cancer patients undergoing colorectal resection for cancer and to evaluate the effects of prehabilitation on muscle strength and endurance, quality of life (QoL), executive functions, fatigue and inflammatory and metabolic parameters.

Methods A randomized controlled trial will be conducted. Patients will be randomised into either a prehabilitation group or a control group. The prehabilitation group will receive tele-supervised prehabilitation for 4weeks and telerehabilitation for 8weeks post-surgery while control group will begin telerehabilitation only after surgery for 8weeks. Patients will care with an enhanced recovery pathway. Telerehabilitation pre and post-surgery will consist of three moderate-intensity aerobic and resistance sessions per week. Subjects will be assessed at baseline, pre-intervention, post-intervention and post-rehabilitation. The primary outcome will be functional capacity measured using the 6-min walk test. The secondary outcomes will be: physical measurement, quality of life, level of physical activity, executive functions, fatigue, body composition, blood test, energy expenditure.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study objectives Primary objective: The investigators want to assess if a tele-supervised prehabilitation improves preoperative cardio-respiratory fitness in colon cancer patients in the setting of an enhanced recovery pathway.

Secondary objectives

* The investigators want to examine if this tele-supervised prehabilitation has beneficial effects on muscle strength and endurance, on quality of life, on executive functions, on fatigue, on inflammatory parameters and on metabolic disruption pre-surgery.
* The investigators want to determine whether changes in the preoperative period remain in the postoperative period after 8 weeks of telerehabilitation.

Rationale and scientific background:

In Belgium, colon cancer is the third most common cancer in men and the second most common in women and is the second cause of cancer death. Surgery is currently the primary treatment for stage I to III. This surgery benefits from several years of multimodal program, commonly called "Fast Track" program or enhanced recovery. Nowadays, the lack of preoperative fitness is not specifically taken into account in the Fast Track program. Nevertheless, studies have shown that patients with poor preoperative physical fitness are less able to cope with the adverse effects of surgery and hospitalization resulting in increased risk of mortality, postoperative complications and functional recovery time. It seems relevant to intervene during the preoperative period to improve the patient's functional capacity before the surgery, via physical training to overcome the stress of the surgery and to improve postoperative recovery. This process is called "prehabilitation" Structured and supervised programs have shown to be effective and feasible. However, time, resources, expensive care are often a barrier for the patient. Thereby, a home-based tele-supervising rehabilitation would be an attractive therapeutic option to offer a distinct advantage in this regard. More specifically, "telerehabilitation can be defined as the application of telecommunication, remote sensing and operation technologies, and computing technologies to assist with the provision of medical rehabilitation services at a distance".

Study design A single-blind, randomized, controlled trial will be conducted. Participants will be randomized into either a prehabilitation group or a rehabilitation group. Participants in both groups will care in an Fast Track Program. An assessor who will be blinded to group allocation will collect outcomes measures for each participant.

To be eligible for this study participants will need to meet the following criteria: Diagnosis of colon cancer requiring surgery; more than 50 years of age; autonomous and voluntary person; able to read, write and understand French; Participants will be excluded if the participants have a physical impairment that would seriously impair physical mobility; have an unfavorable familial context; have a stoma; have an American Society of Anesthesiol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in cardiorespiratory fitness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Prehabilitation
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03096951
