CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07237490
Title: Effectiveness of Modified Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy Delivered Via Telerehabilitation in Children With Unilateral Cerebral Palsy: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: In Our Prospective and Randomized Controlled Study, 42 Children With Unilateral Cerebral Palsy Were Included and Randomized as the mCIMT Group Delivered Via Telerehabilitation (n=21) and the Control Group (n=21). The First Group Received mCIMT Treatment Together With Telerehabilitation for 1 Hour, 3 Times a Week for 6 Weeks. In Addition, 30 Minutes of Indoor Activity Practices Were Performed Every Day. The Second Group Received a Home Program Under the Supervision of Parents for 1 Hour, 3 Times a Week for 6 Weeks.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Aim:In this prospective and randomized controlled thesis study; we aimed to compare Modified Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy (mCIMT) delivered via Telerehabilitation with the home program in children with Unilateral Cerebral Palsy (CP) and to determine whether Telerehabilitation has a positive effect on upper extremity functions and quality of life.

Method: In our prospective and randomized controlled study, 42 children with unilateral cerebral palsy were included and randomized as the mCIMT group delivered via Telerehabilitation (n=21) and the control group (n=21).

The first group received mCIMT treatment together with Telerehabilitation for 1 hour, 3 times a week for 6 weeks. In addition, 30 minutes of indoor activity practices were performed every day.

The second group received a home program under the supervision of parents for 1 hour, 3 times a week for 6 weeks.

.In the randomized double-blind study, initial assessments, post-treatment and follow-up assessments were performed by the researcher who was blinded to the group distribution.

The primary outcome measure was the Assisting Hand Assessment (AHA), which was used to evaluate upper extremity function. The researcher administering this assessment was blinded to group allocation. Secondary outcome measures included the Modified Jebsen Taylor Hand Function Test, range of motion assessed with a goniometer, spasticity evaluated using the Modified Ashworth Scale, grip strength measured with a Jamar dynamometer, manual ability classified using the Manual Ability Classification System (MACS), activities of daily living assessed by ABILHAND-Kids, and quality of life evaluated using the KINDL questionnaire.

Post-treatment assessments were performed at the beginning of the study and 6 weeks after treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assisting Hand Assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mCIMT via Telerehabilitation
  - OTHER: home exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07237490
