CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06999772
Title: Combining Brain Stimulation and Physiotherapy for the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Combining Non-invasive Brain Stimulation and Physiotherapy to Improve the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain in Veterans
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is a major health challenge in Canada, leading to substantial disability and socioeconomic burden, particularly among Veterans. In military Veterans, LBP is the most common chronic pain condition. Conventional interventions have limited effectiveness. The refractoriness to interventions suggests that specific CLBP mechanisms may be missed by current treatments, prompting a shift towards psychologically informed approaches which aim to address emotional and cognitive factors alongside biomedical aspects. The integration of these concepts into physiotherapy is called psychologically informed physiotherapy (PIP). Despite promising results of PIP from randomized controlled trials, residual pain and disability often persist in Veterans. Non-invasive brain stimulation, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), may enhance the effectiveness of PIP by modulating cognition, emotion, and pain. This proposal seeks to determine whether non-invasive brain stimulation can enhance the effects of PIP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will compare the effects of (1) combining rTMS with PIP, (2) PIP alone (+sham rTMS), and (3) usual physiotherapy (UP) on physical functioning in Veterans suffering from CLBP and comorbid psychological factors associated with back pain. Participants will undergo an 8-week intervention program. Validated questionnaires will be used to measure outcomes at baseline, 2-, 8-, and 26-week follow-ups. The main objective is to determine if the combination of PIP and rTMS is superior to PIP and UP alone to improve physical functioning in Veterans suffering from CLBP and comorbid psychological factors.

The secondary objectives are to compare the effectiveness of these interventions on secondary outcomes, that are, pain intensity, quality of life, movement pain-related fear, pain catastrophizing, self-efficacy, depression symptoms, medication use and post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical functioning (ODI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Active rTMS
  - DEVICE: Sham rTMS
  - OTHER: Psychologically-informed physiotherapy (PIP)
  - OTHER: Usual physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06999772
