CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05096013
Title: Nutritional Therapy in Patients at Risk for Malnutrition and Sarcopenia in Pulmonary Rehabilitation
Official Title: Effect of Individual Nutritional Therapy in Patients at Risk for Malnutrition and Sarcopenia in Pulmonary Rehabilitation - a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Malnutrition and sarcopenia (muscle wasting) are common in health care settings and represent a health and economic burden due to associated increased mortality and prolonged hospital stays. Nutritional therapy co-management is recommended for both diagnoses.

This study investigates the efficacy of individualized nutrition therapy (iNT) in pulmonary rehabilitation. Patients at significant risk for malnutrition already receive iNT within clinical routine during rehabilitation. The investigators will investigate if patients with only mild to moderate risk of malnutrition and possible sarcopenia also benefit from iNT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The participating patients are randomly assigned to two groups after giving written consent.

The intervention group receives individual counseling by nutrition therapists twice a week in addition to the usual rehabilitation program. The iNT determines the energy and protein needs of the patients and creates targeted individual measures to achieve them. Measures may include, for example, adjustments to the meal plan or nutritional supplementation. The measures are continuously adapted to the patients' needs.

The control group also receives soup fortified with a standard amount of protein and fat and, if needed, an energy- and protein-rich dessert option as part of the rehabilitation routine care for patients at risk for malnutrition. However, patients from the control group do not receive additional counseling or adjustment by the iNT.

Patients' energy and protein intake will be recorded on three subsequent days at start of rehabilitation and at three subsequent days before discharge. Average duration of rehabilitation is expected to be three weeks. As primary outcome, change in energy intake will be compared between groups. Additionally, change in protein intake and other follow-up parameters of nutritional status and sarcopenia will be examined.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Energy intake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: individual nutritional therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05096013
