CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00030953
Title: Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy to Evaluate Tourette s Syndrome
Official Title: Evaluation of Tourette's Syndrome With Multimetabolite H-Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy at 3T
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study will use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of the brain to try to gain a better understanding of the disease process in Tourette s syndrome, a neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by motor and vocal tics. Tourette s syndrome is also associated with behavioral and emotional disturbances, including symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). MRI and MRS show chemical substances in the brain. Findings in normal volunteers will be compared with those of patients.

Healthy volunteers and patients with Tourette s syndrome 14 years of age and older may be eligible for this study. Volunteers will be screened with a medical history and physical and neurological examinations. Patients will be screened through NINDS protocol 93-N-0202.

Participants will undergo MRI and MRS. MRI uses a strong magnetic field and radio waves to visualize brain anatomy and chemistry. For this study, the subject lies on a stretcher, which is moved into a strong magnetic field (the MRI scanner). Earplugs are worn to muffle loud thumping noises caused by the electrical switching of the radio frequency circuits. During the study, the subject lies still during each scan, for 1 to 8 minutes at a time. Total scanning time varies from 20 minutes to 2 hours, with most examinations lasting between 45 and 90 minutes. The subject can speak through an intercom with the staff member performing the study at all times during the procedure. Up to 5 studies may be performed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVE

The purpose of this study is to obtain a better understanding of the pathophysiology of Tourette's Syndrome (TS) with nuclear magnetic spectroscopic imaging. The basal ganglia have been implicated in the origin of tics, and we plan to use spectroscopy to determine whether there is any neuronal degeneration or a decrease in aminobutyric acid (GABA) within the basal ganglia, thalamus, or frontal cortex of patients with TS when compared to normal individuals.

STUDY POPULATION

This research will be conducted using patients with TS and normal volunteers.

DESIGN

Patients and normal volunteers will be scanned with 3 Tesla General Electric (GE) magnetic resonance imager using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to measure N-acetylaspartate, choline, creatine, lactate and GABA.

OUTCOME MEASURES

Concentrations of metabolites will be compared between two groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  Not specified

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00030953
