CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07316764
Title: Eccentric Cycling in Multiple Sclerosis Rehabilitation
Official Title: Eccentric Cycling : a New Training Modality in Multiple Sclerosis Rehabilitation
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The project aims to optimise functional rehabilitation programmes for people with multiple sclerosis.

Investigators are proposing eccentric cycling as a new exercise modality for treating these patients.

Based on previous results in healthy subjects, investigators will attempt to define the optimal parameters of this new modality (in terms of duration, intensity, frequency, etc.).

Investigators also aim to demonstrate the effectiveness of this training (compared to conventional training) in improving muscle function, functional capacity, perception of chronic fatigue, quality of life, physical condition, and neurological and cognitive function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Our study will focus on multiple sclerosis. For each pathology included, a "control" group will consist of patients undergoing a traditional rehabilitation program combined with a concentric cycling session. An experimental group ("eccentric rehabilitation") will consist of patients enrolled in an eccentric ergocycle training protocol paired with standard rehabilitation. In practice, a portion of the classical rehabilitation program will be replaced by either concentric or eccentric cycling, for a maximum duration of 30 minutes. Based on a preliminary study conducted in healthy subjects, a review of the existing literature, and a sample size calculation performed by the Biostatistics Department of the University Hospital of Liège, investigators aim to recruit 60 to 80 subjects per pathology (details in the appendix). Participation of pregnant women is permitted.

Type of Study

This is a prospective interventional study conducted longitudinally, with all subjects evaluated over the same time period (2025-2027). The study will take place at the Sart-Tilman sites (Blanc-Gravier, Exercise Physiology Unit) or at the CNRF in Fraiture-en-Condroz, depending on participant preference.

Neurological Pathologies Inclusion criteria

Participants must:

present with one of the following neurological disorders: Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis.

I. Eccentric Rehabilitation Program

Given the increasing clinical interest in eccentric contraction modalities for chronic diseases, a semi-recumbent eccentric ergometer has been specifically designed for clinical use. Patient installation on this device is safe and easily achievable, and the semi-recumbent position provides additional comfort during exercise. The ergometer allows secure workload control via visual feedback powered by dedicated software. The device can be transported between sites (Sart-Tilman - Fraiture - Esneux).

Experimental Protocol

This experimental study aims to establish and compare the effects of an eccentric cycling training protocol versus a traditional concentric cycling protocol performed on an ergometric bicycle. Subjects will be randomly allocated (stratified by sex and disease stage) into one of the two experimental groups. Randomization will be conducted by Mr. Benoît Vandenbroeck after encoding the relevant data in a table and assigning subjects within each stratum using random distribution.

Participants will undergo a 2-week evaluation period followed by a 12-week training program consisting of two sessions per week, for a total of 28 sessions. Sessions will take place either at the Neurological and Functional Rehabilitation Center in Fraiture-en-Condroz (CNRF) or at Blanc-Gravier (Sart-Tilman), according to participant preference. Training sessions (eccentric or concentric) will last a maximum of 30 minutes. For participants already enrolled in a rehabilitation program at the CNRF, part of their traditional session will be replaced by the cycling training.

The unusual 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Isometric Force
  - Walking distance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Eccentric training
  - OTHER: Concentric training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07316764
