CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01577576
Title: Mechanical Stress Effects on the Cardiovascular Adaptations of Peripheral Arterial Calcifications Among Athletes
Official Title: Morphological, Biomechanical and Functional Properties of the Arterial Wall of Athletes: Impact and Consequences of Mechanical Stress on the Cardiovascular Adaptations of Peripheral Arterial Calcifications
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The main objective of this study is to obtain data for the integrated analysis of morphological, functional and biomechanical parameters pertaining to lower limb arteries in various categories of elite athletes (without cardiovascular risk and practicing high- or low-impact aerobic activities which preferentially implicate lower limb activity) as compared to (each other and to) sedentary controls.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Secondary objectives of this study are:

A. Determine the presence and extent of intima-media calcifications in athletes B. Determine the relationship between these calcifications and the level, length and intensity of sports activity.

C. Determine the relationship between these properties and calcification of the arterial wall D. Analyze the relationship between the type of sports activity and properties of the arterial wall.

E. Examine the relationship between the properties of the arterial wall and peripheral perfusion pressures.

F. Examine the relationship between the properties of the arterial wall, changes in afterload, morphology and systolic heart function.

G. Analyze the relationships between the parameters characterizing the arterial wall and muscle mass of the lower limbs.

H. Analyze the relationship between the presence of intramural calcification and bone density determined by densitometry.

I. Analyze the relationship between the presence of intramural calcification and dietary protein intake and calcium.

J. Compare indices of pressure at the ankle and toe, depending on the extent of calcification.

K. Create a collection of biological samples (serum).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Presence / absence of intra parietal calcification of lower limb arteries

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01577576
