CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05261815
Title: Compare Effects of Ultrasound Therapy With High Intensity Laser Therapy for Treatment of Lumbar Disc Herniation.
Official Title: Comparative Effectivness Between Ultrasound Therapy And High Intensity Laser Therapy In The Treatment Of Lumbar Disc Herniation.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to assess and compare the effects of ultrasound therapy and High Intensity Laser Therapy, as the treatment option in case of lumbar disc herniation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A randomized control trail will be conducted in Safi teaching hospital near Riphah international university, after approval of synopsis. To evaluate the comparison and effect of Ultrasound therapy and High Intensity Laser Therapy, 30 patients will be randomly assigned to High Intensity Laser Therapy and Ultrasound group. Patients will be selected according to predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. All the patients will be evaluated by computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance of lumbar spine. Non-probability convenient sampling will be used to approach the patients in hospital. Participants received 15 treatment session of High Intensity Laser Therapy and Ultrasound therapy over a period of three consecutive weeks (five days/week). Two types of tools will be used to evaluate the find out the comparison of both groups Visual analog scale and Oswestry lowback pain disability questionnaire. Data will be collected pre-treatment and post-treatment after 15 days. Data will be analyzed by Statistical Package of Social Sciences Version 20. Difference between pre-treatment to post treatment between group will be analyzed by Mann-Whitney test, and Within group difference will be analyzed by Wilcoxon signed- rank test. The level of statistical significance will be set as p\< 0.05

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale
  - Oswestry low back pain questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ultrasound Therapy
  - OTHER: High Intensity Laser Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05261815
