CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05927324
Title: Clinician-Assisted Videofeedback Exposure-Approach Therapy (CAVEAT) Trial
Official Title: Can Clinician Assisted Videofeedback Exposure Approach Therapy (CAVEAT) Help Post-traumatically Stressed Mothers Change Their Mind About Their Toddlers?
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The first study proposed is a small (n= 10 to 12 maximum) open feasibility trial of CAVEAT which is a 16-session manualized brief psychotherapy prototcol that is designed to help mothers of infants and young children, whereby the mothers have been exposed to interpersonal violence (i.e. childhood maltreatment and family violence, intimate and non-intimate partner violence, interpersonal combat and or other forms of terrorism or political violence including physical and sexual assault) and who have developed related post-traumatic stress. The treatment uses an integration and extension of evidence-based techniques: Modified Interaction Guidance, Prolonged Exposure Therapy for PTSD, Child-Parent Psychotherapy, and Minding the Baby, in order to help mothers with post-traumatic dysregulation and difficulty in their maintaining sensitivity during challenging parent-child interactions (i.e. when mothers are confronted with child helpless states, emotion dysregulation, negative affect and child aggression). Outcome measures will initially include: maternal attributions towards her child (i.e. perception of child's personality), maternal-child behavior, and maternal-child symptoms of attachment disturbance and PTSD. This feasibility study is meant to perfect the manual and to prepare for an initial open trial with a larger clinical sample including analysis of pre- and post-intervention measures before further randomized control study can be done.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1\. SYNOPSIS OF THE STUDY Sponsor / Sponsor-Investigator Sponsor: Prof. Kerstin von Plessen Sponsor-Investigator: Prof. Daniel S. Schechter Investigator: Mrs. Sandra Rusconi Serpa, MSc, FSP Study Title Feasibility of a brief manualized psychotherapy for traumatized mothers and their young children: Clinician Assisted Videofeedback Exposure Approach Therapy (CAVEAT) Short Title / Study ID CAVEAT Feasibility Study Protocol Version and Date Version 1.0, DATE Study registration Registered on international register (clinicaltrial.gov) provisionally Study category and Rationale This feasibility study conforms to a clinical trial of category A Background and Rationale The present study aims to determine if the manualized brief psychotherapy "Clinician Assisted Videofeedback Exposure-Approach Therapy (CAVEAT)" can be administered to violence-exposed mothers and their young children (ages 1-5 years) in the ambulatory care center of a Swiss public hospital (SUPEA, CHUV) during a psychotherapy of 16 sessions. CAVEAT is based on an amalgam of four existing evidence-based psychotherapy models (Child-Parent psychotherapy, Parental Mentalization, Interaction Guidance, Prolonged Exposure) for parents, infants and young children and traumatized adults that led to the novel, core therapeutic technique developed by Prof. Schechter and colleagues "Clinician Assisted Videofeedback Exposure Session(s) or "CAVES" which has been shown to be successful in positively altering mothers' perception of their young children in two open trials. From the existing literature, the investigataors know that parent-child relationship-based psychotherapies improve significantly maternal sensitivity to their child's communication, which is in part based on maternal capacity to perceive more accurately the young child's emotional communication and to take the child's perspective. Moreover, dyadic psychotherapy models using video-feedback and support of parental mentalization have been shown across models more generally to improve thEQuality of mother-child interaction.

Risk / Benefit Assessment The risks of participating in this study are estimated as minimal (category A). The proposed intervention involves standard, validated psychotherapeutic procedures with the addition of clinician-assisted videofeedback exposure to naturalistic challenges that are typically stressful for young children and that are "in situation" by the clinician in collaboration with the child's mother during the filmed parent-child interaction sessions. This latter technique has been used without complication in both mental health referred and non-referred pediatrics samples with positive clinical effects in both studies. The investigators estimate that the risks of such an intervention are therefore limited. Though, if a matter arises that is severe, urgent or cannot be dealt with in the psychotherapy as conceived in the model, based on the therapist assessment, proper interventions and/or referrals will be ma

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CAVEAT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05927324
