CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05783674
Title: The Effect of Brain Breaks on People With Mental Health Problems
Official Title: The Effect of Physical Activity and Exercise by Brain Breaks®️ Video Games on Sleep and Life Quality of People With Mental Health Problems
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Regular physical activity (PA) and adopting an active lifestyle protect against non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, obesity, and colon cancer in the general population. However, the habit of doing regular FA in societies is quite low. It is reported that those adopting a sedentary lifestyle in the general population range from 16.3% to 39.1%, with an average of 27.5%. These values indicate that the risk of contracting non-communicable diseases can be reduced by developing the habit of doing FA for almost one-third of the population. Based on this idea, the World Health Organization has decided to increase FA by 10% among the "Nine Global Goals" it has addressed against the spread of non-communicable diseases.

People with mental health problems are less active than the general population. For example, it is reported that people diagnosed with major depression syndrome are 50% less active than their peers. Dikerson et al. reported that people with mental illnesses are 50% more obese than their peers. Verhoeven et al. They concluded that people with severe and chronic depression will age biologically earlier (7-10 years) than their peers. They emphasized the importance of lifestyle changes in the prevention of biological aging and possible diseases (coronary diseases, type-2 diabetes, obesity, dementia, cancer).

Marquez et al. also indicate that there is a significant relationship between mental illnesses and chronic medical problems such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and obesity. Therefore, increasing the habit of regular PA and exercise among people with mental health problems is important in protecting against diseases. Our study aims to adopt the habit of doing physical activity accompanied by technology-supported GCH Brain Breaks®️ videos applied to people with mental health problems; In this context, at least 20 minutes of video-accompanied FA and exercise and 30 minutes of exercise in individuals every day to gain the habit of walking.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The fact that the group addressed by our study is unique and that these entertaining video exercises have not been previously applied to adults and people with mental health problems makes our study unique. At the same time, we believe that the level of physical activity increased by technology-supported HOPSports Brain Breaks® videos applied to people with mental health problems will improve sleep quality, general physical condition, and life satisfaction of people. This result, which we plan to reach, also increases the originality of our study. Therefore, it is expected that the functional and social results of our technology-assisted FA and exercise program, which will be given to people with mental problems, will contribute to the national and international literature.

Therefore, our study aims to adopt the habit of doing physical activity accompanied by technology-supported GCH Brain Breaks®️ videos applied to people with mental health problems; In this context, at least 20 minutes of video-accompanied FA and exercise and 30 minutes of exercise in individuals every day. to gain the habit of walking.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - pittsburgh sleep quality index
  - Contentment with Life Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Brain Breaks® Video Exercises
  - OTHER: Posture training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05783674
