CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06261632
Title: Blood Flow Restriction in Improving Muscle Strength of Patients With Hemophilic Knee Arthropathy
Official Title: Safety and Efficacy of a Physiotherapy Intervention Through Blood Flow Restriction in Improving Muscle Strength in Patients With Hemophilic Knee Arthropathy: Multicenter Randomized Clinical Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Background. The main physical sequela of patients with hemophilia is the development of a progressive, degenerative intra-articular lesion, known as hemophilic arthropathy). This sequela is manifested by chronic pain, limited range of motion, axial abnormalities, and periarticular muscle atrophy.

Objective. To assess the safety and effectiveness of an intervention through blood flow restriction, regarding the frequency of bleeding and the improvement in muscle activation and strength, range of motion, functionality, joint pain, joint status and the perception of quality of life in patients with hemophilic arthropathy. knee and ankle.

Study design. Randomized, multicenter, single-blind clinical study. Method. 60 patients with hemophilia A and B will be recruited in this study. Patients will be recruited in 6 regions of Spain. The dependent variables will be: bleeding frequency (self-registration), pain (measured with the visual analog scale and pressure algometer), quality of life (SF-36 scale), joint status (Hemophilia Joint Health Score scale), strength (dynamometer) and muscle activation (surface electromyograph), range of motion (goniometer) and functionality (Timed up and go test). Three evaluations will be carried out: pre-treatment, post-treatment and after a follow-up period of 4 weeks.

Expected results. Observe the safety of blood flow restriction in hemophilia patients. To analyze the efficacy of blood flow restriction in improving muscle strength and activation, range of motion, chronic pain, functionality, and the perception of quality of life in patients with hemophilic knee and ankle arthropathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline hemarthrosis after treatment and at four weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Blood flow restriction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06261632
