CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07237893
Title: Impact of a Physical Activity Intervention on Cardiometabolic Health, Mental Health, and Lifestyle Factors.
Official Title: Cardiometabolic Health, Mental Health, and Lifestyle Factors in the Meuse-Rhine Region and the Impact of a Physical Activity Intervention: the Interreg Meuse-Rhine Blue Zone Project.
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The first objective of this study is to compare cardiometabolic and mental health across the four interregion Meuse-rhine (IMR). The second objective is to compare six key lifestyle pillars, as defined by the American College of Lifestyle Medicine: physical activity, diet, stress management, sleep quality, social connection, and substance use. Physical activity will be objectively and continuously monitored using a wearable device, while the other five lifestyle factors will be assessed through validated questionnaires at pre- and postintervention. Finally, we will evaluate the effects of a physical activity intervention on cardiometabolic health, mental health, and the six lifestyle pillars. By addressing these objectives, this study aims to generate valuable insights to inform policymakers and support region-specific interventions for improving health and lifestyle across the IMR.

This multicentric interventional study will be conducted at four sites: Hasselt University, Liège University, Maastricht University, and Aachen University. The study includes a pre- and post-intervention visit, with a three-month intervention period followed by a three-month follow-up. Participants will be recruited via a subscription link, where they will provide demographic information after giving informed consent. Based on the inclusion criteria, 1000 participants will be included in total (250 participants per site). Ethical approval documents for the two sites in Belgium will be submitted simultaneously. Documents for Maastricht University and Aachen University will be submitted afterward, and the ethical approvals will be sent to the Belgian ethical committees.

A quota for educational level will be implemented, limiting highly educated participants to a maximum of 25% per region to reflect the educational distribution of the IMR population. This ensures a more representative sample, as highly educated individuals are often overrepresented in research.

To minimise seasonal effects on physical activity, participant inclusion will be divided into four groups and spread throughout the year. At each site, approximately 65 participants will start in September 2025, another group in December '25/January '26, a third group in March/April '26, and a final group in June/July '26.

Participants will be recruited through online and paper advertisements, including a subscription link to the screening questionnaire. Selected participants will receive detailed study information via phone or email, based on their indicated preference. Data from unselected participants will be deleted after recruitment is completed. Those who agree to participate will be invited for a first study visit, where they will provide written informed consent. Selected participants may withdraw at any time for any reason. In such cases, previously collected research data will be retained, but contact details will be deleted, and their name will be removed from the subject identification list.

During the first study visit, all study procedures and outcome measures will be explained, and participants will provide written informed consent. Next, they will complete questionnaires on their sociodemographic factors, mental health and lifestyle factors using an iPad or computer. These questionnaires will be accessed via a secured link sent by the EDC Castor system to a fictitious email address created in advance for each participant. A member of the research team will prepare the questionnaires for each participant and verify their correct submission afterward. Following this, blood pressure and anthropometric measurements will be taken, and a venous blood sample will be drawn by a certified nurse or doctor. Participants will then receive their wearable along with assistance for installation and connection to their smartphone. Additionally, a subsample of participants (n = 75 per site) will be asked to install M-Path on their smartphone for ecological momentary assessment of mental health. Technical support will be provided as needed.

The same measurements will be repeated during the post-intervention study visit. For sociodemographic factors, participants will be asked if any changes have occurred and, if so, to specify them. In addition, participants will have to answer four questions on intervention adherence and possible barriers they experienced. Statistical analysis will be performed using IBM SPSS Statistics (version 28.0.1.1, IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The first objective of this study is to compare cardiometabolic and mental health across the four interregion Meuse-rhine (IMR). The second objective is to compare six key lifestyle pillars, as defined by the American College of Lifestyle Medicine: physical activity, diet, stress management, sleep quality, social connection, and substance use. Physical activity will be objectively and continuously monitored using a wearable device, while the other five lifestyle factors will be assessed through validated questionnaires at pre- and postintervention. Finally, we will evaluate the effects of a physical activity intervention on cardiometabolic health, mental health, and the six lifestyle pillars. By addressing these objectives, this study aims to generate valuable insights to inform policymakers and support region-specific interventions for improving health and lifestyle across the IMR.

Study design This multicentric interventional study will be conducted at four sites: Hasselt University, Liège University, Maastricht University, and Aachen University. The study includes a pre- and post-intervention visit, with a three-month intervention period followed by a three-month follow-up.

Participants will be recruited via a subscription link, where they will provide demographic information after giving informed consent. Based on the inclusion criteria, 1000 participants will be included in total (250 participants per site).

Eligible participants will be invited for the first study visit, during which they will receive a wearable device. They will then follow a three-month intervention, after which they will return for a second study visit. This will be followed by a three-month follow-up period, during which there will be no direct contact with the research team. At the end of this period, participants will receive questionnaires via email. To ensure participants have not had an infection before their scheduled testing day, an automated email will be sent via Castor EDC two weeks in advance. This email will remind them of their study visit and ask whether they have experienced a viral or bacterial infection in the past week. If so, they will be instructed to contact the research team to reschedule their appointment.

Ethical approval documents for the two sites in Belgium will be submitted simultaneously. Documents for Maastricht University and Aachen University will be submitted afterward, and the ethical approvals will be sent to the Belgian ethical committees.

Participants A quota for educational level will be implemented, limiting highly educated participants to a maximum of 25% per region to reflect the educational distribution of the IMR population. This ensures a more representative sample, as highly educated individuals are often overrepresented in research.

To minimise seasonal effects on physical activity, participant inclusion will be divided into four groups and spread throughout the year. At each site, approximately 65 participants will st

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease
  - Body mass index
  - Body fat distribution
  - Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
  - Ecological Momentary Assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Smartwatches with progressive step targets

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07237893
