CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06012422
Title: Sarcopenia Screening in Elderly Individuals
Official Title: Sarcopenia Screening in Elderly Individuals Living in Kirikkale Province
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 843
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
In this study, it is aimed to evaluate parameters such as sarcopenia screening, muscle mass measurement, loss of strength that may develop due to sarcopenia, loss of balance and related fall, decrease in functionality, fragility and decreased physical activity in individuals aged 65 years and older in Kırıkkale city center.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Although aging occurs in all periods in the human body, physical, mental and physical aging becomes visible as you get older. This situation is caused by physiological aging, environmental factors, existing chronic diseases and related symptoms. Today, increasing life expectancy and aging population must be taken into account. Since the age-related symptoms of elderly individuals are compatible with the consequences of aging, they can be ignored as a natural process, and therefore its progression cannot be prevented. With our project, it is aimed that screening for sarcopenia will be an exemplary study throughout Turkey and this type of screening will be widespread. In addition, it is aimed to divide elderly individuals into groups as presarcopenia, sarcopenia and severe sarcopenia, and to provide necessary guidance, protective and prevention approaches, strengthening and exercise training.

Demographic data of elderly individuals (age, gender, height, weight, BMI (Body mass index will be obtained by dividing body weight (kg), height (m) squared) occupation, etc.), chronic diseases (hypertension, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) (COPD), rheumatic diseases), drugs used, smoking, alcohol habits, and assistive device use, and the 'Clinical Vulnerability Scale' to evaluate the cognitive status of individuals through the 'Mini Nutritional Assessment form (MNA)'. 'Standardized Mini-Mental Test' to assess balance and walking, 'Tinetti balance and walking test' to evaluate balance and walking, 'Falling Risk Self-Assessment Scale' to assess falls, 'Functional Independence and Challenge Scale' to measure functional independence in activities of daily living. 'Short Physical Performance Test' (KFPT), Sarcopenia screening test (SA) to assess physical fitness RC-F), it is planned to use the Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE) to evaluate the level of physical activity, to use hand dynamometer, to evaluate muscle strength, and to measure the muscle mass of individuals with an inbody bioimpedance device.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bioimpedance Analysis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: evaluation group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06012422
