CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06530394
Title: Effects of Increased Greek Yogurt Consumption in Senior Adults
Official Title: Effects of Increased Greek Yogurt Consumption on Circulating Markers of Bone Metabolism and Inflammation in Senior Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
This study aims to examine whether Greek yogurt (GY) consumption will lead to beneficial changes in bone metabolism and inflammation, in senior adults, male and female, when combined with regular exercise (senior fit classes; GYEX) and without exercise (GYNE). It is hypothesized that compared to a control group (senior fit classes, no GY; NYEX), an 8-week GY consumption intervention in senior adults with and without exercise will lead to positive effects on body composition, and markers of bone metabolism and inflammation such that the anabolic and anti-inflammatory markers of these physiological processes will increase more than any training-induced catabolic and pro-inflammatory markers (i.e., more than measures observed in the NYNE group).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants

The proposed project will follow a randomized controlled parallel design over 8 weeks. A total of 60 senior adults (aged 55+ years; males and females) from the Brock Senior Fit program and Niagara area. All participants will provide written informed consent in order to be included in the study. Potential participants will complete a standardized Get Active screening questionnaire of the Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology. Participants will be excluded from the study if they are injured and unable to participate in classes, have an allergy to dairy foods/dairy protein or have been diagnosed with lactose intolerance.

Study Design and Procedures

Participants will be invited to participate in this 8-week study, with senior fit participants being randomly assigned into the control (NYEX) or the intervention exercising (GYEX) group and non-senior fit citizens from the Niagara community will be assigned to the intervention non-exercising group (GYNE).

Control (NYEX) Group: During the 8-weeks, participants will be instructed to follow their typical, habitual diet and exercise regimen.

Intervention Exercising (GYEX) Group: During the 8 weeks, participants will be instructed to follow their typical, habitual diet and exercise regimen. Participants will be asked to consume 2 servings/day (preferably morning and night) of 175 grams of commercially available GY (0% fat, flavoured, 130 calories, 17 grams protein, 225 grams calcium (e.g., OIKOS High Protein GY) for a total of 8 weeks. For their convenience, the participants will be provided with appropriate scoops to measure out 175 grams of GY per serving of the larger 650-gram commercially available, pre-packaged containers. Although it is recommended to consume the two servings morning and night, to increase ecological validity and strengthen the feasibility of the intervention, the timing of the servings will be flexible to facilitate daily routines and lifestyles. For the same reasons, the participants will be able to choose the flavour of their GY.

Intervention Non-Exercising (GYNE) Group: During the 8-weeks participants will be instructed to follow their typical habitual diet. Participants will be asked to consume 2 servings/day (preferably morning and night) of 175 grams of commercially available GY (0% fat, flavoured, 130 calories, 17 grams protein, 225 grams calcium; e.g., OIKOS High Protein GY) for a total of 8 weeks. For their convenience, the participants will be provided with appropriate scoops to measure out 175 grams of GY per serving of the larger 650-gram commercially available, pre-packaged containers. Although it is recommended to consume the two servings morning and night, to increase ecological validity and strengthen the feasibility of the intervention, the timing of the servings will be flexible to facilitate daily routines and lifestyles. For the same reasons, the participants will be able to choose the flavour of their GY.

At weeks 0 and 8 (the beginning and e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Serum concentrations of osteocalcin
  - Serum concentrations of amino-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (P1NP)
  - Serum concentrations of C-telopeptides of type I collagen (CTX)
  - Serum concentrations of osteoprotegerin (OPG)
  - Serum concentrations of sclerostin

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Greek yogurt

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06530394
