CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05514782
Title: A Clinical Study to Evaluate the Long-Term Efficacy and Tolerability of a Daily Anti-Aging Daily Serum
Official Title: Double-Blinded, Placebo-Controlled, Randomized Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Tolerability of a Daily Serum
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 67
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-center clinical trial was conducted to assess the efficacy and tolerance of an anti-aging daily serum to improve moderate overall photodamage and skin fatigue after 12-weeks of twice-daily used when compared to a placebo-serum (vehicle control). A total of 62 subjects, 34-60 years of age completed study participation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single-center clinical trial was conducted to assess the efficacy and tolerance of an anti-aging daily serum (Cell 1) to improve moderate overall photodamage and skin fatigue of aging skin after 12-weeks days of twice-daily use when compared to the efficacy of a combination of a placebo-control (Cell 2). Skin fatigue was characterized by dehydrated skin with a lack of firmness (visual) and a dull appearance on the global face.

Efficacy and tolerability were assessed through clinical grading at baseline, week 4, week 8, and week 12. Efficacy evaluation on fine lines and wrinkles in the crow's feet area; overall eye appearance on the periocular area; and smoothness (tactile), firmness (visual), radiance, and overall photodamage on the global face were performed at baseline and post-baseline by a clinical grader, a board-certified dermatologist. Furthermore, blinded photo-grading at baseline and week 12 were performed by two board certified dermatologists.

Self-assessment questionnaires, Antera 3D image, Ultrasound Imaging, and VISIA photography were completed at baseline and post-baseline timepoints. Furthermore, 10 randomized subjects, a subset of the study (five in Cell 1 and five in Cell 2) had 2 mm punch skin biopsies collected from the lateral, pre-auricular at baseline and week 12.

A total of 62 subjects completed study participation (31 in Cell 1 and 31 in Cell 2).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change In Clinical Efficacy Parameter Radiance Versus Baseline
  - Change in Active Cell versus Placebo Control in Clinical Efficacy at week 12

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cleansing Lotion
  - OTHER: Facial Moisturizer
  - OTHER: Sunscreen SPF 40+

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05514782
