CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05224362
Title: Acute Effects of Elastic Band Resistance on Postural Stability and Physical Function in Older Adults
Official Title: Acute Effects of Elastic Band Resistance Applied to the Hip and Chest Region on Postural Stability and Physical Function Before, Immediately and up to 30 Min After Exercise in Physically Active Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Current balance and stability interventions have been shown to improve balance through targeting balance impairments and retraining effects. However, there are key facilitators and barriers 'that older adults may face to participate in such interventions'. Additionally, physical activity interventions fail to integrate older adults into the co-design and co-production of PA interventions. The study will aim to identify the impact and practicalities of an exercise intervention in older adults by performing pre selected exercises with an elastic resistance band attached at the hip and chest region to challenge balance. Static posturography will assess the impacts of the exercise intervention on balance and stability.

Researcher led interviews will focus on the participants perceptions of the activities and decision making of exercise selection by selecting components that they are confident to perform which is a key element to creating a practical and enjoyable exercise programme for the older population. This will co-create an intervention that is accessible, acceptable, and appropriate for older adults.

The study will establish the physical impact and practicalities of a novel elastic band resistance exercise intervention in older adults by performing force plate posturography and researcher led interviews that will focus on the participants perceptions of the activities and intensity levels to co-create an intervention that is accessible, acceptable, and appropriate for older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Outline of study designThe following study will be a repeated measures design. A convenience sample of adults/older adults will be recruited through PA networks in the Derbyshire community. Participants will not be recruited through HSN facilities or via any NHS platform. Participants will be required to attend three separate sessions with at least 48-72hours in between each session. Each session will be randomized in order to mitigate any bias and allow comparability of the 3 conditions. Experimental session one: Participants will be required to perform pre-selected exercises with an elastic resistance band placed at the hip region. Experimental session two: Participants will be required to perform pre-selected exercises with an elastic resistance band placed at the chest region. Experimental session three (control group): Participants will be required to perform pre-selected exercises without an elastic resistance band. The exercise intensity is measured throughout by RPE before, during and after each exercise.

intensity. Participants will be asked to simply perform the exercises not at any specific intensity. Force plate posturography measurements will be recorded before and immediately after and 30 minutes after the exercise intervention. The other quantitative measures (heart rate, rate of perceived exertion) will be recorded throughout the intervention and one-to-one interviews using a semi structured interview guide will be performed at the end of each session. The session order will be randomized for each participant to counterbalance the outcome which emerge from the study.

Participant preparation will include a detailed invitation to attend and briefing using a pre-prepared participant information sheet. Participants will be required to complete and return an International physical activity questionnaire, Falls efficacy scale, Confidence in maintaining balance and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living form.

Upon arrival of each session participants will be required to read and sign an informed consent form, a general health screen questionnaire and mini mental state examination. Participants will be required to complete all 3 sessions which will be supervised in the Kirtley building laboratory at the University of Derby (3 x experimental trial). Instructions will be provided for participants to abstain from alcohol and caffeine for a minimum of 12/24 hours respectively and avoidance of strenuous exercise for at least 72 hours prior to participation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bertec Force plate posturography
  - Semi structured Interview
  - Heart rate
  - Rate of perceived exertion (RPE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: A repeated measures acute study using using elastic resistance bands in older adults to challenge stability.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05224362
