CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04553614
Title: Home-based HIIT in a Primary-care Setting for at Risk Individuals: A Multidisciplinary Approach
Official Title: Home-based High Intensity Interval Training is Effective in a Primary Care Setting for at Risk Individuals: A Multidisciplinary Approach Evaluating Health and Perceived Barriers to Exercise
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 154
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The prevalence of chronic inactivity related diseases including obesity, insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus has reached global epidemic proportions. Exercise training is a clinically proven primary intervention that delays and in many cases prevents health burdens. Therefore, many health authorities and local councils run exercise referral schemes for individuals with elevated disease disk. However, a number of barriers to successful completion of traditional exercise referral schemes exist.

This study aims to investigate the use of a home-based high intensity interval training programme as a potential exercise referral scheme activity to overcome many of the barriers to successful exercise referral scheme adherence and uptake.

200 people referred to the Active Sefton (Sefton Council) exercise referral scheme will be recruited and randomised to one of the two exercise groups (existing Active Sefton Scheme gym based training or home-based HIT). All participants will have access to the normal Active Sefton support mechanisms, but the training programme followed will be different. Before and after 12 weeks of training volunteers will participate in testing to assess changes in aerobic fitness, physical activity, vascular function, insulin sensitivity, body composition and psychological well-being. A 3 month follow up will also be completed to investigate the long term consequences on these variables.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomisation - During the pre-intervention testing session participants will be randomised to either the home-based HIT group (HB\_HIT)(n=100) or Active Sefton Exercise Referral Scheme (AS\_ERS)(n=100). To control for the potential confounding effects of gender and location, stratified randomisation will be completed. Randomisation will be completed with a random number generator. Participant randomisation will take place during Pre-Intervention Testing.

Recruitment - Participants will be recruited via the AS\_ERS. Following referral to the Active Sefton Scheme by their GP, all patients will be sent an invitation letter by the Active Sefton team. The research team will add a short letter outlining the study to patients. All Patients who chose to participate in the Active Sefton Scheme will meet with an Active Lifestyle Development Officer (LDO). During this session the LDO will discuss the study with patients. Interested patients will be given a participant information sheet, and their contact details (email and/or phone) will be given to the Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU) research team. These details will be used to contact the patient to discuss the study further. Should the patient still want to participate a Pre-Intervention Testing session will be organised.

If patients consent to the study the research team will inform Active Sefton with information on the exercise programme the participant has been randomised too.

Protocol and plan of investigation

Pre-Intervention Testing - Participants will attend an experimental trial commencing between 6am and 10am, lasting ̴ 3.15h. Participants will be fasted overnight and instructed to abstain from caffeine, alcohol and moderate/ vigorous exercise the day before testing.

During this meeting participants will have the opportunity to ask any questions about the study. Participants will then be asked to give written consent (participants may wish to take longer to decide and this testing session will be rearranged if necessary). If consent is given participants will complete a number of health measurements.

Firstly, following 20 minutes supine rest central artery stiffness will be measured using a Sphygmocor system. A blood pressure recording will be taken at the brachial artery and an ECG waveform obtained. A tonometer will then be applied with gentle pressure at the femoral and carotid arteries (thigh/neck) to measure aortic pulse wave velocity (a measure of arterial stiffness).

insulin sensitivity will be measured through an OGTT. A cannula will be placed into a forearm vein of one arm and will be used to obtain repeated blood samples. A resting blood sample (25ml) will be taken immediately before consumption of a 25% glucose beverage (75g of glucose). Following this further blood samples (5ml) will be collected 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after glucose ingestion. During the OGTT participants will complete a number of other measures.

Firstly, participants will complete a ques

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home-based HIIT
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04553614
