CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06255756
Title: Effect of Acupuncture Therapy on Dysphagic Parkinson's Patients
Official Title: Effect of Acupuncture Therapy on Dysphagic Parkinson's Patients: A Randomized Controlled Study
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
We are currently conducting a randomized controlled study in China, specifically in three hospitals' rehabilitation medicine departments, focusing on dysphagic participants with Parkinson's disease. The aim of our study is to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture therapy as an additional intervention for these participants. Participants were randomly assigned to either the experimental group or the control group, with 56 individuals in each group. Both groups are receiving standard treatment and swallowing rehabilitation training, while the experimental group is also receiving acupuncture therapy. Our study aims to provide valuable insights into the potential benefits of acupuncture in improving swallowing difficulties in Parkinson's disease participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
We are currently conducting a randomized controlled study in China, specifically in three hospitals' rehabilitation medicine departments, focusing on dysphagic participants with Parkinson's disease. The aim of our study is to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture therapy as an additional intervention for these participants. Participants were randomly assigned to either the experimental group or the control group, with 56 individuals in each group. Both groups are receiving standard treatment and swallowing rehabilitation training, while the experimental group is also receiving acupuncture therapy. Our study aims to provide valuable insights into the potential benefits of acupuncture in improving swallowing difficulties in Parkinson's disease participants.

The study lasted 42 days (6 weeks) for each participant. Specifically, our main focus is on the study of Lianquan, Shanglianquan (depression between the hyoid bone and the lower border of the mandible), Yifeng, Fengchi, Wangu, Fengfu, Yamen, Neidaying (depression of 1 inch below the anterior margin of the mandible), Jinjin, Yuye, posterior pharyngeal wall (both sides of the uvula).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Penetration-Aspiration Scale-liquid
  - Penetration-Aspiration Scale-paste

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Routine rehabilitation training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Swallowing rehabilitation training
  - PROCEDURE: Acupuncture therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06255756
