CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02500186
Title: The Clinical Study to Assess the Effect of the Amount of Carbohydrate Intake and Meals Differing in Glycemic Index (GI) in Patients Treated With a Sodium-dependent Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitor
Official Title: The Clinical Study to Assess the Effect of the Amount of Carbohydrate Intake and Meals Differing in Glycemic Index (GI) in Patients Treated With a Sodium-dependent Glucose Cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) Inhibitor
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The objectives of this clinical study is to assess the effect of the amount of carbohydrate intake and meals differing in glycemic index (GI) in patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with an SGLT2 inhibitor (Luseogliflozin), which inhibits glucose reabsorption from renal uriniferous tubule, on glucose variability by using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), and to establish dietary therapy which reduces the risk of hypoglycemia in patients treated with SGLT2 inhibitors. In addition, blood and urine samples are collected for metabolome analysis that will be performed as an extension study of the clinical study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
\<Background and Rationale\> In order to decrease the risk of hypoglycemia caused by SGLT2 inhibitor, it is necessary to review the effect of the volume of carbohydrate intake and the level of GI value on variation of blood glucose.

Also, if a patient with chronic lack of carbohydrate intake receives SGLT2 inhibitors, there is a risk of serious hypoglycemic reaction. Thus, the establishment of proper meal for patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors is the urgent task.

The objective of this study is to establish a safe dietary therapy for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus to avoid hypoglycemia by controlling carbohydrate intake volume and GI value, where study patients are provided study meal three times a day and circadian blood glucose variation including blood glucose after meal is measured by using CGM.

In addition, blood and urine samples are collected for the future research (metabolome analysis) on the effect of carbohydrate intake volume and GI value on metabolism to be conducted as an extended study of this study.

\<Study Procedures\> Total of 24 study patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have not taken or washed out hypoglycemic drug (oral hypoglycemic drug and glucagon like peptide-1 receptor agonist) for at least 4 weeks are randomized into 3 groups (8 patients each) of high GI meal containing 55% carbohydrate group, low GI meal containing 55% carbohydrate group, and high GI meal containing 40% carbohydrate group. The energy intake of study patients in all the groups is 1800 kcal per day. Each study group patient takes the following diets for 14 days; study patients in high GI meal containing 55% carbohydrate group take 55% carbohydrate white rice diet; those in low GI meal containing 55% carbohydrate group take 55% carbohydrate brown rice diet; those in high GI meal containing 40% carbohydrate group take 40% carbohydrate white rice diet. Study patients orally receive luseogliflozin 2.5 mg s.i.d. before breakfast for 7 days from the 8th day of starting the study meal to the 14th day.

Planned examinations are conducted at the initiation of the study meal, the initiation of the study treatment, and the completion of the clinical study. Blood glucose is measured on 4 days from the 3rd day of the initiation of the study meal to pre-dose of study treatment and from 2 days before study treatment completion to the next day of study treatment so that blood glucose data of continuous 48 hours at one time can be obtained.

\<Time and process of getting informed consents\> Principal investigator or sub-investigator fully explains the clinical study to candidate patients using informed consent form approved by the Institutional Review Board prior to the study procedure and obtains written informed consent from subjects on voluntary basis after confirming that patients duly understand the content of the clinical study. Principal investigator or sub-investigator who gives explanation to patients and study patients affix a name and seal o

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in blood glucose level using CGM

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Luseogliflozin
  - OTHER: Meal containing different carbohydrate ratio and GI value

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02500186
