CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04862533
Title: Effect of Beta-alanine and Pelvic Floor Muscle Training on Urinary Incontinence After Radical Prostatectomy (BELA)
Official Title: A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Study to Evaluate the Effect of Beta-alanine and Pelvic Floor Muscle Training on Urinary Incontinence After Radical Prostatectomy (BELA)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of beta-alanine in combination with pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) compared to PFMT plus placebo in men undergoing radical prostatectomy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will assess efficacy of beta-alanine in combination with PFMT for the treatment of participants with urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy. B-alanine is a component of L-carnosine (with L-histidine), which is needed for its synthesis. Βeta-alanine, thanks to its bioavailability) is a commonly used supplement that can improve exercise performance by increasing the amount of carnosine in striated muscle tissues. Supplementation of beta-alanine in elderly patients has resulted in an increase in physical activity, less fatigue and overall increase in L-carnosine concentration in muscles. PFMT utilization is considered a strong predictor of early return of urinary continence after radical prostatectomy (RP). We hypothesize, that combination of PFMT with beta-alanine could result in improved urinary continence after RP. The intervention will start 30 days before the surgery and will continue until primary outcome is met. Beta-alanine/placebo will be given daily. Efficacy, pharmacokinetics, biomarkers, tissue histology, participants reported outcomes and safety will be assessed. The total duration of study will be approximately 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time to Continence (days)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Beta-Alanine
  - DRUG: Placebo
  - PROCEDURE: Pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04862533
