CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04279652
Title: Exercise in Children Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
Official Title: The Effects of Combined Exercise Program in Children Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by carelessness, hyperactivity and impulsivity, in which genetic, social and physical factors play an important role. Few studies have revealed the physical activity levels and importance of children with ADHD, but there is no consensus on the components of the physical activity program such as intensity, frequency, and severity. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of combined exercise training on motor proficiency, physical fitness and cognitive status in children with ADHD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of present study is to investigate the effect of combined exercise training on motor proficiency, physical fitness and cognitive status in children with ADHD. Children will be randomly divided into 3 groups, for 8 weeks the first group will undergo a combined exercise training under the supervision of a physiotherapist, while the second group will receive a home exercise program. children included in the third group will form the control group.

The following assessments will be applied at the beginning and end of treatment.

1. Revised Conners Parent Rating Scale Short Turkish Form
2. Powers and Challenges Survey
3. Edinburgh Hand Preference Survey
4. Two-minute walking test
5. Ten meter walking test
6. Munich Fitness Test
7. Bruininks-Oseretsky Motor Proficiency Test-2
8. Muscle strength evaluation
9. Dynamic Occupational Therapy Cognitive Assessment
10. Open-ended questions

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Motor Proficiency
  - Cognitive assessment
  - Physical Fitness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Combined exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04279652
