CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06567301
Title: Extracorporeal Shockwave Versus Phonophoresis Using Chitosan-Nanoparticles Gel on Functional and Anatomical Changes Detected With Artificial Intelligence Based Texture Analysis Algorithm in Knee Osteoarthritis Patients: A Double Blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Extracorporeal Shockwave Versus Phonophoresis on Functional and Anatomical Changes Detected With Artificial Intelligence Technology in Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
A parallel double blinded randomized controlled clinical trial (RCT) with a 1:1:1 allocation will be conducted in an orthopedic clinic in Cairo and Giza Governments - Egypt.

This RCT will evaluate the pain reduction, self-reported functional improvement, physical functional and anatomical improvement following the application of phonophoresis using chitosan-nanoparticles gel, ECSW therapy and traditional exercises compared to each other.

The treatment period will last for 4 weeks with a total of (12 sessions/ 3 sessions per week for the application of phonophoresis using chitosan-nanoparticles gel and traditional exercises program) and (5 sessions/ 1 every week for the application of ECSWT). The participants will be assessed at two different time-points (before-after treatment) with a sample size of 40 patients in each group (3 groups)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative disease that is ranked as the 10th largest contributor to disabilities that has a link to higher comorbidity and excess mortality. One of most common degenerative diseases is knee osteoarthritis (KOA). KOA is a progressive, chronic degenerative condition that places a heavy socioeconomic burden on healthcare systems and society. The prevalence of knee OA has sharply increased to more than the double in the last 10 years as result of steady state in life expectancy.

KOA is a well-known as a cartilage disease that involves degradation and loss of articular cartilage. However, OA is usually accompanied by changes in the subchondral bone, with sclerosis, bone cyst, and osteophyte formation.

Recent studies reported that subchondral bone remodeling plays a very important role in KOA, mediating and preceding cartilage damage. The increase in subchondral bone stiffness decreases the ability to scatter the loading forces within the knee joint, which then increases the force loaded on articular cartilage. Therefore, the cartilage damage and progress of OA accelerated over time. The focus of treatment in early KOA have shifted from the articular cartilage to the subchondral bone and become a potential therapeutic target of various therapeutic methods.

Regarding KOA pain, accumulating evidence suggests that bottom-up vascularization from subchondral bone plays a larger role than top-down vessel invasion originating from synovial tissue or synovium during cartilage erosion in OA. As a result, it is a common complaint of orthopedists that osteoarthritis pain is not associated with the radiographic presentation. Recent work revealed a relatively weak relationship between cartilage loss and OA joint pain.

As different approaches aimed at articular cartilage or synovial components had inefficient results and the mechanism of bone cartilage crosstalk is gradually becoming clear, this study will try to confirm the critical role of subchondral bone in knee osteoarthritis and that subchondral bone could be an ideal outcome measure of osteoarthritis treatment.

Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) and extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ECSWT) are effective as a non-invasive method in histopathological recovery with more intense sight, ECSWT has shown effectiveness in the regression of early KOA associated with improving the subchondral bone remodeling, decrease the number of osteophytes and it can also increase osteocytes activity. Besides, ECSWT could alleviate chronic inflammatory activities in the whole joint through down-regulating inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, it was reported that application of ESWT to the subchondral bone of the knee significantly increased bone volume and trabecular number and reduced bone porosity. Overall, ESWT could reverse the pathology of OA progression to some extent.

Low-intensity US might influence the subchondral bone unit under joint disuse. LIUS with its associated acoustic

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Anatomical improvement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Ultrasound therapy combined with Chitosan nanoparticles gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06567301
