CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05242549
Title: The Application of the Transtheoretical Model to the Frailty Elderly in the Community
Official Title: Application of the Transtheoretical Model to Physical Activity and Health-related Quality of Life Among the Frailty of the Community Elderly
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
As the age structure shows an aging population while facing physical and mental changes among the frailty of the community elderly. Researchers have successively adopted exercise and nutrition strategies for the frail elderly in the community, to improve their physical function, prevent frailty and increase independent functions. There were researches using technology to improve the physical function of the elderly in the community. The transtheoretical model was a comprehensive model of intentional behavior change that incorporates process-oriented variables to explain and predict how and when the elderly change their health behavior including the elderly adoption healthy behavior. Therefore, the investigators use the Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) to design the "Fitness and Nutrition Program for Seniors" for participants. From improving physical activity and quality of life, then improving the frailty and restoring overall health.

The research will be a quasi-experimental design. It is expected to invite 84 frailty elderly from the Community-Based Care Center (42 in the experimental group and 42 in the control group). The investigators use the Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) as the framework, which includes physical activity training, nutrition education- nursing Information, home-based training, and telecare group care, develop the "Fitness and Nutrition Program for Seniors" for 6 months. The primary outcome includes cardiovascular health study (CHS) frailty criteria, short physical performance battery (SPPB), grip strength, Timed Up and Go Test (TUG), the international physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ), and SF-12. The secondary outcome includes BMI, upper arm and calf circumference to measure nutritional status, short from falls efficacy scale international (FES-I), the visual analog scale (VAS) to measure pain, and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL). The investigator will follow the outcome before the intervention, the third month after the intervention, and the sixth month after the intervention. The collected data were analyzed with a generalized estimation equation model of SPSS version 22. Make the participants develop a habit of physical activity combined with a nutritious diet. Let the elderly reduce frail state, increase physical activity, improve health-related quality of life and improve health-related results.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The ageing population of the world is an irreversible international situation because of the rapidly increasing number of elderly populations in the 21st century. As the age structure shows an aging population while facing physical and mental changes among the frailty of the community elderly. Helping them prevent disability and promote health has become the focus of current care. Researchers have successively adopted exercise and nutrition strategies for the frail elderly in the community, to improve their physical function, prevent frailty and increase independent functions. The internet was a simple and fast model to care elderly in the community. There were researches using technology to improve the physical function of the elderly in the community. The transtheoretical model was a comprehensive model of intentional behavior change that incorporates process-oriented variables to explain and predict how and when the elderly change their health behavior including the elderly adoption healthy behavior. Therefore, the investigators use the Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) to design the "Fitness and Nutrition Program for Seniors" for participants, which includes Home-Based physical activity training, nutrition education, and telecare technology. The investigator use the Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) to analyze the behavior change process of the participants and to explore important factors during the intervention. From improving physical activity and quality of life, then improving the frailty and restoring overall health.

The research will be a quasi-experimental pretest-posttest design. It is expected to invite 84 frailty elderly from Community-Based Care Center in Shilin Districts in Taipei City, Taiwan (42 in the experimental group and 42 in the control group). The investigators use the Trans-Theoretical Model (TTM) as the framework, which includes physical activity training, nutrition education-nursing Information, home-based training, and telecare group care, developing the "Fitness and Nutrition Program for Seniors" for 6 months for community-dwelling frail older adults. The participants create motivation to start execution through physical activity and nutritional knowledge and provide the experimental group with online home-based training from the three different stages of TTM behavior change. During the intervention period, the investigators will follow the adherence, satisfaction, behavior change stage every month. The investigators use motivation to improve the self-efficacy of the participants and achieve the result of behavior change. Finally, support the frail participants to enter the maintenance phase. The primary outcome includes frailty status (cardiovascular health study (CHS) frailty criteria), Physical Activity (short physical performance battery (SPPB), grip strength, Timed Up and Go Test (TUG), the international physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ)), and Health-related Quality of Life (SF-12). The secondary outcome includes

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Basic Demographic Health Assessment Form
  - Cardiovascular health study (CHS) frailty criteria
  - Cardiovascular health study (CHS) frailty criteria
  - Cardiovascular health study (CHS) frailty criteria
  - Physical Activity-Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Fitness and Nutrition Program for Seniors

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05242549
