CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06781541
Title: Physical Activity and Disability Prevention in Postmenopausal Women
Official Title: Physical Activity and Disability Prevention in Postmenopausal Women
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of this clinical study is to examine the impact of physical activity on the physical and mental health of postmenopausal women, with a particular focus on the development of disability. The main questions this study aims to answer are:

1. Can physical activity programs (Nordic walking, Bungy Pump, strength training, functional general conditioning training) prevent loss of mobility, bone density and urinary incontinence, reduce the risk of falls, lower metabolic syndrome parameters, and improve cardiovascular endurance in postmenopausal women?
2. Do regular exercises improve cognitive functions, motivation, memory, visual coordination, mood, and quality of life in postmenopausal women?

Researchers will compare the test groups (Nordic Walking, Bungy Pump, strength training, functional general conditioning training) with the control group to determine whether physical activity brings benefits in terms of physical and mental health compared to no intervention.

Participants will:

Take part in a three-month physical activity program that includes Nordic walking, Bungy Pump exercises, functional general conditioning training and strength training, depending on the group.

The control group will not participate in any additional physical exercise program and will continue with their usual daily activities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will involve two testing phases (pre- and post-training). Prior to the first test, participants' physical activity will be measured over a period of seven days using POLAR accelerometers to evaluate the relationship between their daily physical activity and health. Each testing phase will last two days; on the first day, blood samples will be collected, and preliminary analyses of body composition and dietary records will be conducted. On the second day, physical fitness tests and psychological test swill be performed at the AWFiS Sports Exercise Laboratory in Gdańsk. Biological materials (serum) will be frozen and subsequently tested by contractors at the AWFiS Sports Genetics Laboratory. Participants will be required to maintain a dietary diary to record their dietary intake for the three days preceding the tests.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Risk of Falls
  - Bone Density
  - Triglycerides (Metabolic syndrome Indicators)
  - Total cholesterol (Metabolic syndrome Indicators)
  - High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (HDL-C)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nordic walking
  - BEHAVIORAL: Strength training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Bungy Pump Exercises
  - BEHAVIORAL: Daily life
  - BEHAVIORAL: Functional general conditioning training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 80 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06781541
