CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06841796
Title: The YMCA Healthy Lifestyle Program for Prediabetes
Official Title: The Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) Healthy Lifestyle Program for Prediabetes
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this 26 week randomized controlled clinical trial is to learn if using a real time continuous glucose monitor (CGM) in a healthy lifestyle program for adults with prediabetes at the YMCA can improve glucose levels, dietary habits and physical activity The main questions it aims to answer is

* Does use of a CGM improve the percent of time spent with glucose values between 70-140 mg/dl
* Does use of a CGM improve nutritional habits as measured by Picture Your Plate (PYP) score
* Does use of a CGM improve physical activity as measured by International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) score

Researchers will compare individuals using real time CGM to those not using CGM

Participants will be asked to:

* attend weekly health coach sessions for 12 weeks followed by 3 monthly sessions.
* attend a YMCA class of their choice
* fill out questionnaires at baseline, 12 and 24 weeks
* have an A1c blood test at baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.
* wear a CGM.

All participants will wear a blinded CGM at baseline. The intervention group will wear a real time CGM for 24 weeks. The control group will wear a blinded CGM for 10 days at 6, 12 and 24 weeks

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND:

Diabetes has a significant impact on physical, social and mental well-being and causes significant morbidity and mortality in the United States. The total direct estimated costs of diagnosed diabetes have increased from $227 billion in 2012 to $307 billion in 2022.

In 2021, 38.1 million adults aged 18 years or older (14.7% of all US adults) had diabetes with a higher prevalence of 29.2% among those aged 65 years or older. An estimated 97.6 million adults had prediabetes in 2021.

The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) study published in 2002 clearly showed the benefit of lifestyle intervention in reducing the risk of developing type 2 diabetes by 58% compared to placebo. The Program worked particularly well for participants ages 60 and older, lowering their chances of developing type 2 diabetes by 71 percent. However, the retention rate for the DPP program has been 32% at 10 months with only 17% achieving all three goals of weight loss, physical activity ≥ 150 min per week and low fat diet. In fact, over the 20 years since the study was published, the incidence and prevalence of diabetes have dramatically increased with prediabetes affecting more than one third of the adult population. It is clear that a new approach is needed to prevent individuals with prediabetes progressing to diabetes

RATIONALE:

CGM has been shown to be an effective behavior modification tool in individuals with diabetes resulting in improvement in A1c and weight loss. Individuals with diabetes wearing a CGM were more likely to modify their physical activity and eating habits based on the real time glucose levels from the CGM.

The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) has been successfully implemented in the YMCA setting using health coaches and a modified curriculum. However, overall enrollment in Diabetes Prevention Programs is low with only 16% (351/2200) of those contacted attending an information session and only 11.3% (228) enrolling in the YMCA DPP and persisting through week 9. Overall retention rate for DPP at University of Michigan was 63% of participants through 18 weeks and 32% of participants through 44 weeks.

It was felt that a healthy lifestyle program led by a YMCA health coach incorporating the real time feedback of glucose data from the CGM and elements of the DPP curriculum could effectively help individuals with prediabetes make the necessary lifestyle changes to prevent diabetes.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

To determine if a healthy lifestyle program at the YMCA incorporating CGM in individuals with prediabetes can improve glucose levels, dietary habits and physical activity

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

To determine if a healthy lifestyle program at the YMCA incorporating CGM in individuals with prediabetes can have a beneficial effect on weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, body fat percentage, self-perceived health/wellness and participant satisfaction

STUDY DESIGN:

This is a randomized controlled single center 24 week in-person trial 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time in tight range (TITR)
  - PYP
  - IPAQ

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Real time continuous glucose monitor (Stelo)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06841796
