CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03720938
Title: Effects of Active Video Games in Physically Inactive Children
Official Title: A Digital Movement in the World of Inactive Children: Outcomes of Playing Active Video Games in a Pilot Randomized Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 106
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Inactivity was reported to be high in children and considered to be the fourth common cause of death in all ages. The reason for children is usually the increasing indoor use of sedentary screen time. Active Video Games (AVG) have recently been introduced for decreasing the sedentary time for children and directing them to physical activity (PA) at home.The aim of this study is to show the quantitative effect of games on physical fitness parameters like weight, body mass index (BMI) and fat ratio (FR). The study also aims at the factors for motivation or continuance of the games as self-perception and enjoyment levels together with qualitative effects of games on satisfaction and attitude changes in inactive children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research related a causal association between inactivity, low esteem, and excess weight for children. For this reason, academic performance decreases and obesity associated diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart diseases, depression, and cancer might ensue. Children usually do not prefer to perform outdoor PA due to several causes including low sense of self perception.

So far studies have shown an almost equivalent energy spent through AVGs to the physical activity of moderate intensity. Games have been previously demonstrated to prevent excess weight. There were no studies of AVG in children with varying weights, inactivity and technology preoccupation. Similarly, no qualitative research of AVG in children exploring enjoyment levels and attitude changes were encountered.

Thus, the investigators aim to find the quantitative effect of AVG on physical fitness parameters like weight, BMI and FR. Other aims are studying factors for motivation or continuance of the games as well as the feelings and perspectives of the participant children's parents for the games.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight in Kilograms
  - Weight z Score
  - BMI Calculated as "Weight (kg) / Height (m^2)"
  - BMI z Score
  - Body Fat Percentage as Determined by Siri Formula From Skinfold Thicknesses

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Active Video Games

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 13 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03720938
