CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03508583
Title: Turkish Version of The Measure of Processes of Care (MPOC)
Official Title: Validity and Reliability of Turkish Version of Turkish Version of The Measure of Processes of Care (MPOC 56-20- SP)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Family-centred care (FCS) is considered the best practice in providing rehabilitation to children with disabilities and special needs. Family-centred care has been described as a partnership approach to healthcare decision making. As a philosophy of healthcare, today many multidisciplinary healthcare facilities have organized their services according to a family-centred approach. TheMeasure of Processes of Care (MPOC) is the most widely used instrument to assess parents' self-reported experiences of family-centred behaviours of rehabilitation services providers. The aim of this study is to translate the scale to Turkish and to determine validity and reliability of The Measure of Processes of Care (MPOC 56- 20- SP)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The MPOC is a questionnaire designed to find out what parents of children with disabilities think of the services they and their children receive and how these services affect their psychosocial outcome. MPOC exists in two versions: the 56-item version was published in 1995 and the MPOC-20 in 2004. The20-item version was developed due to disadvantage of the longer version, because its completion can be very time consuming and the consequences of low respondent percentages . King and colleagues assert that the56-item MPOC is useful for research, while the MPOC-20 is better applied as a measure of parents' perceptions of the elements of FCS. The 20 items in the short version are distributed among the same ﬁve scales as in the MPOC-56. This ensures that the MPOC-56/20 captures aspects of care and services that have most importance for parents. The items are included in one of the following ﬁve scales:

1 Enabling and partnership; 2 Providing general information; 3 Providing speciﬁc information about the child; 4 Coordinated and comprehensive care; 5 Respectful and supportive care.

The Measure of Processes of Care for Service Providers (MPOC-SP) was developed to assess FCS from the perspective of professionals. The MPOC-SP has also been used in many different studies with different populations.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Measure of Processes of Care (MPOC- 56)
  - The Measure of Processes of Care 20 (MPOC- 20)
  - The Measure of Processes of Care for services providers (MPOC- SP)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Participation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03508583
