CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03162718
Title: A Feasibility Study of Unsupervised, Pre-operative Exercise Program for Patients Scheduled for Lung Cancer Surgery
Official Title: A Feasibility Study of Unsupervised, Pre-operative Exercise Program for Patients Scheduled for Lung Cancer Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The paradigm of pre-operative exercise as a neoadjuvant therapy to reduce morbidity is increasingly promoted within general surgery and surgical oncology.

Patients with lung cancer participating in pre-operative exercise have better aerobic capacity and pulmonary function and shorter hospital length-of-stay after surgery. Additionally, pre-operative exercise may increase the likelihood of resuming exercise post-surgery, thereby accelerating the pace of rehabilitation and recovery.

In order to translate the research findings into sustainable clinical practice, clinician-scientists need to develop pragmatic and effective home-based exercise protocols. Wearable fitness devices offer a way to approximate the supervision that occurs in exercise research.

Before the investigators can develop an intervention in which patients receive tailored support similar to what occurs with supervised exercise, they need to pilot test the monitoring aspect of the wearable fitness device in conjunction with the pre-operative exercise program. The investigators propose a mixed methods, 16 single arm feasibility study of an unsupervised, pre-operative exercise prescription (uPEP) augmented by a wearable fitness device. The proposed study of 30 patients scheduled for lung cancer surgery will identify the strengths, weaknesses, and utility of this approach.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators propose a parallel mixed methods, 16 single arm, pre-post study with 30 participants scheduled for lung cancer surgery. At time of enrollment (at least 3 weeks before their scheduled surgery), participants will complete baseline assessments, receive the uPEP exercise prescription, and be oriented to the wearable fitness device. A research assistant will call the participant to conduct an audiotaped semi-structured interview regarding the acceptability of the electronically-monitored uPEP within 7- 14 days of enrollment. The study team will complete follow-up assessments on the day of surgery, two weeks after surgery, and four months after surgery. Data will also be collected from chart review and the wearable fitness device throughout the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adherence to exercise:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03162718
