CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06780072
Title: Impact of Massage on Daytime Napping
Official Title: The Acute Effect of Manual Massage Therapy on Daytime Napping in Poor Sleepers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
In the quest for optimal physical and mental performance and recovery, people are constantly exploring various strategies to enhance their overall well-being. Daytime napping helps mitigate the effects of inadequate nighttime sleep, allowing people to reduce fatigue and potentially improve physical performance. Research has also shown that strategically timed naps can significantly boost athletic performance, improve cognitive function, and reduce daytime fatigue.

Short naps lasting between 10 to 60 minutes are ideal for quickly boosting alertness and cognitive function. Additionally, they can facilitate a complete sleep cycle, including REM sleep, which is crucial for both physical and mental recovery. Massage therapy, recognized for its ability to alleviate muscle soreness, improve circulation, and induce relaxation and it might play a crucial role in facilitating a good night sleep.

In athletes a massage therapy serves as both a proactive and reactive measure in optimizing sports and exercise performance, ensuring athletes are physically and mentally prepared for competition while also facilitating their recovery, minimizing the risk of injury and being particularly effective in alleviating pain. Massage therapy significantly contributes to improving night sleep efficiency as well as the duration of sleep onset.\[12\] From a biochemical point of view, massage promotes the release of serotonin, a hormone that enhances the sense of wellbeing. In addition, serotonin is a biosynthetic precursor of melatonin and an active neurotransmitter, whose levels affect various functions of the body including sleep promotion,\[14\] while can play a significant role in mental health as it regulates mood and emotional well-being.

Nowadays, massage has evolved into various types that are specialized for the treatment of various health problems. The most well know and frequently used types of massage are the "sports massage" and the "relaxation massage". Sports massage has been proven to enhance athletic performance, as well as help athletes recover after competition while the Deep Relaxation massage is used exclusively for the relaxation and psychological discharge. More specifically, the relaxation-therapeutic massage uses pressure that is deeply relaxing, but not painful, smooth gliding strokes that are both rhythmic and flowing, which increases blood circulation and promotes a general sense of relaxation. Even thought, these 2 very common types of massage have been applied for many years in various settings, it is not clear whether massage affects brain function and state of alertness.

Therefore, the primary aim of the current study is to investigate the effect of two different types of manual massage sessions on daytime napping using objective (EEG - brain activity) and subjective (questionnaires) measurements of relaxation in poor sleepers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The current study will assess the impact of two different massage styles in aspects related to relaxation and wakefulness using a polysomnography system and questionnaire measurements.

The volunteers of the current study will participate in 3 different scenarios, each 5 days apart: Scenario 1 is the control session when participants will lay down on the prone position on a professional massage bed for 35 min without any interventions, Scenario 2 will be the experimental session 1 where participants will lay down on the prone position on a professional massage bed for 35 min receiving a deep relaxation massage session, and Scenario 3 will be the experimental session 2, where participants will lay down on the prone position on a professional massage bed for 35 min receiving a Activation/Stimulation type of massage session. During all three scenarios participants' brain signal and subjective perceived feeling of relaxation will be recorded. Scenario 2 and 3 are taking place in a random order in every participant.

Materials and Methods Subjects Fifteen (N=15) participants will be included in the current study. Inclusion criteria include subjects of both sexes, aged \>18 years, and Pittsburgh Quality Sleep Index score \>5. Exclusion criteria include a history of mental illness, dermatological diseases, allergies to massage oil, history of epilepsy and any acute or chronic condition that would limit the ability of the patient to participate in the study.

Study Design Subjects will randomly be assigned into 3 conditions each one week apart: 1) the control condition (CON) where subjects will not receive any intervention, while they are rested for 35 min on a massage bed; 2) the activation condition (ACT) where subjects will receive an activation (Sports) massage session lasting for 30 min and rest for 5 min without any interference; and 3) the relaxation condition (REL) where subjects receive a relaxation massage session lasting for 30 min and rest for 5 min without any interference (Figure 2). All conditions will be separated one week apart and take place at the exact time of the day, while the order of the various conditions is randomly assigned. All massage sessions were delivered by a professional masseur, while the researchers analyzing the data will be blind to the assigned group. All measurements will be conducted at the sleep laboratory under controlled conditions, with a constant room temperature of 22°C. The study is approved by the Human Research and Ethics Committee of the University of Thessaly (2094-2/08-02-2023). All Subjects will give their written informed consent prior to study participation.

Procedure All measurements will be performed in the Lifestyle Medicine Laboratory, at the Department of Physical Education and Sports Science of Trikala, in Thessaly, Greece.

Before the initiation of the study, subjects will complete a series of questionnaires and measurements related to overall health. Subjects will be connected to a portable

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep Latency N1

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Activation Massage therapy
  - OTHER: Relaxation Massage Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06780072
