CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03998527
Title: Non-Invasive Spinal Cord Stimulation After Injury
Official Title: Non-Invasive Spinal Cord Stimulation and Respiratory Plasticity
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this study is to assess the function of the lungs and the muscles are used to breathe after individuals receive respiratory training, spinal cord stimulation, a combination of respiratory training and stimulation, a combination of arm training and stimulation, or a combination of trunk training and stimulation. The respiratory, arm, and trunk training combined with the spinal stimulation interventions are being used to activate the spinal cord below the level of injury. Investigators will be looking for changes in the function of the lungs and trunk muscles before, during, and after these task-specific and non-task-specific interventions for breathing to determine which one has the greatest effect. The results of this study may aid in the development of treatments to help individuals with spinal cord injuries that have impaired lung, arm, and trunk function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Aim 1. This study is aimed to evaluate the effects of non-invasive transcutaneous electrical spinal-cord stimulation (TcESCS) applied below the neurological level of Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) on respiratory, upper extremity, and trunk functional and motor control properties and identify their underlying physiological mechanisms. Evaluation of the mechanisms of respiratory and motor control modulations evoked by the TcESCS will have important implications for the development of specific therapeutic strategies to fight complications of SCI. The objective of Aim 1 is to investigate whether TcESCS can significantly increase activation of motor networks. This work will be done by electrophysiological characterization of respiratory and other motor responses as assessed at rest and in response to the respiratory and other challenges in SCI individuals. Changes in functional measures will be assessed when the TcESCS device is turned "off" and "on". To evaluate "dose-dependent" effects, changes in surface electromyographic (sEMG) magnitude and muscle co-activation will be assessed when stimulation parameters and location are changed during respiratory efforts and motor tasks. The extent to which the stimulation is associated with the largest change in respiratory and sEMG parameters will be implemented as a strategy to be used during stimulation in combination with Respiratory Training (RT), Arm Training (AT), and Trunk Training (TT). To attain the objective of this aim, we will test the working hypothesis that TcESCS excites specific motor networks leading to amplified motor responses. We will test this hypothesis by applying TcESCS during our original approach of the Respiratory Motor Control Assessment (RMCA) and other sEMG-based assessments with kinematics to characterize respiratory, arm, and trunk motor function. During these assessments, beat-to-beat Blood Pressure/ Heart Rate (BP/HR), and respiratory rate will be recorded to evaluate respiratory-cardiovascular responses. The rationale for this aim is that successful completion of the proposed research will contribute fundamental elements to our basic knowledge, without which the therapeutic value of TcESCS cannot be understood. The acquisition of such knowledge is critical to the development of specific rehabilitative strategies. When the proposed studies for Aim 1 have been completed, we expect that motor and inter-related characteristics affected by TcESCS in patients with SCI will be established. Such findings would be important because it will allow us, for the first time, to evaluate the ability of non-invasive spinal cord stimulation to enhance the decreased state of spinal network activity thus demonstrating the potential for rehabilitation.

Study Aim 2. The goal is to evaluate the effectiveness and therapeutic mechanisms of the TcESCS combined with task-specific (Respiratory Training) and non-task-specific (Arm Training and Trunk Training) interventions for breathing. Identification

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Non-invasive respiratory electromyography
  - Spirometry
  - Maximum airway pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Transcutaneous Electrical Spinal Cord Stimulation (TcESCS)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03998527
