CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02302664
Title: PATH-2: Platelet Rich Plasma in Achilles Tendon Healing
Official Title: A Pragmatic Multi-centre Blinded Randomised Placebo-controlled Trial Comparing Platelet Rich Plasma Injection (PRP) to Placebo (Imitation) Injection in Adults With Achilles Tendon Rupture
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 230
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Platelet Rich Plasma in Achilles Tendon Healing

Does using a Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) injection immediately before standard casting benefit patients aged 18 or over who are suitable for nonsurgical treatment of the Achilles tendon rupture (ATR)? This is a multicentre, blinded, randomised, placebo controlled trial with two sub studies: (1) blood sample analysis and (2) needle biopsy in 16 participants.

ATR is the most common tendon injury and leads to months of incapacity. With an average work absence of 63108 days there are significant societal and National Health Service (NHS) costs. PRP potential benefit is to improve recovery and return to normal activities earlier, and reduce the NHS and societal impact. The investigators will investigate the efficacy of PRP using disease specific and patient important outcomes to improve the evidence for this treatment of ATR.

A minimum of 15 United Kingdom (UK) NHS hospitals will be included to recruit 214 participants. Patients will be identified in the orthopaedic outpatient clinic, usually following an emergency hospital attendance for ATR. After checking eligibility and the informed consent process, baseline data is collected and participants randomised to either 'PRP injection' or 'Imitation (placebo) injection'. A participant's own blood sample is taken and prepared according to allocation. The injection is delivered by a trened surgeon in clinic who will be aware of allocation while the participant remains blind.

Participants complete a pain diary and have four study assessments at 4,7,13 and 24 weeks, carried out by a member of the research team blind to allocation. Assessments take place over the telephone or during a hospital outpatient visit. The 24 week hospital visit includes an exercise test of ankle function. All assessments include collection of patient reported responses to pre-set questions.

The results may be applicable to the many other tendon and ligament injuries. The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)/Medical Research Council (MRC) Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation Programme provides funding and University of Oxford is Sponsor.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PURPOSE The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of treating ruptured Achilles tendon with autologous platelet rich plasma. The investigators plan to compare the outcome of traditional methods of immobilisation in a cast with the outcome of the same methods after applying platelet rich plasma to the ruptured tendon.

Spontaneous rupture of the Achilles tendon is the most common tendon injury in the human body, it accounts for approximately 20% of all major tendon ruptures. Since the 1950s, the incidence of Achilles tendon rupture has been increasing. The peak incidence of ATR is between 30 and 40 years of age. Current treatments are associated with a significant risk of rerupture for the Achilles tendon; this is up to 15%. Therapies are currently dominated by the conflicting priorities of rapid rehabilitation and a return to work versus the risk of rerupture and/or surgery. New cost effective treatments that reduce both the risk of rerupture and time to functional healing are needed to address this challenge.

Platelets are blood cells that form blood clots in the injured tissues. Platelets have evolved over millennia to deliver a combinatorial wound healing cocktail that comprises over 1100 active soluble and membrane bound components, delivered sequentially over a timeframe from minutes to the lifespan of the platelets. Platelets and platelet derived growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors play important roles in the healthy response to injury, promotinGHealing of tissues, and have been proposed as therapeutic agents. Their potential for tendon repair has been demonstrated in laboratory experiments and animal models. One humaninvestigation has been published, a small study in athletes showing accelerated return to function with platelet preparations from patients own blood after complete Achilles tendon rupture. However, there has been no scientifically sound clinical research to assess the full potential of using platelet preparations to accelerate healing of Achilles tendon.

Despite that lack of high quality trial data, PRP administration remains a potentially attractive strategy to explore given it is of relatively low cost and minimally invasive. There has been a recent steep growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in PRP use for musculoskeletal conditions. It is estimated that PRP is used to treat 86,000 tendon disorders annually in the United States and a similar number in Europe.

There is also evidence that PRP injections are being introduced in NHS clinical practice, in addition to a wider use in private medicine within the United Kingdom. The investigators surveyed the declarations of use of PRP in NHS hospitals and discovered four offering PRP for tendon injuries. Without evidence of efficacy the consequences range from the NHS incurring extra costs for a treatment with unproven clinical effects to the non deployment of an effective autologous intervention. There is therefore a pressing need to undertake this study before the use of PRP becomes widely adopted. The results o

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Heel-Rise Endurance Test (HRET)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: PRP Injection into Achilles tendon rupture gap
  - PROCEDURE: Imitation Injection into Achilles tendon rupture gap

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02302664
