CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00857194
Title: Cardiovascular Disease Study
Official Title: Risk Factors for Coronary Heart Disease in Spinal Cord Injury: Conventional and Emerging
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 170
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of death in the spinal cord injured (SCI) population, occurring at younger ages than in the able-bodied population. Conventional risk factors for CHD include high concentrations of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), low concentrations of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), diabetes mellitus (DM), smoking history, and family history. Other factors that may influence progression of CHD include C-reactive protein (an inflammatory marker), and fibrinogen (a pro-coagulant marker). Individuals with SCI with longer duration and greater completeness of injury are more likely to have significantly worse carbohydrate tolerance compared to other neurological deficit subgroups. Muscle atrophy after SCI is associated with increased insulin resistance. Prolonged inactivity has been shown to be associated with hyperinsulinemia and impaired glucose tolerance. Body composition changes after SCI to indicate significantly more total body fat mass and percent fat and less lean mass compared to able-bodied individuals. Carotid intima-media thickness is correlated with atherosclerosis progression and abdominal adiposity. Individuals with abdominal adiposity are at a higher risk for CHD, DM, hypertension, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Abdominal adiposity and insulin resistance are contributors to postprandial lipemia, which may be a more sensitive indicator of CHD risk and progression.

The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of conventional risk factors by assessing the 10-year risk for CHD, and identify emerging risk factors for CHD in the spinal cord injured population. Subjects will have the option to participate in a high fat meal test to determine postprandial lipemic responses. Knowledge of this information may be able to detect and prevent future cardiovascular events related to CHD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - coronary heart disease risk factors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: 2 hour Oral Glucose Tolerance Test
  - PROCEDURE: Fat Meal Test

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00857194
