CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03918785
Title: Rice Germ Supplementation on Swimmers
Official Title: Rice Germ Supplementation on Moderately Trained Swimmers: a Randomized Pilot Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
In order to enhance the effects of training and improve performance, athletes often turn to nutritional supplements. According to the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM), adequate selection of nutrients and supplements, adjusting intake according to the exercise performed, is necessary for optimal performance in athletes. The most recent consensus from the International Society for Sport Nutrition (ISSN), The American Dietetic Association (ADA) and ACSM on sport nutrition have been reviewed by Potgieter, stating that a single guideline is not sufficient to elaborate an individualized and focused nutritional management of athletes. Moreover, apart from the abovementioned guidelines, sport-specific nutritional strategies, including quantity, structure and timing of food (or supplement) intake should also be followed in order to maximize sports performance and recovery. The importance of dietary supplementation is of particular interest in swimming, where athletes usually undertake a training approach characterized by a high volume of training during aerobic development and high intensity training during the competition phase, coupled with strength training.

The size and market value of the sports supplement industry is continuing to grow, with health, safety and contamination concerns becoming more pressing. Therefore, it is important to identify dietary supplements that are safe and effective in supporting swimmers. Rice germ could be a safe and effective dietary supplement for swimmers. In the last few years, scientific research is trying to use waste rice products in the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical fields, considering the potential value of nutrients they contain. In particular, rice germ has a high protein and essential amino acids, such as lysine, histidine and valine content, a good lipid content (with prevalence of mono- unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids - in particular linoleic and linolenic essential fatty acids and oleic acid), an high fiber presence; regarding water-soluble vitamins, rice germ has high content if thiamine (B1) and pyridoxine (B6), while vitamin E prevails for liposoluble vitamins. About minerals, are most present iron and magnesium. All these nutrients play important roles in maintaining the health of athletes. Currently, despite these characteristics, no study has evaluated the potential beneficial effect of RG supplementation on athletes. Given this background, the purpose of this investigation was to ascertain whether performance in swimmers could be improved by a 5-weeks of RG supplementation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Performance change
  - Lactic acid production change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Rice germ
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Wheat-based supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03918785
