CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07436481
Title: The Effectiveness of Forest Therapy on Psychotic Patients: Focusing on Changes in Inflammatory Pathways and The Psychotic Condition of Patients
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Forest Therapy on Psychotic Patients: Focusing on Changes in Inflammatory Pathways and The Psychotic Condition of Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
General Formulation Are there any changes in the inflammatory pathway and psychotic conditions in patients given Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy? Specific Are there any differences in the levels of inflammatory factors such as CRP, IL-6, and BDNF in patients given Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy? Are there differences in the psychotic conditions of patients, as assessed by PANSS, MADRSS, DASS-21, YMRS, Zung Anxiety Self Questionnaire, PSQI, and WHO-QL BREF, in patients receiving Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy?

1.3 Research Objectives 1.3.1 General Objective To determine the changes that occur in the inflammatory pathway and psychotic condition in patients receiving Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy.

1.3.2 Specific Objective To determine changes in the inflammatory pathway, particularly CRP, IL-6, and BDNF, in patients receiving Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy.

To determine changes in psychotic conditions using the PANSS, BDI, MADRS, DASS-21, YMRS, Zung Anxiety Self Questionnaire, PSQI, and WHO-QL-BREF questionnaires in patients receiving Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy.

To investigate the relationship between changes in inflammatory pathways and changes in psychotic conditions in patients receiving Forest Therapy compared to conventional psychotic disorder therapy.

The research group will be divided into two groups using randomisation. The treatment group will receive forest therapy in the Mangkang forest from June to September 2025, with one session every two weeks for a total of eight sessions, while the control group will receive treatment for psychotic disorders as usual. Both groups will undergo psychometric testing, which includes assessment of psychotic symptoms, mood, insomnia, anxiety, stress levels, and quality of life. Blood samples will also be collected for complete blood count and inflammatory factor testing.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Intervention (8 sessions of 8 mg) Forest therapy will be provided in the form of mindful walking, forest bathing, mindful eating, meditation, and tree hugging.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - CRP level in mg/L
  - BDNF levels in pg/ml
  - IL-6 level in pg/ml
  - Psychotic Condition with Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Forest Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07436481
