CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06575569
Title: Effect of HIIT on Cardiopulmonary Function After PCI in Patients With Coronary Heart Disease
Official Title: Effect of High-intensity Intermittent Rehabilitation Training on Cardiopulmonary Function After PCI in Patients With Coronary Heart Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 67
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Both the gut microbiome and exercise are closely related to human health, but the understanding of the effect of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on cardiopulmonary function and human intestinal flora is still further study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
As one of the most causes mortality all over the world, coronary heart disease (CHD) contributes to about 1.78 billion in Europe, 0.36 all deaths in the United States and over 110 million individuals worldwide each year, which has been a heavy burden on health expenditure. The treatment ways of CHD mainly include life way, drugs, and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Even though, in past decades PCI technique has developed rapidly and today is a main treatment for patients with CHD. It was reported than healthcare costs will reach $177 billion by 2024 in the United States. In Europe, productivity losses were £13,953 per person per year because of CHD. Despite the traditional treatment, costs and mortality owing to CHD are still high, which highlights the need for research of the relationships between CHD and systems other than the cardiovascular system and comorbidities. The investigators need to search for new measures to improve traditional treatment ways of CHD. With the development of high-throughput sequencing technology, numbers of studies have showed that closely relationship between gut microbiota and cardiopulmonary function, blood glucose, lipid and cholesterol profiles and some inflammatory markers in patients with chronic disease. Regulation of intestinal flora may have preventive effect on disease. However, the study for relationship of CHD and gut microbiota is few reports. Health is a topic of common concern around the world. Increasing attention to the status of CHD and finding exercise prescriptions that effectively regulate the intestinal flora may lay the foundation for the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases such as CHD.

Some experiments have demonstrated that High-intensity interval training (HIIT) can change the diversity and metabolic capacity of gut microbiota. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct more studies to figure out whether exercise training could improve gut microbiota and bring benefit to human.

This study will explore whether 12 weeks of HIIT can effectively change the structure of human with CHD intestinal flora, so as to provide a theoretical basis for the human with CHD and exercise intervention in the treatment of intestinal flora related diseases.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gut microbiome
  - Plasma metabolite Traumatic acid
  - 6MWT
  - VO2peak

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: high-intensity interval training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate-intensity continuous training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06575569
