CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05445401
Title: Pre-rehabilitation in Neoadjuvant Patients With Gastric Cancer
Official Title: A Pilot Study of Pre-rehabilitation in Neoadjuvant Patients With Gastric Cancer
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
In this study, patients with traditional neoadjuvant gastric cancer were used as controls to explore whether the triple pre-rehabilitation interventions of exercise, nutrition and psychology during the neoadjuvant period before surgery could improve the functional reserve of neoadjuvant gastric cancer patients and accelerate postoperative recovery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Internationally, pre-rehabilitation strategies have been widely used in surgery. Due to the late start of the concept of enhanced rehabilitation in my country, the research on pre-rehabilitation in my country is still in its infancy, and the research on pre-rehabilitation in gastric cancer is basically in a blank state. Domestic scholars have compared the rehabilitation of gastric cancer patients in the exercise-based pre-rehabilitation group and the postoperative rapid rehabilitation group, and found that the postoperative stress response, insulin resistance, and inflammatory response in the pre-rehabilitation group were lower than those in the conventional treatment group, and their nutritional status was improved. faster. The pre-rehabilitation model of comprehensive exercise, nutritional support and psychological intervention is rarely used in gastric cancer patients, and there is a lack of high-quality clinical data and related research.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy and neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy are the current research hotspots in locally advanced gastric cancer. The current research studies focus on tumor regression and prognosis and survival. However, the preoperative treatment cycle of neoadjuvant gastric cancer patients is long. If there is a lack of long-term and continuous effective management and guidance during the neoadjuvant therapy, it is very easy to lead to nutritional and nutritional deficiencies after neoadjuvant therapy. The poor physical condition makes the patient suffer from physical and psychological pain.

Therefore, we considered whether it is possible to carry out effective, convenient and economical rehabilitation training treatment for neoadjuvant gastric cancer patients before surgery, so as to prevent the occurrence of surgical risks and other complications in the preoperative stage, improve the functional reserve of neoadjuvant gastric cancer patients and respond to surgery. stimulated and accelerated postoperative recovery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6 minutes walking test
  - Scored Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment score
  - DMSM score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pre-rehabilitation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard medical care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05445401
