CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07510061
Title: Title: ICARUS - Psycho-physiological Profiling of Low and High Heat-resilient Individuals
Official Title: Physiological Phenotyping
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The escalating environmental heat-stress associated with global warming is a societal challenge with large and potential harmful consequences for humans. Excess morbidity and mortality during heat waves provides strong evidence for fatal outcomes. However, it is unclear why some people are particularly vulnerable and get sick from hyperthermia, while others adapt and tolerate exposure.

The Icarus project aims to provide a psycho-physiological framework for improved mitigation of the health threats associated with global warming. Combining expertise in integrative thermal physiology, pharmacology, photobiology, psychology and machine learning, we will collaborate on comprehensive cross-scientific studies using controlled lab-exposure combined with investigations in ecological settings including vulnerable and highly tolerant people across populations from northern to southern Europe.

Advanced algorithms will be developed to generate personalized alerts and advising based on behavioral patterns, psychological profiling, predicted vulnerability and willingness to adopt resilience-building strategies.

Global warming is projected to continue towards the end of the 21st century and constitutes an increasing threat to human health unless we as individuals and collectively become better in preventing acute effects, as well as devise sustainable strategies to limit further anthropogenic warming of the climate system. Acutely, improved guidance is important for both individual and public health, where Icarus aims at providing a highly improved basis for preventing heat-related disease, advising or nudging people towards pro-health behavior, including smarter use of technologies to mitigate heat stress, or adjusting medication to reduce adverse effects during heat events. In support of the sustainability agenda, our framework also forms a novel basis for developing advising algorithms relevant for optimization of climate change mitigation policy-making.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Warming of the climate system is ongoing and there is strong evidence for detrimental effects of environmental heat stress on human with impact on public health and quality of life for billions of people globally - with the most damaging effects on societies in the hottest parts of the world. However, recent heatwaves in Canada, USA, and Northern Europe saw temperatures surpassing 40°C. Documented impacts on mortality show how climate change and the associated geographical spread of heatwaves also have health consequences in regions previously spared from high temperatures. At the same time, cutaneous melanoma already is a documented and increasing public health concern and characterized by high incidence in fair-skinned populations of European descent, particularly in Central and North European countries. The incidence of 29.7 per 100,000 person-years in Denmark is the 3rd highest globally, compared to the world average of 3.4. Alarmingly, the World Health Organization (WHO) projects that the number of new cases of melanoma per year will increase by more than 50% from 2020 to 2040.

It is abundantly clear that certain populations are more vulnerable to global warming and that certain individuals within each population are more susceptible to heat-stress than others. In the Icarus project, we will find ways to identify these people and at a large scale protect using predictive algorithms. Achieving this ambition may save lives, reduce the burden on healthcare systems, support the global sustainability agenda including UN defined sustainability goals such as the prevention of poverty via improved productivity. Thus, public health, sustainability and economic benefits from this ambitious project are clear should it succeed.

The fatal outcome of exposure to extreme heat and sunlight, as described in the myth about Icarus and scientifically documented with epidemiological evidence for excess death rates during heatwaves is, however, only the tip of the iceberg in terms of public health problems and societal impact imposed by global warming. We have documented the occupational health burden, productivity losses and economic costs associated with elevated environmental heat and we have shed light on the interaction between heat stress and exposure to solar radiation. The later with major isolated health effects of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) on the skin. Our pilot observations from combined heat-radiation exposure studies indicate that some individuals, both before and after acclimatization, are very tolerant and show almost no detrimental effects on motor-cognitive performance; while others (healthy; matched for fitness and age) show drastic changes in clinical outcomes and major declines in physical and mental performance. It is well known that sunlight exposure, and in particular certain UVR wavelengths, has direct damaging effects on the skin, but there is a large knowledge gap on its interaction with thermal physiological effects. Also, there is 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physiological Heat Tolerance
  - Heart Rate Response

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Controlled Heat and Ultraviolet Radiation Exposure Protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07510061
