CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04900701
Title: The Impact of Energy Intake and Short-term Disuse on Muscle Protein Synthesis Rates and Skeletal Muscle Mass in Middle-aged Adults.
Official Title: The Impact of Energy Intake and Short-term Disuse on Muscle Protein Synthesis Rates and Skeletal Muscle Mass in Middle-aged Adults.
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
In healthy middle-aged men and women, what is the effect of dietary energy restriction and energy surplus on daily muscle protein synthesis rates and muscle morphology, compared to energy balance, during free-living and immobilisation?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Age related muscle tissue loss, which is associated with a number of negative health outcomes is partially caused by blunted muscle protein synthesis rates (MPS) in response to food ingestion, which is exacerbated by muscle disuse. Concomitantly, consuming an energy balanced diet appears to become more challenging with advancing age, due to a reduction in appetite. Of concern is that the impact of energy intake on muscle protein metabolism during ageing is poorly characterised.

Objective To determine daily MPS and muscle morphology in response to differing energy intakes, in free-living conditions and during immobilisation.

Methods Healthy middle-aged volunteers will consume a hypocaloric, energy-balanced, or hypercaloric diet (providing 1.4 g.kg.day protein) over a three-day free-living period, and a three day period of single leg immobilisation. Deuterium oxide and MRI scans will be used to measure daily MPS and muscle size, respectively.

Value The study will determine the effect of energy intake per se on daily muscle protein synthesis rates and muscle size, in free-living and immobilised conditions. This will inform how energy provision modulates tissue loss with ageing, and how this interacts with the catabolic stress of muscle disuse.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle protein synthesis (MPS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Energy status

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04900701
