CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06733350
Title: Testosterone Replacement Therapy for the Treatment of Low Testosterone in Hypogonadal Men With Localized Prostate Cancer on Active Surveillance
Official Title: Investigating the Effect of Testosterone Replacement Therapy AmonGHypogonadal Men With Localized Prostate Cancer on Active Surveillance
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 600
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This phase IV trial studies the effects of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) on treatment outcomes in hypogonadal men with prostate cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body (localized) and who are on active surveillance (AS). AS in prostate cancer involves closely watching the patient's condition through regular physical exams and blood tests, but not giving treatment unless there are changes in test results. It can be a practical alternative to treatment in localized prostate cancer. Hypogonadal men have low testosterone associated with symptoms such as low libido and erectile problems. TRT can be used to treat hypogonadism by increasing testosterone levels, which may improve associated symptoms. TRT is often not used in men with prostate cancer due to concerns it may lead to the cancer growing or spreading. This may lead hypogonadal men to have a poor quality of life or to discontinue AS. TRT may improve treatment and quality of life outcomes in hypogonadal men with localized prostate cancer on active surveillance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the impact of TRT on Gleason grade progression in hypogonadal men with localized prostate cancer on active surveillance, and the association between TRT and the likelihood of discontinuation of active surveillance in the same population.

II. To assess the impact of TRT on thEQuality of life, including changes in the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) and the association with sexual health measured by the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM), in hypogonadal men with localized prostate cancer on active surveillance.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the influence of TRT on radiographic progression in hypogonadal men with localized prostate cancer on active surveillance, by assessing changes in the size of abnormal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lesions.

II. To evaluate the association between TRT and biochemical progression by analyzing changes in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels over time in the studied population.

III. To systematically monitor and document TRT-related adverse events and complications, and concurrently assess the association between TRT and the likelihood of discontinuation due to adverse events in the studied population.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

GROUP 1: Patients with normal testosterone level undergo standard AS for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression. Patients undergo blood sample collection and MRI throughout the trial and may undergo prostate biopsy on study.

GROUP 2: Patients with low testosterone level associated with hypogonadal symptoms and willing to receive TRT receive testosterone per treating physician discretion via injection, gel, lotion, or trensdermal patch and undergo standard AS for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood sample collection and MRI throughout the trial and may undergo prostate biopsy on study.

GROUP 3: Patients with low testosterone level with no symptoms, or low testosterone level associated with hypogonadal symptoms but declined TRT undergo standard AS for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression. Patients undergo blood sample collection and MRI throughout the trial and may undergo prostate biopsy on study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gleason grade progression
  - Discontinuation of active surveillance
  - International Prostate Symptom Score (Quality-of-life)
  - Sexual Health Inventory for Men score (Quality-of-life)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Prostate
  - PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
  - PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
  - OTHER: Patient Observation
  - OTHER: Questionnaire Administration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06733350
