CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01365416
Title: Personalised Medicine for Morbid Obesity
Official Title: Genetic Analysis for Personalised Medicine for Morbid Obesity
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 2000
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The prevalence of morbid obesity (BMI \> 40 kg/m2) is increasing rapidly in the UK, but the investigators lack a coherent strategy for detailed assessment and treatment of the individuals affected, who are at high risk of morbidity and early mortality. The investigators already know that more than 1 in 20 severely-obese individuals have a simple genetic cause of their obesity (usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment for morbid obesity and certain surgeries can result in the remission of type 2 diabetes. However, some patient fail to achieve the weight loss or experience complications and re-operations. The investigators are unable to predict the outcomes of bariatric surgery particularly in relation to type 2 diabetes remission which is crucial for the assessment of risk to benefit balance before wider future applications of the surgery.

The investigators want to investigate the mechanism underlying Type 2 diabetes remission after bariatric surgery by A) examining the effect of Mendelian forms of obesity and diabetes on T2D remission, B) studying changes in expression profiling patterns in insulin-responsive tissues, C) identifying of eQTLs, and of other genetic variations affecting T2D remission and D) studying the role of epigenetic variation in T2D remission.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
SUBJECTS and SAMPLES

Obese patients (n=2000) presenting to Obesity, Endocrine and Medical Clinics at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust will be recruited at initial presentation to the service. The patients will be included for this study are patients with BMI \>28 kg/m2 and aged between 18-65.

Subjects will undergo blood, saliva, urine and faeces sampling. Patients will also be asked to consent for muscle, liver, subcutaneous and visceral fat tissue collected at the time of surgery. If any of the patients have to undergo a re-operation then blood sample, muscle, liver, subcutaneous and visceral fat tissue will need to be collected again.

Collections of samples from other centres ( e.g Gothenburg) may be analysed in a similar way alongside the samples specified here.

METHODS

The investigators will use methods representing the state-of-the-art at the time of the analysis. Current plans are outlined below:

Standard current methods will be used to extract DNA from saliva or blood and all patients will be screened for monogenic obesity and diabetes.

RNA will be extracted from blood and tissues to perform genome-wide expression analysis.

DNA will be used for performing genome-wide targeted SNP genotyping for the identification of eQTLs, and of genetic variations influencing the outcomes of bariatric surgery.

DNA will be extracted from blood and tissues using standard methods to perform epigenetic analyses.

Patients will be asked to bring an early morning urine sample as well as a faeces sample for later metabonomic/ metagenomic analyses.

Blood samples will also be used for measuring C-peptide, fasting glucose and insulin and other biomarkers as they become available. Subject's weight will be taken at each of the follow-up visits. Subjects will also be analysed for a range of phenotypes concerned with obesity and its co-morbidity as well as for psychological and related outcomes.

PROTOCOL

First point of contact (at group information session):

1. Verbal introduction to study
2. Participant information sheet (Appendix 2)
3. Containers for urine and faeces samples will be handed to patients
4. 1 week follow-up telephone contact for consent to proceed onto first study visit

Visit 1: Screening visit (at pre-surgery assessment (part of routine visit)):

1. Further explanation of study and confirmation of understanding
2. Signed consent form (Appendix 3)
3. Family history questionnaires
4. Measurement of height, weight, head circumference, foot and hand size (supported with Photographic documentation)
5. Psychological questionnaires (these are completed by all patients prior to first study visit upon initial referral to obesity service for audit purposes. Consent will be sought to use these during the first study visit)
6. Blood or saliva
7. Routine blood test to measure C-peptide, fasting glucose and insulin
8. Early morning urine and faeces sample

Visit 2 (during actual surgery):

1. Blood, muscle-, liver-, subcutaneous- and visceral fat 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  Not specified

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01365416
