CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04670029
Title: Impact of an APA Program on EFS in Patients With Diffuse Large-cell B Lymphoma Treated in 1st Line
Official Title: Impact of an Adapted Physical Activity Program on Event-free Survival in Patients With Diffuse Large-cell B Lymphoma Treated in 1st Line
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 186
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma is the most common histology of non-Hodgkin's malignant lymphomas (31% of lymphomas), with an incidence of between 15 and 20 new cases per year per 100,000 inhabitants in France. The median age is 65 and a third of patients are over 75 years old. 60% of patients are cured after a standard regimen of chemotherapy with RCHOP; 40% of patients will, however, relapse. No other regimen has shown improvement in overall survival, but poor prognosis factors have been identified. Beyond these factors, other prognostic factors can impact overall and progression-free survival: sarcopenia, nutritional status disorders Sarcopenia is defined by the reduction of muscle mass and strength. It was first described in the elderly and classified as geriatric syndrome such as dementia, falls or frailty. It varies from 5 to 13% between 60 and 70 years and between 11 and 50% beyond 80 years and is classified as primitive, that is to say related to age It can however be secondary to neoplasia. This event has been described in patients with hematologic malignancies during chemotherapy and can reach 55% of patients in the elderly. It is proportional to the intensity of the treatments. It emerges as an independent prognostic factor which is detrimental to survival in these patients. Physical exercise combined with nutritional support could reduce it.

The positive impact of adapted physical activity has been shown in numerous publications on reducing the incidence and risk of relapse for certain cancers (breast, colon prostate). It is less obvious in hematology in view of studies published on adapted physical activity . Adapted physical activity seems to provide a survival benefit in diffuse large cell B lymphoma however the number remains too low in this histology.

Sarcopenia is an often-underestimated event and is associated with older age, co-morbidities, increased infectious complications, and early mortality.

Correcting sarcopenia through appropriate physical activity could reduce its negative prognostic impact.

The aim of the study is to increase the event-free survival of patients in the RCHOP and adapted physical activity arm by 15% compared to the standard arm.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To detect an absolute difference of 15% in event-free survival between the 2 groups

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Adapted physical activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04670029
