CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06182826
Title: Effect of Core Engagement Exercises and Routine Exercise Therapy on Low Back Pain in Middle School Children
Official Title: Effect of Core Engagement Exercises and Routine Exercise Therapy on Low Back Pain in Middle School Children
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is defined as the region of pain between the lower ribs and hips. Low back pain with respect to middle school children corresponds to the age where children and adolescents go to school for longer periods of time, having heavy bags, assuming poor postures while sitting for prolonged hours. Poor posture, prolonged sitting and lack of physical activity results in back pain that leads to poor performance in school as well as attendance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Middle school children are the children of the age where they spend most of their hours sitting in school. Low back pain often goes undiagnosed and unreported in children which persists and if left untreated, causes problems in later stages in life.

Low back pain is the region of pain from lower ribs to hips. Children and teenagers often have lower back discomfort, which may be brought on by several conditions, including poor lifting skills, bad posture, and overuse injuries from sports or other physical activity. According to estimates, up to 50% of school-aged children may sometimes have lower back discomfort. The muscles that surround our spine are considered the "core" of our body. It is composed of the abdominal muscles on your front and sides, the erector muscles and gluteus. Each and every one of these muscles must work together in order to enhance the stability of the spine. When muscles contract they create force and stiffness. It is the stiffness part that is important for stability. When the core fails to meet the stability demands placed on the body during a certain lift, parts of the spine will be overloaded with forces that increase injury risk and performance will suffer. For that, various warm up exercises, stretches and mobility exercises are performed so that the body can work as stable linked system that works efficiently as well.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Intensity
  - Trunk Extensor Endurance
  - Trunk Flexor Endurance
  - Lateral Endurance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Core Stability protocol
  - PROCEDURE: Routine exercise therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 13 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06182826
