CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04760054
Title: Effects of a Complex, Partnered Martial Arts-based Intervention on Cognitive Function
Official Title: Effects of a Complex, Partnered Martial Arts-based Intervention on Cognitive Function in Comparison to Aerobic Exercise and Attention-control Among Low-active Adults
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The investigators' study is designed to test whether brief exposure to a martial arts-based intervention (a coordinative, partnered training exercise known as "Hubod"), can improve cognitive function to a greater degree than aerobic exercise of a similar intensity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This three-arm randomized controlled trial will compare the feasibility, and possibly the effects, of a martial arts intervention vs. aerobic exercise vs. an attentional (non-exercise) control condition. The martial arts intervention will consist of a partnered, coordinated sensitivity exercise drawn from south-east Asian martial arts, known as Hubod (also spelt hubud and hubad). Participants will be trained in the fundamental movements of Hubod. Participants will also have the history, cultural significance, risks and purpose of Hubod explained to them throughout the study.

The aerobic exercise comparator group will use a stationary bicycle to match the duration and exercise intensity of the martial arts intervention group, under the supervision of trained research assistants. Participants will also receive information on aerobic exercise and the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans 2020.

Participants in the Videos Control group will watch educational videos on martial arts, physical fitness and exercise for the same duration as the intervention and exercise comparison groups. All participants, regardless of group, will be assessed for martial arts and exercise experience once at baseline.

All participants will be tested for cognitive performance change. Baseline and follow-up computerized cognitive testing will take place at a specified testing facility and psychosocial questionnaires will be delivered remotely via a Qualtrics-powered survey. After baseline testing, participants will attend 5 sessions, approximately 30 minutes each. Follow-up testing will be administered more than 48 hours post-intervention to minimize established acute adaptive responses to exercise.

The investigators hypothesize the martial arts training intervention group will exhibit a greater increase in performance of cognitive tasks when compared less complex movement patterns involved in the aerobic exercise group or videos control group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Digit Symbol Substitution task
  - n-2back memory task

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HUBOD
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active Comparator
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control Condition

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04760054
