CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01186952
Title: Exercise Program Combined or Not With Nutritional intErvention in Adults With tyPe 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Effects of an Exercise Program Combined or Not With Nutritional intErvention on Total Fat, Epicardial Fat and Metabolic Profile of Obese and Overweight Adults With tyPe 2 Diabetes (The PEP-2 Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Inactivity and excess energy consumption are leading causes of obesity and type 2 diabetes which are associated with increased cardio-metabolic risk. In order to reduce the cardiovascular risk associated with type 2 diabetes, the Canadian Diabetes Association guidelines (2008) recommends weight loss through caloric restriction and structured physical activity. However, the comparative effects of different methods to obtain caloric deficit for weight loss remains to be elucidated. The main objective of this study is to assess the impact of two strategies of caloric deficit: diet alone or diet and exercise on total fat mass, epicardial fat and cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese adults with type 2 diabetes and at high risk of cardiovascular disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes is mainly caused by excess body weight due to lack of physical activity and high amount of calories consumption. Individuals with type 2 diabetes demonstrated increased risk of cardiovascular disease compared to non diabetic. Studies showed a cardiovascular risk reduction after weight loss among individuals at risk through lifestyle modification: increase physical activity and low calorie diet.

Favourable effects of weight loss on cardiovascular risk are mainly due to total body fat reduction. However, the location of body fat excess has also some important implications. It is now well known that abdominal (visceral) and ectopic fat accumulation (e.g. hepatic fat, epicardial fat, etc.) are more related to an unfavorable cardio-metabolic profile than total fat mass. It has been demonstrated that a moderate weight loss obtained with physical activity or caloric restriction is related to a significant reduction of ectopic fat mass. However, ectopic fat measurement remains problematic due to lack of standardization and safety issues (X-ray). Epicardial fat thickness measured by simple echocardiography is a reliable method to evaluate ectopic fat accumulation.

Little research have been done to assess the effect of different methods of weight loss on total fat as well as ectopic fat specifically epicardial adipose tissue among individuals with type 2 diabetes. The objective of this study is to compare to a control group with detailed advice the impact of two structured strategies of caloric deficit: diet alone or diet and exercise on total fat mass, epicardial fat and cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese adults with type 2 diabetes and at high risk of cardiovascular disease.

The participants to the present study will be free-living adults overweight and obese with type 2 diabetes and at high risk of cardiovascular disease as determined by a Framingham risk score above 15% or the presence of two or more cardiovascular risk factors.

Participants will attend a screening study visit to confirm eligibility criteria (anthropometric variables, blood pressure, complete physical examination, coronary heart disease diagnostic by echocardiogram, physical activity aptitude).

After enrollment, a baseline visit will consist in series of data collection such as : anthropometric variables, blood pressure, cycle ergometer test to evaluate cardiovascular fitness, an echocardiography to determine epicardial fat thickness, a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to assess body fat, lean mass and bone density, indirect calorimetry for resting metabolic rate, physical activity profile and total energy expenditure determined by Sense Wear Armband (SWA) accelerometer (7days), food consumption estimate with 3 days dairy, questionnaires addressing sociodemographic and psychosocial characteristics, diabetes self-care (SDCA questionnaire), a blood and urine collection for diabetes control, hepatic steatosis biochemical score, detailed li

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total fat mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Caloric restriction
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diet intervention and structured exercise training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01186952
