CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05402527
Title: Fish Nutrient Supplementation in High-intensity Functional Training
Official Title: Effects of a Nutritional Supplement of Proteins, ω3 Fatty Acids and Vitamin D on Physical Performance, Body Composition and Biochemical Profile of Persons Following High-intensity Functional Training
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Nowadays, many persons who exercise consume dietary supplements. Previous scientific studies have found that protein supplementation increases muscle mass when combined with an exercise program. In addition, vitamin D probably improves performance and muscle function. Likewise, ω3 fatty acids, apart from improving cardiovascular function, may also increase protein synthesis and performance. Thus, the aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of a novel aquaculture-based sport supplement of proteins, ω3 fatty acids and vitamin D on physical performance, body composition, and the biochemical profile of persons following high-intensity functional training (HIFT). The efficacy of the experimental supplement (E) will be compared with whey protein (W) and maltodextrin (a carbohydrate) as placebo (P).

Thirty healthy trained individuals (15 male and 15 female), aged 18-35, will take E, W, and P during three 6-week periods of HIFT (a different supplement each period) with three workouts a week and a washout (no supplement) period of 2 weeks between supplementation periods. E is a combination of powder, containing protein and vitamin D, and capsules containing ω3 fatty acids. When on E, participants will receive 0.6 g protein/kg body weight, 20 μg vitamin D, and 1.8 g ω3 fatty acids daily. When on W, they will receive 0.6 g protein/kg body weight and, when on P, they will receive 0.6 g maltodextrin/kg body weight daily. The order of E, W, and P will be random and counterbalanced. Throughout the study, participants will be on isoenergetic nutritional plans to avoid differences in energy intake that might compromise the validity of the study. The dietary plans will be individualized and will provided 1.0 g protein/kg body weight/day.

Participants will undergo measurements of muscle strength, muscle endurance, aerobic capacity, and body composition prior to the first supplementation period, between periods, and after the third period. Also, blood amino acids, fatty acid acids, vitamin D, hematology, biochemistry, and hormones will be measured. To avoid bias, assessors will not know which supplement each participant is taking during each period.

The main hypotheses of the study are: 1) Consumption of E will increase lean body mass compared to W and P; 2) consumption of E will improve muscle strength, muscle endurance, and aerobic capacity compared to W and P; and 3) consumption of E will result in a better blood amino acid, fatty acid, and vitamin D profile.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Plasma amino acid profile pre-supplementation
  - Plasma amino acid profile post-supplementation
  - Whole-blood fatty acid profile pre-supplementation
  - Whole-blood fatty acid profile post-supplementation
  - Maximal dynamic strength of shoulder muscles pre-supplementation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Fish nutrients
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05402527
