CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02154100
Title: Tart Cherry, Metabolic Syndrome, and Cardiovascular Risk
Official Title: Tart Cherry Improves Cardiovascular Risk Factors Associated With Metabolic Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The hypothesis of this study is that the daily consumption of 480 ml tart cherry juice for twelve weeks will improve blood pressure and arterial stiffness by improving endothelial-mediated vasodilation and vascular sympathetic activity and favorably altering biochemical markers associated with cardiovascular risk. 28 men and women between the ages of 20 and 40 who have three of the five features of metabolic syndrome as defined by the Adult Treatment Panel III will be included in the study. After a two-week run-in phase, eligible men and women will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: 1) 480 ml tart cherry juice or 2) 480 ml control drink daily for twelve weeks. After an initial telephone screening, all participants will be requested to report to the study site for their first visit. On the first visit (screening), participants will be provided with verbal and written explanation of the project. They will then be asked to sign an informed consent form, followed by measuring waist circumference, resting brachial blood pressure, fasting serum triglycerides, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and glucose levels to confirm metabolic syndrome. Baseline assessments will be performed for medical history, medication use, dietary intake, and physical activity. Qualified participants will be scheduled for their second visit two weeks later (actual baseline data collection) and randomly assigned to their treatment group. On the second (baseline) visit between the hours of 7-10 A.M., blood pressure and vascular function will be measured followed by blood draw. Anthropometrics will be measured. Participants will be provided with their assigned treatment and will receive standard instructions on how to fill out daily diaries for their treatment, and for food and physical activity records. Blood pressure, vascular function, blood draw, and anthropometric, body composition, diet, and physical activity assessments will be repeated at 6- (third visit), and 12-week (final visit) intervals. All cardiovascular measurements will be performed between 7:00 to 10:00 A.M., in a quiet temperature-controlled room in the supine position after an overnight fast and 12 hours after the abstinence of caffeine and/or 24 hours after the last bout of moderate to heavy physical activity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Pressure
  - Arterial Stiffness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Tart Cherry
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02154100
