CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05665673
Title: Relation of Functional ındependence to Balance, Exercise Capacity, and Peripheral Muscle Strength
Official Title: Relation of Functional ındependence to Balance, Exercise Capacity, and Peripheral Muscle Strength in Individuals With Chronic Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Stroke is one of the leading causes of death worldwide and is among the most important diseases that cause long-term disability in adults. In high-income countries, the incidence of stroke has decreased significantly with increased use of preventive therapies and control of risk factors. Stroke has a significant impact on individuals' independence and productivity.

Walking capacity is limited due to motor control, balance, and muscle strength disorders after stroke. In addition, it was determined that the functional exercise capacity of stroke patients decreased when compared to healthy individuals of the same age. ThEQuantitative decrease in muscle mass due to physical inactivity is accompanied by sarcopenia, which worsens the situation. Although the primary impairments affecting gait are muscle strength weakness and loss of coordination, impaired cardiorespiratory fitness can also affect walking performance by limiting endurance. Depending on the change in each parameter after stroke, the functional independence and daily living activities of individuals are affected.

A correlation was found between balance and functional mobility and the level of functional independence in stroke patients. It has been found that having a good balance function after stroke significantly increases the likelihood of being functionally independent. When the studies in the literature were examined, no study was found that directly showed the relationship between functional exercise capacity and muscle strength in stroke patients. Therefore, in our study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between balance, functional exercise capacity, peripheral muscle strength, and functional independence level in stroke patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tinetti balance and walking test
  - Timed up and go test (TUG)
  - Measuring peripheral muscle strength
  - 6-Minute Walk Test
  - Functional independence scale (FIM)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical functions test

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05665673
