CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05898503
Title: Effects of Different Types of Exercise on Cognitive Function in Postmenopausal Hypertensive Women
Official Title: Effects of Different Types of Exercise on Cognitive Function in Postmenopausal Hypertensive Women
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 183
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Brief Summary: The study was conducted in two parts, the first of which was carried out using a cross-sectional design approach to explore the relationship between cognitive function and autonomic function, brain function, inflammation and oxidative stress, vascular function, fitness levels, cardiorespiratory endurance and lipid metabolism. The second part uses a repeated measures design approach in a randomised controlled design to explore the effects of different types of exercise on cognitive decline in postmenopausal hypertensive women and their mechanisms of action.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description: The study was conducted in 2 parts. Part I: was conducted using a cross-sectional design approach to explore the relationship between cognitive function and autonomic function, brain function, inflammation and oxidative stress, vascular function, fitness levels, cardiorespiratory endurance and lipid metabolism. Multiple linear regression was used to analyse the multiple linear relationships between changes in cognitive function and the above influences. Multiple logistic regression analysis was also used to analyse which of the above risk factors might be independent predictors of cognitive decline. Therefore, a combination of both regression analyses was used to further explore the multiple linear relationships between cognitive function and the aforementioned influencing factors, providing a viable causal and theoretical basis for the next exercise intervention.

The second part of the study is to test the viability of the vascular function theory. The "vascular function theory" refers to the use of exercise to improve aerobic capacity, improve blood circulation to the heart, and improve cerebrovascular function, which in turn improves cognitive function. Based on the above hypothesis, this study aims to investigate the possible effects of 12 weeks of different types of exercise on cognitive decline in post-menopausal women with HTN, and to lay the theoretical and practical foundation for the extension of the exercise intervention to other ages and populations.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MOCA score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Walking exercise + resistance training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Walking exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health promotion

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05898503
