CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05195138
Title: Mindfulness-Based Diabetes Education for Adults With Elevated Diabetes Distress
Official Title: Mindfulness-Based Diabetes Education for Adults With Elevated Diabetes Distress
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Diabetes distress is common affecting over one-third of people with type 2 diabetes, negatively impacting self-management and outcomes, and disproportionately affecting low-income individuals. The proposed project will conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial comparing Mindfulness-Based Diabetes Education to standard Diabetes Self-Management Education in adults with type 2 diabetes and elevated diabetes distress who receive care within safety-net healthcare systems in order to assess feasibility and acceptability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) of Mindfulness-Based Diabetes Education (MBDE) versus standard Diabetes Self-Management Education (DSME) in adults with type 2 diabetes and moderate-severe diabetes distress who receive their care from safety-net healthcare systems. The goal of this pilot RCT will be to assess the acceptability and feasibility of MBDE; acceptability will be assessed through qualitative follow-up interviews with participants and feasibility will be assessed through process measures. The investigators will recruit up to approximately 96 participants, 48 from each site to account for potential loss to follow up of up to 20%, for the study with total study duration of 6 months. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to each study arm. This study will also serve as a pilot test for the procedures of the RCT and of measures to be used in participant assessments.

The study will be conducted at two safety-net clinics that provide care for residents of Jefferson County using a sliding scale program based on income level - Cooper Green Mercy Health Services Authority (CGMHSA) and Alabama Regional Medicine Services (ARMS). CGMHSA, an affiliate of University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) Health System, is Jefferson County's public safety-net health care facility. CGMHSA provides care primarily to the indigent county residents, geographically spanning most of the Birmingham metropolitan area. Ambulatory care services are provided to patients who have type 2 diabetes through Cooper Green's Primary Care Clinic and multi-disciplinary Diabetes Clinic. ARMS is a Community Health Center serving the greater Birmingham area since 1983. ARMS provides ambulatory care for adults, including primary care, diabetes self-management education classes, and behavioral health services. ARMS offers services to patients, with or without insurance, on a sliding scale fee program based on income.

Trained study staff overseen by the study PI will recruit participants from CGMHSA and ARMS through three methods. Opt-out letters will be mailed to patients seen at CGMHSA or ARMS in the preceding three years with a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes; study staff will then call potential participants to provide more information about the study and to gauge their interest in participating. The investigators will obtain a HIPAA waiver to access potential participant information from the medical record in order to generate a recruitment list. The investigators will also conduct in-person recruitment of participants at CGMHSA and ARMS, as well as direct referral of potential participants by providers or patients. Trained study personnel will obtain screening consent from potential participants prior to screening for eligibility based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will include assessment of diabetes distress and hemoglobin A1c (A1C) through point-of-care (POC) finger-stick sample. Study staff will then obtain informed consent from 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participant assessment of perceived positive and negative effects
  - Participant assessment of intervention content
  - Participant assessment of appropriateness of intervention duration and frequency
  - Participant satisfaction with interventionist
  - Participant-reported barriers to engagement with the intervention sessions or content

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Based Diabetes Education
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard Diabetes Self-Management Education (DSME)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05195138
