CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05948189
Title: Low Back Health Education on Physical Function and Body Awareness in Academicians
Official Title: Investigation of the Effect of Low Back Health Education on Physical Function and Body Awareness in Academicians: Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 94
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study was planned to investigate the effect of back health education given to academicians on physical function and body awareness. The participants of the intervention group received back health education (Back School) in the classroom. After the education program, they participated in exercise training for six weeks (one day a week). The control group was only given an informative brochure on back health and asked to read it.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was planned to investigate the effect of back health education given to academicians on physical function and body awareness. The study was completed with a total of 94 (49 female and 45 male) volunteer academicians (intervention group n=47, control group n=47) between the ages of 25-65, with a mean age of 43.22±10.924 years. The participants of both groups were evaluated before and after the 6-week education and training. In order to evaluate physical functions of the participants, One Leg Standing Test (eyes open and closed), Half Squat Test, Curl-Up Test, and Sit and Reach Test were used. The Body Awareness Questionnaire (BAQ) was used to assess body awareness of the sample. The participants of the intervention group received back health education (Back School) in the classroom. After the education program, they participated in exercise training for six weeks (one day a week). The control group was only given an informative brochure on back health and asked to read it.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - One Leg Standing Test (eyes open and closed)
  - Half Squat Test
  - Curl-Up Test
  - Sit and Reach Test
  - Body Awareness Questionnaire (BAQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05948189
