CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07023770
Title: Rehabilitation Program Dedicated to Post-stroke Lateropulsion Including Exoskeleton Assisted Exercises
Official Title: Rehabilitation Program Dedicated to Post-stroke Lateropulsion Including Exoskeleton Assisted Exercises
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 3
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Lateropulsion is a deficit in the body orientation with respect to the vertical in the coronal plane, defined by the presence of one of the three signs: lateral body tilt, active pushing from the sound limbs, and resistance to passive corrections. The lateral body tilt is the cardinal sign, the frequency of the 2 other signs increasing with lateropulsion severity (most dramatic forms called pusher syndrome in the past). Lateropulsion is frequent after stroke, and represents the main factor underpinning balance and gait disorders at the subacute phase. After hemisphere stroke lateropulsion is caused by a bias in the internal model of the verticality in the frontal plane, individuals unconsciously aligning their body posture on a tilted verticality representation. Pilot studies suggested the possibility to recalibrate the internal model of verticality, biased by stroke, and to improve individuals' uprightness. The investigators expect that a specific rehabilitation program combining technics devoted to lateropulsion, and comprising exoskeleton (Atalante) assisted balance exercises could help recalibrate the internal model of verticality and alleviate lateropulsion. The primary objective is to test the hypothesis that a 3-week specific lateropulsion rehabilitation program (15 sessions of 30 minutes including exoskeleton and a rehabilitation focused on the vertical body orientation in the frontal plane) improves the visual vertical (VV), the most used test to assess verticality perception.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND To our knowledge, no study has ever assessed the effects of a rehabilitation program specifically devoted to lateropulsion. The investigators expect that such a specific program combining different technics selected on the basis of theoretical rationale, experimental evidence in healthy subjects, or phase I-II randomized clinical studies, and supposed to improve verticality representation or alleviate lateropulsion could improve verticality representation and alleviate lateropulsion. The investigators hypothesize that individuals with moderate to severe lateropulsion after hemisphere stroke could benefit from such a specific lateropulsion rehabilitation program.

OBJECTIVES The primary objective is to test the hypothesis that, in individuals with a first ischemic right hemisphere stroke showing a moderate to severe lateropulsion due to a biased internal model of verticality, a 3-week intensive specific and intensive lateropulsion rehabilitation program (15 physiotherapy sessions of 30 minutes including exoskeleton-assisted lateral balance exercises) improves the visual perception of the verticality as assessed by the Visual Vertical (VV) orientation. This outcome has been selected because it may be repeatedly assessed, which is necessary in a Small-N design Study.

The secondary objectives are to:

* Test the hypothesis that the specific and intensive lateropulsion rehabilitation program also modulates the postural perception of the vertical (PV). This transmodal modulation of verticality perception involving both VV and PV would mean that the internal model of verticality has been recalibrated. This would have a clinical and scientific significance going far beyond a simple change in verticality perception
* Test the hypothesis that the specific and intensive lateropulsion rehabilitation program alleviates lateropulsion;
* Test the hypothesis that the specific and intensive lateropulsion rehabilitation program improves balance and gait abilities without any effect on the motricity of the paretic upper limb;
* Evaluate the participants' perception at the end of this specific rehabilitation program.

HYPOTHESES Considering the main objective, the investigators hypothesize that the specific and intensive lateropulsion rehabilitation program will improve VV orientation of at least 2°, constituting a real change in VV perception.

STUDY DESIGN The study is a monocentric Small-n design study. The experimental plan is a multiple baseline design. This design applies for intervention with slow/delayed changes and no expected washout. Three participants will be included after about the same time post stroke (subacute phase). The VV will be measured daily (except on weekends) for each participant (i.e. 5 VV per week ), and the generalization and control measures measured once each week. All participants will follow a conventional rehabilitation program until they start the intervention.

One participant will start the intervention period 2 weeks

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Vertical (VV) Orientation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: specific lateropulsion rehabilitation program (exoskeleton + specific physiotherapy orientation rehabilitation)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Conventional physiotherapy without without exercises dedicated to lateropulsion or verticality representation alleviation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 84 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07023770
