CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01304927
Title: Vitamin D Supplementation and Male Infertility: The CBG-study a Randomized Clinical Trial
Official Title: Vitamin D Supplementation and Male Infertility: The Copenhagen Bone-Gonadal Study a Double Blinded Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 307
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Today, it is evident that vitamin D (VD) has more widespread effects than the classical actions related to bone mineralization and calcium homeostasis1. VD deficiency results in impaired reproductive performance in various species of animals, and recently the investigators have shown that the VD receptor (VDR), activating (CYP2R1, CYP27A1, CYP27B1) and inactivating (CYP24A1) enzymes are expressed in the human testis, epididymis, seminal vesicle, prostate and spermatozoa. Our following functional studies showed that VD increases intracellular calcium in mature spermatozoa, and hence may be important not only for spermatogenesis but also for sperm maturation. A new, and yet unpublished cross sectional study of 300 young healthy Danish men showed that men with lower levels of serum VD have significantly lower number of normally developed and motile spermatozoa. Hitherto, most cases of male infertility have been classified as "idiopathic", and infertile couples have been referred to symptomatic treatment at infertility clinics. These fertility treatments are often physically demanding for the female partner as well as expensive for the health care system. Any treatment that might improve semen quality of involuntary infertile men would be beneficial both for the infertile couples and the society in general. Our findings that VD may play a role for human semen quality have not yet been tested clinically. However, if VD supplementation proves efficient this opens for the first time for a causal, safe and cheap treatment of at least some cases of "idiopathic" impaired semen quality. The investigators believe our new human data supported by the results from the VD deficient and VDR KO animal studies and the high proportion of VD deficient Danish men provide sufficient evidence to initiate a randomized clinical trial of VD supplementation to infertile men. Infertile men have also have unfavorable altered levels of sex hormones and higher mortality than fertile men. Since VD deficiency is associated with increased mortality, regulation of aromatase, immune system, bone metabolism, glucose metabolism, cardiovascular system etc. our suggested clinical trial may also be able to evaluate several secondary endpoints in addition to the potential effect on semen quality.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background In 2008, approximately 8% of all newborn children were conceived by assisted reproduction. Intracytoplasmatic sperm injection (ICSI) accounts for \~50% of all treatments and is mainly used in cases of severely reduced semen quality. This is in many cases most likely caused by prenatal factors adversely affecting the developing testicles, and it is therefore unlikely that any treatment of adult men will be able to completely normalize their semen quality. However, less would also be clinically relevant. If reduced semen quality could be improved prior to any assisted reproduction a less invasive treatment would be needed. Eg. classical in vitro fertilization (IVF) rather than ICSI, simple intrauterine insemination (IUI) rather than IVF or natural conception rather than IUI.

Several endocrine factors have been implicated in sperm production and maturation, but little is known about the potential role of VD. VD is a key regulator of calcium homeostasis and bone mineralization, although expression of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) in various tissues has been related to several diverse actions. VD affects reproduction in several animal species, convincingly shown in rodents, where VD deficiency in male rats resulted in reduced sperm counts, and female rats inseminated with semen from VD deficient male rats had lower fertility rates. The impaired reproductive performance is reversible and can be corrected either by supplying VD or by normalizing calcium levels. Supported by VDR knockout mice, which showed decreased sperm counts, reduced sperm motility and histological abnormalities of the testis, which unlike the VD deficient male rats only partly can be restored by calcium supplements.

The investigators have recently shown expression of VDR and the VD metabolizing enzymes in the human testis, ejaculatory tract and in mature spermatozoa. The investigators subsequently showed that VD in physiological concentrations increased intracellular calcium in spermatozoa. VD acts through a rapid non-genomic response and the VD induced increase in calcium may be crucial for the spermatozoa, because VD induced sperm motility and the acrosome reaction. Expression analysis of spermatozoa from fertile and infertile men showed that men with impaired semen quality have fewer that can metabolize VD than normal men(p \< 0.0005) making presence of one of the proteins a potential marker of semen quality. Furthermore, the investigators have just completed a cross sectional study of 300 young men from the general population and found that low serum VD was associated with reduced sperm motility and morphology.

SETTING, SCIENTIFIC PLAN AND RECRUITMENT Participants will be included among men referred to the Department of Growth and Reproduction (dept. of GR), Rigshospitalet (RH) for evaluation of male infertility

DESIGN This is a prospective, double blinded, two-arm randomized controlled trial

Group of intervention: Each man will receive 300,000 IU (7500 ug) cholec

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - semen quality
  - sperm motility
  - sperm morphology
  - sperm concentration
  - total sperm count

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Cholecalciferol and calcium
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01304927
