CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03258450
Title: Effectiveness of a Psychosocial Intervention for Colorectal Cancer
Official Title: The Feasibility and Acceptability of a Psychosocial Intervention for Advanced Colorectal Cancer Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Studies have reported about one-third to half of advanced cancer patients experience psychological distress yet the mental healthcare needs of these patients are not properly assessed and addressed. Patients with advanced colorectal cancer can face unique challenges that are stoma- or bowel-related in addition to other symptom burden such as pain, fatigue, and existential distress that have deleterious consequences on their psychological and social functioning. This pilot study aims to test an intervention for patients specifically with advanced colorectal cancer that incorporates culturally-appropriate topics. Using a randomized selection design, we will investigate the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and obtain an initial estimate of efficacy of the intervention. This pilot study will yield useful information to inform the preparation of a larger, phase III confirmatory study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cancer is the leading cause of death in Singapore and colorectal cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in males and second most frequently diagnosed cancer in females, accounting for 17% and 13% of all cancers respectively. Such high incidence rates are consistent with reports of colorectal cancer being a disease of ageing and developed nations . A total of 8931 new cases of colorectal cancer were diagnosed in Singapore from 2009 and 2013, with data indicating a steep increase in incidence rate for patients aged 50 and above. Given that the number of adults aged 65 years and older to double from 2009 to 2030 (Singapore Department of Statistics), the number of colorectal cancer cases are also expected to increase.

Advanced colorectal cancer refers to stage IV cancer of the colon or rectum that cannot be cured and has metastasized to at least one distant organ or set of lymph nodes, and that will likely continue to spread, leading to end of life (National Cancer Institute). In Singapore between 2009 and 2013, approximately 25% of colorectal cancer cases were at stage IV. According to the U.S. NCI's SEER database of patients from 2004-2010, 5-year survival rates for stage IV colon and rectal cancer were 11% and 12% respectively, suggesting these patients are or will soon be managing symptoms of their disease like pain while psychologically confronting end-of-life.

The news of metastatic disease, treatment failure, and/or bleak prognosis can be demoralizing for some patients and characterized by shock, denial, anger, anxiety, and depression which can interfere with everyday living. Studies have reported about one-third to half of advanced cancer patients experience psychological distress and existential crises, yet studies indicate the needs of these patients are not properly assessed and addressed as healthcare providers tend to focus more on patients' physical problems and do not have the time and perceived competency to address emotional distress.

Colorectal cancer comes with its own set of challenges that can significantly alter patients' daily living and affect patient psychological well-being and quality of life. Bowel-related issues have been reported to present physical, psychological, and social challenges to patients and survivors. For instance, patients with surgically-created stoma as part of treatment may face complications of leakage, skin, and odour issues that can lead to anxiety, disturbance in body image, low self-esteem, and social isolation. Furthermore, clinical anecdotes have pointed toward this patient population being concerned about lifestyle factors influencing their disease progression, especially diet. Psychological care has been increasingly recognized as an important part of treatment for this population at such a vulnerable time. Psychological care aims to address patients' mood and worries as they deal with their illness and to help patients find a sense of meaning in their life despite their cancer-related

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The feasibility of the intervention will be tested through enrolment rates.
  - The acceptability of the intervention will be assessed through the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psycho-behavioural intervention arm (PBI)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03258450
