CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06168643
Title: Effects of Core Stability Exercise With Pregnancy Support Belt in Pubic Symphysis Dysfunction.
Official Title: Effects of Core Stability Exercises With And Without Pregnancy Support Belt On Pain, Function And Disability In Symphysis Pubis Dysfunction During Pregnancy.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Symphysis pubic dysfunction is a well-known clinical problem encountered by many females during pregnancy, yet it has not received much attention in the research literature. As pubic symphysis dysfunction at times presents with severe pain while performing day to day activities and also affects significantly on quality of life in antenatal period, but its effective management remains difficult to determine as no standardized treatment protocols are available. This study may add to the growing body of knowledge in the management of SPD, that if the core stability exercise alone or with the pregnancy support belts yield comparable outcomes and if one technique is superior to the other, which should be the alternative choice of therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be a randomized clinical trial and will be conducted in Women Care Clinic, Bahawalpur. This study will be completed in time duration of 10 months after the approval of synopsis. Non-probability convenience sampling technique will be used and participants will be recruited in study after randomization. The subjects will be divided into two groups. Group A will receive core stability exercises and group B will receive core stability exercises along with pregnancy support belt. The data will be assessed at the baseline and after 6th week of treatment. After data collection, the data will be analyzed by using SPSS version 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Roland-Morris Questionnaire (modified)
  - Numerical pain rating scale
  - Pain Specific Functional Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core stability
  - OTHER: Core stability with pregnancy support belt

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06168643
