CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06987188
Title: Effects of Modified Pilates on Improving Trunk Control and Balance in Children With Mild Intellectual Disability
Official Title: Effects of Modified Pilates on Improving Trunk Control and Balance in Children With Mild Intellectual Disability
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This randomized controlled trial will be conducted at Spectrum Clinic, Lahore, over a duration of 8 weeks to assess the impact of Modified Pilates Exercises on trunk control in children with Intellectual Disability (ID). ID is characterized by below-average IQ and delays in cognitive and functional development, affecting independence and motor skills. Trunk control plays a crucial role in posture, movement coordination, balance, and daily activities. A total of 40 participants will be selected through non-probability convenience sampling and randomly assigned to two groups: Group A (Modified Pilates Exercises) and Group B (General Physiotherapy Plan). Outcomes will be measured using the Trunk Control Measurement Scale (TCMS) and Pediatric Balance Scale (PBS) at baseline and after 8 weeks. Data will be analyzed using SPSS version 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Intellectual Disability (ID) is a condition in which individuals experience below-average IQ. Although a variety of terms, including learning disabilities and mental retardation have been used when referring to people who have impairments that impact on their cognitive and adaptive functioning. ID refers to the onset of delayed developmental milestones, which impact on intellectual and functional development, hence independent functioning is likely to be significantly lower than that of the average person during their lifetime. Trunk control can help children with intellectual disabilities meet developmental milestones by helping them to maintain posture, navigate their surroundings, coordinate body part movement, module fine motor control, initiate vestibule oculomotor reflexes, use their hands for various activities, remain seated without falling over and kept their body aligned while walking, running and jumping.

This study will be randomized controlled trial, conducted in Spectrum clinic, Lahore. This study will be completed in time duration of 8 weeks after the approval of synopsis. Non-probability convenience sampling technique will be used and 40 participants will be recruited in this study. Participants will be divided into two groups. Group A (Modified Pilates Exercises) and Group B (General Physiotherapy Plan). Tools will be used are Trunk control measurement (TCMS) and Pediatric Balance Scale (PBS). The data will be recorded at the baseline and after 8th week of intervention. After collection, data will be analyzed by using SPSS version 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Trunk Control Measurement Scale (TCMS)
  - Pediatric Berg Balance Measurement Scale (PBBMS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Modified Pilate Exercises
  - OTHER: General Physiotherapy Plan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06987188
