CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04600843
Title: Effects of Patient Education Manual in Patient With Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effects of Patient Education Manual on Pain, Range of Motion and Function in Patient With Chronic Low Back Pain Neck Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
It was a randomized clinical trial conducted to determine the effects of patient education manual on pain, range of motion and function in patient with chronic low back pain at Salamat hospital Satellite Town Gujranwala in patients with 6-month chronic low back pain who were willing to follow patient education manual. Patients were assessed for pain, disability due to backpain and lumbar ranges, at baseline, 2nd, 4th and 6th week of intervention. The SPSS 20.0 version was used to analyse data. Tests of normality were executed that whether data was normative or non-parametric, based on which outcomes werecompared either using independent samples t test or Mann-Whitney test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of current study was to figure out how patient education manual can impact the outcomes, such as decreasing pain and disability and increasing range of lumbar spine, in patients having low back pain. The patient education manual model has been under research in recent time all over the world. There have been mixed results. Mostly there is moderate to high quality evidence in support of patient education that it can help improving the efficacy of physical therapy treatment. However, the previous literature lacks in uniformity of outcome measures used in the studies and spinal ranges have not been studied in majority studies.

This study was conducted by developing a patient education manual given to patients along with routine physical therapy. The study findings showed that the patients with combination of patient education manual and routine physical therapy improved their disability level significantly more than the patients in control group receiving routine physical therapy alone. However, there was no significant difference in improvement of pain itself and spinal ranges of lumbar region except lumbar flexion which was improved significantly among patient education manual group. When the analysis was performed for within group pre and post interventional difference in both groups separately, it was seen that patient improved in both groups significantly at all stages of measurements such as 2nd, 3rd and 6th week, p value less than 0.05.

Looking closer, it was seen that pain was improving similarly in both groups, p value more than 0.05. However, it was slightly better in Group A, having combination of patient education manual and routine physical therapy, with a slight mean difference i.e. -.33333 at 2nd and 4th week and -.41667 at 6th week post intervention. In past studies pain has been reported to be significantly better with patient education groups.

The disability was measured by Oswestry Disability Index for back pain. It was seen that patients having patient education manual significantly improved at all assessment stages i.e. at 2nd, 4th and 6th week, p value less than 0.05. This was the only outcome in this study showing a significantly better effect of patient education manual with straight and clear findings. The mean difference was of 4.25000 at 2nd week, while peak mean difference of 8.83333 points was seen at 4th week which declined to 4.83333 at 6th week but it was still significantly better as compared to routine physical therapy group. It also indicated the gradually fading off difference in long term assessment. In previous studies functional has always been found to improve with patient education. This might due to nature of this outcome which is based on patients' experience and perception, which means due to patient education or information material, it is possible that it has uplifted moral of patients and ultimately, they feel better in all aspects of function. Whatsoever the reason, disability can be greatl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oswestry Disability Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical therapy with Patient education
  - OTHER: Physical Therapy without patient Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04600843
