CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06860581
Title: The Impact of Selected Probiotic Bacteria on Gut Microbiota, Stress Indicators and Nutritional Status of Young Adults
Official Title: The Impact of Dietary Supplementation With Lactobacillus Helveticus and Bifidobacterium Longum on the Functioning of the Brain-gut Axis, in the Context of Mental Health, Eating Patterns and Nutritional Status of Young Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: DHEA supplementation

SUMMARY:
Research on probiotic supplementation in the prevention and treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders and stress coping skills has been conducted for many years. This research project was designed to investigate the effects of both, probiotic supplementation and diet quality on a wide range of psychological, microbiological, biochemical, and clinical outcomes. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of targeted supplementation with Lactobacillus helveticus and Bifidobacterium longum on gut microbiota composition and quality, mental health, perceived stress intensity, psychosomatic response, and coping as well as body composition and bone density in young women who differed in diet quality. The study enrolled 120 healthy women in early adulthood (20-30 years of age) who were equally and randomly assigned to the intervention (Lh+Bl) or placebo (PLA) group. The intervention consisted of the administration of combined freeze-dried strens of Bifidobacterium longum Rosell®-175 and Lactobacillus helveticus Rosell®-52 (Lh+Bl) at dose of one capsule per day for 12 weeks. The total bacterial content per capsule was 3x109 CFU. At baseline, dietary habits were assessed using the KomPAN FFQ questionnaire and faecal samples were collected for gut microbiota analysis using Illumina next-generation sequencing technology. Anthropometric measurements were taken, and body composition and bone density were assessed using DEXA and displacement plethysmography using Bod Pod. Perceived stress and mental health were assessed using the psychological scales: PSS 10, Mini Cope, GHQ 28, and SOC-13. Salivary cortisol, DHEA and cortisol:DHEA ratio were measured as physiological markers of stress. After 12 weeks of supplementation, measurements were repeated and compared with baseline values.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction The number of people receiving psychiatric services has been increasing over the past few years. In Poland, the number of people with mental disorders in outpatient care has increased by 150,000 in recent years, reaching a total of more than 1.2 million patients. The number of people requiring psychological and psychiatric care is expected to grow in the coming decades. The psychopharmacotherapy used does not always produce the expected treatment results. As a result, more and more attention is being paid to non-pharmacological interactions. In recent years, there has been a growing body of research on the relationship between nutrition and its impact on the mental state of people with mental disorders. Food and nutrition science, psychodietetics and nutripsychiatry, thriving scientific fields, are gaining prominence. Research findings indicate that nutrition and stress-coping resources affect an individual's health. The role of the probiotic bacteria Lactobacillus Helveticus and Bifidobacterium longum as part of the human microbiome has also been studied in this sphere, and results from a growing number of papers confirm their wide range of applications and positive effects on various domains of health. Previous studies have shown that supplementation with Bifidobacterium longum or a composite of them with other bacterial strens positively affected, among other things, the bone health of postmenopausal women, alleviated gastrointestinal discomfort, reduced perceived stress, and improved depression, anxiety, and mood indicators in adults of various ages. On the other hand, supplementation with a composite of several bacterial strens, including Lactobacillus Helveticus and Bifidobacterium longum, affected reducing fat mass in obese and overweight individuals. Probiotic supplementation appears to have great potential for improvinGHealth and quality of life, including the prevention and treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders and the ability to cope with stress. Nevertheless, there is still a lack of research in this area, especially concerning Lactobacillus Helveticus alone and the combination of Lactobacillus Helveticus and Bifidobacterium longum strens.

With this in mind, a research project was planned to investigate the effects of both probiotic supplements and dietary quality on a wide range of psychological, microbiological, biochemical, and clinical outcomes. The study aimed to evaluate the effects of targeted supplementation with a new composition of probiotic strens Lactobacillus Helveticus and Bifidobacterium longum on gut microbiota composition and quality, stress-related neuroendocrine markers, mental health, perceived stress intensity, psychosomatic response and coping strategies as well as body composition and bone density in young women who differed in diet quality. We hypothesised that supplementation with probiotic bacteria at a daily dose of 3 x 109 CFU, irrespective of diet quality, would result in changes

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Microbiota composition
  - Perceived stress intensity
  - Stress-related neuroendocrine markers

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Intervention (Sanprobi®Stress)
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06860581
