CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02991209
Title: Study of Testosterone vs Placebo in Testicular Cancer Survivors
Official Title: A Randomized Double-blind Study of Testosterone Replacement Therapy or Placebo in Testicular Cancer Survivors With Mild Leydig Cell Insufficiency (Einstein-intervention)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 69
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The overall purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of 12 months testosterone replacement therapy in testicular cancer survivors with mild Leydig Cell Insufficiency in order to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.

The primary study objective is to evaluate changes in insulin sensitivity. The secondary study objective is to evaluate changes in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome, body composition, systemic inflammation and symptoms of testosterone deficiency.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled intervention study, designed to evaluate the effect of testosterone replacement therapy in testicular cancer survivors with mild Leydig Cell Insufficiency.

70 subjects will be randomized to receive either testosterone replacement therapy or placebo. The subjects will be invited for an information meeting where informed consent is signed. If a subject is suitable for participation in the trial, subject will be randomized to testosterone replacement therapy or placebo and baseline investigations will be performed. Afterwards, a 52-weeks treatment period begins in which subjects receive a daily dose of testosterone or placebo. Dose adjustment will be made three times during the first 8 weeks of the study. Evaluation of primary and secondary endpoints will be performed after 26 weeks, at the end of treatment (52 weeks) and three months after completion of treatment (week 64).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in insulin sensitivity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone
  - DRUG: Placebos

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02991209
