CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03325062
Title: Movement Pattern Biofeedback Training After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Movement Pattern Biofeedback Training After Total Knee Arthroplasty
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 138
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This research study explores the effects of movement pattern training using real-time biofeedback insoles after total knee arthroplasty. The purpose of this research study is to determine if the addition of a novel movement pattern training program (MOVE) to contemporary progressive rehabilitation leads to improved movement quality and physical function compared to contemporary progressive rehabilitation (CONTROL) alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Currently in the United States, more than 700,000 total knee arthroplasty (TKA) surgeries are performed annually, with projections of 3.5 million performed annually by 2030. The increasing incidence of TKA comes with an immediate need for establishing optimal rehabilitation guidelines to remediate common post-TKA physical impairments and improve functional outcomes. Over the past decade, a primary focus of the investigators' TKA rehabilitation research has been on progressive strengthening, which improves muscle strength and physical function, and is now the contemporary approach to TKA rehabilitation. However, a major issue remaining for patients rehabilitating from unilateral TKA is the persistence of atypical movement patterns. These atypical movement patterns, observed during walking and other functional tasks, are characterized by disuse of the surgical limb, resulting in smaller knee extension moments on the surgical limb compared to the non-surgical limb. As a result, atypical movement patterns following unilateral TKA are associated with persistent quadriceps weakness and poor physical function.

The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial of 150 participants undergoing unilateral TKA to determine if the addition of a novel movement pattern training program (MOVE) to contemporary, progressive rehabilitation improves movement pattern quality more than contemporary progressive rehabilitation alone (CONTROL). The secondary goal is to determine if movement pattern training improves long-term physical function. Testing will occur pre-operatively and after TKA at 10 weeks (end of intervention), 6 months (primary endpoint), and 24 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Peak Knee Extension Moment (PKEM) during walking at fixed speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control
  - BEHAVIORAL: Experimental: MOVE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03325062
