CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06985810
Title: Accentuated Eccentric Loading Versus Flywheel Exercises in Footballers
Official Title: Effects of Accentuated Eccentric Loading Versus Flywheel Exercises on Lower Limb Strength, Power and Performance in Footballers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
In the field of football, the essence of the lower limb strength, power and general performance is greatly valued by any player who wants to perform exceptionally well in both the acceleration, jumping and general agility. Conventional strengthening techniques have always been basic and recent strategies such as the Accentuated Eccentric Loading (AEL) and Flywheel (FW) have been considered as the inventions. AEL increases the muscle contraction during the eccentric phase of exercises and therefore improves hypertrophy and strength. On the other hand, FW uses leverage kinetic energy to oppose, thus, promotes muscle contractions and changes constantly. There is different training modalities that can be applied during training sessions or in prepare to a particular event such as football. Thus, it is essential to compare the applicability of those modalities in training football players. This study design will be Randomized clinical trial. Thirty-six male age 18-21 years who consistently play football and participate in resistance training from previous one year will randomly assigned to the two different exercise protocol i.e. Accentuated eccentric loading and Flywheel. The participants will undergo training program for total of 8 weeks. These two groups will exercise three days in a week and each session will take about 60-75 minutes. In this study researcher will use Back Squat and Leg Press for lower limb strength. Hip thrusts and Broad Jump for lower limb power. Free weights or Weight Machines, 20- meter sprint test and Agility T-test to measure performance of footballers. Data will be analyzed using SPSS version 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of this study is to compare the impact of Accentuated Eccentric Loading and Flywheel exercises on lower limb strength, power and performance in Football Players.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Back Squat
  - Hip Thrusts
  - Broad Jump
  - Leg Press Machine
  - Agility T-test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Accentuated Eccentric Loading training
  - OTHER: Flywheel exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 21 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06985810
