CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05434117
Title: Feasibility of High-Intensity Interval Nordic Walking in Patients With Coronary Artery Disease
Official Title: Feasibility and Preliminary Efficacy of High-intensity Interval Nordic Walking in Patients With Coronary Artery Disease: A Pilot Randomized Clinical Trial (HIIT-NoW)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Coronary revascularization, such as heart bypass surgery (CABG) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI \[inserting a stent to open up blood vessels\]) improve survival for people with coronary artery disease. Yet, many patients suffer from poor physical and mental health after coronary revascularization. Traditional cardiac rehabilitation involving moderate-to-vigorous intensity continuous training (MICT) improves physical and mental health. However, alternative exercise programs, such as high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and Nordic walking may provide superior benefits. Nordic walking is like Nordic skiing but uses specifically designed poles for walking. Nordic walking involved core, upper and lower body muscles, resulting in greater energy expenditure while reducing loading stress at the knee. To date, HIIT used in cardiac rehabilitation settings has focused on lower body (e.g., leg cycling). The investigators are not aware of HIIT protocols that target both upper and lower body at the same time. An exercise program that combines HIIT and Nordic walking (HIIT-NoW) may offer an alternative time-efficient whole-body exercise to improve physical and mental health. This study will test if HIIT-NoW can be an alternative exercise option to improve physical and mental health in patients with coronary artery disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Coronary revascularization improves survival for patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Despite successful coronary revascularization treatment, however, many patients with CAD are left suffering from poor exercise capacity and frequently experience difficulties in performing daily activities (e.g., getting dressed, sitting down or getting up from the toilet) because of diminished cardiovascular function and exercise tolerance. Decreased exercise capacity leads to a dramatic reduction in quality of life (QoL) and more severe depression symptoms. Low exercise capacity, poor quality of life (QoL) and severer depression symptoms heighten the risk of subsequent cardiovascular events and mortality.

Current guidelines recommend that persons with CAD who have undergone coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) participate in exercise-based cardiovascular rehabilitation (CR). Exercise-based CR is safe, effective and a class IA recommendation following CABG and PCI. Irrefutable evidence demonstrates that exercise-based CR including moderate-to-vigorous intensity continuous exercise training (MICT) improves exercise capacity, QoL, depression and reduces hospital readmissions and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. MICT has long been used to manage the physical and mental health of CAD patients as per the Canadian Guidelines for Cardiovascular Rehabilitation and Cardiovascular Disease Prevention; however, such exercise may be less efficient and perceived as less motivating/enjoyable. Growing evidence suggests that non-conventional exercise interventions, such as high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and Nordic walking are more effective exercise modalities, and maybe more enjoyable, to improve clinical outcomes (e.g., exercise capacity, QoL, and depression symptoms) in patients with CAD.

HIIT (repeated bouts of brief high-intensity exercise interspersed with active recovery) is an effective and efficient exercise training paradigm. A recent meta-analysis (n=10 studies) comparing HIIT and MICT in patients with CAD suggests that: (1) HIIT is superior to MICT in improving cardiorespiratory fitness (V̇O2peak) of patients with CAD, an important clinical vital sign and strong predictor of mortality; and, (2) HIIT and MICT are equally effective in improving QoL and depression symptoms in patients including CAD. Increases in cardiorespiratory fitness decrease mortality risk -- every 3.5 ml/kg/min increase in V̇O2peak yields a 13% improvement in survival. Exercise training-induced increases in cardiorespiratory fitness are therefore highly desirable for the improvement of important patient outcomes.

Nordic walking is similar to Nordic skiing but uses specifically designed poles for walking. Nordic walking includes the recruitment of core, upper and lower body muscles, resulting in greater exergy expenditure while reducing loading stress at the knee joint. Regular participation in Nordic walking leads to in

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recruitment
  - Adherence
  - Compliance
  - Adverse events
  - Subjective exercise experiences

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High-intensity interval Nordic walking
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard cardiovascular rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05434117
