CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03995394
Title: Text Messaging Pediatric Obese Patients
Official Title: Use of Text Messaging for Positive Reinforcement to Help Improve Quality of Life in Pediatric Obese Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study hopes to investigate the relationship between positive reinforcement for exercise activities in pediatric obese participants and quality of life. The investigators hypothesize that providing positive reinforcement through text messaging to children living with obesity will improve their overall quality of life. The investigators will recruit pediatric obese participants and administer a pre and post survey regarding quality of life. The family will be given recommendations on various ways to increase physical activity weekly. These participants will then receive positive reinforcement for completed exercises through text messages.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a prospective interventional cohort study following a group of participants with obesity. Informed consent will be obtained from the parents from a member of the research committee. Informed assent will also be obtained from the participant from a member of the research committee.

The investigators will review the schedule in the pediatrics department daily and approach all participants that meet our inclusion criteria. Per standard of care for participants with obesity, the participants have a scheduled follow up for a weight check at regular intervals that can include one month, 3 months or 6 months.

The 40 participants will be randomly assigned to either a control group or an intervention group.

Survey:

A 23 item PedsQL 4.0 pre-survey will be administered to pediatric participants to establish a baseline at their wellness visits. The parent of the participant will also be given a PedsQL survey to fill out. The participants' Body Mass Index (BMI) and blood pressure will be recorded. At the end of the 6-month period, the same PedsQL 4.0 will be administered again to both the participant and parent at the scheduled 6-month weight check that is standard of care.

The investigators will use a text message application created by the Loyola informatics team. This application will be able to text the participants using their cell phone number via an email service from the provider. For example, 123456789@cellservice provider.com. This allows the research team to send text messages to be sent through an application without using a personal phone number. In addition, it offers automatic responses that will save them when sending messages to the participant.

For six months, participants in the study will receive a text message twice per week via this application.

Text messaging:

There will be two groups within this study-a control group and an intervention group. For the control group, participants will receive two text messages weekly. The first text message will ask if the participants have completed the recommended activity. When a participant responds, the participant will receive a second text message stating, "Thanks for your response."

In the intervention group, the first text message will ask if the participant completed the recommended activity. If the participant responds yes, the participant will receive a positive reinforcement response comprising the words "Great job! We're so proud of you! Keep up the good work!". If the participant responds no, the participant will receive a text message stating, "Thank you for your response."

Study Activities:

The weekly activities the investigators will recommend for the participants include:

1. Walking for 30 minutes 3 times a week
2. Speed walk for 30 minutes 3 times a week
3. Walk up and down stairs for 30 minutes 3 times a week
4. Jogging for 30 minutes 3 times a week
5. Jumping jacks for 30 minute 3 times a week

Data:

All participant data will be stored in a protected Data-

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory 4.0 (PedsQL) Survey (child self-report 13-18) at 6 Months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Positive Reinforcement Text Message

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03995394
