CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06945003
Title: Study of Exercise Capacity and Physical Activity in Children With Congenital Heart Disease
Official Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of an Individualised Physical Activity Plan to Increase Exercise Capacity and Physical Activity Levels in Children With Congenital Heart Disease: A Randomised Control Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Congenital heart disease (CHD) is the most common birth defect worldwide and occurs in every 8-10 per 1000 live births in Northern Ireland. The ability to participate in physical activity (PA) is an important aspect to an individual's quality of life. The UK Chief Medical Officer currently recommends that children aged 5-18 years should aim to achieve a minimum of 60 minutes PA per day. However, in Northern Ireland, only 8% of children with CHD are meeting these guidelines. This may be attributed to parents not allowing their child to fully participate in PA due to anxiety regarding its effect on their child's condition. Whilst, several studies to date have investigated the concerns faced by parents/guardians, this study is novel in its inclusion of teachers/coaches. Therefore, the investigators conducted interviews with parents/guardians and teachers/coaches to identify their concerns, highlighting that an individualised PA plan would help alleviate these fears.

This has informed a PA intervention, whereby the intervention group will receive an individualised PA plan to implement at home over a 12 week period with a 3 and 6 month follow up. This plan will also be sent out to teachers/coaches to inform them of what PA is both safe and beneficial for each child. The PA plan is adapted specifically for each child to increase their exercise capacity as this will increase their cardiorespiratory function and health related quality of life. It is also anticipated that it will increase PA level, thus increasing the percentage of children with CHD meeting current PA guidelines.

Therefore, the overall aim of this randomised control trial (RCT) is to assess the effectiveness of an individualised PA programme on exercise capacity and PA levels in children and adolescents with CHD. This will be assessed using both qualitative and quantitative methods.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
WHY THIS RESEARCH MATTERS The ability to take part in PA is an important aspect to an individual's quality of life. The UK Chief Medical Officer currently recommends that children aged 5-18 years should aim to be active for at least 60 minutes per day, however in Northern Ireland, only 13% of children are meeting these guidelines. This is worrying, as children with CHD are less active than healthy children, and it has been observed that children with complex CHD such as Fontan patients are less physically active than those with moderate CHD and their exercise capacity can be as low as 60% of reference value and further declines in adolescence and adulthood. This may be due to parents not allowing their child to fully participate in PA due to worries about their child's condition and non-cardiac comorbidities such as intellectual disabilities. Studies have suggested that parents of children with CHD are often apprehensive about their child's participation in PA, as a focus group study reported that parents and siblings often discouraged PA within the home, despite no clinical recommendation to do so. This study hypothesized that similarly, to parents, teachers and coaches may be apprehensive and unsure of the child's capabilities. However, no study to date has spoken to parents/guardians and teachers/coaches to investigate concerns faced regarding PA in children with CHD. Therefore, the investigators have conducted interviews with parents/guardians and teachers/coaches as in order to develop an effective and sustainable intervention, it is important to identify and address the concerns faced from those in the home and school environment who can either encourage or discourage PA among this population (Bagley et al. 2016; Ten Velde et al. 2021).

Previous studies have explored the effects of an individualised PA plan within children (5-10 years) and adolescents (12-20 years) however studies have shown that children are less active when they go to secondary school as PE lessons start to include more competitive sports (Callaghan et al. 2021; Morrison et al. 2013). Yet, no study to date has included all school-aged children (5-18 years) to identify if there are differences in PA levels when children transition from primary to secondary school.

In addition, children with intellectual disabilities such as those with Down Syndrome have been excluded from previous studies, even though they are less active than their peers. Therefore, this study will include all school aged children with CHD and an intellectual disability to participate in a PA intervention which will involve a PA plan, specific to each child, to be implemented at home. It is hypothesized that this study will improve PA levels and exercise capacity which will improve the child's health related quality of life.

This study is novel as it conducted qualitative interviews to inform an intervention that will be acceptable to the target population as parents/guardians and teachers/coaches have

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Exercise Capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06945003
