CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00418964
Title: Clinical Trial Comparing Three Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstructive Procedures
Official Title: Functional, Clinical & Radiological Outcome of Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction: A Prospective Randomized Control Clinical Trial Studies Comparing Bone Patella Bone, Single Bundle and Double Bundle Method.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The objective of this prospective study is to assess the clinical, functional and radiological outcomes of three different ACL reconstruction procedures: Bone Patella Bone graft, Single bundle hamstring graft and anatomical Double bundle graft in terms of pain, swelling, mobility, quadriceps girth size, stability, proprioception, bone mineral density and functional status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery is one of the common procedures performed by orthopedic surgeons with approximately 100,000 cases performed per year in the United States. A large amount of sports injuries were related to ACL problem. As such, ACL injuries and treatment is still widely under intensive study.

Traditionally, ACL surgery has been focused on using bone patella bone graft and single bundle hamstring graft. Problems of knee pain, unstable fixation, rotational instability and degenerative changes were reported. Recently, the use of double bundle hamstring graft to reconstruct the ACL according its anatomy aiming to improve the rotational stability was proposed. However, results about the clinical, functional and radiological outcomes are limited.

The objective of this prospective pilot study is to assess the clinical, functional and radiological outcomes of three different ACL reconstruction procedures: Bone Patella Bone graft, Single bundle hamstring graft and anatomical Double bundle graft in terms of pain, swelling, mobility, quadriceps girth size, stability, proprioception, skin sensation, bone mineral density and functional status.

Subjects to be operated for ACL reconstruction and meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be recruited. Subjects will be randomly assigned to the three surgical groups by block randomization. Demographic information, parameters in recovery domain, functional domain and stability domain, isokinetic test, motion analysis domain, proprioception and radiographical measurements will be made at baseline and at day 1, week 2, week 4, week 8, month 3, month 5, 1 year and 2 years post-surgery. The effect of different surgical techniques and time on the different outcomes will be analysed by 2-way ANOVA.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC)Knee Form 2000 Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Single bundle hamstring
  - PROCEDURE: Double bundle hamstring
  - PROCEDURE: Bone patellar tendon bone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00418964
