CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02984475
Title: The Potential Hepatoprotective Effect of Metformin in Patients With Beta Thalassemia Major
Official Title: The Potential Hepatoprotective Effect of Metformin in Patients With Beta Thalasemia Major
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Beta Thalassemia is a major public health problem in Mediterranean countries.In Egypt, it is considered as the most common chronic hemolytic anemia.one of the major complications in this inherited disorder is iron overload which lead to oxidative stress and tissue damage.

Regarding toxic effect of iron overload on liver, hepatomegaly is one of the most findings that resulting from hemosiderosis, extra medullary hematopoiesis, transmitted hepatitis blast and cruise and cirrhosis.

A lot of studies have been carried out recently to study the beneficial role of metformin in non-diabetic patients of different disorders as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).Among several studies, it's demonstrated that metformin significantly improved insulin resistance, aminotransferase levels and liver morphology.

The role of metformin in these studies is mainly thought to be antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. However, the role of Metformin on hepatic function in different populations with the same mechanism of liver injury should be further investigated.

This clinical trial will be carried out on 60 patients with beta thalassemia major receiving regular blood transfusion and iron chelating therapy, either HCV positive or negative patients.

They will be randomly distributed into either control group (group 1, n=30) receiving blood transfusion and taking iron chelating therapy or treatment group (group 2, n=30) receiving blood transfusion and taking iron chelating therapy along with metformin tablets (500 mg/twice daily) for 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Beta-Thalassemia is a major public health problem in Mediterranean countries , parts of North and West Africa, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, southern Far East and southeastern Asia is of the highest incidence. In Egypt, it is considered as the most common chronic hemolytic anemia (85.1%) with 5.3- 9% carrier rate and annual birth of 1000/1.5 million live births. Thalassemia is a heterogeneous group of hereditary anemia that results from reduced or absent production of alpha or beta globin chains of hemoglobin A. β-thalassemia patients have partial or complete lack of production of β-chains of hemoglobin. The remaining excess of α-chains are unstable, and they finally precipitate and disintegrate, causing red blood cell (RBC) membrane damage. The affected RBCs are prematurely hemolysed in the spleen and bone marrow, leading to increased RBC turnover, ineffective erythropoiesis, and severe anemia that can only be controlled by regular blood transfusion.

One of the major complications in this inherited disorder is iron overload because of premature hemolysis, ineffective erythropoiesis and repeated transfusion in the plasma and major organs such as heart, liver, and endocrine glands. Iron has a catalytic role to produce powerful reactive oxidant species (ROS) and free radicals, which lead to oxidative stress and damage . Children with beta thalassemia have oxidative stress and antioxidant deficiency even without iron overload status. The only way to avoid the accumulation of potentially toxic iron is iron chelation along with the transfusional therapy, desferrioxamine is a chelating agent that has been discovered 30 years ago and since then it has been considered to be one of the most important chelating agent that have been extensively used in the clinical practice . Then other iron chelating agents have been discovered as deferasirox (Exjade®) and deferiprone (Kelfer®). However, there are a lot of problems regarding the compliance to desferrioxamine regimen and the side effects of other orally active iron chelating agents, which rises the need for studying the effect of other naturally occurring iron chelating agents and supplements to reduce the consequences of the iron overload. As reactive oxygen species (ROS) and iron overload have an important role in the pathophysiology of thalassemia , some studies have been carried out to determine the effects of supplements such as silymarin and vitamin E in thalassemic patients on regular blood transfusion and desferrioxamine, and they showing benefit due to their antioxidant, cytoprotective, and iron-chelating activities .

Regarding the toxic effect of iron overload on liver, hepatomegaly is one of the most findings that resulting from hemosiderosis, extra medullary hematopoiesis, transmitted hepatitis blast and cruise and cirrhosis . In one study, liver function tests (LFT) and serum ferritin were elevated in most patients in spite of desferoxamine use .

Metformin (Biguanides) is used as a first-

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - liver enzymes tests.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Metformin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02984475
