CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04664842
Title: Effects of Manual Therapy and Exercise Training of Diaphragm in Patients With Chronic Neck Pain
Official Title: Effect of Diaphragmatic Stretch Technique and Breathing Exercise Intervention in Patients With Chronic Neck Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 126
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic neck pain is a commonly reported problem and often associated with functional disability. Studies showed that patients with chronic neck pain compensated with changes in breathing pattern. Primary functions of the diaphragm includes as the main respiratory muscle and contributing to the postural stability and spinal control. Diaphragm is located between the thorax and abdomen and has extensive and complex fascial connections to surrounding organs, muscles, and skeletons. Few studies showed that applying diaphragmatic manual techniques and breathing exercise training help to improve functions in patients with low back pain. However, how does the interventions directly influence on patients with chronic neck pain is still unclear. In this study, we make a hypothesis that diaphragmatic stretch technique and breathing exercise training help to reduce pain and improve functions in patients with chronic neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic neck pain is a serious health problem with low quality of life, disability and economical burdens. Studies have found that nearly 83% of chronic neck pain patients had changes in breathing patterns. Compensated breathing pattern by using the neck-accessory respiratory muscles may result in excessive muscle strains and over-activations, which may also contribute to develop chronic neck pain. The diaphragm is the most important respiratory muscle which attached to the ribs and spine, and thus has an influence on spinal stability. Few studies have showed that diaphragm releasing and breathing training can reduce pain and improve flexibility of posterior chain muscles, spinal range of motions, and ribcage excursions in asymptomatic adults and patients with low back pain. However, the effects in patients with chronic neck pain has not bee determined. Therefore, there are two main purpose of this study. First, to determine the relationships among diaphragm mobility, neck pain and dysfunction, and respiratory in patients with chronic neck pain. Second, to investigate the effects of diaphragm releasing, breathing training, or combined intervention on pain and disability in patients with chronic neck pain. It is expected to recruit 150 patients with chronic neck pain and 30 healthy volunteers. Patients with chronic neck pain will be randomly assigned to (1) manual therapy group (2) manual control group (3) breathing training group (4) general exercise control group (5) manual therapy combined breathing training group. Each participant will receive a specific intervention program depending on their group allocation. All participants will receive two evaluation sessions before and after the intervention including ultrasonography, cervical and thoracic function, respiratory functions, and autonomic balance.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Diaphragmatic Stretch Technique
  - OTHER: Breathing Exercise Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04664842
