CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04744558
Title: Low Carbohydrate High Fat Ketogenic vs. Non-ketogenic Diet
Official Title: Effects of Calorie Restricted Low Carbohydrate High Fat Ketogenic vs. Non-ketogenic Diet on Strength, Body Composition, Hormonal and Lipid Profile in Trained Middle-aged Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this paper was to investigate and compare the effects of two iso-energetic hypo-caloric ketogenic hyper-ketonemic and non-ketogenic low carbohydrate high fat high cholesterol diets on body-composition, muscle strength and hormonal profile in experienced resistance-trained middle-aged men. Twenty non-competitive experienced resistance-trained middle-aged men were on the supervised calorie maintenance western diet and resistance-training regimen for 4 weeks and then divided into ketogenic and non-ketogenic groups for 8 weeks period. Keto bodies (β-hydroxybutyrate) levels were measured weekly, testosterone and insulin biweekly, strength and body-composition monthly, lipid profile and blood sugar level at the beginning and at the end of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary goal of this research was to investigate and compare the effects of two forms of hypo-caloric LCHF high cholesterol ketogenic hyper-ketonemic and non-ketogenic diets on muscle strength and body-composition in the experienced resistance-trained middle-aged healthy male population, and explore possible advantage of ketogenic state. The secondary goal was to examine the rate and magnitude of hormonal changes during the 8 weeks dietary phase and their possible impact on the muscle strength and body-composition. It is hypothesized that calorie intake is the main variable that influences body-compositional changes regardless of the ketogenic state in similar LCHF dieting conditions.

Four weeks before the experimental procedure participants undertook a detailed medical examination and subsequently were familiarized with all testing schedules and new training facilities in which they continued supervised training sessions, with equalized exercise selection and order for every muscle group as well as for volume and intensity. Participants were instructed not to change any of their current eating habits supervised for the total energy intake set at the calorie maintenance requirement, until the beginning of the LCHF dietary phase of the experiment. After completing 4 weeks of the familiarization phase, the subjects were randomized into ketogenic (KG) and non-ketogenic group (NKG). The first group received LCHF high-cholesterol ketogenic dietary treatment, and the second group received LCHF high-cholesterol non-ketogenic dietary treatment, with the equally reduced calorie intake. The experimental dietary phase lasted for 8 weeks without any change in resistance training.

Blood ketones were monitored weekly, hormonal values every 2 weeks, muscle strength and body-composition every 4 weeks, and basic blood analysis with lipid profile and blood sugar level at the beginning and at the end of the dietary phase of the study Twenty healthy non-competitive experienced resistance-trained middle-aged men (Age = 42.7±1.5 years, Body height = 181.7±4.6 cm, Body mass (BM) = 88.3±5.8 kg), without any recent medical condition, were selected for this research. Inclusion criteria were more than 5 years of experience with resistance-training, and a minimum of 2 years of training continuity prior to the study, with one repetition maximum (1RM) lower limit for bench press at 100% body weight and for squat at 130% bodyweight. In addition, including criteria pertaining to dietary habits, was that no major change in nutrition regime (prolonged increase or decrease in calories or a macronutrient percentage change) was taken in the last 6 months prior to the study. No recent injuries and no medical treatment were mandatory conditions for participation in the study. After initial consultations, participants were asked to avoid alcohol and training stimulants. All participants gave written informed consent for study protocol, approved by the Ethical committee of the Fac

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hormonal changes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low carb high fat ketogenic dieting
  - OTHER: Low carb high fat non-ketogenic dieting

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 45 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04744558
