CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06079788
Title: Study of Adrenocorticotropic Hormone on Children With Frequent Relapse or Steroid-dependent Nephrotic Syndrome: a Prospective, Multicenter, Randomized，Open-label Clinical Trial.
Official Title: Study of Adrenocorticotropic Hormone on Children With Frequent Relapse or Steroid-dependent Nephrotic Syndrome: a Prospective, Multicenter, Randomized，Open-label Clinical Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Primary nephrotic syndrome accounts for approximately 90% of the total number of nephrotic syndrome in childhood and it is the most common glomerular disease in children. Although treatment with steroids is useful for primary nephrotic syndrome, proving to cause frequent relapse/steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome after treatment and the usage of immunosuppressive agents has become a new choice for the treatment of such patients. This study is a prospective, multicenter, randomized，open-label clinical trial, evaluating the efficacy and safety of steroid combined with adrenocorticotrophic hormone（ACTH） to children who with frequently relapsing or steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome, all we wish to obtain the proper drug choice and individualized treatment options for children with nephrotic syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Although steroids are recognized as first-line treatments for nephrotic syndrome, the vast majority of children relapse, and about half of them have frequent relapse or steroids dependence after treatment with steroids alone. Some children experienced steroids-resistance after multiple relapses, and eventually developed into chronic kidney dysfunction. Long-term or repeated application of large doses of steroids will lead to side effects such as obesity, growth retardation, and hypertension. Although the treatment of steroids with immunosuppressive agents is a new choice for the treatment of such patients, traditional immunosuppressive agents will bring some serious irreversible side effects.

The clinical application of ACTH in children with nephrotic syndrome dates back to the late 1940s. In recent years, the new mechanism of action of ACTH is also being explored. A number of clinical studies on the treatment of nephrotic syndrome by ACTH have found that it can still achieve good efficacy in patients who are ineffective in first-line treatment. This study evaluated the efficacy of ACTH in the treatment of relapsing or steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome in children, in order to provide a more effective and safer treatment for children with nephrotic syndrome as well as the therapeutic medication options.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recurrence-free survival time(day) within 48 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone
  - DRUG: Steroid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 14 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06079788
