CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02845245
Title: Comminuted Intra-Articular Distal Tibia Fracture Fixation Using Computer Techniques
Official Title: CIDUCT: Comminuted Intra-Articular Distal Tibia Fracture Fixation Using Computer Surgical Planning and 3D Prototyping Techniques
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Comminuted intra-articular distal tibia fractures (OTA 43-C) typically are the result of high-energy trauma such as motor vehicle collisions or fall from a height. They are complex injuries often associated with significant fragment displacement and severe soft tissue injury, a combination that has long challenged orthopedic surgeons. Traditionally, surgeons use plain film (X-ray) and CT scans (2 or 3 dimensional) to determine fracture pattern and displacement. Yet, in some cases, it is still difficult to identify the relationship among bone fragments, which often makes articular restoration challenging. As a result, patients with non-anatomic joint reconstructions have a higher rate of poor outcomes.

The primary objective of this study will be to compare patient outcomes in two groups, one group who will receive enhanced pre-operative planning (3D printed plastic prototype + standard of care \[SOC\] imaging with 3D CT scan + plain film radiographs) and a second group who will receive pre-operative planning using SOC imaging alone (3D CT scan + plain film radiographs only). Patient outcomes collected throughout the 12 month post-operative period will include an assessment of radiographic fracture healing (union, non-union, malunion), pain using a Numeric Pain Rating Scale, Olerud and Molander Score based on patient's self-report, and development of complications (infection, wound healing, re-operation, and re-hospitalizations). The secondary objective of this study will be to evaluate whether utilizing an enhanced pre-operative plan with a 3D printed plastic prototype altered the original pre-operative plan based on SOC imaging alone (3D CT scan + plain film radiographs only).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Recruitment Patients with a comminuted distal tibia fracture (OTA 43-C type) who present for care at Inova Fairfax Medical Campus (IFMC) or at the Inova Medical Group (IMG) Orthopaedic outpatient clinic will be eligible for consent and possible enrollment in this study. Patients will not be compensated for participating in this study. Given that this is a convenience sample of patients who present with an acute traumatic injury, there are no plans to advertise or recruit patients.
2. Subject Randomization and Blinding Procedures Eligible patients will be randomized in equal proportions to one of two groups (enhanced pre-operative planning vs. SOC pre-operative planning) using an electronic randomization system with a simple randomization table. After consent and inclusion/exclusion criteria have been confirmed, subjects will be randomized by a research coordinator/associate. All surgeons will be temporarily blinded to the randomization assignment, in order to complete an unbiased pre-operative plan (pre-randomization survey) using the SOC imaging alone (plain film radiographs and 3D CT scan). After the pre-operative plan (pre-randomization survey) is completed by the attending surgeon (using the SOC imaging alone) and submitted to the research coordinator/ associate, the surgeon will be informed of the randomization assignment. For subjects randomized to the enhanced pre-operative planning group, the surgeon will then be provided the 3D prototype and be asked to complete a post-randomization survey capturing their pre-operative plan. The biomechanics lab with arrange with the research coordinator/associate for delivery of the 3D prototype, ensuring that the temporary blinding of treatment assignment is not broken. A post-randomization survey will not be administered to surgeons with subjects randomized to the SOC group.

   Subjects will not be blinded to the assigned group. However, in order to ensure the temporary blind is maintained with the attending surgeon who will be performing the definitive surgery, the subject won't be informed of their randomization assignment until the time of definitive surgery.
3. Standard of Care Procedures Prior to Definitive Surgery: All Groups The following pre-operative care described is the standard of practice and is a general summary of the care that will be given to all study patients prior to their definitive surgery, regardless of treatment group assignment. There are two scenarios with which patients will be eligible and approached for participation in this study: 1). stable fracture treated with a splint, and 2). unstable (open or closed) fracture requiring external-fixator surgery.

   All patients will be initially evaluated in the emergency department (ED) by a member of the orthopaedic trauma team. Patients with an axially stable injury will undergo manual realignment and application of a well-padded posterior with U-shaped plaster splint. A computed tomography (CT) scanning with sagittal, corona

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient Reported Outcome of Pain
  - Patient Reported General Health State
  - Patient Functional Health Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: 3D printed plastic model prototype
  - OTHER: 3D CT scan
  - OTHER: Plain film radiographs

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02845245
