CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07318727
Title: Comparative Study on the Effect of Diet Interventions on Weight Loss in Overweight Endometrial Cancer Patients Undergoing Fertility-sparing Treatment
Official Title: Three-Way Diet Comparison for Weight Loss in Overweight Endometrial Cancer Patients on Fertility-Sparing Regimens: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 81
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
In this study, overweight and obese patients with endometrial cancer treated with fertility- sparing therapy were randomly divided into three groups. The first group was given Intermittent fasting, the second was given Low-energy balanced diet, the third group underwent routine care for self-weight management. Relevant information such as body morphology ,glycolipid metabolism and tumor outcomes of the subjects were collected. By evaluating the tumor outcome and changes in glycolipid metabolism indicators, to confirm the effectiveness and safety of diet interventions for overweight and obese patients with endometrial cancer and treatd with fertility preservation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is recognized as a major risk factor for the development of endometrial cancer. Notably, several retrospective studies have shown that obesity reduces complete remission and pregnancy rates and increases recurrence rates in patients with endometrial cancer and atypical hyperplasia who undergo fertility-sparing treatment. Guidelines or consensus statements for fertility sparing treatment in endometrial cancer recommend weight management.The more accepted weight control diet programs mainly include calorie restriction and dietary changes. In dietary management, studies have shown that intermittent fasting ,low-energy balanced diet can improve patient outcomes. This study therefore aimed to investigate the impact of the different dietary interventions on body morphology and composition, glycolipid metabolism, and tumor outcomes in overweight and obese patients with endometrial cancer and atypical hyperplasia who underwent reproductive function-preserving treatments.In this study, overweight and obese patients with endometrial cancer treated with fertility- sparing therapy were randomly divided into second groups. The first group was given Intermittent fasting, the second was given Low-energy balanced diet, the third group underwent routine care for self-weight management.Relevant information such as body morphology ,glycolipid metabolism, molecular typing and tumor outcomes of the subjects were collected. By evaluating the tumor outcome and changes in glycolipid metabolism indicators, to confirm the effectiveness and safety of different dietary interventions management for overweight and obese patients with endometrial cancer and treatd with fertility preservation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Mass Index(BMI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multi-Professional Guided '5+2' Intermittent Fasting
  - BEHAVIORAL: Low-energy Balanced Diet
  - BEHAVIORAL: Routine Care for Self-weight Management.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07318727
