CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03670199
Title: Improving the Quality of Life of Cancer Patients Through a Perioperative and Coordinated Nutrition and Physical Care Program.
Official Title: Improving the Quality of Life of Cancer Patients Through a Perioperative and Coordinated Nutrition and Physical Care Program.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Hospitalization, for cancer patients, exposes to a risk of undernutrition which has the effect of significantly increasing infections, pressure ulcers, muscle wasting, loss of autonomy, impaired function and delayed healing.

All of these factors contribute to increase the length of stay in hospital, thus lengthening the spiral of undernutrition, which has serious consequences for the patient welbeing, health establishments and public health.

Undernutrition has been the subject of many studies over the last twenty years, that outline that an adequate nutritional management exerts a direct effect on the reduction of comorbidities and duration of hospitalization.

However, there are periods, in the preoperative course of care, where nutritional and phisical care are not realized in the current clinical practice whereas they could be done, for example, between the diagnosis and the consultation of anesthesia, between the anesthesia consultation and the surgical procedure and the end of hospitalization of the patient.

Current management is usually limited to the period of hospitalization which tends to be reduced. This situation is reinforced by the absence of relays at home, dietary consultations being not reimbursed by French health insurance.

Moreover, a preliminary survey, conducted in 2012 during the pre-operative outpatient anesthesia consultation, shows that 26% of patients are already clinically malnourished, with 16.5 % of them who have lost more than 10% of their weight.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Then, the investigators hypothesize that the combination of perioperative nutrition and mobilization program coordinated andrealized by dieticians and physiotherapists, with the Nutrimus follow-up booklet, would improve the post-operative evolution of patients and reduce their postoperative comorbidities.

This management, initiated at the consultation of anesthesia, would include an accurate nutritional diagnosis, nutritional and physical support therapy to improve their nutritional and muscular status.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Variation of the Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dietary advice
  - OTHER: Physiotherapist intervention
  - OTHER: Dietary intervention
  - OTHER: Intensify physiotherapist intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03670199
