CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02710812
Title: Rectal Sparing Approach After Preoperative Radio and/or Chemotherapy in Patients With Rectal Cancer
Official Title: Rectal Sparing Approach After Preoperative Radio and/or Chemotherapy in Patients With Rectal Cancer
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 164
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The proposed study is an observational, prospective, multicenter study of patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy for medium-low rectal cancer.

Recently the investigators have published the findings of a multicenter Italian phase II study showing that the rate of local recurrence, with a 3 year follow-up, is less than 5% in patients with baseline T2-3 mid-low rectal cancer who, after preoperative chemoradiotherapy (pCRT), showed a major clinical response and underwent a transanal local excision. Based on these results, an organ-sparing approach for patients showing a major clinical response is feasible without reducing the good results obtained with the standard treatment. While a phase III trial is the best way to compare the standard treatment with the organ-sparing approach (local excision or wait-and-see) it is impracticable and likely unethical. An observational study is therefore one of the best way to evaluate the impact that an organ-sparing approach may have on oncological outcomes, quality of life, and bowel function for patients with rectal cancer who, after a pCRT, show a clinical major/complete response.

This phase II trial is designed to test the hypothesis that conservative treatments, in patients with low-mid rectal cancer who undergo a major or complete clinical response after neoadjuvant treatment, will be safe and effective compared to standard surgery.

The investigators will compare rectum-sparing approaches to standard surgery, firstly in terms of rate of organ preservation at 2 years. Additionally they will compare survival outcomes (DFS, OS), stoma rates, clinical and tumor factors related to pathological complete response, correlation between major and complete clinical response.

To add value, the investigators will measure QoL in patients treated with rectum-sparing approaches in comparison to patients treated with standard surgery (TME or abdomino-perineal amputation).

Rectum-sparing approach can be considered clinically acceptable if percentage of conservation of the rectum at two years is not less than 50%.

The collected data on 164 patients who underwent "rectum-sparing" allow to test the hypothesis that the rectum is preserved in 60% of patients with 80% power (exact binomial test for proportions, alpha = 5 %, 1 tail) and the study will be considered positive if it obtains a frequency of conservation of the rectum of not less than 87 cases.

The analysis results will be reported in accordance with STROBE guidelines (von Elm et al., 2008). For all analyzes, continuous variables are described using the mean and standard deviation of position and appropriate measures when appropriate. Categorical variables will be described using the contingency tables.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction and rationale Neoadjuvant therapy, especially preoperative chemoradiotherapy (pCRT) and short-course radiotherapy followed by total mesorectal excision (TME), is the standard of treatment for mid-low rectal cancer. This approach significantly reduces the rate of local recurrence compared with surgery alone, with post-operative radiochemotherapy or with long-course radiotherapy alone.

Concerning the indication to neoadjuvant treatment and its regimen, there is still a wide discrepancy in the literature. Based on the dutch TME trial, showing a low rate of local recurrence in patients treated with short-course radiotherapy (RT) compared to TME alone, the neoadjuvant therapy indication for rectal cancer was RT short-course alone. Meanwhile, with German trial publication, the indication for rectal cancer treatment, up to 15 cm from anal verge, was combination between hyperfractionated RT and 5-fluorouracil based chemotherapy (CT). Two subsequent trials (Polish trial and Trans-Tasman Radiation Oncology Group trial) showed that RT short-course alone and CRT with hyperfractionated RT have similar oncological outcomes. Thus, in recent years there has been an increasing interest in the administration of neoadjuvant chemotherapy at therapeutic doses and not only radiosensitizers. Regimens are basically as follows: induction regimen and consolidation regimen. In the first case, CT precedes pCRT, while in consolidation regimen CT follows pCRT. The rationale for this strategy is that, currently, the mortality of rectal cancer comes from distant metastases and, given that only a full dose chemotherapy can prevent the occurrence of distant recurrence, the rationale for having chemotherapy as early as possible and in as many patients is feasible (patient compliance performing adjuvant chemotherapy is low, often for complications arising from surgery). More recently, studies have been published on the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone and is currently underway in the US the PROSPECT trial evaluating the possibility of using the only neoadjuvant chemotherapy in selected cases instead of the classic CRT. For many reasons (enrolment of patients in clinical trials, refusal of patients to perform treatments considered standard and toxicity from radio and/or chemotherapy) is not uncommon in clinical practice to observe patients who performed unconventional treatments and not provided by any national or international guideline.

Positive and negative consequences of neoadjuvant treatment Neoadjuvant treatment followed by TME involve a high percentage of side effects associated with surgical complications both early and late, the toxicity associated with radiation or chemotherapy and alteration of bowel function, sexual, fecal continence and thus the quality of life (QoL). Among the advantages of neoadjuvant therapy, particularly the treatment associated CRT, it is notable that in 15-20% of cases have the disappearance of the primary tumor, or a patholog

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of organ preservation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Local Excision or Wait-and-See

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02710812
