CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04755660
Title: Home-based Resistance trening to Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Behavioral Intervention and Home-based Resistance trening to Increase Physical Activity and Muscle Strength in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to compare motivational interviews and self-efficacy theory-based exercise behavior and home-based resistance exercise (elastic band to non-elastic band) to improve physical activity, muscle strength, body composition, and self-efficacy of exercise in type 2 diabetic patients. The effectiveness of performance and exercise compliance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study adopts an experimental research design. A total of 90 cases of type 2 diabetes who are not exercising regularly are recruited from the outpatient clinic of the Metabolism Department of a medical center in the north to participate in the study. Blocks 6, and 12 (Block) are randomly assigned. The research subjects were assigned to the behavior change and resistance exercise group, and home-based resistance exercise( with elastic band), and the control group. The behavior changes and resistance exercise group received motivational interviews and self-efficacy theory-based exercise behavior changes and resistance exercise guidance intervention, home resistance exercise. the group received home elastic band resistance exercise trening, and the control group received regular exercise guidance. The three groups received data collection of physical activity, muscle strength, body composition, physical activity function, and exercise self-efficacy in the pre-test, the sixth week, and the twelfth week. During the study period, the exercise log was used to collect the mediating variable about exercise compliance (Time × frequency) data collection. This study compares the effectiveness of motivational interviews and self-efficacy theory-based exercise behavior intervention and home resistance exercise trening programs. The result will show an empirical evidence for type 2 diabetic patients to increase physical activity and muscle strength in the future, and will also apply to trening of muscle strengthening in diabetes and other chronic disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise behavior change for resistance exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04755660
