CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03863574
Title: Saroglitazar Magnesium in the Treatment of Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis
Official Title: A Phase 2, Prospective, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Saroglitazar Magnesium 2 mg and 4 mg in Patients With Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate safety and efficacy of Saroglitazar Magnesium 2 mg and 4 mg in patients with NASH. This study will be initiated after obtaining the approvals of Institutional Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board (IEC/IRB) and the local regulatory authority.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients clinically suspected of NASH will be invited for a screening programme for inclusion in the study. Patients will be screened according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Clinical evaluation will be conducted for baseline characteristics and anthropometry measurements such as body weight and height.

After clinical evaluations, all baseline safety and efficacy parameters will be recorded as per Visit Schedule. All laboratory collections will be performed following overnight fasting (at least 8 hrs).

Following confirmation of all clinical and laboratory inclusion and exclusion criteria, patients will continue into the screening period. During the screening period liver biopsy will be performed. However, if a biopsy was performed within 6 months the slides and biopsy material, or block, must be made available for baseline documentation. Such Patients, whose historical biopsy report is available, should not use medication suspected of having an effect on NASH from the 3 months prior to the screening.

Liver biopsy will be performed to confirm the diagnosis of NASH and record a baseline Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) Activity Score (NAS). The histological evidence of NASH is defined as NAS ≥ 4 with a minimum score of 1 for all of its three components \[steatosis, hepatocyte ballooning and lobular inflammation\].

Following confirmation of inclusion/exclusion criteria and upon histological confirmation of NASH by liver biopsy, patients will be enrolled into the study.

Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to receive Saroglitazar Magnesium 2 mg or 4 mg or placebo in a 2:2:1 ratio for 24 weeks.

Upon completion of 24 weeks of treatment, liver biopsy will be performed and the NAFLD Activity Score recorded.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NAS Score (Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease [NAFLD] Activity Score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Saroglitazar Magnesium 2mg
  - DRUG: Saroglitazar Magnesium 4mg
  - DRUG: Placebos

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03863574
