CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03937115
Title: Effect of tDCS on Sport Performance for Two Categories of Athletes : Explosive Profile and Enduring Profile
Official Title: Effets de la tDCS Sur la Performance Sportive de 2 Profils d'athlètes : Explosifs (Sauteurs de Haut Niveau et Amateur) et Endurants (Cyclistes de Haut Niveau et Amateur)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The study aims to compare the effects of tDCS applied on the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) vs sham on the neuromuscular system. Two types of athletes will benefit from stimulation: jumper and cyclists. Short and long term effects are assesed by electromyographic records, experimental tasks and self-rated scales.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
trenscranial direct current stimulation is a technique of noninvasive brain stimulation which delivers a electrical current to the scalp to modulate the neuronal activity. Depending on the polarity of stimulation, tDCS induces a neural hyperexcitability (with anode) or hypoexcitability (with cathode) of the target area.

Due to its neuromodulatory action, ease of use and low safety, tDCS can be used as a potential treatment but also as an investigative tool in neurophysiology. Thus, studies have shown a beneficial effect of tDCS on cognitive and motor functions. Nevertheless, studies conducted on motor performance and the reduction of neuromuscular fatigue show disparate results. It is impossible to conclude whether tDCS allows for improved performance and is a means of doping.

With a prospective, sham-controlled, crossover, double-blind design, this study aims to evaluate the effect of tDCS on neuromuscular fatigue resistance during explosive (jumping) and endurance (cycling) exertion.

This study is divided into two parts:

* Part A: jumping group
* Part B: cycling group.

During Part A, participants visit the laboratory on 3 occasions. Each visit is organized in the same way and is at least 48 hours apart from the previous one.

Participants are divided into two groups according to their level of experience (amateurs vs. high level).

Before the session of tDCS, participants carry out a psychometric assessment (MCQ, BIS10) and experimental tasks (BART, EEFRT, STROOP test and Go NoGo task). Then, they performed three types of jumps (long jump, squat jump and countermovement jump). Finally, participants benefit from neuromuscular tests (EMG recording of plantar flexor muscle activity, percutaneous stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve).

Subjects will be submitted to three sessions of tDCS (2 actives and one sham), one by visit, in the order of randomization. Current intensity will be of 2 mA (or 0 mA), through 25 cm² surface electrodes, during 20 minutes. The positioning of the stimulation electrodes will be carried out in compliance with EEG 10/20 standards:

\- Sequence order determined by randomization:

1. Anode: F3 / Cathode: AF8/ Stimulation intensity: 2 mA
2. Anode: F3/ Cathode: AF8/ Stimulation intensity: 0 mA
3. Anode: FC2/ Cathode: Left shoulder/ Stimulation intensity: 2 mA

Immediately after the stimulation, participants perform motor and cognitive task again and the results arecompared.

During part B, subjects participate in two trening sessions of five days each. The trening sessions are one month apart.

Participants are divided into three groups according to their level of experience (amateurs vs. high level vs. sedentary).

Each day, the subjects perform two twenty-minute time trials during which they receive a session of tDCS. (one week with the active tDCS, one week with the sham). So, subjects will be submitted to 10 tDCS stimulation sessions (active or sham) for five consecutive days (2 sessions of 20 minutes/day). 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Performance (in meters) measured during jumps

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Active tDCS
  - DEVICE: Sham tDCS
  - DEVICE: Active tDCS
  - DEVICE: Sham tDCS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03937115
