CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03838666
Title: Utilization of AMSC to Enhance Rotator Cuff Repair - Safety and Efficacy
Official Title: Utilization of Autologous Mesenchymal Cells to Enhance Rotator Cuff Repair - a Prospective Non-randomized, Open-Label Study to Assess the Safety and the Efficacy
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Subjects received perioperative hAMSC treatment in order to accelerate the healing of the surgically repaired rotator cuff and increase the mechanical properties of the tendon, according to inclusion and exclusion criteria (see below). Each patient will undergo post-operative follow-up at 6 weeks, 6 months and 12 months after the surgery. This will include a visual analogue score for pain (VAS), a questionnaire for the subjective Constant shoulder score, and the subjectivEQuestions of the University of California (UCLA) score. Preoperative and postoperative MRI at 12 months will be done to evaluate thEQuality of the rotator cuff repair.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Eligible patients will undergo an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair augmented by mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The primary objective of the trial is to assess the safety and tolerability of autologous mesenchymal stem cells treatment applied during arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.

The condition of the patient will be monitored throughout the study. At each visit, adverse events (AEs) will be elicited using a standard non-leading questions. In addition, any signs or symptoms will be observed. All AEs will be collected as:

* patient's positive response to questions about their health
* symptoms spontaneously reported by the patient
* clinically relevant changes and abnormalities observed by the Investigator (e.g. local and systemic tolerability, clinically significant laboratory measurements confirmed by repeated measurement, results of physical examinations).

Clinical improvement will be measured by clinical outcome scores (Constant shoulder score and UCLA Shoulder rating scale) at 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year after the surgery. MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) findings made preoperatively and at 12 months (1 year) after operation will be evaluated.

During the indication visit, patient's history will be taken and preoperative MRI evaluated. Written consent form will be collected from the patient after detailed education of the patient by the investigator.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Safety: To assess the occurrence of adverse events of treatment by hAMSC - systemic reactions.
  - Safety: To assess the occurrence of adverse events of treatment by autologous mesenchymal stem cells - local reactions.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Suspension of human autologous MSC 3P

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03838666
