CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00373009
Title: Prevention of Low Back Pain in the Military
Official Title: Prevention of Low Back Pain in the Military. A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4325
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
We are studying whether specific back exercise and education programs effectively limit the development of chronic low back pain in Soldiers in the United States Army. These programs represent the current best evidence for prevention of low back pain from an exercise and education perspective. This innovative study will investigate whether a combination of evidence-based exercise and education programs effectively decreases the impact of chronic low back pain, when compared to individual evidence-based exercise and education programs, or a traditionally implemented exercise program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Low back pain (LBP) is a musculoskeletal condition that accounts for significant pain and disability, and consumes substantial medical and occupational costs annually. Specific to the United States Armed Forces, LBP was the second most common reason to seek healthcare and affects over 150,000 active duty Soldiers annually (MSMR 2003). Soldiers in the U.S. Army with LBP have the highest risk of disability 5 years after their injury. Furthermore, a military review suggests that LBP was the most common condition bringing about a medical board, with lifetime direct compensation costs estimated to reach into the billions of dollars. Therefore, reduction of disability from LBP is a significant research priority for the military.

Reduction of disability from LBP has been divided into 2 separate phases - primary and secondary prevention. Primary prevention refers to interventions and strategies that are implemented before a low back injury occurs.8 Primary prevention reduces LBP related disability by reducing the total number of people who eventually experience an episode of LBP. Secondary prevention refers to interventions and strategies that are implemented during the acute episode of low back injury, before chronic symptoms occur.9 Secondary prevention reduces LBP related disability by reducing the number of people who eventually experience chronic disability from LBP. We are proposing an innovative approach to LBP prevention by combining primary and secondary prevention strategies that have the potential to limit the development of chronic LBP in Soldiers.

The primary prevention strategy is a core stabilization exercise program (CSEP). The CSEP used in this study has sound biomechanical and anatomical rationale, and has demonstrated its clinical efficacy by preventing future recurrence of LBP. However, this CSEP has not been previously investigated for primary prevention of LBP in healthy Soldiers. The secondary prevention strategy is a psychosocial education program (PSEP). The PSEP used in this study has sound theoretical rationale. It has also demonstrated its clinical efficacy by favorably altering LBP beliefs, as well as limiting the eventual severity of LBP episodes.

These programs (individually or in combination) have not been investigated for prevention of chronic LBP in healthy Soldiers. Therefore, we will train healthy Soldiers in the United States Army in CSEP, PSEP, or combined CSEP/PSEP. We will compare the preventative effects of these exercise and education programs to an already implemented traditional exercise program (TEP).

Objective/Hypothesis: The purpose of this study is to determine if a combined prevention program is more effective at limiting the development of chronic LBP when compared to the effects of individual evidence-based prevention programs, or a traditional exercise program

Specific Aims Specific Aim 1: We will determine if a combined prevention program consisting of CSEP and PSEP prevents the develo

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Episodes of low back pain
  - Duration of low back pain
  - Severity of low back pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Traditional Army training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Core stabilization exercise only
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychosocial education class only
  - BEHAVIORAL: Core stabilization and psychosocial education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00373009
