CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05452161
Title: Effects of Preoperative Education, and Follow-up Sessions of Patients With Total Hip and Knee Arthroplasty (ESIPPES)
Official Title: Effects of Interdisciplinary Preoperative Preparation, Education, and Follow-up Sessions on Length of Stay in Hospital and Clinical Outcomes of Patients Undergoing Total Hip or Knee Replacement Surgery.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 163
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The shortening of the length of stay implies rethinking the perioperative management (around the operative period), which precedes and immediately follows the operation, in order to ensure a good preparation of the patient and an adequate postoperative follow-up.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect on the length of stay of adding an individualized preoperative preparation and education session to the current protocol in the musculoskeletal department at the CHUV in patients undergoing total hip or knee replacement surgery.

The implementation of a targeted, low-impact immediate postoperative follow-up could contribute to improving the detection of complications, preventing avoidable readmissions, improving the management of pain and adverse events, supporting the patient and responding to difficulties encountered in the patient's living environment. However, the actual added value for the patient and for the healthcare system has yet to be specified. As patients' needs and resources vary, it would also be useful to better determine the profile of patients for whom a pre- and postoperative session provides significant added value.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In Switzerland, in 2017,12.4% of the Swiss population suffered from osteoarthritis. In 2019, the SIRIS hip and knee implant registry recorded 20,077 total hip replacement (THR) and 15,453 total knee replacement (TKR) implants in Switzerland.

The placement of THR and TKR is one of the major activities of the Department of the Musculoskeletal System of the CHUV (DAL-CHUV), with respectively 282 THR and 218 TKR placed in 2019.

The improvement of global practices in prosthetic surgery, the pressure on health costs and the shift to ambulatory care have led to a shortening of the length of stay.

The shortening of the length of stay implies rethinking the perioperative care (around the operative period), which precedes and immediately follows the operation, in order to ensure good preparation of the patient and adequate postoperative follow-up.

Currently, patients of the DAL-CHUV participate in a pre-operative information session (only before the operation) in a group that informs patients about the procedure, its preparation and its implications in general.

Pre-operative management is described in the literature as a multidisciplinary approach to cover all aspects to be taken into consideration in the patient, and thus prepare him/her in an optimal way for the operation and the recovery phase that will follow. Pre-operative or peri-operative rehabilitation is a broader concept of optimized recovery, which involves addressing the entire peri-operative process. Thus, the patient's health status, nutritional status, the operative and immediate postoperative process, pain management, prevention of complications and definition of relevant criteria for return home are all elements to be taken into account in an interdisciplinary manner to optimize the entire perioperative process.

The main objective of the study is to evaluate in patients undergoing total hip (THR) or knee (TKR) replacement surgery whether the addition of an individualized pre- and peri-operative preparation and education session to the existing protocol in the DAL-CHUV, provided by physiotherapists and nursing staff, has an effect on length of stay, hospital indicators, and objective and subjective clinical indicators.

The main hypothesis is that targeted pre- and peri-operative information adapted to the needs of patients would contribute to a decrease in length of stay.

The secondary indicators are readmission rate, discharge destination, postoperative pain, complications, joint function and mobility, anxiety and depression, pain representation, expectations of the prosthesis, satisfaction with care and quality of life. The hypothesis is that these indicators will be improved by the intervention.

The 1st secondary objective of the study is to evaluate in patients operated on for a total hip or knee prosthesis who have benefited from the preparation and education session whether the addition of a remote postoperative follow-up (3 telephone interviews or videoconferences during the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hospital stay

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Control group
  - OTHER: Intervention group A
  - OTHER: Intervention group B

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05452161
