CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03288103
Title: Growth Hormone Treatment in Patients With Aggrecan (ACAN) Deficiency
Official Title: Clinical Characterization and Trial of Growth Hormone Treatment in Patients With Aggrecan (ACAN) Deficiency
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This is an open-label, single-arm prospective pilot study to study the effects of a single dose regimen of daily growth hormone medication (Norditropin) on pre-pubertal children with Aggrecan deficiency. The growth response will be tracked over a 12 month period. A protocol extension has been approved to continue subjects on treatment for an additional 2 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single center study. All participants will be recruited from the USA. The study intends to recruit pre-pubertal children for inclusion in the 1 year growth hormone treatment trial. The study also plans to collect the following detailed phenotypic data at the first study visit: height, weight, musculoskeletal evaluation, photographs, radiographs (knees, left hand), MRI of the knees. The participants will be required to return to Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Medical Center (CCHMC) for 3 study visits over the 12 month period. At the follow up visits participants will receive a routine physical/pubertal exam, joint exam, have vitals sign checked, height/weight taken, and labs drawn. A funduscopic exam will be performed to look for signs of intracranial pressure. Study participants are also required to complete phone check ins at scheduled intervals, and a locally drawn blood sample to check insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) levels approximately 3 months after treatment start date. Concomitant medications, adverse events will be recorded and updated at all study visits and phone check ins. Medication will be resupplied and shipped to the participant as needed at every point of follow up contact. If the subjects grow well enough in the first 12 months per study protocol, they are eligible to continue treatment through the study for an additional 2 years. They will continue to come to CCHMC every 6 months for follow up study visits. Study procedures will remain the same as the initial 1 year trial with the following additions: (1) local labs may need to be obtained for dose adjustment purposes, (2) repeat knee MRI may be completed for participants that are found to have early signs of joint disease on their baseline knee MRI scan.

The study will enroll interested and affected relatives of the participant in the joint phenotyping protocol as well. These participants will come to CCHMC only one time to complete the phenotyping visit. This is not an outcome of the study but the information gathered from the imaging will provide insight into the effects of ACAN mutation on the joint cartilage.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Height Standard Deviation Score
  - Height Velocity After Three Years of Treatment With Recombinant Human Growth Hormone (rhGH)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Norditropin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03288103
