CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03564899
Title: The Breast Cancer & Physical Activity Level (BC-PAL) Pilot Study
Official Title: The Breast Cancer & Physical Activity Level (BC-PAL) Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The Breast Cancer \& Physical Activity Level (BC-PAL) pilot study is a randomized controlled pilot trial aimed at evaluating whether total physical activity levels, health-related fitness and patient reported outcomes are improved by promoting different intensities of physical activity participation within a home-based setting, and whether these improvements are maintained over the long-term, in inactive breast cancer survivors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description

Rationale and Significance:

Breast cancer is the most common cancer among Canadian women. Physical activity has emerged as a potential lifestyle factor for improving rehabilitation and survival after breast cancer. The American Cancer Society recommends that cancer survivors engage in at least 150 minutes of moderate-vigorous intensity physical activity per week. However, only ≈ 15% of breast cancer survivors reported meeting these physical activity guidelines. Therefore, interventions that promote physical activity behavior change in an unsupervised/home-based setting are needed to provide the necessary tools and support for breast cancer survivors. No study to date has assessed the effects of a lighter intensity physical activity intervention, compared to no additional physical activity prescription (control) or a higher intensity physical activity intervention (comparable to current exercise guidelines), in inactive breast cancer survivors, in addition to the longer-term maintenance effects of these interventions.

Study Aims:

Aim 1: To evaluate the effects of prescribing an additional 300 minutes/week of lighter intensity physical activity (LIPA) or 150 minutes/week of higher intensity physical activity (HIPA) versus no physical activity intervention (control) on total physical activity and sedentary time in inactive breast cancer survivors.

Aim 2: To evaluate the effects of prescribing an additional 300 minutes/week of LIPA or 150 minutes/week of HIPA versus control on markers of health-related fitness (anthropometric measures, body composition, cardio-respiratory fitness) and patient reported outcomes (quality of life, sleep quality, feelings of happiness, perceived feelings of depression) in inactive breast cancer survivors.

Aim 3: To evaluate the longer-term (24-week) maintenance effect of prescribing an additional 300 minutes/week of LIPA or 150 minutes/week of HIPA versus control on our primary and secondary outcomes.

Research Plan:

A three-armed, 12-week pilot randomized controlled trial followed by a 12-week follow-up measurement is proposed. All eligible and interested women are invited to contact and meet with study staff at the Holy Cross Center in Calgary, at which time the study protocol is explained, informed consent obtained and baseline questionnaires distributed. These questionnaires assess: demographic characteristics, sleep quality, perceived health-related quality of life, feelings of happiness and perceived feelings of depression. At the end of this first meeting, participants are asked to wear an Actigraph GTX3® accelerometer for seven days to assess baseline physical activity levels. During a second meeting at the Holy Cross Center, accelerometers are returned to study staff, anthropometric data (height, weight, waist and hip circumferences and body composition) are collected and a maximal treadmill test (modified Balke protocol) is conducted. Participants are then randomized, using a 1:1:1 a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in sedentary time, light intensity physical activity time and moderate-vigorous intensity physical activity time (hours/day)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lighter intensity physical activity intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Higher intensity physical activity intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03564899
