CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03465228
Title: Effects of Photobiomodulation and Deep Water Running Training in Subjects With Low Back Pain.
Official Title: Effects of Photobiomodulation and Deep Water Running Training in Subjects With Low Back Pain: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Physical exercises proves to be an option to revert a vicious cycle and aggravation of the painful that chronic low back pain can provide, which can improve the mobility and stabilization of the spine, muscle strength, motor coordination and general aerobic conditioning. In addition, photobiomodulation using light emitting diodes (LEDs) has attracted attention for acute and chronic pain and wound healing, being used as a resource for prevention and recovery of lesions. Thus, the present study aims to analyze the efficacy of aerobic training systematized with Deep Water Running associated with photobiomodulation in individuals with chronic nonspecific low back pain. Individuals of both sexes, sedentary, who present chronic low back pain, aged between 30 and 55 years (middle-aged individuals) who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be invited to participate. Anthropometric measurements, maximal stress test, functional tests, physiological measures and questionnaires concerning disability and pain, besides psychological ones, will be carried out. After the evaluations, the participants will be randomized into three experimental groups with 15 participants in each: the first group will be the training group that will hold interval training sessions in addition to continuous training sessions (GT). The second group will perform the same training model, and before the training sessions the LED will be applied (GTL). And the third group will only receive the LED application (GL).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a randomized clinical trial, structured according to the Consort-Statement, with a standardization that includes methodological design, conduction, analysis and interpretation and evaluation of results. The participants will be individuals of both sexes, sedentary, who present chronic low back pain, aged between 30 and 55 years (middle-aged individuals), will be invited to participate. Participants will be informed of all experimental procedures of the study and will sign the Informed Consent Form and to answer the socio-demographic questionnaire. Participation in the study will be voluntary and free of any bonuses or liens; all participants will be free to withdraw their consent at any time without any loss. Prior to the tests, participants will perform prior clinical examinations with the cardiologist to have their cardiac fitness and release checked to carry out the pertinent evaluations of the study. The possible discomfort felt after the tests and training such as tiredness, muscular pain, perspiration will be similar to the senses during the practice of physical exercises. The procedures to be used in this research will follow the regulations required in Resolution 196/96 of the National Health Council on research involving human beings.

Evaluation protocol Body mass index and skin folds of triceps, subscapular, pectoral, abdominal, thigh mean, suprailiac and mean axillary for subsequent determination of fat percentage.

6-minute walk test-adapted The 6-minute walk test consists of a test that evaluates the distance a person can walk on a flat, rigid surface in six minutes and has as main goal the determination of exercise tolerance and oxygen saturation during a submaximal exercise . This test will be adapted to aquatic environment (CAMARGO et al., 2009).

Sit-up test The sit-up test, which consists of quantifying how many supports (hands and / or knees or, still, hands or forearms on knees), the individual uses to sit and lift from the floor. This method of evaluation allows us to analyze items such as flexibility of the lower limb joints, balance, motor coordination and the relation between muscular power and body weight, which can be characterized as minimum functional muscular fitness (ARAUJO, 1999).

Schober's Test To measure the range of motion of the lumbar spine, the Schober test will be performed, which consists of placing a tape measure from the lumbosacral joint, 10 cm above with the individual in a neutral position, and request the trunk flexion, where the increase of the distance between the marks will provide the estimate of the flexion amplitude of the lumbar spine (Schober, 1937).

Determination of cortisol and creatine kinase's blood markers At the beginning and at the end of the training period, blood samples will be collected for the determination of creatine kinase and cortisol levels. They will be stored in Eppendorf and then centrifuged at 3000rpm for 10 min. Serum will be stored at -20⁰C, while pl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cortisol levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Training and LED group
  - DEVICE: Training group
  - OTHER: LED group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03465228
