CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06037603
Title: Dual-Task Exercise for Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI)
Official Title: Home-based and Mobile App-guided Dual-Task Exercise for Cognition and Functional Capacity After Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The investigators previously developed a virtual 14-day dual-task walking exercise program and tested its feasibility with individuals with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) history. The investigators will test the feasibility and efficacy of a mobile app-version (Uplode) of the same 14-day exercise program (Brain \& Walk Exercise Every Day \[BraW-Day\]), on cognition, sensorimotor, and other functions in a group of voluntary young adults with an mTBI between last three months to two years, including student athletes, Veterans, and ethnic minorities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There is a critical need to develop an effective intervention for a chronic concussion or mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) that presents persistent post-injury functional declines. Up to 40% of mTBIs cause multifaceted and long-term functional declines, including cognitive declines, psychosocial or sensorimotor problems, which results in $17B medical costs each year. Long-term functional impairments have been reported even 5 to 19 years post-injury, which exacerbate neurodegeneration, such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy or Parkinson's disease. Yet, only a very limited or few studies have investigated a followup screening or intervention for long-term and persistent functional declines, suggesting important deficiencies in long-term care for mTBI. The investigators previously developed a virtual 14-day dual-task walking exercise program and tested its feasibility with Asian and Pacific Islanders (API), including those with mTBI history. The investigators will test the feasibility and efficacy of a mobile app-version (Uplode) of the same 14-day exercise program (Brain \& Walk Exercise Every Day \[BraW-Day\]), on cognition, sensorimotor, and other functions in a group of voluntary young adults with an mTBI between last three months to two years, including student athletes, Veterans, and ethnic minorities. The specific aims of the current study are:

Aim 1: Examine if the mobile app, home-based BraW-Day program is acceptable to young adults with an mTBI. H1. BraW-Day program will (a) be acceptable to the participants, (b) fit with their daily life, and (c) demonstrate feasible and suitable data collection of the daily participation.

Aim 2: Test the efficacy of the BraW-Day program on functions after mTBI. H2. BraW-Day program will improve (a) cognitive (measured by a computerized CNS-VS), (b) psychosocial (by Neuro QoL, a standardized self-report tool for neuro-psychosocial conditions), or (c) sensorimotor functions (by walking movement measuring app, 3D kinematic and kinetic gait analysis, and EyeLink rapid eye movement tracker) in mTBI at post-intervention (T2), compared to wait-list controls.

Aim 3: Examine the sustained effect of the BraW-Day program on function after mTBI. H3. Functional levels one month after intervention (T3) will be equivalent to or higher than baseline (T1) and postintervention (T2) levels.

We will conduct a nonblinded randomized trial with a wait-list control design to test the efficacy of a 2-week (14 consecutive days) BraW-Day, which is daily home-based mobile app-based cognitive-walking exercise program on overall functions in individuals with a recent history of mTBI. Both male and female voluntary young adults aged 18 to 40 years with diverse ethnic backgrounds who report a recent history of mTBI, including student athletes and Veterans, will be invited to our exercise intervention. The participants will be randomly assigned to either the intervention group or the control group. Intervention group will have a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in cognitive function from baseline at 15 days (Post-intervention) and 45 days (1-month post-intervention)
  - Change in psychosocial function from baseline at 15 days (Post-intervention) and 45 days (1-month post-intervention)
  - Change in sensorimotor function - vision from baseline at 15 days (Post-intervention) and 45 days (1-month post-intervention)
  - Change in sensorimotor function - walking from baseline at 15 days (Post-intervention) and 45 days (1-month post-intervention)
  - Change in sensorimotor function - gait from baseline at 15 days (Post-intervention) and 45 days (1-month post-intervention)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brain & Walk Exercise Every Day (BraW-Day)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06037603
