CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02228837
Title: The Health-Promoting Role of Pears in Men and Women With Metabolic Syndrome
Official Title: The Health-Promoting Role of Pears in Men and Women With Metabolic Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The hypothesis of this study is that the daily consumption of 2 medium-sized pears for twelve weeks will improve blood pressure, lipid profiles, glycemic control and insulin resistance, inflammatory and oxidative status in men and women with metabolic syndrome. 50 men and women between the ages of 45 and 65 who have three of the five features of metabolic syndrome as defined by the Adult Treatment Panel III will be included in the study. After a two-week run-in phase, eligible men and women will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: 1) 2 medium-sized pears; or 2) 50 g placebo powder daily for twelve weeks. After an initial telephone screening, all participants will be requested to report to the study site for their first visit. On the first visit (screening), participants will be provided with verbal and written explanation of the project. They will then be asked to sign an informed consent form, followed by measuring waist circumference, resting brachial blood pressure, fasting serum triglycerides, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and glucose levels to confirm metabolic syndrome. Baseline assessments will be performed for medical history, medication use, dietary intake, and physical activity. Qualified participants will be scheduled for their second visit two weeks later (actual baseline data collection) and randomly assigned to their treatment group. On the second (baseline) visit between the hours of 6-11 A.M., blood pressure will be measured followed by blood draw and urine collection. Anthropometrics and body composition will be measured. Questionnaires regarding diet, physical activity, and gastrointestinal health will be performed. Participants will be provided with their assigned treatment and will receive standard instructions on how to fill out daily diaries for their treatment. All assessments will be repeated at 6- (third visit), and 12-week (final visit) intervals. All assessments and information will be collected after an overnight fast and 12 hours after the abstinence of caffeine and/or 24 hours after the last bout of moderate to heavy physical activity. After the initial 12 weeks, participants will undergo a 4-week washout period in which they will not consume either the intervention or the placebo. After the 4-week washout period, participants will crossover into the other group to receive either the intervention or placebo.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Pear
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02228837
