CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03955549
Title: Insight Enhancement Program vs. Metacognitive trening for Psychosis in Patients With Schizophrenia: A Three-Armed Comparative Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Insight Enhancement Program vs. Metacognitive trening for Psychosis in Patients With Schizophrenia: A Three-Armed Comparative Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 99
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to explore new safe effective psychotherapeutic interventions for schizophrenia through assessing the efficacy and acceptability of complementary "Insight Enhancement Program" (IEP) and "Metacognitive trening for Psychosis" (MCT), in relation to each other, and in relation to "Treatment As Usual" (TAU). It is hypothesized that at the end of therapy, compared to "Treatment As Usual", patients undergoing whether (IEP) or (MCT) will display a significant reduction in psychopathology particularly positive symptoms and delusional ideation, and a significant improvement in Insight and metacognitive capacity. Additionally, it is hypothesized that the acceptance of (IEP) and (MCT) will be higher than acceptance of (TAU). This study also aims to examine whether metacognition is associated with insight even after controlling for the effects of psychiatric symptomatology.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific aims include:

1. Aim #1: Evaluate the efficacy of complementary "Insight Enhancement Program" (IEP), compared to TAU, in reducing psychopathology particularly positive symptoms and delusional ideation, and improving insight and metacognitive capacity as well as social functioning.
2. Aim #2: Evaluate the efficacy of complementary "Metacognitive trening for Psychosis" (MCT), compared to TAU, in reducing psychopathology particularly positive symptoms and delusional ideation, and improving insight and metacognitive capacity as well as social functioning.
3. Aim #3: Compare the efficacy of complementary "Insight Enhancement Program" (IEP), compared to "Metacognitive trening for Psychosis" (MCT), in reducing psychopathology and improving insight and metacognitive capacity as well as social functioning.
4. Aim #4: Examine the associations between insight, metacognition, and psychopathology.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Change in Psychopathology as measured by The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS)
  - Mean Change in Psychopathology as measured by The Psychotic Symptom Rating Scale (PSYRATS)
  - Mean Change in Insight Scores as measured by The Scale to Assess Unawareness of Mental Disorder (SUMD)
  - Mean Change in Insight Scores as measured by The Beck Cognitive Insight Scale (BCIS)
  - Mean Change in Metacognition Scores as measured by The Metacognition Assessment Scale - Adapted version (MAS-A)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Insight Enhancement Program (IEP)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Metacognitive trening for Psychosis (MCT)
  - DRUG: Treatment As Usual (TAU)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03955549
