CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03980574
Title: Dietary Supplementation in Heart Failure
Official Title: Dietary Supplementation in Heart Failure
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
A single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study pilot study comparing R Drink vs. placebo in 60 heart failure patients. Half of the participants will also have diabetes mellitus. The 60 patients will be distributed among three arms. Total distance walked in six minutes and hospital readmission rates will be examined. Eligible heart failure patients include those with systolic or diastolic heart failure and diabetes mellitus can be Type I or II. All patients will continue on their standard heart failure and diabetes therapies while they participate in the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart failure (HF) affects millions of Americans, with approximately five-hundred thousand new cases diagnosed annually, with 40% or more of patients having a concomitant diagnosis of diabetes or prediabetes. HF is not a diagnosis itself, but rather a constellation of signs and symptoms due to impaired ventricular filling or ejection of blood. Some of the most common symptoms associated with heart failure include dyspnea, impaired exercise tolerance, and lower extremity edema. Certain co-morbidities like hypertension (HTN) and DM are found more commonly in conjunction with HF. In fact, diabetes is an independent predictor of heart failure. Patients with heart failure and diabetes can have additional clinical symptoms of peripheral neuropathy and poor wound healing, often leading to foot ulcers. The mainstay of treatment for HF at present, employs the use of goal directed medical therapy (GDMT) and cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT).

Despite these treatments, HF still accounts for over 20% of all hospital admissions in people older than 65. The estimated cost for HF admissions in the US is over $35 billion.

In limited case study, testing participants with a variety of chronic diseases, including HF and DM, observations suggest the incorporation of a dietary supplement drink (R Drink) containing filtered reverse osmosis water and 150 mg/L of both USP Grade calcium chloride and magnesium chloride, 10 mg/L Biotin (vitamin B7), 500 mg/L of Niacinamide (B3) and 550 mg/L of Choline may be beneficial, which is the goal of this unique three-arm clinical trial.

These ingredients are Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) ingredients by the FDA and have multiple proposed mechanisms of action which include improved circulation and enhancing clearance of metabolic waste. These electronutrients play a role in the regulation of acetylcholine induced endothelium-dependent relaxation and regulation of nitric oxide, directly influencing vascular tone. They are involved in the s-adenosylmethionine and myelin pathways of the central nervous system, and promote the repair and protection of myelin which is essential for nerve conduction. These electronutrients may promote activation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) which improves muscular contractions and nerve-muscle impulse transmission. Finally, by regulating the release of serum free fatty acid release, these specific electronutrients may assist in insulin regulation.

This pilot study will be a single center, double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study having three arms with a total of 60 patients - all with HF and half with DM - and will compare R Drink versus placebo on the distance walked in 6 minutes, and hospital readmission rates. Eligible patients will have a known diagnosis of HF (diastolic - HFpEF or systolic - HFrEF) classified as NYHA I-IV, a known diagnosis of DM (type I or type II) and will be selected from a larger population being followed in the Heart Failure Clinic at the Ohio State Un

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hospital Readmission Rates

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: R Drink

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03980574
