CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05567302
Title: Immediate Effect of Cervical Manual Therapy Methods in Patients With Neck Pain
Official Title: Immediate Effect of Cervical Manual Therapy Methods in Patients With Neck Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 116
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Chronic neck pain is an important health problem in modern society and is frequently encountered today. Approximately 10% of the adult population experiences neck pain at least once in their lives.

Anamnesis of the patient with neck pain; It should include the patient's complaints, illness history, family history, social status, work life and leisure activities.

The age of the patient, the severity of the symptoms, the mechanism of the injury, the activity history, the duration of the symptoms, the location and limits, the spread of the pain, the relationship of the complaints with the change in position, the restrictions during movement, and the sleeping positions should be taken into account. In addition, past diseases, operations and current diseases, medications used should be recorded.

Among chronic pains, neck pain ranks second after low back pain. Physical stresses in daily living activities, maintaining static posture and sleeping habits, carrying bags and weights in the wrong position, muscle imbalance are important factors in neck pain. Although cervical spine involvements have a great effect on neck pain, almost all of them have paravertebral muscle spasm, especially trapezius muscle spasm. Physiotherapy applications are widely used in the treatment of chronic neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Therapeutic approaches are frequently used to reduce inflammation and accelerate the healing process. Reducing pain in neck diseases, ensuring sufficient length of the muscle, strength balance, improving strength and function, improving postural re-education and cervical movements are the main goals. With the increasing prevalence of neck pain, the search for new treatment methods is increasing.

It includes manual therapy, manipulation, acupuncture, and soft tissue therapy for chronic neck pain. Neck pain results from deep muscle dysfunctions and altered fascia structures. In this case, it may cause the disruption of the continuous musculofacial corset-like system. In addition, changes in the fascia (increased fascial thickness and disruption of fascial alignment) may affect this system more. Myofascial release is one of the soft tissue treatment applications. Although there are studies reporting that myofascial release is a method that can achieve positive effects such as reducing pain intensity and improving muscle function, there are few studies on this subject in the literature and sufficient evidence has not been reached.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
  - pinchmeter
  - Jamar Hand Dynomometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Manual therapy
  - OTHER: myofascial release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05567302
