CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04316429
Title: The Impact of Consumption of Eggs in the Context of Plant-Based Diets on Endothelial Function, Diet Quality, and Cardio-Metabolic Risk Factors in Adults at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: The Impact of Consumption of Eggs in the Context of Plant-Based Diets on
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Purpose To assess the impact of inclusion of 2 eggs daily for 6 weeks in an otherwise vegan diet compared to a vegan diet on cardio-metabolic risk and dietary pattern in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes.

Hypotheses In comparison with a vegan diet, the inclusion of 2 eggs daily in an otherwise vegan diet will improve or have neutral effects on endothelial function and other markers of cardio-metabolic risk in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes.

(2) In comparison with a vegan diet, the inclusion of 2 eggs daily in an otherwise vegan diet will improve diet quality and nutrient intake in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes.

(2) In comparison with a vegan diet, the inclusion of 2 eggs daily in an otherwise vegan diet will improve diet quality and nutrient intake in adults at risk for type 2 diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific Aims of the Proposed Project:

1. To assess the impact of inclusion of 2 eggs daily for 6 weeks in an otherwise vegan diet, compared to a vegan diet, on endothelial function in adults at risk for T2DM. Specifically, to demonstrate superior or neutral effects on endothelial function with the inclusion of eggs in the context of otherwise vegan diets.
2. To assess the impact of the inclusion of eggs daily for 6 weeks in an otherwise vegan diet, compared to a vegan diet, on dietary pattern and cardio-metabolic risk factors in adults at risk for T2DM. Specifically, to determine the effects on egg intake in the context of an otherwise vegan diet on diet quality and nutrient intake, lipid profile, blood pressure, insulin sensitivity and anthropometric measures.

Design:

Proposed is a randomized, single-blind, controlled, crossover trial designed with 2 treatment assignments (vegan diet plus eggs and vegan diet ) to compare the effects of 6 weeks of each treatment assignment on endothelial function, nutrient intake, diet quality, and cardio-metabolic risk factors in individuals at risk for T2DM. After a 4-week run-period of an ad libitum vegan diet, participants will be randomized to 1 of 2 possible sequence permutations and then undergo repeated measures following inclusion of 2 eggs per day in their otherwise vegan diet, or a vegan diet for 6 weeks, with a 4-week washout period between treatment assignments. The participants will continue their vegan diets during the 4-week washout period.

Background In the United States (U.S.), diabetes is a public health problem of epidemic proportions, affecting more than 30 million individuals. Only 23.1 million of these individuals are diagnosed. An estimated 84.1 million adults aged 18 years and older have prediabetes. Nearly 1 out 10 individuals with prediabetes is aware that he or she has this condition. Fifteen to thirty percent of individuals with prediabetes are likely to develop Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) within 5 years. The total medical costs, including lost work and wages, for individuals diagnosed with diabetes are estimated to be $245 billion. When compared with individuals without diabetes, individuals with diabetes have a medical cost that is more than two times higher. When compared with those without diabetes, the risk of death in individuals with diabetes is more than 50% higher. Between 90% and 95% of all diagnosed cases of diabetes are T2DM. The complications of diabetes include stroke, hypertension, cardiovascular disease (CVD), blindness, kidney disease, nervous system damage, limb amputations, and biochemical imbalances that can cause acute life-threatening events. \[1\] When compared with those without diabetes, the rates of cardiovascular mortality are 2 to 4 times higher among adults with diabetes.

Obese individuals are more than seven times more likely to develop T2DM when compared with healthy weight individuals. The cells become more resistant to insulin when there is m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Endothelial Function (EF) Assessment:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Egg included vegan phase
  - OTHER: Vegan Phase

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04316429
