CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06759675
Title: Comparative Effects of Group Based Exercises with and Without Cognitive Functional Therapy on Clinical Outcomes in Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Group Based Exercises with and Without Cognitive Functional Therapy on Clinical Outcomes in Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
1.1Research objective The objective of the study is to find the comparative effects of group based exercises with and without cognitive functional therapy on clinical outcomes in patients with chronic low back? 1.2 Hypothesis Null Hypothesis H0= There is no significant difference of clinical outcomes between the cognitive functional therapy with group exercises and group based exercises only in patients with chronic low back pain.

Alternative Hypothesis H1= There is a significant difference of clinical outcomes between the cognitive functional therapy with group exercises and group based exercises only in patients with chronic low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Low back pain is the problem gradually increasing in both young and older adults. It can be specific and non-specific, the specific low back pain is the pain which arises due to any structural or functional disease like due to any mechanical factors, poor posture, improper way of lifting and bending while non-specific low back pain is the pain which have no any known causes. Cognitive functional therapy and group based exercises both have beneficial effects to reduce LBP. Aims and objectives: The aim of the study will be to find the comparative effects of group based exercises with and without cognitive functional therapy on clinical outcome in patients with chronic low back pain. Methodology: This study will be Randomized controlled trial. The subjects will be selected through Probability Purposive Sampling.Sample will be 40 calculated by the rao-soft with 20 percent chances of drop out. The participants will be taken from Mujahid hospital, Faisal Hospital and Madina teaching hospital. Participants will be assessed by using Oswestry Disability index and Numerical Pain Rating Scale NPRS for low back pain. Participants will be randomly allocated into two groups.One group will be treated with CFT and group based exercises and one with only group exercises. And at the end, data will be analyzed by using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NPRS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: group based exercise with Cognitive functional therapy
  - OTHER: Group based exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06759675
