CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03982108
Title: Comparison of Two Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair Techniques: Knot-tying Versus Knotless Suture-bridge Technique
Official Title: Comparison of Repair Integrity and Functional Outcomes Between Knot-tying and Knotless Suture-bridge Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: a Prospective Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 104
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Suture-bridge technique has been widely used for rotator cuff tears with many studies showing superior clinical results and lower failure rates compared to other techniques. This study aims to compare clinical outcomes and radiological integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair between knot-tying and knotless suture-bridge techniques. The possibility of tendon strangulation and necrosis at the medial row when performing a suture-bridge technique may lead to retear and structural failure. In order to avoid this complication, the knots used at the medial row and their tension might be a factor to consider. Our hypothesis is that a knotless suture-bridge technique might avoid tendon strangulation thus might have lower retear rates.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study has been planned as a prospective randomized clinical trial. We used a completely computer-generated list in order to randomize all participants to receive one of two treatments (https://www.random.org/sequences/).

Rotator cuff tear diagnosis will be made by physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging. Participants who agree to be enrolled to study will be examined one day prior to surgery. Half of the participants will undergo an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with knot-tying suture-bridge technique, while the other half will receive a knotless suture-bridge technique. All the surgeries will be performed by the same senior surgeon experienced in shoulder surgery under general anesthesia with participant in beach-chair position.

All participants will receive a standard postoperative rehabilitation program starting immediately after surgery with active elbow and passive shoulder exercises. The operated upper extremity will be placed in a sling for 6 weeks. Active-assisted exercises will be started at 6 weeks postoperatively.

Postoperative evaluations will be performed regularly at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months postoperatively and each following year. The results of last follow-up will be analyzed. To assess repair integrity and tendon healing, a postoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan will be performed to all participants at 6 months postoperatively. The results of prospective clinical follow-up data and radiological evaluation will be analyzed in order to compare clinical outcomes, failure rates and patterns of knot-tying and knotless suture-bridge arthroscopic rotator cuff repair techniques.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sugaya classification of rotator cuff integrity
  - Constant shoulder score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with knotless suture-bridge technique
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with knot-tying suture-bridge technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03982108
