CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01556139
Title: Effectiveness of Respiratory Muscle Training by Spirotiger in Chronic Patients
Official Title: Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Respiratory Muscle Training by the Technique of Hypocapnia Hyperpnea (Spirotiger) in COPD and CHF Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The reduction in effort tolerance as result of a decreased efficiency in ventilation is common both in patients affected by COPD (McKenzie) and chronic heart failure (CHF) (Ribeiro, Frankenstein). One of the most common cause is the reduced respiratory muscle strength and endurance. Some studies have evaluated the effect of a specific training on the muscular strength both in pulmonary (Battaglia, Powell) and cardiac patients (Winkelmann, Chiappa). Moreover, only few studies investigated a specific training for such patients (Koppers, Sherer) because of the complicated equipment needed to prevent hypocapnia. Up to date, portable and economic systems for isocapnic hyperpnea have been developed for respiratory muscle training.

Primary aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the respiratory muscle training -by the technique of the isocapnic hyperpnea- on the effort tolerance and endurance in patients with COPD and CHF

Secondary aims were: A.to quantify the number of patients with deficit of respiratory muscles endurance and B.to verify different response of training between COPD and CHF patients

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All consecutive stable patients with diagnosis of COPD or CHF and normal MMSE, admitted in Foundation S. Maugeri in Lumezzane (Brescia, Italy) for routinary rehabilitation at Respiratory and Cardiac Rehabilitative Divisions are enrolled.

All patients who met the inclusion criteria (see above)are informed about the aim of the project, sign an informed consent and are enrolled in the study.

40 patients are enrolled. They are divided in two groups of 20 each (10 cardiac and 10 respiratory patients) named:

1. Spirotiger Group: these patients perform 20 sessions of usual training (cyclette and calisthenic exercises) and specific training (further 20 sessions) for respiratory muscles with SPIROTIGER
2. Control Group: these patients perform 20 sessions of usual training (cyclette and calisthenic exercises) and additional 20 sessions with a placebo device (Threshold)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in MVV

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Spirotiger

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01556139
