CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04460573
Title: Smart Boot Use to Measure Offloading Adherence
Official Title: Improving the Science of Adherence Reinforcement and Safe Mobility in People With Diabetic Foot Ulcers Using Smart Offloading
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 210
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to help people with diabetes who develop neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). These ulcers, or sores, if left untreated can increase the chance of amputation. Part of the treatment is to have the person wear a diabetic shoe or boot to help their foot heal. Sometimes people don't wear the boot like they are told. The investigators want to compare three different kinds of diabetic boots to see if they can help make it easier for people to wear their boots as instructed.

The investigators will look at three groups of participants: the first group will use removable offloading with reinforced education emphasizing continuous wear, including during rest and sleep, and not to remove it at any time. The second group will use removable offloading consistent with standard of care and receive education on recommended wear during walking or standing, with permission to remove the device during rest and sleep. The third group will use a smart removable offloading device that provides real-time adherence feedback via a smartwatch and smartphone, with additional personalized education informed by remotely monitored adherence data.

The investigators will also be looking at how much physical activity, like walking, the participants do. And they will compare how well participants sleep and rate their quality of life in the three different boots. The investigators think that giving participants information about how much they are wearing their boot using readily available technology will help them to follow the doctor's directions better, and help their wounds heal faster.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Wound healing at 12 weeks or sooner
  - Time to wound healing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Offloading Boot

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04460573
