CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04729179
Title: Cannabidiol for Fibromyalgia (The CANNFIB Trial)
Official Title: Cannabidiol for Fibromyalgia -The CANNFIB Trial Protocol for a Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Parallel-group, Single-center Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Fibromyalgia is serious chronic pain condition which is often accompanied by sleep disturbances, fatigue and disability and reduced quality of life. There is no cure and treatments are based on reliving symptoms and maintaining function. The currently available medical treatments are not helping many patients, and many get side-effects. Medical cannabis is sought after among patients and many use this medication un-licenced, although it is not properly documented if it works or is safe. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate the effects and safety of medical cannabis in a properly designed randomized trial. The aim of the study is to investigate if cannabidiol (CBD) can improve pain, sleep, function and quality of life in patients with fibromyalgia. The study will include 200 patients, who will receive either cannabidiol or placebo over a period of 24 weeks. Participants will be closely looked after for improvements in their condition and for potential side-effects to ensure safety.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia is a serious chronic pain condition affecting 2-5 % of the background population. The disease burden in most affected individuals is substantial; with widespread musculoskeletal pain, high pain intensity, often accompanied by sleep disturbances, fatigue, cognitive dysfunction, and emotional distress. Fibromyalgia is associated with disability and muscle fatigue, affecting daily life activities, leading to poor social participation and incapacity for normal employment. Studies have shown that many patients, are not satisfied with the treatments offered, and rate their health and quality of life after treatment as poor.

There is currently is no cure for fibromyalgia, and management aiming at symptom reduction and maintenance of optimal functioning is recommended by clinical guidelines, including both non-pharmacological and pharmacological treatment strategies. Recommendations for the pharmacological treatment of fibromyalgia propose antidepressants and anticonvulsants, which target central pain processing mechanisms. These treatments have been tested in controlled trials for their efficacy in patients with fibromyalgia, and meta-analyses on these interventions have revealed that overall effect sizes are modest, as only a minority of patients have substantial benefit (patient reported pain relief of 50% or greater), while more have moderate benefit (patient reported pain relief of 30% or greater). Many patients have no or minimal benefit or will discontinue the treatment due to side effects. However, it appears that even moderate reductions in pain may lead to considerable increase in self-reported quality of life and other outcome domains in this specific patient population.

Medical cannabis is popularly advocated for different health conditions including chronic pain, both among politicians and in the general population in Denmark, although evidence is sparse efficacy and on what types of medical cannabis to use and what dosages to prescribe for the different conditions. In addition, safety issues such as adverse events and serious adverse events is not properly assesed. Physicians are reluctant to prescribe medical cannabis to their patients, and many patients living with chronic pain are known to self-administer unlicensed medical cannabis. The extent of actual cannabis use is unknown, although, one study has documented that 13% of patients with fibromyalgia use cannabis regularly with a more extensive use among male patients compared to females. Numbers from a Danish context show that only 17 out of 286 (6%), patients with fibromyalgia participating in a multidisciplinary rehabilitation program in Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg hospital during 2018, stated that they were using self-administrated cannabis on a regular basis (unpublished data). As self-administrated off-label use of cannabis is illegal in Denmark, this number may well be underreported. Still, individuals diagnosed with fibromyalgia who do admit to cannab

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Cannabidiol
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04729179
