CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02937740
Title: Open-Label Study, Evaluating Patient Satisfaction and Symptom Improvement When Treating Male Hypogonadism With Natesto™
Official Title: A 150-Day, Prospective, Phase 4, Open-Label Study, Evaluating Patient Satisfaction and Symptom Improvement When Treating Male Hypogonadism With Testosterone Nasal Gel (Natesto™)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 117
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Multicenter study consisting of two study periods as follows: a 90-day Treatment Period, with potential extension by 30 days for those patients requiring a dose increase, as determined by the treating physician. Participants receiving 122.5mg of NATESTO (5.5 mg of testosterone) per nostril twice daily may have an increased daily dose adjustment on Day 90, based on their hypogonadism symptoms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary objective of the study is to measure patient satisfaction with testosterone replacement therapy before (for non-naïve patients), during and after treatment with NATESTO.

The secondary objectives of this study are to evaluate the following:

* Improvement in hypogonadism symptoms;
* Patient treatment preference versus prior testosterone replacement therapy;
* Frequency of daily dose of NATESTO;
* Safety monitoring.

The population for this study is adult men 18-65 years of age inclusive, with primary or secondary hypogonadism, with historical documented total serum testosterone concentration of ≤300 ng/dL and the ability to provide informed consent. Eligible subjects include treatment-naïve, hypogonadal patients with a documented confirmation of hypogonadism, as well as patients previously treated with an alternate topical testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) for at least three months prior to selection. Participants currently receiving topical testosterone replacement therapy will be required to discontinue their current testosterone treatment before initiating treatment with NATESTO. The approximate total duration of study participation for participants completing the study will be up to 150 days (\~21 weeks).

This is a Phase 4, multicenter study consisting of two study periods as follows:

* A 90-day Treatment Period, extended to 120-days for those subjects requiring a dose increase, during which participants will receive 122.5 mg of NATESTO (5.5mg testosterone) per nostril twice daily (BID) for 90 days. At Day 90, the treating physician will assess the patient's hypogonadism symptoms, review patient's completed questionnaires and based on the Canadian Men's Health Foundation Multidisciplinary Guidelines as endorsed by both the Canadian Urological Association and the Canadian Society of Endocrinology and Metabolism1, decide if continuation at a higher dose frequency of three-times daily (TID) is required for efficacy. For TID patients, there will be a 30-day Treatment Extension during which participants whose symptoms were not adequately treated on a BID dose, will receive 122.5 mg of NATESTO TID (5.5mg testosterone) per nostril. At Day 120, the TID patient will return to the site for examination, discussion of symptoms with the physician and questionnaire completion. All patients will have their blood testosterone levels assessed at Day 90 and only TID patients at Day 120.
* Post-study follow-up: All study patients will be requested to follow up at Day 150 to confirm whether they continued therapy with NATESTO.

Patient selection will come as a result of a doctor's visit for routine controls, prescription renewal and by pre-selection by the physician from among hypogonadal patients currently receiving topical testosterone replacement therapies and willing to participate in a clinical trial with NATESTO, or as a result of an initial consultation for naïve patients.

At Visit 1, patients who agree to participate in the study will

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient Satisfaction - Change From Baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: NATESTO Testosterone Nasal Gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02937740
