CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07217275
Title: Rise With Resilience
Official Title: Rise With Resilience: A Clinical Trial Examining Mindfulness trening for Enhancing Recovery in Injured Student-Athletes
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to investigate differences in postoperative pain, physical health, and mental health outcomes between participants receiving evidence-based mindfulness trening and those who do not.

Over 200,000 injuries are estimated to occur among National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) athletes annually. For many, these injuries can be season-ending, exacerbating physical, mental, and social well-being. Student-athletes face distinctive challenges compared to traditional students, such as balancing academic and athletic demands, pressures to perform well on and off the field, and the physical demands of competition, all of which can lead to worse mental and emotional outcomes if not properly managed. Injuries heighten stress levels among athletes, remove them from competition, and force students to integrate treatment regimens into already packed academic schedules.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this study, researchers will investigate how student-athletes can enhance their recovery following surgery for an injury by incorporating mindfulness-based practices.

Athletic performance, physical output, and overall wellness have been shown to improve when athletes incorporate evidence-based mindfulness and cognitive skills. Yet, minimal research has examined how cognitive and mindfulness skills can be leveraged specifically by injured student athletes to facilitate return to play, mitigate stress, and support academic performance following surgery. This randomized clinical trial will recruit college athletes undergoing surgery due to injury and randomize them to work with an expert on implementing skills from the Community Resiliency Model® (CRM).

Over the span of three months after surgery, the interdisciplinary research team will compare patient-reported outcomes and objective recovery measures from wrist-worn actigraphy devices to determine the impact of educating athletes on incorporating CRM skills that enhance well-being following surgery, compared to standard of care (SOC) written discharge instructions. Participants will completEQuestionnaires in person and/or via email about their general health and their pain at each appointment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Physical Function
  - Opioid utilization
  - Pain numerical rating scale (NRS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Community Resiliency Model (CRM)
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 26 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07217275
