CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04546880
Title: Effects of Breathing Exercises in the Mothers of Children With Special Health Care Needs
Official Title: Effects of Breathing Exercises in the Mothers of Children With Special Health Care Needs
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 46
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to determine the effectiveness of breathing exercises combined with core stabilization exercises in mothers with chronic non-specific low back pain of children with special health care needs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 46 mothers having children with special health care needs participate in the study.

Twenty-three mothers in the experimental group receive stabilization exercises with breathing exercises 3 times a week for 8 weeks while 23 mothers in the control group receive only stabilization exercises during the same period of time. Each exercise session lasts about 60 minutes and was performed 3 days per week, for 8 weeks. All mothers in both groups perform 15 minutes warm-up stretching exercises prior to the core exercises and 10 minutes cool-down exercises at the end of each session.

Breathing with the stabilization exercise group receives breathing exercises before the stabilization exercise program. A one-hour theoretical training is given to the mothers about the techniques of diaphragmatic and pursed-lip breathing at the beginning of the study. The pursed-lip breathing is one step further to the diaphragmatic breathing. Patients are instructed to do breathing exercises during the stabilization exercises, in which patients focus on their breathing circle, time, and movement while doing the stabilization exercises.

All 46 mothers in both groups are given a one-hour training about the stabilization exercises before starting the study. The motor control tests for local muscles transversus abdominus and multifidi are performed after the training. The abdominal bracing test is performed in the quadruped position, in prone, and in hook lying position with the patient's spine supine with hips and knees flexed and knees in contact with the surface. Closed-chain segmental control exercises, a series of weight-bearing exercises, and open kinetic chain exercises to promote distal stability are performed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Low Back Pain at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline in Fatigue at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline in Anxiety at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline in Sleep quality at 8 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Breathing exercises
  - OTHER: Stabilization exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04546880
