CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03323216
Title: BIO-2-HEART: Identification of Biomarkers in T2DM and Heart Failure
Official Title: BIO-2-HEART Study (Identifying New BIOmarkers in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and HEArt Failure Receiving Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy Device Implantation)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The primary aim of the current study is a better understanding of the role of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) in heart failure and, in particular, changes in cardiac metabolism, which may contribute to heart failure. Various biomarkers in the coronary artery blood, as well as in the arterial and peripheral venous blood, are to be identified for this purpose. Included are patients with and without T2DM and with or without heart failure (HFpEF, HFmrEF, HFrEF), who have a clinically indicated and guidance-appropriate Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) implantation or pulmonary vein ablation/electrophysiological examination.

Not all patients currently benefit from the implantation of a CRT system (so-called non-responder). Despite narrow inclusion criteria, these "non-responders" cannot be unmasked in advance of the implantation. A further aim of this study is to identify biomarkers, which can be determined in advance of implantation to differentiate between responders and non-responders.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary aim of the current study is a better understanding of the role of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) in heart failure and, in particular, changes in cardiac metabolism, which may contribute to heart failure. Various biomarkers in the coronary artery blood, as well as in the arterial and peripheral venous blood, are to be identified for this purpose. Included are patients with and without T2DM, who have a clinically indicated and guidance-appropriate Cardiac Resynchronisation Therapy (CRT) implantation due to their cardiac insufficiency and patients who have a clinically indicated electrophysiological examination (EPU) or pulmonary vein ablation (PVI).

Not all patients currently benefit from the implantation of a CRT system (so-called non-responder). Despite narrow inclusion criteria, these "non-responders" cannot be unmasked in advance of the implantation. Thus, a further aim of this study is to identify biomarkers, which can be determined in advance of implantation to differentiate between responders and non-responders.

Patient selection is based on the previously defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The patient is informed by the physician and gives written consent to participate in the study. Prior to the implantation of the CRT system/the electrophysiological examination(EPU)/pulmonary vein ablation(PVI), the patient first responds to a study-related questionnaire and performs a 6-minute walk test.

Afterwards the clinically indicated, elective CRT implantation/EPU/PVI is performed by experienced physicians of the Medical Clinic I. Routinely, an arterial pressure catheter for invasive blood pressure monitoring (usually arteria radialis) is inserted. In addition, 2 peripheral venous accesses are established. The system of the CRT system is carried out via a small pectoral section. The cardiac probes are inserted into the heart via the subclavian vein. First, the probe is implanted in the right ventricle and, if necessary, a probe is placed in the right atrium. For EPU/PVI a femoral vein acsess is established.

To establish the coronary sinus (CS) probe, the intubation of the coronary sinus is performed by means of a guide catheter, which can be used to take blood samples. After intubation of the coronary sinus, the coronary artery blood is taken from the guide catheter for the study as well as arterially via the underlying pressure catheter as well as peripheral venous over a horizontal venous catheter. During EPU/PVI the coronary sinus has also to be intubated due to the ablation protocol. The blood sampling does not take more than 1-2 minutes.

The surgery is then terminated as planned and postoperative care is performed according to the standard operation procedure (SOP) of the Medical Clinic I. Within the framework of a control visit routinely performed in the Medical Clinic I , an echocardiographic follow-up of heart failure, a history assessment and a laboratory-based blood analysis are performed 6 months after CRT implan

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Oxygen partial pressure (pO2) [mmHg]
  - Oxygen partial pressure (pO2) [mmHg]
  - Carbon dioxide partial pressure (pCO2) [mmHg]
  - Carbon dioxide partial pressure (pCO2) [mmHg]
  - potential of hydrogen (pH) value [-]

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 6-minute walk test
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Study specific questionnaire
  - PROCEDURE: Blood collection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03323216
