CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05344313
Title: Oral Nutritional Supplementation With HMB Enhance Muscle Quality in Sarcopenic Surgical Patients
Official Title: Oral Nutritional Supplementation With HMB Enhance Muscle Quality in Sarcopenic Surgical Patients (HEROS) - a Pilot Interventional Cohort Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 47
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Aims:

Clinical frailty severely impacts the physical, functional and physiological reserves necessary for the recovery after surgery. Sarcopenia, a multifactorial, multi-organ process which lead to loss of muscle mass over time, eventually resulting in clinical frailty. These 2 entities result in an increased morbidity and mortality from surgery. They also lead to a slower recovery from surgery with some patients never reaching baseline function after their surgery. It is, therefore, important to optimize patients with sarcopenia prior to surgery to reduce the incidence of morbidity and mortality.

Nutrition and resistance training have been shown to be able to curb the effects of sarcopenia. However, the type and regime of nutrition is still unknown.

Hypotheses:

The study team hypothesize that Ensure Plus Advance + HMB (beta-hydoxy-beta-methylbutyrate) would reduce the amount of IMAT (inter and intramuscular adipose tissue) in sarocpaenic patients after 2-4 weeks of prehabilitation. This effect would be sustained even after surgery and would continue to improve up to 3-months post-surgery whilst participating in rehabilitation. Taking Ensure Plus Advance + HMB would also improve functional parameters after prehabilitation, ensure a similar QoL 1-month post-surgery even if biochemical parameters may not show a significant improvement.

Methods:

The investigators would be conducting a pilot interventional cohort with an institution with an established prehabilitation programme (SKH) to evaluate the effect of the use a high protein, high calorie oral nutritional supplement (ONS) with HMB on muscle quality, using a device with Automated Intelligence (AI), in sarcopenic patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery. Primary outcomes will be changes in Intermuscular Adipose Tissue (IMAT) while secondary outcomes include changes in functional parameters, quality-of-life (QoL), surgical outcomes and biochemical results.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change of Inter-muscular adipose tissue (%) between baseline and 1 day before surgery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ensure Plus Advance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05344313
