CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06538298
Title: Title: A Multimodal Exercise Program With Gamification for Parkinson Disease (MEP+G)
Official Title: A Multimodal Exercise Program With Gamification (MEP+G) in Individuals With Parkinson Disease: a Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
In this pilot study the research will explore whether exercises and the outcome measures would be acceptable to conduct a more detailed research study. This 8 week pilot study will utilize a comprehensive exercise program that includes non-contact boxing along with computerized games for individuals with Parkinson Disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participates in the 6-week exercise group will be asked to perform the following three times per week for 6 weeks, with each session lasting 60 minutes: A multimodal group exercise program with approximately 3-5 other individuals with Parkinson's disease. The exercise program will consist of strengthening, balance, aerobic, flexibility, and the use of a computerized game to challenge participant's thinking and reactions skills. The exercise program will also consist of non-contact boxing (hitting punching bags) to improve strength, balance, and aerobic endurance. Each exercise session will be conducted by a licensed physical therapist who is trained in exercise programs using non-contact boxing (Certified Rock Steady Boxing Coach). Each exercise session will have the same format and exercises with only a slight variation. For example, all Monday classes will have a focus on strengthening, Wednesday classes will have a focus on balance and Friday classes will have a focus on power.

The format will consist of a 10-15-minute warm-up of stretching and exercises to gradually warm-up participant's muscles and increase heart rate. Following the warm-up, participates will complete 30 minutes of moderate to vigorous circuit training using boxing drills and a computerized game called SMARTfit. SMARTfit consists of a standing computer board that allows participants to touch, punch or kick it while playing a game i.e., hitting all the buttons that display a smiley face.

At the end of the 30 minutes, participants will complete a 10-15-minute cool-down consisting of core strengthening, posture training, and hip strengthening and stretching exercises. Participants will also be instructed to maintain their normal activities outside of the study intervention.

In the event participants missed any of the exercise sessions, a one-week "make up week" will be provided immediately following the 6-week intervention that participants can choose to attend.

Exercise Intensity will be monitored using a heart rate chest monitor (Myzone™). The Myzone™) heart rate monitor will allow the instructor/researcher to monitor heart rate during the exercise session via a computer screen and to evaluate exercise response after the session is completed to determine whether to increase or decrease the intensity. For the first two weeks, participants will be instructed to stay in the "moderate" range of intensity during the 30 minutes of circuit training. The following four weeks participants will be instructed to increase their effort to vigorous as assessed and determined by the instructor. Moderate intensity is defined as 70-80 percent of estimated maximum heart rate. Vigorous intensity is defined as 80-90 percent estimated maximum heart rate.

Estimated maximum heart rate is determined by: 208-.7 X age. Estimated maximum heart rate will be adjusted for participants on beta blockers or other blood pressure lowering medications (164-.7 X age).

At the end of each exercise session th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fidelity of intervention
  - Intervention Adherence
  - Feasibility of Outcomes
  - Assessment of Data Collection
  - Assessment of Safety

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal Exercise Program with Gamification

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06538298
