CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03569566
Title: Performance Determinants Factors in Elite Endurance Athletes.
Official Title: The Impact of Age, Genes, Training and History of Tickbourne Disease on Endurance Performance in Elite Endurance Athletes.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Several studies have investigated determinant factors for endurance performance among different athletes, untrained individuals and patients focusing on the impact of age, genes and training intensity. A further step in this research will be to investigate the impact of age, genes, training intensity and history of tick-bourne disease on endurance performance in elite endurance athletes. We are planning a project with a two-step model. In step one we will, in a cross-sectional study design, investigate potential relationships between age, training intensity, training volume, genes, exosomes and history of tick-bourne disease and physiological variables and endurance performance. In step two we will investigate differences in training adaptation by observing and monitoring all training done by the participants during a 6-months period. The participants will be tested for several physiological variables before, after 3- months and after this period. We will also investigate the impact of age, training intensity, training volume, genes and history of tick-bourne disease on the results from the physiological tests and performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be designed in a two-step model. In the first step, we will investigate potential relationships between age, genes, exosomes, miRNA, training intensity, and history of tick-borne disease, and physiological laboratory-tests and performance in a roller-skiing performance test. This study will have a cross-sectional design. In the second step we will examine potential differences in training adaptations to a 6-months observation of self-selected training. We then will categorize the athletes into three groups, based on training volume and training intensity. We will then investigate possible relationships between training volume and training intensity and physiological variables, genes, age and possible history of tick-bourne disease.

STEP 1: Cross-sectional study:

Since the aim of the study is to investigate effects of age, genes, exosomes, training and history of tick-borne disease on training adaptations and endurance performance in elite endurance athletes, we will recruit active cross-country skiers from 16 - 50 years. These athletes have shown to have some of the highest aerobic capacities in the world (Ingjer, 1991).

Both males and females will be included for participation in this project, and we will try to include equal amount of both sexes. The athletes will be recruited from relevant, cross-country skiing milieus in Southeast Norway by open invitation and advertisement. Invited athletes must sign a declaration for participation and a declaration of health status, before participation. In the declaration for participation, the athletes will be informed briefly about the background of this project, which tests they are going to take, and how these tests will be performed and how the results are being contained and presented.

Statistical analysis will be as descriptive statistics, and simple and multiple regressions- and correlation analysis in the cross-sectional study.

STEP 2: 6-months training observation:

Recruitment routines, inclusion- and exclusion criteria will be the same as in STEP 1.

The athletes will first undergo a week of testing and registration (like STEP 1) at the end of the competitive season. During the 6-months period, the athletes will register all normal training in training diaries, and most importantly by use of heart rate measures. The researchers will not assign the participants to a certain training program or intervention, but just observe and register their training already planned out by themselves and/or their trainer(s). We will then examine the effects of this training on physiological variables and cross-country skiing performance

The first tests will include the following:

* physiological determinants as described in Støren et al. (2012; 2013; 2014) and Sunde et al. (in progress)
* blood samples for the analyze of genes, types of exosomes and its cargo, miRNA and history of tick-borne disease The same tests will be used after 3 months into the training period, and post observation. 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time trail cross-country roller skiing performance
  - Maximal oxygen consumption

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Age, Genes, Training, Tickbourne Disease and Endurance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03569566
