CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00351819
Title: Effects of Testosterone Replacement on Pain Sensitivity and Pain Perception
Official Title: Effects of Testosterone Replacement on Pain Sensitivity and Pain Perception in Men With Chronic Pain Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Naturally occurring opiates (endorphins) decrease testosterone levels by inhibiting the synthesis of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) and also inhibiting testosterone synthesis by the testes. Similarly, men with addiction to narcotics and those on exogenous opioids for pain control have decreased serum testosterone levels. Indeed, these men complain of decreased libido, erectile dysfunction and impaired quality of life. Animal studies have shown that gonadectomy results in a decrease in pain threshold in rats and repletion of testosterone elevates that threshold. These observations suggest that testosterone may possess analgesic properties. Hence, the investigators hypothesize that hypogonadism developing in men on opioids results in an increased sensitivity to pain and requirement of higher doses of opioids. In this study, the investigators plan to administer testosterone to men with opioid-induced hypogonadism and evaluate their pain perception, pain sensitivity in response to noxious stimuli and changes in the requirement of opioids in response to testosterone administration.

Hypothesis:

Testosterone replacement in men with opioid-induced hypogonadism will improve pain tolerance, pain perception and quality of life.

Specific aims:

1. To evaluate the effects of testosterone replacement on pain sensitivity, pain tolerance, and pain modulation in men with opioid-induced hypogonadism.
2. To determine the effects of testosterone replacement on health-related quality of life.
3. To determine whether testosterone replacement in hypogonadal men induces changes in the dosage requirements of opioid medications for pain control.

To accomplish our specific aims, the investigators propose a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, parallel arm study in which hypogonadal men with non-cancer chronic back pain syndrome on chronic opioids and low testosterone levels (\<300 ng/dl) will be randomized to exogenous testosterone replacement therapy vs placebo. Our primary outcome is change in pain tolerance using various external painful stimuli. Secondary outcomes are change in pain sensitivity and modulation, quality of life and opioid requirements.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) at Week 14
  - Algometer-induced Pressure Pain at Week 14
  - Weighted Pinprick Stimulator-induced Mechanical Pain at Week 14
  - Ice Water-induced Cold Pain and Its After-sensation at Week 14

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: AndroGel
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00351819
