CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07530718
Title: Body Composition Outcomes in MS Patients
Official Title: Outcome of Body Composition Assessment in Patients With Severe Obesity Undergoing Metabolic Surgery
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Objectives The objective of this project is to generate pilot data substantiating our hypothesis that advanced body composition measurement tools will provide more accurate and clinically relevant data on the outcomes of metabolic surgery (MS) in patients with severe obesity compared to traditional methods.

To achieve this objective, the investigators propose the following aims:

Aim 1: Evaluate the effectiveness of different body composition measurement tools in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS.

Aim 2: Assess the changes in body composition and muscle strength following MS.

Aim 3: Compare body compositions changes between SG and RYGB patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Metabolic surgery (MS) is the most effective long term obesity treatment in patients with severe obesity1-4. The prevalence of obesity among US adults is 40.3% and the prevalence of severe obesity is 9.4% (2021-2023)5-6. Despite the prevalence and severity of obesity, there is a significant knowledge gap regarding the most effective tools for assessing body composition in this population4. Traditional methods such as BMI and waist circumference may not accurately reflect changes in body composition, particularly in patients with higher BMI. Current literature on body composition measurements in patients with severe obesity undergoing bariatric surgery is limited.

Our study design and rationale are inspired by a 2003 study by Das et al.7, which assessed body composition using four measurement tools: the 3-compartment (3C) model, isotope dilution, densitometry, and BIA. This study involved 20 women with BMIs ranging from 37 to 76 who underwent RYGB. The findings indicated that a simple 3-compartment model using air displacement plethysmography and BIA is effective for clinical evaluation in this population. To date, this remains the only study focusing on higher BMI patients undergoing MS. However, its limitations include being conducted solely on a female population and using these four measurement tools exclusively in RYGB patients with severe obesity.

As mentioned earlier, the goal of this project is to generate pilot data substantiating our hypothesis that advanced body composition measurement tools will provide more accurate and clinically relevant data on the outcomes of MS in patients with severe obesity compared to traditional methods.

Objectives The objective of this project is to generate pilot data substantiating our hypothesis that advanced body composition measurement tools will provide more accurate and clinically relevant data on the outcomes of metabolic surgery (MS) in patients with severe obesity compared to traditional methods.

To achieve this objective, the investigators propose the following aims:

Aim 1: Evaluate the effectiveness of different body composition measurement tools in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS. The investigators hypothesize that advanced body composition measurement tools will provide more accurate and clinically relevant data on the outcomes of MS in patients with severe obesity compared to traditional methods.

Aim 2: Assess the changes in body composition and muscle strength following MS. The investigators hypothesize that 6 months post MS, patients will experience a change in muscle strength, along with a more significant decrease in fat mass compared to muscle mass.

Aim 3: Compare body compositions changes between SG and RYGB patients. The investigators hypothesize that RYGB patients will experience greater changes in subcutaneous, visceral, and total fat compared to SG patients after 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluate the effectiveness of Bioimpedance Analysis (BIA) in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing metabolic surgery (MS).
  - Evaluate the effectiveness of Leg Strength and Endurance Testing in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS.
  - Evaluate the effectiveness of BIA in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS
  - Evaluate the effectiveness of BIA in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS
  - Evaluate the effectiveness Body MRI in assessing outcomes of body composition in assessing outcomes in patients with severe obesity undergoing MS

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07530718
