CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05789277
Title: Effects of Eccentric Hamstring Training in Prevention of Hamstring Injuries in Sprinters
Official Title: Effects of Eccentric Hamstring Training, in Prevention of Hamstring Injuries in Sports Involving Sprinting Among Club Level Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trail is to determine the effects of eccentric hamstring training, in prevention of hamstring injuries in sports involving sprinting among club level athletes.

The main question it aims to answer is :

\- Will eccentric exercises have an effect in the recovery of hamstring injuries and injury prevention in sprint performance sports among club-level athletes.

Participants will be divided into two groups. Control group will perform conventional training program and interventional group will perform eccentric exercises.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The most frequent time-loss injuries in sports are hamstring injuries, which are particularly common in modalities that involve rapid accelerations and decelerations like high-speed running. The hamstring muscle group is more susceptible to stresses because of the way it is anatomically arranged.These injuries are more common in sprinters than in other athletes.Ballistic motions like sprinting are typical in most contact and non-contact sports. The most frequent type of activity during sprinting is the running stride. The muscles aggressively extend and contract throughout each stride, forcing the linked segments to accelerate and slow down.In most club-level sports like football, cricket, sprinters and rugby sprinting is a crucial component of the sports and defines the performance of the athletes. If the athlete is a good sprinter he will perform more efficiently in sports. As sprinting is a high-intensity activity and is beneficial for athlete's general health but there are many injuries involved among these athletes. The injury can be disastrous for the athlete, resulting in extended recovery time and the possibility of persistent damage. Injuries in professional athletes are disproportionately often hamstring-related.The most common form of hamstring injury is hamstring strain which can be caused due these reasons. Hamstring injuries can be divided into three types; Grade 1 which is a hamstring pull or strain, Grade 2 partial muscle tear and Grade 3 complete muscle tear. The hamstring muscle is very important as it is involved in generating forward motion. The cause of hamstring injury can be due to multiple activities but the most common is when athletes are sprinting at maximal speeds.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Functional Assessment Scale for acute hamstring injury
  - Change in Nordic Hamstring Exercise test:
  - Change in Single Leg Hamstring Bridge test
  - Change in Lasegue (Straight leg raise test):
  - Change in Slump test with cervical flexion & extension:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Conventional training program
  - OTHER: Eccentric hamstring training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05789277
