CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06450119
Title: The Effectiveness of a Dual-task Training Program
Official Title: The Improvement of Cognition and Physical Function in Middle-aged and Older Adults With Cognitive Frailty: the Effectiveness of a Dual-task Training Program
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 196
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to explore the effect of a dual-task training intervention on cognitive function,physical function, depression symptoms and quality of life in middle-aged and elderly people with cognitive impairment. A Randomized experimental research design is conduced to recruited 196 middle-aged and elderly people: potentially reversible or reversible cognitive decline to attend this study. All participants are randomly allocated into dual-task training, walking training alone, and cognitive training alone and the waiting list control group. The measurements include: demographic and disease data, frailty symptoms (The FRAIL Scale ,Time up and go test ,Sit-to-stand test), cognitive function (Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale Chinese version), depressive symptoms (Chinese version of Clinical Depression Symptom Assessment Scale) and life Quality (Taiwan's simplified version of the World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire). The results of the study will use Generalized Liner Models and Pearson's product difference correlation analysis to confirm the impact of dual task training intervention on physical function, cognitive function, and depressive symptoms in middle-aged and elderly people with cognitive impairment effect on quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A Randomized experimental research design is conduced to recruited 196 middle-aged and elderly people: potentially reversible or reversible cognitive decline to attend this study. All participants are randomly allocated into dual-task training, walking training alone, and cognitive training alone and the waiting list control group.

The dual task training group will receive 12 weeks of walking and cognitive training.

The walking training alone group will receive 12 wees of walking training. The cognitive training alone group will receive 12 weeks of cognitive training. Each session is 60 minutes and twice a week. The waiting list control group will not receive intervention activities. Outcomes are measured both before and after the intervention. The measurements include: demographic and disease data, frailty symptoms (The FRAIL Scale ,Time up and go test ,Sit-to-stand test), cognitive function (Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale Chinese version), depressive symptoms (Chinese version of Clinical Depression Symptom Assessment Scale) and life Quality (Taiwan's simplified version of the World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire). The results of the study will use Generalized Liner Models and Pearson's product difference correlation analysis to confirm the impact of the dual task training intervention on physical function, cognitive function, and depressive symptoms in middle-aged and elderly people with cognitive impairment effect on quality of life.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The FRAIL Scale
  - The FRAIL Scale
  - Time up and go test
  - Time up and go test
  - Sit-to-stand test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: walking training
  - OTHER: cognition training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06450119
