CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05358301
Title: Targeting Obesity With the Probiotic Lactiplantibacillus Plantarum IMC 510 (PRO-Weight-Control Study)
Official Title: Novel Strategies for Obesity Prevention and Management With the Probiotic Lactiplantibacillus Plantarum IMC 510 (PRO-Weight-Control Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
In recent decades, the prevalence of obesity has reached epidemic proportions, with the number of overweight or obese individuals continuing to increase worldwide. Advances in recent research have allowed a better characterization of the etiology of obesity, demonstrating the involvement of the gut microbiota. In fact, while signals from the brain influence gut function, the gut microbiota has been shown to modulate brain functions involved in the regulation of stress, depression and anxiety, which are closely linked to obesity. Oral administration of probiotics has been proposed as a valid way to modulate the gut ecosystem to promote weight reduction. Preliminary data showed that obese rats treated with probiotics containing the probiotic strain Lactiplantibacillus Plantarum IMC 510 exhibited significantly lower weight and food intake than untreated obese rats. Although exercise and diet are the first lines of intervention to be recommended, there are often failures or poor outcomes. There is currently increased interest in alternative and effective shorter-term, non-pharmacological approaches to weight control that involve the use of natural active ingredients. Thus, the aim of this intervention study is to investigate whether a probiotic supplementation with Lactiplantibacillus Plantarum IMC 510 could be beneficial for the weight reduction of people with obesity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Obesity is a multifactorial disease characterized by a chronic imbalance between energy intake and energy expenditure. Risk factors for weight excess are genetic, metabolic, hormonal, psychological, and social, as well as factors related to diet, sedentary lifestyle, and medication intake. Obesity is associated with an increased risk of onset of several metabolic diseases (high blood pressure, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome), cardiovascular diseases (cerebral strokes, myocardial infarction), gastrointestinal diseases (esophageal reflux, cholelithiasis, pancreatitis, hepatopathy), respiratory diseases (apnea, respiratory failure), cancer (higher incidence of cancer and worsening of prognosis), osteoarticular diseases (osteoporosis, osteoarthritis), psychological diseases (depression, low self-esteem, relationship problems).

In recent decades, the prevalence of obesity has reached epidemic proportions. In fact, current data estimate that approximately 600 million people worldwide are obese, with an additional 1.9 billion overweight. Moreover, recent trend analyses show that the number of individuals who are overweight or obese continues to increase worldwide.

Advances in recent research have allowed for better characterization of the etiology of obesity, highlighting the potential contribution of factors not traditionally considered to be involved in changes in energy balance and body composition. Experimental and clinical studies have also demonstrated the role of the gut microbiota in the regulation of energy balance and the occurrence of excess body weight. In this regard, it has been suggested that lean and obese human subjects differ in the composition of their gut microbiota, and that probiotics and prebiotics can be used to modify the microbiota to prevent body weight gain. The bidirectional gut-brain connection allows signals from the brain to influence motility, appetite sensations, secretions, and permeability of the gut. Studies have demonstrated the role and importance of the gut microbiota in modulating central nervous system activity, so some gut messages may influence brain functions involved in the regulation of stress, depression, and anxiety, which are closely related to obesity. Consequently, the gut microbiota is a potential modifiable target for the prevention and/or treatment of obesity. In fact, the gut microbiota has recently been shown to play a complex role in body weight regulation and some probiotic strains have been able to ameliorate obesity status and related metabolic disorders. Preliminary data showed that obese rats treated with probiotics containing the probiotic strain Lactiplantibacillus Plantarum IMC 510 exhibited significantly lower weight and food intake than untreated obese rats.

Oral administration of probiotics has been proposed as a viable way to modulate/modify the gut ecosystem to promote weight reduction; however, the mechanisms by which probiotic supplementation may

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05358301
