CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01841216
Title: EMG Activation of Gluteal Musculature During Exercises With and Without Resistance
Official Title: EMG Activation of Gluteal Musculature and Perceived Exertion During Therapeutic Exercises With and Without Thera-Band® Resistance
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The gluteus medius (Gmed) and gluteus maximus (Gmax) muscles are important components in the treatment of many lower limb injuries. Recent studies have evaluated a myriad of exercises which activate the Gmed and Gmax, but limited research remains on exercises involving resistance and the role of the TFL. The purpose of this study is to evaluate Gmed, Gmax, and TFL percent maximal voluntary isometric contraction (%MVIC) and perceived exertion in healthy and low back pain patients while performing exercises with and without resistance. Methods: A convenience sample of healthy subjects and patients diagnosed with non-radicular low back pain will be recruited. Exclusionary criteria will include: current low back or lower extremity injury (healthy group), pregnancy, history of hip surgery, and radicular symptoms. Surface electromyography will be used to quantify the activity level of the gluteal muscles and TFL while performing a series of 8 exercises with and without Thera-Band® Resistance Tubing and Stability trener. The maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) will be established for each muscle group and the order of exercises performed will be randomized to minimize the effect of fatigue. Following the completion of each exercise, the patient will rate their perceived exertion level on the Thera-Band® Resistance Intensity Scale for Exercise (RISE). The EMG signals will be smoothed and rectified and analyzed using a root-mean-square algorithm. Clinical Relevance: The results of this study will allow clinicians to better prescribe exercises, proven to activate the gluteal muscles and limit the TFL involvement, in the treatment of low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent of Maximal Voluntary Isometric Contraction (%MVIC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Lower Body Exercises with and without resistance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01841216
