CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04915742
Title: The Effect of Group Exercise and Thetahealing on Pain and Quality of Life in Patients With Fibromyalgia
Official Title: Master Physiotherapist
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Summary

Purpose: Determining the Effect of Therapeutic Exercise and Thetahealing on Pain and Quality of Life in Patients with Fibromyalgia Methods: Between February and April 2021, the study started with 58 people who wanted to participate in the study from online platforms and the study was completed with 34 people.

Findings: According to the power analysis, at least 34 people will participate in the study. Participants will be divided into 2 groups as experimental and control, thetahealing and exercise will be applied to the experimental group and only exercise sessions will be applied to the control group. The study will be 2 sessions of online group exercises per week for 6 weeks and 1 session of tehetahealing will be applied to the experimental group for 6 weeks. The evaluation will be carried out in the first week before the sessions start and in the last week after the sessions are completed in the form of an online survey.Summary

Purpose: Determining the Effect of Therapeutic Exercise and Thetahealing on Pain and Quality of Life in Patients with Fibromyalgia Methods: Between February and April 2021, the study started with 58 people who wanted to participate in the study from online platforms and the study was completed with 34 people.

Findings: According to the power analysis, at least 34 people will participate in the study. Participants will be divided into 2 groups as experimental and control, thetahealing and exercise will be applied to the experimental group and only exercise sessions will be applied to the control group. The study will be 2 sessions of online group exercises per week for 6 weeks and 1 session of tehetahealing will be applied to the experimental group for 6 weeks. The evaluation will be carried out in the first week before the sessions start and in the last week after the sessions are completed in the form of an online survey.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Login Fibromyalgia (FM) is a non-articular, chronic rheumatic disease of unknown etiology, characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain, sleep disturbance, fatigue, and the presence of multiple tender points (1). Diagnostic criteria were defined by the American Rheumatism Association (ARA) in 1990 (2). In order to diagnose FM, there should be widespread pain and sensitivity in 11 or more of 18 specific points (3). The etiopathogenesis of FM is still unknown, but factors such as physical trauma, surgical intervention, infections, acute or chronic emotional stress may play a triggering role (4). Various findings such as muscular symptoms, cognitive complaints, depression, insomnia and fatigue accompanying chronic pain have been described in patients with FM (5). Various psychopathological disorders have been reported in FM. It is estimated that 1/3 of his patients have minor depression or anxiety. However, it is not known whether anxiety and depression in FM cause chronic pain or contribute to the severity of symptoms (3). Despite the various complaints of patients with fibromyalgia, the fact that no significant impairment was found in physical examination and laboratory tests suggests that the symptoms may be psychologically induced (6). Since the etiology of fibromyalgia syndrome is unknown, pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment methods should be used in patient-specific combinations according to the prominent symptoms and their severity (6).

Mental health as well as the physical health of FMS patients is frequently investigated. It has been observed that depressions accompany FMS in the majority of patients (7 -11). Likewise, FMS patients frequently get various psychiatric comorbidities such as panic disorder and anxiety (12,13). In addition, studies consistently point to an increased rate of designed suicide after the development of fibromyalgia in this patient group due to the burden of the disease and the high prevalence of depression (14-16).

The role of psychological factors in fibromyalgia is a controversial issue. However, many studies have shown that these patients experience deterioration in personality patterns, increased stress levels, anxiety, depression, or other psychological symptoms (17,18). Although psychological factors are not considered to be the primary cause of fibromyalgia, there are findings that depression is a very important predictor of the development of FMS (12,19). On the other hand, researchers have pointed out that fibromyalgia and depression generally have two-way relationships by overlapping (18,20).

Theta gets its name from Teta brain waves. Generally, at night, while sleeping, during deep meditation , and experiencing oneness in the universe, situations occur at the theta wavelength. So the Theta state is a very deep state of relaxation . While in this wavelength , we can easily connect with the brain so that our haunted beliefs here can be controlled. This condition is associated with stron

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short Form-36
  - Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire
  - Numerical Pain Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: exercises
  - BEHAVIORAL: thetahealing and exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04915742
