CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07320378
Title: Clinical Study on the Safety and Efficacy of Tendon Stem Progenitor Cells Therapy for Rotator Cuff Tears
Official Title: Clinical Study on the Safety and Efficacy of Tendon Stem Progenitor Cells Therapy for Rotator Cuff Tears
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 107
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Tendon injury is one of the most common sports injuries, including local tissue degeneration at the tendon insertion site following inflammation caused by long-term joint movement, friction, or strain, as well as acute traumatic tendon tears and defects of varying degrees due to sports. It is a recognized therapeutic challenge in orthopedics and sports medicine. With the increase in people's physical activities and changes in work styles, tendon injuries have become increasingly prevalent, with at least 30 million tendon injury cases annually. Meanwhile, tendon injuries pose a significant threat to the careers of many elite athletes. Currently, clinical treatments for tendon injuries mainly remain at the stages of physical therapy, surgical suture, and transplantation. Although these treatments have certain effects, their efficacy is limited-primarily because adult tendons lack complete regenerative capacity. As a result, the quality of repaired tendons is far inferior to that of normal tendons, making them prone to tendon adhesion, poor structural and mechanical properties, and frequent re-rupture. Even autologous tendon transplantation can only achieve approximately 40% of the mechanical properties of normal tendons, accompanied by excessive scar tissue formation. Current therapeutic and tissue engineering approaches can only partially improve tendon repair quality, failing to induce complete tendon repair and regeneration. Therefore, exploring new and efficient strategies for the treatment and regeneration of tendon injuries is of great significance.

In recent years, cell therapy has brought new opportunities for improving the repair quality of soft tissues such as tendons. Tendon-derived cells are isolated and extracted from tendons. These cells not only possess stem cell characteristics similar to bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells but also highly express tendon-specific genes and proteins. Therefore, this study intends to first culture and expand tendon stem/progenitor cells (TSPCs) to form therapeutic agents, then apply TSPC-enhanced therapy intraoperatively to patients with rotator cuff tendinopathy, and evaluate its clinical safety and efficacy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Phase I：Incidence and severity of cell therapy related adverse events
  - Phase II：Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: Stem cell therapy
  - PROCEDURE: Conventional rotator cuff repair.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07320378
