CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06030544
Title: Oleanolic Acid as Therapeutic Adjuvant for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (OLTRAD STUDY)
Official Title: Oleanolic Acid as Therapeutic Adjuvant for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (OLTRAD STUDY)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: beta alanine

SUMMARY:
Oleanolic acid (OA), is a natural component of many plant food and medicinal herbs, which has shown to exert in experimental models hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects, and also a cytoprotective action against oxidative and chemotoxic stress underlying Type II Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM).Today it is known that OA shares mechanisms of action with metformin and other drugs of choice for the treatment of diabetes. Therefore, the OLTRAD (OLeanolic acid TReAtment for type 2 Diabetes) Study, a prospective, parallel group, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial with 100 participants, has been designed to demonstrate that the regular intake of an OA-enriched functional olive oil is effective as an adjuvant to metformin antidiabetic drug therapy. The hypothesis is that the inclusion of this functional olive oil in the diet will enhance the effects of the pharmacological treatment in diabetic patients, and may even reduce the need for prescription of such medications.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
TRIAL DESIGN The OLTRAD Study is a prospective, parallel group, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial designed to demonstrate that the regular intake of an OA-enriched functional olive oil is effective as an adjunct to metformin therapy (as monotherapy or in combination with other antidiabetic drugs) in the metabolic control of T2DM patients. The effect of the OA-enriched olive oil will be compared with that of the control oil, which consists of the same commercial olive oil not fortified in the triterpene.

A total of 100 volunteers of both sex will be selected from among the T2DM patients treated at the Endocrinology and Nutrition Service of the 'Virgen del Rocío' University Hospital (Seville, SPAIN).

SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION Serum glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is adopted as the main quantitative variable for the analysis of glycemic control. The null hypothesis stated in the trial design is that the OA-based dietary intervention will reduce the baseline serum HbA1c levels of patients by at least 7%, compared to the control group. To test this one-sided hypothesis test with a 95% confidence level (α risk = 0.05) and 95% power (β risk = 0.05), a sample size of 44 volunteers per group is required. However, due to the characteristics of the study (a long-term lifestyle intervention), participant losses of up to 15% can be assumed, resulting in an adjusted sample size of 50 individuals per group.

RANDOMIZATION Once recruited, the 100 T2DM patients will be randomly assigned to one of the two study groups. Fifty individuals will be assigned to the intervention group, which will ingest the OA-enriched functional olive oil, whereas the other 50 volunteers will be assigned to the control group, which will receive the same non-enriched olive oil. At the time of admission, the study nursing staff will request by telephone the clinical coordinator of the trial (Principal Investigator 2 of the Project) the assignment of participants to the study groups (centralized randomization). Allocation to these groups will be made using computer generated tables of random numbers. Four randomization strata will be constructed by sex and age (cuttof 50 years).

INTERVENTION Participants will be instructed to ingest 55 mL/day of the assigned oil, preferably raw and freely distributed among the three main meals. Both the OA-enriched olive oil and the control oil will be delivered labeled with alphanumeric codes, the correspondence of which will only be known by the Principal Investigator 1 of the project. This ensures blinding of the clinical researchers and participants with respect to the type of olive oil assigned.

FOLLOW-UP Participants in the clinical trial will be followed up for 12 months from enrollment, according to a plan of quarterly visits.

At the time of recruitment and every three months thereafter, participants will be measured for anthropometric, blood pressure, and heart rate measurements. They will also be asked about gastrointestinal disorder

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: OA-enriched functional olive oil
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: commercial olive oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06030544
