CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06327412
Title: The Effects of Aerobic Exercise in Patients With Primary Lower Extremity Lymphedema
Official Title: Effects of Hospital-Based Aerobic Exercise Therapy on Exercise Capacity, Body Composition, Functional Level and Quality of Life in Patients With Primary Lower Extremity Lymphedema; Prospective Randomized Controlled Single Blind Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Our aim in this study is to evaluate the effects of lymphedema on exercise capacity, body composition, functional level and quality of life in lymphedema patients with primary lower extremity involvement.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Male and female patients aged 18-65, who applied to Kayseri City Hospital's Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR), lymphedema outpatient clinic between September 2023 and September 2024 due to lower extremity edema, will be included in this study. Lymphedema was diagnosed by clinical and/or imaging methods (lower extremity circumference difference measurements, venous Doppler ultrasonography, lymphoscintigraphy), evaluated by an PMR specialist physician, phase 1 decongestive treatment was applied within the last month, stage 2-3 lower legs using Class 3 compression stockings were used. Patients with extremity lymphedema will be included. Our study is a prospective, randomized controlled, single-blind clinical trial. In our study, survey forms will be filled out by a researcher who is blind to the applied tests and study groups. Patients will be divided into 2 groups according to computerized randomization.

Demographic data such as age, gender, occupational status, education level, marital status of the patients whose verbal and written consent was obtained; Height, body weight, body mass index, smoking-alcohol use, medications used and additional diseases will be questioned and recorded in their files.

The lower extremity circumference of the patients will be measured with a flexible standard tape measure that is 150 cm long, 1 cm wide and spaced one cm apart. Measurements will be marked including the metatarsophalangeal joint, the middle of the dorsum of the foot, the ankle, and the end of the thigh at 4 cm intervals from this area. Circumference measurement from the marked points will be repeated twice each time by a physiatrist blinded to the study, and the average of the two measurements will be taken. These measurements will be repeated at the beginning of the study and at weeks 4 and 16.

The total extremity volume will be determined by calculating the data obtained from the circumference measurement with the Frustum formula, which is used to indirectly determine the extremity volume. The difference between both lower extremities before and after treatment will be determined. These evaluations will be repeated at the beginning of the study and at weeks 4 and 16.

The body extracellular fluid ratio will be determined by the bioelectrical impedance method using a body composition analyzer in which the impedance in the tissues is analyzed by applying a low level of electric current to the body. This measurement will be repeated at the beginning of the study and at weeks 4 and 16.

CPET test will be performed in patients to evaluate their aerobic exercise capacity. CPET tests will be applied with a device in the Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation Unit of Kayseri City Hospital Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Department. All patients will be informed about the exercise test before the test. Patients will undergo a detailed physical examination, height, body weight, body mass index, heart rate, blood pressure will be measured 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 30-second sit-stand test (30-s chair-stand test, 30s-CST)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise on the treadmill
  - OTHER: Walking between 12-13 RPE (The Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion) according to the Modified Borg Scale

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06327412
