CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02225535
Title: Investigation of a Physiotherapist and Nurse Practitioner Intervention for Chronic Low Back Disorders Delivered Through Telehealth
Official Title: Advancing Interprofessional Primary Health Care Services in Rural Settings for People With Chronic Low Back Disorders: Investigation of a Physiotherapist and Nurse Practitioner Intervention Delivered Through Telehealth
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this project is to compare "usual care" for chronic low back disorders in a rural setting (nurse practitioner/NP) to two different means of integrating Physical Therapy (PT) into a rural health care team:

1. in-person PT assessment, where the PT travels from an urban center
2. interprofessional Telehealth assessment where the local NP is joined by a PT via Telehealth.

The project will evaluate health, systems and process outcomes, comparative effectiveness and costs of the three methods of assessment. The hypothesis is that an interprofessional Telehealth assessment with be as effective as an in-person PT assessment, but more effective than usual care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study design will include two intervention groups and a control group with 20 participants in each group: 1. interprofessional videoconferencing intervention, 2. in-person PT and, 3. "usual-care" provided by a NP. Due to the interprofessional nature of the intervention, the NP involved in the telehealth-based intervention group may alter their "usual care" practice; therefore, the control group participants will be drawn from the practices of 2 NPs not involved in the Telehealth intervention providing services out of a different clinic. Each PT and the NP alone will complete a standardized online diagnostic classification tool.Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short term impact of patient/provider satisfaction
  - Short term outcome of patient experience with Telehealth
  - Medium term outcome of patient and provider satisfaction
  - Short term impact of patient function
  - Short term impact on pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: NP face to face management of Chronic Low Back Pain
  - OTHER: PT face to face management of Chronic Low Back Pain
  - OTHER: Interprofessional Videoconferencing for Chronic Low Back Pain

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02225535
