CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03433690
Title: The Effect of HIIT in Handling Obesity in Children
Official Title: The Effect of High Intensity Interval Training in Handling Obesity in Children and Adolescents. A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
In this study the investigators wish to investigate whether a short duration High-intensity Interval Training(HIT) is superior to a moderate activity training modus with regards to improving weight-loss, Blood pressure and sleep quality in severely obese children and adolescents also receiving a multidisciplinary treatment regime.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Prevalence of overweight and obesity among children and adolescents are rapidly rising worldwide. Despite the alarming situation, great confusion of how to tackle obesity persists for two main reasons: the condition is much more complex than initially thought, and many aspects regarding pathophysiology remain unrevealed, leading to an insufficient understanding of the disorder. Childhood obesity is, strongly associated with numerous disorders e.g. hypertension, insuline resistance, sleep apnea, depression and many more.

High intensity Interval Training has proven beneficial in treating obesity and comorbidities in adults. The investigators wish to investigate whether twelve weeks of High-intensity Interval Training(HIT) twice a week is superior to a moderate activity training modus for same period of time with regards to improving weight loss, blood pressure and sleep quality, in severely obese children and adolescents also receiving a multidisciplinary treatment regime. Participants are severely obese children and adolescents referred to the outpatient Clinic for treatment of obesity. Participants are randomizid to either moderate training or HIIT. Antropometric measures, blood pressure and sleep quality as measured by sensewear armbands, are done at baseline, after the twelve weeks of training and again one year after inclusion. Participants are monitored with pulse monitors during training sessions to register if training goals are obtained.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight reduction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HIIT
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03433690
