CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03574519
Title: Project Step II: The Effects of Incentives and Feedback on Promoting Walking Within Overweight and Obese Adults
Official Title: Project Step II: The Effects of Incentives and Feedback on Promoting Walking Within Overweight and Obese Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 61
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
This study will evaluate the main effects of daily vs. weekly feedback and contingent vs. non-contingent incentives for increasing walking behavior among overweight and obese adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Approximately 68% of adults are overweight or obese, which is associated with increased risk for health conditions, including cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and cancer. These individuals are more often sedentary than the general population, which compounds the risk for these same conditions. While the benefits of engaging in physical activity are well-established, few individuals are able to successfully increase activity to recommended levels. Existing intervention programs, often derived from theories such as social cognitive theory or related theories, have had limited success. Behavioral economics offers a promising alternative, suggesting that engagement in any behavior is based on the maximizing utility and happiness (i.e., weighing the cost and benefit of the behavior). Interventions based on this theory aim to increase the immediate benefit of engaging in physical activity, often using a financial incentive.

This study will last for 8 weeks. All participants will have the use of a FitBit for ongoing self-monitoring and a personalized step-count goal designed to help increase daily steps. Participants will receive feedback on reaching their goals either daily or weekly.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Step counts

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Non-contingent incentives
  - BEHAVIORAL: Contingent incentives
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weekly feedback
  - BEHAVIORAL: Daily feedback

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03574519
