CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01128101
Title: Effects of Spironolactone in Dialysis
Official Title: Assessment of the Effects of the Combination of Spironolactone to Conventional Pharmacotherapy in Dialysis Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Several studies indicate that chronic kidney disease patients give a high cardiovascular risk and have an intrinsic relationship with hypertension and cardiomyopathy: characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis. The reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with increased life expectancy in these patients. The renin angiotensin aldosterone system plays an important role in blood pressure control. Even patients using converting enzyme inhibitors inhibitors or angiotensin II blockers may experience the so called aldosterone breakthrough phenomenon (inappropriately called aldosterone escape). This phenomenon is documented in patients with heart disease and in chronic kidney disease. Spironolactone is a synthetic steroid that acts as an antagonist of aldosterone, which has historically avoided in chronic kidney disease patients, given the risk of hyperkalemia. However, its active metabolite, canrenone and spironolactone, are able to antagonize the binding of ouabain, a Na+/K+ATPase inhibitor, to its receptor. The Na+/K+-ATPase inhibition results in changes in sodium gradients, and increases the calcium influx through the transporter Na+/Ca+ in specific regions of the membrane. Spironolactone and canrenone in previous research were able to reverse left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic kidney disease patients on conservative treatment, which turn this drug and its metabolite potential tools for reversion of left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic kidney disease. The aim of this study is to verify the safety, tolerability and efficacy in the reversal of target organ damage from the use of spironolactone added to conventional antihypertensive therapy in chronic kidney disease patients on hemodialysis, in addition to measuring its ability to reduce left ventricular hypertrophy and arterial stiffness indices. Interventional randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comprising two groups: one that will take 25mg of spironolactone associated with conventional antihypertensive therapy and another that will take spironolactone placebo associated with conventional antihypertensive therapy. Each group will consist of 30 patients. Clinical and laboratory investigations, as well as home monitoring of blood pressure, echocardiography, determination of pulse wave velocity, augmentation index, and central blood pressure measurement of serum aldosterone will be are evaluated before and after treatment that will last 12 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Materials and Methods: will be conducted an interventional, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The series will consist of patients with at least 18 years old, suffering from chronic kidney disease stage V on dialysis and mean residential blood pressure superior to 135 x 85 mm Hg with left ventricular mass indexed for height to the 2.7 power greater than 51 g/m2,7. This protocol follows the guidelines of resolution 196/96 of the Brazilian National Health Council and is approved by the Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Medicine of Botucatu - UNESP Protocol (CEP 3439-2010).

All patients will give informed consent in writing. Exclusion criteria will be thew following: history or evidence of angina or myocardial infarction, heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, Hyperkalemia, valvular disease, atrial fibrillation, anemia (hemoglobin \<10 g / dl) doses of parathyroid hormone (PTH) greater than 300 pg / mL, patients in treatment with spironolactone and Patients who have suspended or initiated the use of inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers and renin blockers in the last six months. Patients will be assessed at baseline (before the run-in phase), weekly in the first month and monthly thereafter until one year, or 52 weeks. Will be include clinical examination at each visit and laboratory tests. In the visits of weeks zero, 26 and 52 will be held monitoring home blood pressure, echocardiography, determining the of pulse wave velocity, central arterial pressure and augmentation index. Aldosterone an ouabaín will be monitored immediately before run-in fase and at 52 weeks.

Groups: Patients will be randomly divided into two groups: active drug and placebo groups. One group will receive spironolactone and the other placebo spironolactone. It is important to note that placebo therapy is only of spironolactone and not other anti-hypertensive drugs, so patients will not in any way deprived of the benefit established in the literature which is the reduction of blood pressure. Physicians' assistants enrolled will be free to prescribe any antihypertensive medication except the study drug. In the active treatment group, the dose employed will be 25 mg each other day and titrated to 25 mg daily according to the potassium. Patients with potassium between 5.5 and 5.9 mmol/L will have reduced spironolactone to 25 mg each other day if they are in use 25 mg daily or will not increase the dose. These patients receive pharmaceutical care and nutritional guidance according the routine of the unit.

The placebo group will receive placebo with the same protocol. These patients also receive pharmaceutical care and nutritional guidance, beyond any conventional antihypertensive treatment. The pharmaceutical form of placebo will consist of colloidal silicon dioxide, cornstarch, lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose and magnesium stearate, inert excipients according to reference literature. The phar

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Reduction of Left Ventricular Hypertrophy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Spironolactone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01128101
