CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03731013
Title: Combining a Mediterranean Diet With Physical Activity to Address Cardiometabolic Risk
Official Title: Mediterranean Diet and Physical Activity: is the Whole Better Than the Sum of Each Part ? Clinical and Mechanistic Perspectives
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
There is little doubt scientifically that healthy eating, such as adhering to the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) principles, is key for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD). There is also convincing evidence for a strong inverse relationship between moderate intensity physical activity (PA) and mortality. Surprisingly, no study has yet formally documented how the combination of a MedDiet and regular PA improves cardiometabolic health in high-risk individuals. Why is this an important issue to address? On the one hand, a rigorous demonstration that the combination of a healthy diet and PA is better than the sum of each part in terms of cardiometabolic benefits will underpin the importance of advocating the combination of both modalities systematically to maximize health effects. Alternatively (and provocatively), results showing that healthy eating and PA have non-additive or non-synergistic effects will imply that one needs to adhere to only one of these two lifestyle modalities to maximizes cardiometabolic benefits. The overarching aim of this research is to test the hypothesis that consumption of a MedDiet combined with PA do act synergistically to improve cardiometabolic risk. The investigators hypothesize that healthy eating and PA act in synergy to reduce postprandial lipemia, a powerful independent risk factor for coronary heart disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized study with a 2X2 experimental factorial design. A total of 200 men and women recruited in the Quebec City area via various media will participate in this study. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one of four 16-week intervention groups: 1- Mediterranean Diet (MedDiet); 2- Physical Activity (PA); 3- Combination of MedDiet and PA; 4- Control Group. Depending on the group, the intervention involves support for nutritional and PA components at different times, in groups or individually. The subjects assigned to the MedDiet will receive certain foods each week to enhance adherence to the diet. Subjects assigned to the PA groups will have the opportunity to have one to two practices supervised by week by a team kinesiologist. All participants will have questionnaires to complete at different times during the study. These questionnaires will document several important aspects of the study including participants' health status, eating behaviours, hunger and satiety levels, eating and PA habits, motivation levels and well-being. Participants' diets will be assessed using a validated web 24-hour recall (R24W), which evaluates the food and beverages consumed during the 24 hours prior to the day they complete the questionnaire. This questionnaire will be completed over three randomly selected days on five occasions during the study. The level of PA will be evaluated using an accelerometer that objectively calculates energy expenditure. This device will be worn by participants for consecutive periods of 7 days, 5 times during the study.

Serum triglycerides (TG) concentrations after an oral fat load (35g of fat/m2 of body surface) and other the outcome variables will be measured in each group at baseline and at the end of the 16-week intervention. Specially, the fat load test will occur 2 days after the end of the intervention (114 days), so that the effect of the last exercise training bout has washed out. Cardiometabolic risk factors in the fasting state will be measured at baseline as well as twice at the end of the intervention, i.e. at 16 weeks (112 days) and at 16.3 weeks (114 days). The cardiorespiratory condition of the subjects will be evaluated during an maximal exercise test at the beginning and end of the 16-week intervention (112 days). Body composition will be assessed at the beginning and end of the intervention (112 days) by Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA). Cardiac structure and function will be measured at the beginning and end (112 days) of the intervention using advanced echocardiographic imaging. Exercise capacity (VO2max) will measured by a modified Bruce protocol at the beginning and end (112 days) of the intervention. Fecal sample will be collected as an optional part of the study at baseline as well as at the end of the intervention (112 days). Deep 16S rDNA metagenomic analysis (in feces) as well as analyses of microbiota metabolites and endogenous bioactive lipid mediators in plasma will b

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 1. Serum 4-hour post-prandial TG concentrations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mediterranean diet (MedDiet)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity (PA)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mediterranean diet and physical activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03731013
