CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07170878
Title: Effect of Blueberry Supplementation on Liver Enzymes, Muscle Injury and Respiratory Parameter in Football Athletes: A Eight-Week Training Study
Official Title: Effect of Blueberry Supplementation on Liver Enzymes, Muscle Injury and Respiratory Parameter in Football Athletes: A Eight-Week Training Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Abstract Background and objective: Regular Exercise causes physiological changes in the body. As a result, its impact on liver enzymes and muscle injury is unknown. The purpose of this study was to look into the effect of blueberry supplement taken in addition to football training on athlete muscle injury, liver enzymes and respiratory parameter. Methods: The present study comprised 36 male football players who volunteered for the study. The participants were divided into three groups: a Control Group (CG) (n=12), which performed only football training; a Supplementation Group (EG) (n=12), which received blueberry supplementation in addition to football training; and a Supplementation + Exercise Group (SEG) (n=12), which received blueberry supplementation and 20 minutes of exercise in addition to football training. A eight-week training program was implemented to the athletes three days per week in our study. The athletes' blood was drawn twice before and after training. The athletes' markers of muscle injury and liver enzymes were measured as a result of blood samples taken. The SPSS package program was used to examine the study's data.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Original Research Effect of Blueberry Supplementation on Liver Enzymes, Muscle Injury and Respiratory Parameter in Football Athletes: A eight-Week Training Study Abstract Background and objective: Regular Exercise causes physiological changes in the body. As a result, its impact on liver enzymes and muscle injury is unknown. The purpose of this study was to look into the effect of blueberry supplement taken in addition to football training on athlete muscle injury, liver enzymes and respiratory parameter. Methods: The present study comprised 36 male football players who volunteered for the study. The participants were divided into three groups: a Control Group (CG) (n=12), which performed only football training; a Supplementation Group (EG) (n=12), which received blueberry supplementation in addition to football training; and a Supplementation + Exercise Group (SEG) (n=12), which received blueberry supplementation and 20 minutes of exercise in addition to football training. A eight-week training program was implemented to the athletes three days per week in our study. The athletes' blood was drawn twice before and after training. The athletes' markers of muscle injury and liver enzymes were measured as a result of blood samples taken. The SPSS package program was used to examine the study's data.

Keywords: Football, Blueberry, Muscle Damage, Liver Enzymes, Respiratory Parameter

1. Introduction Exercise is a type of physical activity that is done in leisure time to develop or maintain physical fitness, performance, or health. Exercise is recognized to have numerous beneficial impacts, including increased endurance, flexibility, strength, body shape maintenance, reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, and weight loss. The type, frequency, intensity, duration and progression of exercise should be regulated depending on individual factors. Since each individual's physical condition level, goals, health status and personal preferences are different, it is important to plan the exercise program individually. It can be challenging to provide a definitive answer without testing and receiving the person's physiological reactions concerning which sort of exercise will provide the most benefit, at what frequency, intensity, and duration.

   Muscle pain after exercise is thought to harm the muscles. Excessive stretching of the elastic and contractile tissues of the muscle during movement produces structural damage, which causes pain. The intensity, weight, and scope of the applied training all have an impact on the amount of damage that happens. Particularly in high-intensity training, oxidative stress is seen in the organism, followed by muscle damage in the organism, and finally, muscle pain occurs during and at the end of exercise as a reaction of neutrophils to inflammation. Creatine Kinase (CK) and Myoglobin creatine kinase (CKMB) are biochemical indicators that are used to detect muscle injury in an organism. Many enzymes are stored, secreted, and c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in muscle injury markers
  - Change in liver enzyme levels
  - Change in muscle injury markers
  - Change in liver enzyme levels
  - Change in liver enzyme levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Blueberry Supplementation
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Supplementation Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 18 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07170878
