CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04005456
Title: Personalized Lifestyle Intervention for Improving Functional Health Outcomes Using N-of-1 Tent-Umbrella-Bucket Design
Official Title: LIFE-HOUSE: A Lifestyle Intervention and Functional Evaluation - a Health Outcomes Survey
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The LIFE-HOUSE research project is designed to evaluate the impact of a personalized lifestyle intervention program on functional capacity as an approach to quantitating health, and its relationship to well understood disease risk determinants.

LIFE-HOUSE will utilize an innovative Tent-Umbrella-Bucket design.

Participants will gather under the Tent of an all-inclusive 'N of 1' Case Series providing a shelter of Functional Medicine interventions against the storm of chronic disease. Under this Tent are a collection of Umbrellas where participants with similar clinical challenges are evaluated as clinically defined groups with loose guidelines for the planned interventions. Finally, participants standing under these Umbrellas may step into specific Buckets that gather individuals with nearly identical clinical presentations into more formally described prescriptive randomized arms for intervention.

Individuals will be offered the opportunity to participate in all Umbrellas and Buckets for which they qualify. They may accept or reject participation in any Umbrella or Bucket and yet remain eligible for participation in the overall Tent.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It has been suggested that the best medicine should value four principles (4P) - medicine should be personalized, predictive, preventative and participatory. This 4P Medicine will thus be personalized and patient centered with a focus on the person who has the disease and not the disease the person has. It will be predictive as it identifies the pre-clinical trend/decline towards illness sooner than onset of symptoms that herald the loss of function and health. It will be preventative as the information gathered should offer opportunities to modify these trajectories towards illness and finally it will be participatory as individuals will be intimately involved in the gathering of data to identify trends and in the application of lifestyle measures to improve their lives.

There is a significant unmet need to identify the value of a personalized lifestyle intervention program for improving functional health outcomes. Whereas disease is well understood from traditional pathology-based indices, health is less easily defined. Historically, healthy has been the default term that is applied to an individual who is not recognized as having a disease. This definition of health as the absence of disease has resulted in the delivery of health and wellness as often lying outside the purview of medicine.

An evolving definition of health, however, is to recognize that it is related to the functional capacity of the individual. Functional capacity can be categorized in four assessment areas: physiological, physical, cognitive and emotional. All four of these subcategories are quantifiable by both qualitative and quantitative metrics. The effects on health of a multi-modal personalized lifestyle medicine intervention program can best be evaluated by using functional determinants.

Functional Medicine is an integrative medicine philosophy that uniquely incorporates 4P Medicine with a focus on function and dysfunction and the necessity to consider the physiological events that determine the balance between the two. The LIFE-HOUSE research project is designed to evaluate the impact of a personalized lifestyle intervention program on functional capacity as an approach to quantitating health, and its relationship to well understood disease risk determinants.

Individuals will be offered the opportunity to participate in all Umbrellas and Buckets for which they qualify. They may accept or reject participation in any Umbrella or Bucket and yet remain eligible for participation in the overall Tent. Due to the structure of the uniquely defined yet overlapping system of Umbrellas and Buckets, a specific Subject may participate consecutively and/or sequentially in a series of Umbrella and Buckets as applicable and their data may be included in multiple Umbrella and Bucket analyses.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 (MOS SF-36) questionnaire
  - University of Rhode Island Change Assessment (URICA) questionnaire
  - Depression Anxiety, Stress Scale (DASS) questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Supplements and/or medical foods
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral change support program
  - OTHER: Food plan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04005456
