CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03593382
Title: Energy Availability in Female Athletes
Official Title: Physiological and Behavioural Aspects of Insufficient Energy Availability in Females Endurance Athletes - Impact on Metabolism, Recovery and Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 49
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this project is to study the impact of energy availability (EA) on female endurance athletes and the adaptive consequences of insufficient EA with a special reference to the impact on energy metabolism, reproductive-, vascular- and bone health as well as exercise capacity, neuromuscular performance, ability to recover from intense exercise and the genetic interaction.

Specific aims:

* To investigate the effects of EA on energy metabolism
* To investigate the effects of EA on reproductive, vascular- and bone health, and endocrine functions
* To investigate the effects of EA on exercise capacity
* To investigate the effects of EA on neuromuscular performance
* To investigate the effects of EA on recovery after exercise
* To identify potential dietary factors influencing EA, exercise capacity and neuromuscular performance
* To identify potential exercise factors influencing EA, exercise capacity and neuromuscular performance
* To identify potential psychological, behavoural and motivational aspects associated with insufficient EA

The investigators hypothesize that female athletes with insufficient energy availability have attenuated energy metabolism, reduced BMD, impaired endothelial function and decreased ability to recover between exercise bouts compared to matched controls with sufficient energy and nutrient intake. The investigators also hypothesize that EA influences exercise capacity and neuromuscular performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study population was recruited through the Danish and Swedish sport federations in weight-bearing endurance sports, and in local competitive endurance sports clubs, through flyers, webpage announcements and mailings. Interested athletes received the study protocol and a self-administered questionnaire, assessing age, sport, training regime, and self-assessed menstrual function. Athletes returning the questionnaire and who were interested in further participation were contacted by the research group. Before inclusion, all subjects were informed orally, and in writing, of all study procedures and signed an informed consent form. Subjects included and defined as elite endurance athletes were athletes at national team levels or competitive endurance athletes from regional sports clubs, 18-38 years of age, training a minimum of five times per week. Exclusion criteria included clinically verified menstrual dysfunction other than oligomenorrhea/functional hypothalamic amenorrhea; pregnancy; chronic illness; smoking; use of forms of contraceptives other than oral, e.g., hormonal coil/patches; inability or being unwilling to stop hormonal contraceptives for at least 6 weeks prior to investigation; or injuries preventing the athlete from training ≥ 2 weeks.

Data collection was performed on two consecutive days followed by a 7-day registration period in the athletes' normal environment. The first day comprised of examinations involving bone health, blood pressure and reproductive function. The second day included examinations of energy metabolism, aerobic capacity, as well as assessment of eating disorders. The subjects were instructed not to exercise for more than 30 min at low or moderate intensity on the day before, and on the first day of examination, and to arrive at the clinic in a fasted (from midnight) and rested state.

PROTOCOL OVERVIEW:

DAY 1: Start at 7:45 A.M.

1. Pragnancy test
2. Blood sampling
3. DXA scan
4. Blood pressure
5. Meal
6. Gynecological examination

DAY 2: Start at 7 A.M.

1. RMR
2. Blood sampling
3. Work efficiency
4. Meal
5. EDE interview
6. Incremental exercise test
7. EDI-questionnaire

7 DAY DIETARY AND ACTIVITY RECORD

The timing of the examination and registration period was planned individually for each subject in order to choose a period reflecting their habitual food habits and exercise regimes. Dietary intake and training intensity were recorded by the subjects for seven consecutive days to assess current EA. Energy intake was calculated from a prospective weighed (Exido 246030 Kitchen Scale, Gothenburg, Sweden) food record, using a nutrient analysis program, Dankost 2000 (Dankost, Copenhagen, Denmark) for Danish food items, and Dietist XP (Kost och Näringsdata AB, Bromma, Sweden) for Swedish food items. Subjects were given in-depth verbal and written instructions and a demonstration of how food and beverages should be weighed and registered. Subjects were instructed to maintain their normal food habits and eating

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Energy availability

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03593382
