CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05541432
Title: Finding the Optimal Resistance Training Intensity For Your Bones
Official Title: Finding the Optimal Resistance Training Intensity For Your Bones: A Randomized Controlled Trial (FORTIFY Bones)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 324
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Osteoporosis is a bone disease that can result in fractures, disability and an increased risk of premature death. Exercise is recommended for fall and fracture prevention, but health care professionals often recommend walking or lower intensity community exercise classes, which may not be effective for building bone. Further, individuals with osteoporosis are often told to avoid lifting or moving in certain ways, which creates fear and activity avoidance. Conversely, research suggests that to stimulate bone, you need higher loads on bone, with either higher intensity resistance training or impact exercise - the types of things people with low bone mass are told to avoid. Our study will examine different types of exercise intensity and how they translate to building bone in people with low bone mineral density (BMD).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The FORTIFY Bones study will compare the effect of supervised twice-weekly progressive resistance training (PRT) at moderate or high intensity for one year to a home posture and balance exercise program on lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD), in individuals with low bone mass not taking osteoporosis medication. As secondary analyses, we will examine the differences between each resistance training intensity and home exercise, and between resistance training intensities on all outcomes. Participants will be randomized to one of three exercise programs to be completed twice weekly: posture and balance exercise program at home, in-person, supervised progressive resistance training at 70% of estimated 1 Repetition Maximum (1RM) intensity, or in-person, supervised progressive resistance training at an 85% estimated 1RM intensity. The study is a multi-centre trial that will take place at the University of Waterloo, Toronto General Hospital, and the University of Saskatchewan. The long-term goal of this study is to generate evidence to support decision-making on the type of exercises for people with osteoporosis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lumbar Spine bone mineral density (BMD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Supervised strength training (group 1)
  - OTHER: Supervised strength training (group 2)
  - OTHER: Home exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05541432
