CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03495128
Title: Metabolic and Muscular Adaptations During Inactivity in 3 Days of Bed-rest
Official Title: Determination of the Time-course of Development of insulin Resistance, and Associated Molecular and Muscular Adaptations, During Inactivity in 3 Days of Bed-rest
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Space flight is associated with detrimental changes to the human body, including bone and muscle loss, fluid changes and deconditioning of muscles in the heart and blood vessels. Bed rest experiments, on Earth, are used to study these changes in healthy volunteers, as the disuse of muscles, and impact on the body, mimic the changes seen in the low-gravity environment of Space. Moreover, these changes are similar to those reported in people who remain in bed for long periods of time, such as is seen in intensive care or stroke patients, and bed rest studies also allow the physiological and biochemical impacts of this confinement to be investigated. For example, we know from previous research that muscle inactivity can lead to the development of resistance to the action of the hormone 'insulin', which is a longer term risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes. Previous studies suggest that this inactivity-induced insulin resistance occurs within the first 48 hours of immobilization. However, it is not clear whether the biochemical and physiological processes underlying these short-term responses to inactivity are the same as those seen in the longer term. The current study aims to investigate the biochemical and physiological changes seen after 3 days of bed rest and to compare to those measured in a previous 57 days bed rest study carried out at Institut Médecine Physiologie Spatiale (MEDES; Toulouse, France). A 3-day period of reconditioning will subsequently be used to determine if these changes can be readily reversed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Bed rest is a widely accepted experimental model used to study physiological adaptations to space flight, including bone and muscle mass loss, fluid shift, and cardiovascular deconditioning. Generally, participants are asked to spend a period in bed, with all activities of daily living being performed in a horizontal or head-down tilt (HDT) position, thus minimising use of all muscles and bringing about significant physiological adaptations similar to those observed during space flight. A substantial number of human bed rest studies have been performed ranging from 3-370 days duration. However, there are currently gaps in our understanding of; the rate and magnitude of the physiological dysregulation that occurs during actual and simulated microgravity (as most studies to date have considered mainly pre and post-bed rest time-points); the sites and mechanisms controlling bed rest-induced dysregulation; whether the processes underlying acute physiological changes are the same as those seen in the longer term. Improving our understanding of these issues would enable interventions aimed at minimizing bed-rest induced physiological dysregulation to be most effectively focused on time periods when the rate of onset of physiological dysregulation is likely to be at its greatest. This would then contribute to future success being achieved in prolonged human space flight, e.g. a manned mission to Mars, because an understanding of the aetiology and time-course of the physiological dysregulation that accompanies prolonged exposure to microgravity would enable effective counter-measures to be implemented. Furthermore, bed rest models present a unique opportunity to study the consequences of bed rest on those who may sustain prolonged periods of inactivity during hospitalisation, arising from illness or injury.

Inactivity is associated with the development of insulin resistance and contributes to the development of many modern metabolic diseases including obesity, type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia and hypertension (1,2); with physical inactivity being cited as the principal cause of 27% of diabetes and 30% of ischaemic heart disease cases. However, the time course, relative tissue specificity (liver vs muscle) and mechanistic basis of inactivity induced insulin resistance, and its reversal by remobilisation, represent major gaps in our current understanding. Furthermore, insulin resistance is an observation with several possible aetiologies and the mechanisms involved in the development of this condition with short term bedrest/immobilisation may be different to those involved with longer term / chronic inactivity. Further research in this area is therefore warranted.

The current study is part of a larger project which includes a 60 day, long term, bed rest study conducted in collaboration with the European Space Agency, at the Institut Médecine Physiologie Spatiale facility in Toulouse, France, and will be compared to the measures being conducted in the long

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in insulin stimulated whole body glucose uptake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Bed Rest
  - OTHER: Reconditioning

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03495128
