CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05217173
Title: Effectiveness of a Telerehabilitation Program in Ankle Sprain
Official Title: Functional Ankle Recovery After a Telerehabilitation Program for Patients With Sprain in the First Level of Care, Controlled Clinical Trial and Cost-effectiveness Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 82
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Ankle sprain is the most common sprain. Their care entails a high cost due to the incapacity for work that it generates. An early and timely intervention for the treatment of ankle sprain reduces the days of disability and functional recovery is faster. Strategies must be generated to provide timely care in rehabilitation. Telerehabilitation is a viable option to partially solve this problem. The purpose of this study is evaluate the effectiveness of functional ankle recovery after a telerehabilitation program in patients with sprain in the first level of care. Material and method: Controlled clinical trial, 92 subjects with grade 1 and 2 ankle sprain will be included; they will be divided into two groups, with randomized allocation. One group will receive usual care (n = 41) for ankle sprain and another will receive regular care plus telerehabilitation (n = 41) through a digital platform course, it will consist of video and written instructions. Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) will be measured at baseline and weekly, until completing 4 weeks. Group experience: The group is trained for the development of the contents and the rehabilitation program, with clinical experience in evaluation, treatment and rehabilitation of ankle sprain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Ankle sprain (AS) is a soft tissue injury caused by a forced twisting movement that exceeds the normal limits of the joint. This injury can range from minimal tissue distention to complete tissue rupture, it is manifested clinically by pain, edema, and functional limitation of the joint.

AS is the injury most related to physically active people, the worldwide incidence is estimated at 1 in every 10,000 people, it represents 15 to 20% of all sports injuries and most frequently affects young adults, its frequency has led it to be considered a benign condition, however, 20% of cases will develop complications.

After presenting a AS, the effects on health and costs of care are frequently underestimated by health personnel and the patient. The economic costs of your care are highly variable, they depend on the severity of the injury and the therapeutic strategy used; in most cases, it takes several days of disability for the injured limb to recover, causing absenteeism from work. Likewise, the frequency and variability with which the treatment of is selected can affect the recovery time and the quality of life of the patient.

The most important component of treatment for AS is rehabilitation, since it accelerates healing and return to desired activities, however, a large number of patients do not receive this therapeutic component adequately. Currently there are changes in the way of care for patients, largely due to the health contingency caused by Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), where social distance is a recommended action, for this reason, telemedicine is a strategy that can help the care of patients with conditions that require rehabilitation; therefore, some countries included digital practice within their health system.

When introducing a new therapeutic strategy, the economic and health effects, positive and negative, must be taken into account; cost-effectiveness studies are useful to know these effects. There are few cost-effectiveness studies for AS where telerehabilitation is compared with usual treatments at the first level of care. The evidence on measures of the effectiveness of Interventions through the telerehabilitation of AS is limited. The results also suggest that, in low- and middle-income countries, these pieces of evidence are even more limited. Some studies have shown that a distance intervention in orthopedic consultations is equal to or more cost-effective than standard consultations, where patients must attend a face-to-face consultation with the doctor.

What is known is that early rehabilitation as an optimized treatment for ankle sprain reduces treatment costs and reduces complications. However, the effectiveness of a telerehabilitation intervention for AS like the one proposed in this protocol is still unknown.

The research question is: what is the effectiveness in functional ankle recovery after a tele-rehabilitation program in patients with sprain in the first level of care, in a controlled and cost-effectiv

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Ankle functionality perceived by the patient with foot and ankle ability measure
  - Days of incapacity for work indicated by the doctor

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: telerehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05217173
