CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07244068
Title: Effect of Mat Pilates on Pain and Postural Alignment in School Going Children With Upper Crossed Syndrome.
Official Title: Effect of Mat Pilates on Pain and Postural Alignment in School Going Children With Upper Crossed Syndrome.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This randomized control clinical Trial is to evaluate the effect of mat Pilates on postural alignment and pain levels in school-going children with Upper Crossed Syndrome. The study will focus on assessing changes in head, neck, and shoulder alignment, as well as any reduction in musculoskeletal discomfort following a structured Pilates intervention in children of age 8-16.This clinical Trial will be in two groups A) Intervention group B) Control Group. From a total of 28 Participants , 14 will be performing Mat pilates and routine Physical Therapy(Group A) while the other 14 will be performing just routine Physical Therapy exercises (Group B). Data Analysis will be done on Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 26.00.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The current study will be randomized control trial, data will be collected from Physical Therapy department of Ittefaq Hospital, Lahore. The study will include 28 participants equally divided into two groups and randomly allocated. Inclusion criteria for the study will be UCS patients with age between 8 to 16yrs of either gender. Patients with any recent history of injury, severe systemic disorder and physical or sensory deficit will be excluded from the study.Group A (Experimental Group) will receive Pilates exercises and Routine Physical Therapy (baseline treatment). Baseline treatment will include stretching, strengthening and corrective exercises. Session duration will be 30 minutes, 10 to 12 exercises in form of 10 steps will be carried out per session, with no more than three repetitions of each exercise.Group B (Control Group) will receive stretching, strengthening and postural correction exercises as follows: Exercises for postural correction, stretches, and strengthening for the pectoralis major, elevator scapulae, upper trapezius, serratus anterior, rhomboids, and deep neck flexors muscles. -Every exercise will be for 30 seconds on and 30 seconds off, 3 times per day, - Push-ups and head-neck retraction were also included, total time about 30 minutes. Outcomes to be analyzed will be Craniovertebral angle and Thoracic Kyphosis angle and Pain. Data collection will be done before and after the intervention. Tools used for data collection will be kinovea software for Craniovertebral angle and Thoracic Kyphosis angle and Visual analouge scale (VAS) for pain. Data will be analyzed through SPSS version 26.00.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Kinovea Software
  - Visual Analouge Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mat Pilates and Routine Physical Therapy
  - OTHER: Routine Physical Therapy (RPT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07244068
