CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04246970
Title: Prehabilitation and Posttransplant Training Program in Liver Transplantation
Official Title: Effects of a Prehabilitation Program in Liver Transplant Candidates Followed by a Posttransplant Training Program
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
PreLiveR-T consists of a prospective randomized clinical trial conducted in an adult population that is a candidate for liver transplantation (LT) at the Hospital La Fe Valencia (Spain). The study is structured in three phases: I) Prehabilitation (2 months before LT); II) Training, divided in two successive periods: Supervised training (months 3-6 after LT) and Unsupervised training (6-12 months after LT); III) Long-term follow-up (2 years after LT).

Primary outcomes are related to post-surgery evolution (morbidity and mortality, hospitalization length, etc.). As a secondary outcomes are collected those related to: functional capacity, muscle strength and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The main objective is to study the post-surgical impact (post-S) of a Prehabilitation program on candidates for liver transplantation (LT), as well as to study the effects of posttransplant training on the clinical and functional evolution of the recipients. Also this project pretends to assess the influence of functional capacity (FC) improvement on the short and long term post-S evolution of the LT candidates. This is a prospective randomized clinical trial in which three phases follow: Prehabilitation, training and follow-up. The sample will be constituted by 60 candidates for LT, randomized in a control group (CG, n=20), a Prehabilitation group (PG, n=20) and a Prehabilitation-posttransplant training group (PTG, n=20). To conventional care, a Prehabilitation program will be added to the PG and PTG. After the LT, just PTG will follow a posttransplant training program. The long-term follow-up will be extended to 2 years post-LT. The variables under study will be: complications and post-S evolution; FC; quality of life; etc. The individualization of Prehabilitation and posttransplant training program, and also medical control, will ensure safety and offer the potential benefits that these types of programs can provide.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Morbidity
  - Mortality
  - Number of hospitalization days
  - Number of days with supplementary oxygen therapy and/or mechanical ventilation
  - Progression in the activities of daily life (ADL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation and posttransplant training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04246970
