CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00037999
Title: The Effect of Testosterone Supplementation on Rehabilitation Outcomes
Official Title: The Effect of Testosterone Supplementation on Rehabilitation Outcomes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The objective of this project is to determine the safety and efficacy of testosterone supplementation as an adjunct to traditional rehabilitation therapy in the care of deconditioned older men. Our long range goal is to determine whether other hormones (e.g., combined testosterone and growth hormone) are helpful as an adjunct to traditional rehabilitation therapy.

This project is important to the VA health care system because 38% of American veterans are aged (age \> 65 years), bioavailable testosterone is diminished in older age men, low testosterone is associated with impaired muscle strength, and lack of muscle strength hinders rehabilitation. Older men who are not successfully rehabilitated often get admitted to nursing homes for long term care, at a cost of approximately $40,000/year. Payment for long term care is currently one of our most difficult health care problems. If testosterone supplementation improves rehabilitation outcomes, as our pilot data suggest it will, patients will be more satisfied and long-term care financial resources will be saved.

We will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled trial to test the hypothesis that supplementation with testosterone improves rehabilitation outcomes in deconditioned older men. Specifically, we will screen all hospitalized older men with delayed discharge from the hospital (\> 7 day hospital stay). Men who have at least one new impairment in their ability to perform activities of daily living (e.g., inability to walk), low serum testosterone concentration, and no contraindications (e.g., prostate or breast cancer) will be offered the opportunity to participate. Study participants will be randomized to receive either testosterone (5 mg transdermally each night) or placebo (matching transdermal patch) daily in a double-blind fashion for the duration of their hospital course (expected average duration of study is 29 days). Subjects will then receive their rehabilitation as usual, with all members of the health care team blinded as to whether the subject is receiving testosterone or placebo. At baseline, weekly, at discharge, and at 6 and 12 months after discharge, subjects will be assessed using validated measures (i.e., Functional Independence Measure - FIM). Our hypothesis is that testosterone supplementation, as an adjunct to traditional rehabilitation therapy, will improve rehabilitation outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Our overall goal is to determine the safety and efficacy of testosterone supplementation as an adjunct to traditional rehabilitation therapy on health outcomes in deconditioned older men. Specifically, we will conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled trial to test the hypothesis that supplementation with testosterone improves rehabilitation outcomes in deconditioned older men. We will use objective validated measures (i.e., FIM, muscle strength) to assess health outcomes.

We will begin enrolling subjects within three months of receipt of funding, and study 60 subjects (30 in each group) within 24 months. All subjects will undergo follow-up evaluation 6 and 12 months after completion of inpatient rehabilitation and cessation of testosterone supplementation. Therefore, this project will be completed within 3 years. Our short term goal (within 3 years) is to delineate the safety and efficacy of testosterone supplementation on rehabilitation outcomes in deconditioned older men. Our long range goal is to determine whether other hormones (e.g., combined testosterone and growth hormone) are helpful as an adjunct to traditional rehabilitation therapy in the care of older men

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  Not specified

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Testosterone supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00037999
