CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03395119
Title: Efficacy of Fish Oil or Olive Oil Supplementation on the Health Effects of Ozone Exposure in Healthy Young Subjects
Official Title: Efficacy of Fish Oil or Olive Oil Supplementation on the Health Effects of Ozone Exposure in Healthy Young Subjects
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Purpose: A growing body of epidemiological data suggests an increased risk of cardiovascular events associated with air pollution. One of the common air pollutants, ozone, has been shown to induce oxidative stress and inflammation in the cardiovascular and respiratory systems. This proposed study is to examine the efficacy of fish oil and olive oil in modulating cardiovascular and pulmonary functions after ozone exposure. The objective is to understand the mechanistic basis for the health effects of ozone relative to those air pollutants. Treatment groups will include forty healthy young adults who will be given dietary supplementation of fish oil or olive oil. A control group will consist of 20 healthy volunteers who will receive no supplements. After 4 weeks, subjects will be exposed to clean air for 2 hours on the first day, then ozone for 2 hours on the second day. Cardiac rhythm, pulmonary function, vascular responses, endothelial function, and markers of coagulation and airway inflammation pre- and post- ozone exposure will be measured. This study is designed to build on the previous nutritional supplement interventional studies (UNC IRB # 07-0190 and UNC IRB # 11-1807), in order to understand the mechanism of action of particulate pollutants in comparison to that of ozone, a known oxidant air contaminant.

Participants: A total of sixty healthy 18-35 year-old male and female subjects will be involved in the study.

Procedures (methods): Forty healthy young adults will receive dietary supplementation consisting of fish oil or olive oil for 4 weeks. The control group includes 20 healthy volunteers who will receive no supplements in the study. After 4 weeks of supplementation or control regiment, each subject will be exposed to clean air for 2 hours on the first day, then ozone for 2 hours on the second day.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Ozone pollution is a common problem across the world, including in the US. This proposed study is to examine the efficacy of fish oil and olive oil in modulating cardiovascular and pulmonary functions after ozone exposure. Results from this study will also increase our understanding of how ozone exposure adversely affects the functioning of the human cardiovascular and respiratory systems. This understanding may be especially important for patients with cardiopulmonary diseases.

Approximately 60 people will participate in this study.

You should expect to be in this study for about a month, but your participation could possibly last for 6 months. There are 4 sessions, including a consenting session (today) which will last for about 4 hours. The two exposure-day sessions will last approximately 8-9 hours each. There will also be an approximately 3-hour follow-up visit the day after your last exposure.

What will happen if you take part in the study? Before you agree to participate in this study, you must read the consent forms in their entirety. The research and medical staff will then answer all your questions and explain all the risks involved in this study to your satisfaction.

You should have already undergone a general physical examination to ensure that you are a suitable candidate for this study. If you are a female, you will be asked about your menstrual history. For all other female participants, a pregnancy test will be performed today, and this will be repeated on the exposure day if more than 7 days since last pregnancy test.

Consenting Day We will go over the study in detail so that you will know what we will expect from you as a participant and what you should expect from us as investigators. If you agree to participate in the study, you will sign all study consent forms and receive one set of signed copies.

You will have a breathing test (spirometry). You will breathe through a filter into a plastic device. Your lung function test results should meet certain criteria (Both Forced Vital Capacity (FVC) and Forced Expiatory Volume at the 1st second (FEV1) are equal to and greater than 80% of the reference value) to allow you to participate in the study.

You will undergo a procedure for for induced sputum. If you are a non-producer or the quality of the induced sputum sample that you produce does not meet the study criteria (we will know the sputum quality in the next two days), we will exclude you from the study. If that happens, you will be reimbursed for the time and procedures for the consenting session. If you qualify, you will be given instructions to prepare for the exposure sessions. Then you will be scheduled for the exposure sessions.

You will be give dietary supplementation of fish oil, olive oil or placebo for 4 weeks. Dietary and medication instructions will be given to restrict certain types of food and medicines during the supplementation period.

Exposure days We will call you a few days before the exposure session

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in forced expired volume in the first second (FEV1) from air exposure (Day 1) to ozone exposure (Day 2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Ozone
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Fish Oil
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Olive Oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03395119
