CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06401681
Title: Cross-Education for Chronic Ankle Instability
Official Title: Cross-Education Effects of Balance Training in Individuals With Chronic Ankle Instability
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Chronic ankle instability (CAI) results in neuromuscular impairments compromising balance, lumbopelvic stability, and hip strength. Balance training has proven to be an effective intervention for individuals with CAI. Additionally, unilateral balance training for those with CAI has previously led to cross-education effects in which the untrained limb exhibited improved balance performance. However, the ability of unilateral balance training to improve contralateral hip strength and lumbopelvic stability in those with CAI is unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine the cross-education effects of balance training on hip strength and lumbopelvic stability in individuals with CAI.

Thirty individuals with CAI will be randomized into control (CON) and balance (BAL) groups. Baseline testing include a unilateral hip bridge, hip strength, and balance tests of the uninvolved limb. For the unilateral hip bridge, the participant will hold a bridge through the test limb for maximum time. Isometric hip strength will be measured for external rotation (ER), extension (EXT), and abduction (ABD) using a handheld dynamometer. The star excursion balance test (SEBT) requires participants to maintain a single-leg stance while reaching for maximum distance with the opposite leg in three directions: anterior (SEBT-ANT), posterolateral (SEBT-PL), and posteromedial (SEBT-PM). The BAL group will participate in a progressive balance training program three times a week for eight weeks for the involved limb, whereas CON will not. All baseline measures will be reassessed at the end of the 8 weeks. Separate 2-way repeated measures ANOVAs will analyze the effects of group and time on each outcome. Additionally, each group's mean changes from baseline to post-intervention will be assessed with Cohen's d effect sizes. Statistical significance is set a priori at P\<0.05.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Star Excursion Balance Test of the Uninvolved Limb
  - Isometric hip strength of the Uninvolved Limb
  - Lumbopelvic stability of the Uninvolved Limb

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Balance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06401681
