CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01496144
Title: Manual Therapy on the Improvement of Functional Disability in Patients With Chronic Non Specific Low Back Pain
Official Title: Manual Therapy Followed by Specific Active Exercises Versus a Placebo Followed by Specific Active Exercises on the Improvement of Functional Disability in Patients With Chronic Non Specific Low Back Pain: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Background: Models have tried to explain the driving mechanisms behind chronic non specific low back pain (CNSLBP) in order to propose better appropriate conservative treatment. Altered responses at spinal and/or supraspinal level may affect the perception of pain and degree of disability of CNSLBP patients. Recent clinical recommendations still propose active exercises (AE) for CNSLBP. However, acceptance of exercises by patients may be limited by pain-related manifestations. Current evidences suggest manual therapy (MT) induces a short-term analgesic effect through neurophysiological mechanisms at peripheral, spinal and cortical levels. The aim of this study was first, to assess whether MT has an instant analgesic effect, and second, to compare the long-lasting effect on functional disability of MT followed by AE to sham therapy (ST) followed by AE. Methods: Forty-two CNSLBP patients without co-morbidities, randomly distributed into 2 treatment groups, received either spinal manipulation/mobilization (first intervention) plus AE (MT group; n = 22), or detuned ultrasound (first intervention) plus AE (ST group; n = 20). Eight therapeutic sessions were delivered over 4 to 8 weeks. Instant analgesic effect was obtained by measuring pain intensity (Visual Analogue Scale) before and immediately after the first intervention of each therapeutic session. Pain intensity, disability (Oswestry Disability Index) and fear-avoidance beliefs (Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire) were determined before treatment, after the 8th therapeutic session, and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale - VAS-pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Manual therapy and active exercises
  - PROCEDURE: Detuned ultrasound and active exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01496144
