CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03259178
Title: Correlation Between Changes in Measures of the Visual System and Changes in Concussion-associated Symptoms
Official Title: Correlation Between Changes in Measures of the Visual System and Changes in Concussion-associated Symptoms
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Sports-related concussion affect 1.6 to 3.8 million people each year in the United States. Despite increased media attention and awareness campaigns, the exact number is difficult to determine due to underreporting by athletes. The types of symptoms experienced with a concussion depend on the area of the brain that was affected. The most frequent symptoms include: headaches, cognitive difficulties, dizziness, neck pain, visual disturbances, difficulty sleeping, and fatigue.

Despite the availability of many treatment options, some patients continue to experience many symptoms - such as headaches, dizziness, visual disturbances, balance problems, sensitivity to light, and difficulties concentrating - that negatively affect school, work, and quality of life for long periods of time. All of these symptoms are similarly experienced by individuals with visual dysfunctions, such as the inability of the eyes to move together. This findinGHas led some to recommend a visual component in concussion management. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine whether changes in the results of 7 binocular vision tests (BVT) over time in patients with concussion correlate with changes in concussion symptoms. The investigators will measure 46 concussion patients aged 18 to 30 years with each of these tests and assess their concussion symptoms on up to four separate visits, which depend on when the patient's symptoms improve.

The tests the investigators will evaluate measure: 3D vision, uniform movement of the eyes, ability of the eyes to adapt to a target moving towards and/or away from the eyes, quick movements of the eyes, natural alignment of the eyes, and double vision as a target is moved towards the eyes. In addition, concussion symptoms will be measured by a standardized concussion questionnaire (SCAT3) at each visit.

The results of each BVT will be entered into a statistical model with the participant's concussion symptom score to determine if there is an association between the change in symptoms and the change in the results of the tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sports-related concussion affect 1.6 to 3.8 million people each year in the United States. Despite increased media attention and awareness campaigns, the exact incidence is difficult to determine due to underreporting by athletes. Concussion is defined as a set of pathological reactions leading to direct damage of the brain, which may occur from a direct or indirect blow to the head. The types of symptoms experienced depend on the area of the brain that was affected. The most frequent symptoms include: headaches, cognitive difficulties, dizziness, neck pain, visual disturbances, difficulty sleeping, and fatigue.

Despite the availability of many treatment options such as neurological and psychological tests, some patients continue to experience many symptoms - such as headaches, dizziness, visual disturbances, balance problems, sensitivity to light, and difficulties concentrating - that negatively affect school, work, and quality of life for long periods of time. All of these symptoms are similarly experienced by individuals with visual dysfunctions such as dysfunctions of binocular function or convergence insufficiency. This findinGHas led some to recommend a visual component in concussion management. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine if changes in the results of 7 binocular vision tests (BVT) over time in patients with concussion correlate with changes in concussion symptoms.

The investigators will measure 46 concussion patients with each of these tests and the SCAT3 on up to 4 separate milestone time points as described below:

* M1 = baseline; as soon as possible after recruitment
* M2 = when participants qualitatively feel that their concussion symptoms have "significantly improved"
* M3 = when participants are symptom-free at with activity for 1 week, or at 3 months post-enrolment in the study, whichever comes first. This milestone will also be the last measurement and mark the end of their participation.
* M\* = Participants who do not have significant improvement (i.e. M2) within 2 weeks of baseline testing will also be tested at the 2-week mark. They will still be tested at both M2 and M3.

Demographic information relevant to the study will be collected in order to appropriately describe the population and evaluate the potential effect modification of these factors on the observed correlations. Demographic variables to be recorded include: age, sex, highest level of education achieved, the use of corrective lenses for vision problems, occupation, any relevant past medical history (i.e. migraines, vision problems, medication, etc.), the main sports activity the athlete is involved in, and the last of activities that the athlete will be returning to after healing, with an emphasis on high risk activities for concussions. Furthermore, information relevant to the concussion event will be recorded to characterize the injury. This includes information regarding the accident resulting in concussion, activity at the time of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Correlation between the change in 5 of the 7 BVT and only concussion symptoms that affect those particular BVTs.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03259178
