CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05098496
Title: Normative Values of Functional Fitness in Elderly Population
Official Title: Normative Values of Functional Fitness in Elderly Population
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 500
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Frailty is a multidimensional concept that influences several domains , such as body mass decline, gait ,mobility, balance ,muscle strength ,motor processing ,cognition, nutrition endurance, and physical activity, and its directly related to adverse consequences such as falls ,disability the need for long term care , hospitalization and even mortality. As the elderly have twice as many disabilities and four times as many physical limitations as people less than 60 years of age. There is a need to focus on this demographic shift and Aging population Pakistan increasing double in 2050 hence is has become a new challenge. So, Effective approaches is needed to help older people maintain a healthy and active life. The main objective is to determine reference values of senior fitness test SFT for elderly population. The Senior Fitness Test is a battery of tests for the assessment of the functional fitness of older persons. This test will assess the physiological capacity for carrying out normal daily activities independently and safely without the appearance of fatigue. For this study cross sectional survey will conduct and will use non probability convenience sampling technique , sample size will be 500 both male and female and conducted from Heaven old age homes and Dar ul Khilafa old age home, Lahore. Inclusion criteria includes subject 60 and above , living Subjects 60 years and above, living independently (not community dwelling, hospitals, nurse homes etc ), perform ADLS. Exclusion criteria includes if not willing to participate, any medical contraindication, unable to speech ,functional disability .All the analysis will be carried out on SPSS v -25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
According to the world health organization WHO, the proportion of older people above 60 is growing more rapidly than any other age group. Within this group not everyone reach old age successfully. Although the common rule is that increasing age is related to decreasing well-being and increasing levels of frailty. It is also true that individual with same chronological age can vary in health and functional status . Functional fitness is a way to help people perform daily tasks with ease. It includes exercises that mimic the movements of daily activities. Walking, squatting, bending, pushing, and pulling are examples. Three key elements of functional fitness for seniors are balance, mobility, and strength. Improving these three aspects of physical fitness helps seniors: Maintain a healthy body weight, Reduce the risk of falling, Make activities of daily living easier, Boost emotional health. The discovery of effective interventions to prevent or delay disability in older persons is a public health priority. The geriatric assessment designed to manage frail older people requiring medical care, is responsible for early diagnosis , assessment, treatment, and planning while addressing a person's medical, psychological, social, and functional capabilities.

The purpose of study to highlights age-related differences in physical abilities and the risk for the loss of independence in later life. High walkability of the living environment provides opportunities for physical activity in old age, but among those with physical limitations especially, awareness of environmental facilitators may be needed to promote physical activity. The main objective of this research will be to provide normative values of functional fitness in 60 and above seniors citizens of Pakistan .Research results will enable preparing an effective intervention strategy for maintaining mobility and functional independence of elderly people.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Senior Fitness Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05098496
