CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05742373
Title: Role of Fasted Exercise on Improving Cardiometabolic Health
Official Title: Investigating the Role of Fasted Exercise on Improving Cardiometabolic Health; a Potential Mediatory Role of Sirtuins
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The aim of this randomised control trial is to investigate the role of fasted exercise on cardiometabolic health. Participants will be assigned to one of three conditions, fasted exercise, fed exercise and control (no exercise). Participants in the exercise groups will complete four weeks of moderate intensity cycling exercise, three times per week, either in the fasted or fed state according to their group assignment. Experimental trials involving anthropometric and cardiometabolic disease risk factor measurements as well as metabolic responses to a subsequent meal ingestion following exercise will be compared pre-intervention and post intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of fasted exercise on cardiometabolic health and the potential mediatory role of sirtuins.

The objectives are to investigate:

1. The effect of a single bout of fasted exercise on acute metabolic responses following a high fat meal.
2. The effect of four weeks of fasted exercise training on cardiovascular and metabolic disease risk factors.
3. The effect of four weeks of fasted exercise training on circulating levels and subcutaneous adipose tissue gene expression of SIRT1, SIRT3 and SIRT6.

A randomised control trial will be conducted with volunteers allocated under the conditions of a) no exercise (control), b) fasted exercise training (FASTEX) and c) fed exercise training (FEDEX). The pre- and post-intervention visits will consist of 50 minutes of cycling at a moderate exercise intensity for both the FASTEX and FEDEX groups. The control group would not perform any exercise. The FASTEX group will perform the exercise in the fasted state, whilst the FEDEX and control groups will be fed a standardised breakfast meal one hour in advance of the exercise period. Following the exercise period, the participants will be fed a high fat meal and metabolic responses to the meal will be measured for four hours. Multiple blood samples will be obtained as well as a sample of subcutaneous adipose (fat) tissue. The FASTEX and FEDEX groups will then complete four weeks of moderate intensity continuous exercise training, either fasted or fed according to their group, on three days per week whilst the control group will maintain their normal sedentary lifestyle. All participants will return to the laboratory for post-intervention testing at the end of the four weeks with the same protocols and measurements as the pre-intervention testing.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in circulating concentrations of key metabolic markers following a high fat lunch meal
  - Changes in circulating concentrations of key metabolic markers during the experimental trial day
  - Area under the circulating concentration versus time curve (AUC) of key metabolic markers following a high fat lunch meal
  - Changes in cardiovascular and metabolic disease biochemistry risk factors
  - Changes in cardiovascular disease physiological risk factors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training in the fasted state
  - OTHER: Exercise training in the fed state

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05742373
