CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05645562
Title: Pain Education Program in the Sport Population
Official Title: Effects of the Pain Education Program in the Sport Population
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to evaluate the effects of a pain neuroscience education program in pain perception, wellness and pain catastrophizing of youth athletes. For this, an experimental study with an intervention group (IG) and a control group (CG) is designed. During 12 weeks of the 2022-2023 season, CG will receive a self-care education program, with information about health habits in the sport (rest, nutrition, body care and recovery). Meanwhile, IG will also receive a pain neuroscience education program, with information about biological, psychological and perceptual aspect of pain in the sports context. The study will be developed in the Sport High Performance Centre of Balearic Islands, from January to May. All athletes from this sports centre will be invited to participate in the study throughout an e-mail invitation from their sport regional federation. Prior to the beginning of the study, all participants will sign the inform consent. The Ethical Committee of the local university approved this study (280CER22). One week before intervention period, all athletes will be required to complete questionnaire about sociodemographic and sportive data (age, sex, and sport experience). Body mass and height will be also evaluated. Also, all the athletes will be required to complete three questionnaires about pain level, wellness and pain catastrophizing. Pain level and wellness will be evaluated prior to the start of the intervention and weekly, until finishing the intervention period. The pain catastrophizing level will be evaluated before and after the intervention period of the study. We hypothesized that those athletes who receive the pain neuroscience education program will increase wellness and decrease pain level and catastrophizing perception compared to those athletes who received a self-care educational program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Wellness level
  - Pain level
  - Pain catastrophizing level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pain neuroscience education program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Self-care education program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05645562
