CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01814215
Title: Keys to Healthy Family Child Care Homes
Official Title: The Business of Childcare Homes & Child Health: Innovations for Nurturing Growth
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 805
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this project is to evaluate the efficacy of a 9-month Family Child Care Home (FCCH)-based intervention, Keys to Healthy Family Child Care Homes, to increase the physical activity and improve the diet quality of children (1.5 to 4.9 years).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Childhood obesity is a major public health problem and an important predictor of obesity later in life. Although early childhood is a formative period for dietary and activity habits, little research targeting this young age group has been conducted. Child care facilities are a prime setting for interventions targeting young children, given the number of families using some form of out-of-home care. Family child care homes (FCCH) are a particular type of child care facility in which the provider cares for children out of his/her own residence. FCCHs are generally less regulated than child care centers, and a significant percentage do not meet established recommendations for physical activity and nutrition practices. While there is a great need to intervene in these settings, there has been only one other published obesity prevention intervention in FCCHs to date. Interventions targeting FCCH providers could help promote healthy child weight by creating child care environments that provide and support active play opportunities and healthy food choices, while helping providers become role models for healthy lifestyles (physical activity and diet). However, the child care industry is faced with many challenges, including limited profitability. By incorporating strategies for overcoming some of these economic challenges, interventions may be able to more easily address barriers to implementing and sustaining the changes needed to promote regular physical activity and healthy dietary intakes in children.

This project will use a cluster-randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of the 9-month intervention, Keys to Healthy Family Child Care Homes, which targets FCCHs. Keys will be delivered in three modules which are designed to promote (1) provider health and providers as healthy role models, (2) physical activity- and nutrition-supportive environments at the FCCH, and (3) healthy business practices. Each module will be delivered via group workshops, on-site visits and phone contacts using Motivational Interviewing-inspired coaching and educational toolkits. By combining these components, the ultimate objective is to create healthy and stable FCCHs that promote healthy physical activity and eating behaviors in children.

The project will recruit and randomize 165 FCCHs (83 per arm). At each FCCH, subjects will include one child care provider and 3 children (we are targeting children between the ages of 1.5 and 4 years old, but one to two additional children who are younger than 18 months may also take part in height and weight measurements only). These 165 FCCHs and 825 children (495 children ages 1.5-4.9 years old and 330 children ages younger than 18 months) will be recruited in five waves over the course of 3 years, each wave enrolling 30 or more FCCHs (half assigned to each study arm). For recruitment, we will target areas with lower income households and with higher prevalence of child overweight/obesity within a 100 mile radius of t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Child Physical Activity
  - Change in Child Dietary Intake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Keys to Healthy Family Child Care Homes

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Months to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01814215
