CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06185790
Title: MItochondrial Diabetes LOw Carb- Diet Study
Official Title: The Effect of a Low Carbohydrate- High Fat Diet on Clinical Symptoms and Gut Microbiome in m.3243A>G Related Mitochondrial Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
In daily practice, doctors and dietitians in the clinic receive many questions in general from patients with a Mitochondrial Disease (MD), and more specific whether nutritional changes can alleviate their symptoms. Mitochondrial Inherited Diabetes and Deafness (MIDD) is due to a mitochondrial mutation at the m.3243A\>G locus. Nutrition is known to affect disease burden in MIDD. Which diet does this best is unknown. Very low carbohydrate high fat diets improve mitochondrial function in isolated cells and in mice. Whether it does so in people with MIDD is unknown. Therefore, the objective of the study is to explore the effect of a low carbohydrate- high fat diet (LCHF) on clinical symptoms (Goal Attainment Scaling) and gut microbiome in patients with MIDD due to the m.3243A\>G mutation. A total of 20 adult patients with the above mentioned characteristics will be randomized to receive first usual care during three months (control period), followed by LCHF dietary intervention for the next three months (intervention period), or vice versa.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mitochondrial disease (MD) is a clinically and genetically heterogenous group of disorders. The dysfunction of the mitochondrial respiratory chain results in ATP shortage and energy depletion resulting in multi system disease. Therapeutic interventions are currently limited and focus on relieving symptoms, since no curative therapies exist. The m.3243A\>G related MD is presumably the most frequent MD affecting at least 1 in 5000 people, and the MIDD (Mitochondrial Inherited Diabetes and Deafness) phenotype is its most frequent clinical phenotype. The role of nutrition, providing the essential nutrients for mitochondria to produce energy, is an important disease modifier in MIDD.

A ketogenic diet (KD) is a very low-carbohydrate ( ±20 grams a day) high-fat diet that shifts metabolism towards β-oxidation and ketone body production. In cell studies and mice models for MD, ketone bodies or KD significantly affect different dimensions of mitochondrial function. KD has been proven to effectively treat intractable epilepsy in children with MD. The investigators recently performed a 12 week pilot study with KD in 20 adults with different types of mtDNA related MD. The KD improved glucose tolerance, yielded less migraine, and alleviated gastrointestinal symptoms. Despite these positive effects, it proved the KD is a difficult diet to follow and only 8/20 participants finished the 12 week KD intervention. The individuals with m.3243A\>G related MD had the longest diet adherence. Because of the positive effects, over half of all participants switched to the more feasible and less restrictive low carbohydrate (± 50-100 gram/dag), high fat (LCHF) diet after completing the study. The positive effect of KD on the subtype of m.3243A\>G related MD was very recently confirmed in another study. The LCHF diet however provides no ketone bodies and its effect in mitochondrial disease is not studied properly yet.

In irritable bowel syndrome, specific dietary regimens as low-fermentable, oligo-, di-, monosaccharides and polyols (FODMAPs) but also LCHF diets are considered therapeutic. A diet low in fermentable carbohydrates reduces the fermentation by the gut microbiota and is therefore thought to reduce bloating and other gastro intestinal complaints. Based on the results of a previous study from the investigators and the effect of LCHF diets in irritable bowel syndrome, the investigators hypothesize the same positive effect in the cohort of m.3243A\>G related MD in which gastro intestinal complaints are very common.

An adult diabetes team studied the gut microbiome and observed significant differences in various species and pathways between the faecal stool samples of diabetes patients and healthy controls, and that gut microbiome composition is associated with glycemic control. The gut microbiome is a very promising study field. More insight in patients gut microbiome and the way it can be altered with nutrition could lead to new treatment options and symptom relie

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Goal Attainment Scaling (GAS)
  - Faecal microbiome composition analyses via DNA isolation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: LCHF diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06185790
