CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05704699
Title: Effect of Early Eating and Stair Climbing on Body Composition
Official Title: Effect of Early Time Restricted Eating and Brief Intense Stair Climbing on Body Composition
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
To our knowledge, as of this day there are only four studies which examined the effects of eTRE with a duration of 12 weeks. There are no studies that examined this phenomenon beyond 12 weeks, one study that lasted five weeks and four studies that lasted 4 weeks or less, some even days. The four studies that lasted 12 weeks in duration all have opportunities to improve upon, which will be discussed here. The first study performed by Gabel et al., focused primarily on measuring body weight, not body composition in older adults. The eating window also began later in the morning at 1000h and finished at 1800h. There also was no restriction on participants consuming caffeine during the fasting window. The second study conducted by Gasmi et al., was focused on strictly older male participants that were active and healthy, again, without measuring body composition. The third study conducted by Wilkinson et al., did not measure body composition and the eating window lasted 10 hours instead of 8. The fourth study performed by Chow et al., examined eTRE with adults aged 45+/-12 years old and did not mention any exclusion criteria based upon physical activity levels or restrictions on caffeine/artificial sweetener intake during the fasting window. Furthermore, none of the studies mentioned above examined eTRE against eTRE with Brief Intense Stair Climbing (BISC) directly. We believe that the proposed study will address the concerns mentioned previously and further knowledge associated with eTRE.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Composition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: eTRE
  - BEHAVIORAL: eTRE with BISC

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05704699
