CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06400329
Title: Physiological Impact of Different Types of Osteoarthritis Education.
Official Title: Evaluating the Physiological Impact of Pain Neuroscience Education Versus Standard Education for Older Adults With Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 37
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
In this study, the investigators are comparing two types of education for older adults with knee osteoarthritis: standard biomedical education focusing on the disease process, and a newer approach called pain neuroscience education (PNE), which teaches about the complexity of pain and dispels myths. While PNE has shown benefits in self-reported pain and function, little is known about its effects on physiological responses to pain.

the investigators will measure physiological indicators, particularly activity in the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which is closely linked to pain. Dysregulation in the ANS is common in chronic pain conditions like osteoarthritis. Our study aims to assess the feasibility of comparing these education methods and explore differences in physiological responses, as well as self-reported outcomes like cognitive and emotional factors.

Our goals are to determine if the study protocol is feasible, assess participants' acceptance of the assessment procedures, and explore differences in physiological markers and self-reported outcomes between the two education groups. Ultimately, the investigators aim to understand how different educational approaches may affect nervous system processing in older adults with knee osteoarthritis. the investigators hypothesize that those receiving PNE will show less autonomic arousal and nervous system sensitivity compared to those receiving standard education.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Education and understanding of musculoskeletal (MSK) pain is known to be important for individuals and can improve patient outcomes (i.e. pain and function)(1). Many years ago, it became apparent that there was a vast disconnect between the scientific understanding of pain (i.e. its protective function, its complexity, and the most effective ways of treating it) and the current understanding of 'how pain works' held by patients and health professionals alike(2), one that was entrenched in an outdated biomedical model. Traditionally education has focused on the disease process which can have a negative impact with its language and images due to its focus on structural pathology.(3) Additionally, despite the known benefits of certain interventions e.g. exercise for MSK disorders, people may be wrongly advised that too much exercise could cause joint pain and damage.(4) Many of these poorly construed messages are due to a lack of understanding of the impact of such language, the complexity of the pain experience, and its lack of correlation with what the investigators now consider to be normal age-related changes seen on imaging.(2) The aim of intensive education about pain neuroscience was to give credibility to the best treatments available - active, psychological and self-management skills by providing a modern understanding of how pain works with the hope of giving power and agency to individuals to make optimal decisions about how to manage their health situation. Simply put, PNE aimed to enable and empower patients to adopt a biopsychosocial understanding of their problem and thereby pursue a biopsychosocial-based approach to overcoming it.(2) PNE involves the process of educating individuals about the complexity of pain and how our bodies process pain. It also seeks to dispel many of the myths long held by the public regarding MSK disorders(5). Despite PNE showing consistent positive effects on self-reported pain and function, there has been a growing debate in the literature regarding its value(6,7) Interestingly, there has been little to no evaluation of how differing approaches to education impacts people's physiological reactions and nervous system processing of pain. This project will fill that gap by providing unique understanding of how the type of educational content provided to older adults with knee osteoarthritis may impact their nervous system functioning and processing of pain.

Measuring pain remains a challenge, especially from a psycho-physiological aspect(8). Among various physiological indicators, the activity of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), specifically its sympathetic and parasympathetic subdivisions, is closely associated with pain (9). Enhanced activity in the sympathetic nervous system leads to increased electrodermal activity (sweating), respiration rate, heart rate, blood pressure, vascular vasoconstriction, and pupil dilation. In states of chronic pain, the autonomic nervous system may experience dysregulation

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Burden of the assessments
  - feasibility outcomes (recruitment rate)
  - Feasibility outcomes (Educational content and format acceptability)
  - Feasibility outcomes (Lab Site accessibility/ Participant Convenience)
  - Feasibility outcomes (Scheduling of Lab assessments)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pain Neuroscience Education
  - OTHER: Standard Pain Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06400329
