CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02258295
Title: Hyaluronate Injection for Lateral Epicondylitis
Official Title: Hyaluronate Injection for Lateral Epicondylitis: A Double-blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This proposal is a prospective, randomized, double-blinded study to evaluate the efficacy of hyaluronic acid (HA) injections for chronic lateral epicondylitis (LE). HA has traditionally been used to treat knee osteoarthritis. There are a small number of studies in the literature that suggest that HA injections can be very effective for tendinosis. Although LE has been studied with literally hundreds of articles published, very little treatment has proven to be efficacious. This study will investigate the effectiveness of hyaluronate in treatment of chronic LE. This will include a two arm study with one formulation of HA tested against saline injections as the control.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients will be randomized and blinded into one of the two arms. Patients will receive 3 injections total spaced over a 4 week period. After the injections are completed, patients will return for evaluation at 3, 6 and 12 months from the initial injection. A total of 72 patients will be divided into the 2 groups. The questionnaires will be administered by a research assistant blinded to the randomization. Three different outcomes measures will be collected, all patient-oriented including the Patient Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE), Visual Analog Score (VAS) for pain while at rest and with maximum grip, and the short form Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (quickDASH).

The primary outcome measure will be the VAS for pain at 3 months from the initial injection. All measures will be evaluated at baseline then again at 12 months from the initial injection.

HA formulation will be Intragel (IBSA) which include 2cc with a concentration of 16mg per 2cc. The molecular weight with Intragel averaging 800-1200 kiloDaltons.

The syringes will be coded and the injections blinded. The injections will be given 1cm distal to the lateral epicondyle at the site of maximum tenderness. The needle will be introduced to the depth of the bone then withdrawn 1-2mm. The injection will be given in two locations in and around the point of maximum tenderness.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Score (VAS) for pain with maximum grip.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Intragel
  - DRUG: Saline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02258295
