CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06358170
Title: Effects of Circuit Training Combine With Square-Stepping Exercise, Strength Training and Balance Training on Senior Fitness and Fall Risk in Elderly in the Community
Official Title: Effects of Circuit Training Combine With Square-Stepping Exercise, Strength Training and Balance Training on Senior Fitness and Fall Risk in Elderly in the Community
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 126
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
According to the cause of death statistics compiled by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2022, among the causes of death among the elderly, falls ranked second among the causes of death from accidental injuries over the age of 65. Exercise has been proven to prevent falls in many studies, especially Square-Stepping Exercise can not only train strength and balance, but also improve cognitive function and reduce the fear of falling in the elderly. Therefore, this study will use Square-Stepping Exercise as the core and circuit training as the structure to design a set of exercise training that combines muscle strength and balance and is easy to implement in the community. The purpose of the study is to determine whether exercise training that combines circuit training with block stepping, muscle strength, and balance exercises can reduce the risk of falls among elderly people in the community (primary results: muscle strength, flexibility, cardiorespiratory endurance, balance; secondary results: cognitive function, Fear of falling, fall rate). This study will collect participant in the community, and subjects will be randomly assigned to the experimental group and the control group on a community basis. The experimental group will receive 12 weeks of exercise training, while the control group will follow their usual lifestyle, with 48 people in each group. The experimental design is exercise intervention for 12 weeks, twice a week, 90 minutes each time (30 minutes of main exercise). The exercise is designed into two stages according to the difficulty of Square-Stepping Exercise. The training of muscle strength and dynamic/static balance will also gradually increase in difficulty over the weeks. The research look forward to seeing the effects of multi-component exercise on physical fitness, cognitive function, fear of falling and fall rate.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
With the improvement of medical and sanitation, the average life expectancy of human beings around the world has gradually increased, which has led to the trend of an aging society. Therefore, the health issues of the elderly have received more attention. Aging should cause impairment of human body functions, including significant decline in sensory systems (vision, hearing, vestibular, proprioception, etc.), muscle strength, muscle endurance, balance, and gait functions, which may increase accidental falls or injuries. risks. According to the cause of death statistics compiled by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2022, among the causes of death among the elderly, falls ranked second among the causes of death from accidental injuries over the age of 65. According to the literature, it was found that most of the causes of falls among the elderly are related to internal factors (including decreased muscle strength, balance, and cognitive function), and exercise has been proven to prevent falls in many studies, especially Square-Stepping Exercise can not only train strength and balance, but also improve cognitive function and reduce the fear of falling in the elderly. It is an intervention method that is easy to implement in the community. Compared with traditional resistance training, circuit training is shorter duration and lower intensity, which may increase compliance with training assistance. Also, can make up for shortcomings of Square-Stepping Exercise. Training takes turns, resulting in long waiting times for a class. In experiments on exercise intervention, it was found that multicomponent exercise combined with a variety of exercises is more effective in preventing falls than a single type of exercise. Therefore, this study will use Square-Stepping Exercise as the core and circuit training as the structure to design a set of exercise training that combines muscle strength and balance and is easy to implement in the community. The purpose of the study is to determine whether exercise training that combines circuit training with block stepping, muscle strength, and balance exercises can reduce the risk of falls among elderly people in the community (primary results: muscle strength, flexibility, cardiorespiratory endurance, balance; secondary results: cognitive function, Fear of falling, fall rate). This study will collect participant in the community, and subjects will be randomly assigned to the experimental group and the control group on a community basis. The experimental group will receive 12 weeks of exercise training, while the control group will follow their usual lifestyle, with 48 people in each group. The experimental design is exercise intervention for 12 weeks, twice a week, 90 minutes each time (30 minutes of main exercise). The exercise is designed into two stages according to the difficulty of Square-Stepping Exercise. The training of muscle strength and dynamic/static balance will also gradually increase in difficulty ov

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Senior Fitness - upper body muscle strength (Arm Curl Test)
  - Senior Fitness - lower body muscle strength (Chair Stand Test )
  - Senior Fitness - upper body flexibility (Back Scratch Test)
  - Senior Fitness - lower body flexibility (Chair Sit and Reach Test)
  - Senior Fitness - cardio respiratory endurance ( 2 Minute Step in Place Test)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Circuit Training Combine with Square-Stepping Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06358170
