CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04463199
Title: Effects of Deep Cervical Flexors Training On Forward Head Posture, Neck Pain and Functional Status
Official Title: Effects of Deep Cervical Flexors Training On Forward Head Posture, Neck Pain and Functional Status in Adolescent Children Using Computer Regularly
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Using computer for long hours is related to higher risk of computer related muscular disorders like forward head posture and neck pain. Deep cervical flexor muscles are important head-on-neck posture stabilizers thus their training may lead to improvement in forward head posture (FHP) and neck pain (NP).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In contemporary societies, computer use by children is a necessity and thus highly prevalent. Using computer for long hours is related to higher risk of computer-related muscular disorders like forward head posture and neck pain. Deep cervical flexor muscles are important head-on-neck posture stabilizers thus their training may lead to improvement in forward head posture (FHP) and neck pain (NP). Aim of study was to determine if 4 weeks of deep cervical flexors training is effective in alleviating neck pain and improving forward head posture in adolescent children using computer regularly. A pretest-posttest experimental group design was used. Subjects were randomly assigned into control group (receiving postural advice only) and experimental group (receiving deep cervical flexor training and postural advice). Dependent variables were measured on day 0 (at baseline) and after 4weeks of training. The photographic analysis was used for measuring forward head posture, visual analog scale (VAS) for neck pain intensity and Neck Disability Index (NDI) for functional disability. Experimental group received craniocervical flexion training for 4 weeks and postural advice. Control group received only postural advice.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in craniovertebral angle

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Craniocervical flexion training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04463199
