CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01066091
Title: Postprandial Inflammatory Response in Healthy Men: Effect of Dietary Fat Source, Obesity and Age
Official Title: Postprandial Inflammatory Response in Healthy Men: Effect of Dietary Fat Source, Obesity and Age
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The nature of dietary lipids, age and perivisceral adiposity could alter the postprandial inflammatory response. It is supposed that there is a relationship between the postprandial inflammatory response and the repartition of fat and lean mass, which could partially explain the muscle mass loss with age.

The aim of this study is to compare the inflammatory response of a normal meal or high fat meal (from different fatty acids sources) between young lean and young obese and aged lean and aged obese men.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
32 healthy volunteers will be separated into four groups: 8 young lean men, 8 young obese men, 8 aged lean men and 8 aged obese men. They will come to the center four times after inclusion, with 2 to 4 weeks wash out each time. At the first visit they will undergo different test to evaluate their body composition, glucose tolerance, resting energy expenditure, and muscular strength. At the other three visits, people will undergo a kinetic blood sampling, urine and biopsies of adipose tissue over a period of 8h after ingestion of a test meal. The different meals tested (Oleic acid vs palmitic acid vs no lipid) will be given in a random way over the three visits. Before each of these three visits, a controlled diet will be established. At the last visit body composition and muscular strength will be evaluated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Inflammatory profile by interleukin-6 (IL6) concentration in plasma.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mashed potatoes
  - OTHER: Mashed potatoes + Oleic acid
  - OTHER: mashed potatoes + Palmitic acid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 90 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01066091
