CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06936982
Title: Research on the Complex Scientific Mechanisms Underlying Exercise and Health: Construction and Application of a Mechanistic Model and Public Database（CISS）
Official Title: Development and Application of a Mechanistic Model and Public Database on Exercise and Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 263
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Dear Sugar Lovers:

Greetings!

In order to improve the knowledge of chronic disease prevention and control of sugar users and promote health, the investigators plan to organise participants to participate in the Diabetes Exercise Intervention, Science Promotion and Publicity of Chronic Disease Prevention and Control Knowledge Survey, and the investigators hope to get participant's support and cooperation. Please read the following procedure carefully:

1. Exercise intervention: we 2023 late November to start the intervention course.
2. Blood test 2 times (fasting insulin, glycated haemoglobin, total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, fasting blood glucose, tumour necrosis factor, etc., finger blood glucose.

   All the above tests are free of charge
3. popularisation: we will join hands with the community health service centre of Liaojin Village to conduct at least 3 talks on the prevention and control of diabetes.

   The investigators will cooperate with the community health service centre of Lijincun to carry out at least 3 times of knowledge dissemination on diabetes prevention and control.
4. Chronic disease knowledge prevention and control survey: For your physical and mental health development, the follow-up questionnaire is a knowledge survey questionnaire.

Please read the questions carefully. Participants privacy and confidentiality will be strictly protected and will not be disclosed to any unauthorised person.

If participants agree to participate in the programme, please confirm the following information and sign!

1. Co-operation and co-ordination: the investigators promise to participate in the whole project and maintain good communication and co-operation.

   The investigators will keep abreast of and respond to notices, feedback and suggestions, and provide the necessary support and co-operation.
2. Informed Consent: The investigators understand and agree to participate in the project.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fasting blood glucose
  - Interleukin-6
  - Interleukin-8
  - Tumor necrosis factor-α
  - Hypertension

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Sports Exercise
  - OTHER: control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 76 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06936982
