CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02116166
Title: Skeletal Muscle Inflammation, Oxidative Stress and DNA Repair in Age-Related Sarcopenia
Official Title: Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Center (OAIC); Skeletal Muscle Inflammation, Oxidative Stress and DNA Repair in Age-Related Sarcopenia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to investigate how and why the loss of muscle mass occurs with aging. Tissue collected from young subjects will be compared to previously collected tissue from elderly subjects, as well as previously collected data on muscle function/mass to further investigate cellular and molecular pathways that have recently been shown to be important for the aging process in muscle. The Principal Investigator (PI) and the study team will look for specific proteins (called biomarkers) that can be present in the muscle tissue in various amounts in different individuals. This study will increase the investigators understanding of the processes of muscle atrophy (loss of mass) and functional loss at older age and will help to find new treatments and interventions aimed at improving thEQuality of life and independence of America's rapidly expanding elderly population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
For this project, we will continue to gain mechanistic insight into age-related muscle loss and to maximize the utility of the tissue we previously collected (Claude D. Pepper Older Americans Independence Center (OAIC); Skeletal muscle apoptosis and physical performance; Oxidative RNA/DNA damage and repair in aged human muscle (Developmental Study), IRB # 429-2005) and we will collect muscle tissue from additional young subjects. This project will specifically test whether inflammatory pathways and DNA repair mechanisms are altered and/or involved in the development of sarcopenia and the related decline in physical function observed in the elderly.

Aim 1. We will further determine the association of skeletal muscle mass and function with intramuscular mediators of inflammation. Focus will be on inflammatory proteins (e.g.,TNF, TNFR1, pIkBα, pIKKb, CCL2, ZIP14, ZnT2) and genes (e.g., IL-6, TNFa, IL11β, IL-8, CCL2, CCR2, NFkB p50, NFkB p65, ZIP14) and metals (e.g., copper, zinc, and iron). We hypothesize that the majority of these markers will be upregulated in muscle from older individuals when compared to young.

Aim 2. For the first time, we will determine the age related effect of DNA damage on pattern and dynamics of mRNA trenslation in human muscle tissue by genome wide analysis using "ribosome profiling." The recently developed deep-sequencing techniques of RNA-seq and "ribosome profiling" will be implemented on human muscle. This will allow us to explore on a genomic scale and at single-nucleotide resolution, the effect of age-related DNA damage on trenscriptional fidelity and trenslational kinetics. Importantly, for the first time, these phenotype changes will be compared with genome mapping of DNA damage, a major factor driving mammalian aging. We hypothesize that older muscle has greater modification of trenslational patterns compared to young muscle.

Muscle tissue samples remaining following the completion of this research will be stored and used in the future to explore new avenues of research related to aging.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-alpha)
  - tumor-necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1)
  - Phospho-Inhibitory Subunit Of NF-KBα (pIkBα)
  - Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2)
  - zinc trensporter (ZIP) 14

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02116166
