CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05274022
Title: Rehabilitation Strategies to Improve Outcomes For Patients With a Lower Extremity Fracture
Official Title: Rehabilitation Strategies to Improve Outcomes For Patients With a Lower Extremity Fracture
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate speed high intensity interval training (HIIT) walking program following an orthopedic trauma.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In HIIT an individual gives short bursts of high effort followed by a longer recovery period.

Increasingly, HIIT style training programs have been used in other clinical populations (heart conditions, kidney failure, severely obese) to yield improved health outcomes and have been shown to be safe and effective. However, this work has not been extended to the orthopedic trauma population. Initiating a treadmill HIIT program during recovery from a lower extremity fracture may prove pivotal to restoring functional abilities, improving strength, and optimizing patient outcomes.

As a starting point to investigate the speed HIIT walking program following an orthopedic trauma, the investigators will focus on femoral and tibial shaft fractures requiring surgical fixation. Subjects will be recruited at a follow-up visit and therefore will not have impaired consent capacity issues at that juncture based on their fracture-related injuries. Even though early postoperative weight bearing has been shown to be safe, there continues to be considerable divergence in recovery after these fractures. For instance, return to work rates for individuals with physical jobs has been reported to be as low as 14% within the first year, resulting in significant stress and financial challenges for the individual. Clearly, improved post-operative rehabilitation strategies are needed for this population.

Aim 1: Assess the feasibility and adherence of the speed HIIT walk program within subjects with a lower extremity fracture.

Primary Hypothesis: 70% of subjects approached about the study will consent and that 80% of subjects will complete the study.

Secondary hypothesis: 80% of subjects will complete all of the treatment sessions and find the treatment (both intervention and standard of care physical therapy) acceptable.

Aim 2: Determine the preliminary effects of the speed HIIT program as compared to the standard of care on patient reported outcomes, functional outcomes and return to work rates, in a pilot randomized control trial.

Primary Hypotheses: Participants in the speed HIIT intervention group will have a significantly higher PROMIS physical function scale as compared to standard of care group at a 6 month follow up.

Secondary hypotheses: Participants in the Speed HIIT intervention group will have higher return to work rates, usual and fastest gait speed, timed step-down test, and 6-minute walk test than the standard of care group at a 6 month follow up.

Tertiary hypothesis: The participants in the speed HIIT program will maintain higher physical function and return to work rates at a 12 month follow up as compared to the standard of care group

Aim 3: Quantify the differences in ground reaction forces, function, psychosocial responses, and patient reported outcomes that occur at the completion of the speed HIIT walk program as compared to the group receiving standard of care physical therapy.

Primary Hypotheses: Participants in the speed HIIT program will be

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Self-reported physical function
  - Self-reported physical function
  - Self-reported physical function
  - Self-reported physical function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Standard of Care Physical Therapy Program
  - OTHER: Speed Walking Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05274022
