CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06460428
Title: Online Interactive Video Developed for Fertility Awareness
Official Title: The Effect of Online Interactive Education Provided to Couples Applying for Wedding Via Web-Based Platform on Fertility Awareness
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The main purpose of this research is to evaluate the effect of online interactive education provided to newly married couples via a web-based platform on fertility awareness.Since fertility awareness is a relatively new field of research, there are limited studies on this subject. These studies are generally given to women. But the concept of fertility in question concerns not only women but also men.The study conducted via web-based online interactive video developed to raise awareness about fertility; It is thought that raising the awareness of newly married couples, regulating fertility, and including men in this issue are important for public health and will set an example for future studies.The positive outcomes from Webb-based online videos will enable the application to be used on national and international platforms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fertility awareness is an understanding that enables individuals to be informed about their reproductive health, fertility cycle and reproductive systems. This understanding enables individuals to gain awareness about their reproductive capacity, fertile periods, sexual health and family planning. Increasing fertility awareness will contribute to increasing the general health and welfare of both individuals and society.Since fertility awareness is a relatively new field of research, there are limited studies on this subject. These studies are generally aimed at women. However, the concept of fertility in question concerns not only women but also men. Individuals who are about to get married have a very important place in processing fertility awareness. The high interest in premarital sexuality, labor and birth, and the motivation for education on this subject make it important for it to be considered as a "missed opportunity" during the application period for marriage procedures. No study has been found in the literature on the development of fertility awareness, including the period of application for marriage. It is expected that the research to be conducted will contribute to the literature in terms of filling the gap in this field, obtaining new data and guiding new strategies to be created.Since information about fertility mostly involves confidential issues, individuals cannot talk about this subject comfortably and cannot obtain information. At the same time, the formation and development of fertility awareness includes individual behavioral changes. Therefore, the education given to couples can be used continuously and in the long term. For such reasons, people prefer online educational materials. Online treninGHelps people feel more comfortable, remain anonymous while learning about these topics, and progress according to their learning pace. Web-based platforms contribute to individuals' awareness of fertility awareness and makinGHealthy decisions by being an effective tool in reaching large audiences, being low-cost and easily accessible, and offering independence of time and place.

The research is a pretest-posttest randomized controlled experimental study conducted to evaluate the effect of online interactive education given to couples applying for marriage via a web-based platform on fertility awareness. It is planned to be conducted with 70 couples (experimental group: 35 couples, control group: 35 couples) who applied to the marriage office of Kecioren Municipality. Couples who apply to the registry office and agree to participate in the research will be asked to fill out the Introductory Information Form, Fertility Awareness Scale and Fertility Health Information Scale. Afterwards, these couples will be randomized and assigned to experimental and control groups. trening content will be created for the couples assigned to the experimental group.After receiving expert opinions on the trening content, interactive videos will b

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fertility Awareness Scale
  - Fertility Health Information Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Interactive video usage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06460428
