CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06171945
Title: Mobile Weight Loss Intervention for Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
Official Title: A Pilot Randomized Trial of a Mobile Weight Loss Intervention for Adolescent and Young Adult Cancer Survivors
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to conduct a 6-month pilot randomized trial to determine the feasibility and acceptability of theory-based mobile weight loss interventions for survivors of adolescent and young adult cancer (AYAs). The interventions use a mobile smartphone application, previously developed for individuals at risk for type 2 diabetes and adapted for AYAs, that integrates weight and physical activity from digital devices with simplified dietary monitoring in a behavioral weight loss program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to conduct a 6-month pilot randomized trial to determine the feasibility and acceptability of three adapted theory-based, mobile weight loss interventions delivered via a native smartphone application among AYAs: 1) AYA Connect; 2) AYA Connect enhanced with positive psychology strategies (AYA Connect-PP); and 3) AYA Connect enhanced with positive psychology strategies plus coaching (AYA Connect-PP+).

The 3-month interventions are aimed at promoting improvements in diet quality consistent with recommendations for cancer survivors, a decrease in energy intake, an increase in energy expenditure, modest weight loss, and an increase in positive affect. The 3-month interventions will be followed by a 3-month maintenance phase (no contact). Assessments will occur at baseline, 3 (post-intervention), and 6 months (maintenance). Weight will be collected via smart scales mailed to participants. Adherence measures will include daily self-monitoring of weight (smart scale), physical activity (activity tracker), and dietary intake (food log in AYA Connect app).

Young adults (n=60), ages 18-39, diagnosed with invasive malignancy between the ages of 15-39 years, post-cancer treatment, with body mass index (BMI) of 25-50 kg/m2 will be recruited from around the United States to participate in the pilot randomized trial. Participants will be randomized into one of three conditions: 1) AYA Connect intervention; 2) AYA Connect-PP intervention; and 3) AYA Connect-PP+ intervention.

Group 1: AYA Connect Intervention: These participants will receive a smart scale, activity tracker, an individual kickoff video chat session with a health coach, and access to a mobile smartphone app that includes weekly behavioral lessons, dietary tracking log, daily weight-related behavioral goals, tailored feedback summaries, and in-app health-related messages.

Group 2: AYA Connect-PP Intervention: In addition to the intervention components Group 1 will receive, these participants will also receive lessons about positive psychology (PP) strategies, weekly goals for PP exercises, and in-app health-related messages that include reminders to practice PP exercises.

Group 3: AYA Connect-PP+ Intervention: In addition to the intervention components Group 2 will receive, these participants also will receive weekly individual video chat sessions with a health coach.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility of interventions as measured by accrual rate
  - Feasibility of interventions as measured by participation rate
  - Feasibility of interventions as measured by retention rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: AYA Connect intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Positive Psychology (PP) intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Positive Psychology Plus (PP+) intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06171945
