CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05698589
Title: COMpassion for Psychiatric Disorders And Self-Stigma
Official Title: Compassion Focused Therapy (CFT) for the Reduction of the Internalized Stigma of Mental Disorders: a Multi-center, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 336
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
People with mental disorders face frequent stigmatizing attitudes and behaviors from others . In response to this, they tend to isolate themselves, with the risk of impeding care and the process of recovery and integration into society . Stigmatization can also be assimilated by patients themselves - i.e. self-stigma. Self-stigma is involved in diminished coping skills that lead to social avoidance and difficulties in adhering to care . Reducing self-stigma and its emotional corollary, shame, is thus crucial to attenuate the disability associated with mental illness. Shame is inherent to self-stigma and leads to difficulties in adhering to care as well as greater severity of clinical presentations . Compassion Focused Therapy (CFT) is a third wave cognitive behavioral therapy that targets shame reduction and hostile self-to-self relationship and allows for symptom improvement while increasing self-compassion, a major resilience factor . Although shame is a prominent part of the concept of self-stigma, the efficacy of CFT has never been evaluated in individuals with high levels of self-stigma.

In this study, the investigators will evaluate the efficacy and acceptability of a group based CFT program on decreasing self-stigma, compared to treatment as usual (TAU) and a psychoeducation program whose efficacy has been assessed in a previous trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness inventory (ISMI)
  - Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness inventory (ISMI)
  - Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness inventory (ISMI)
  - Internalized Stigma of Mental Illness inventory (ISMI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Compassion Focused Therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Ending Self Stigma

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05698589
