CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01005095
Title: The Effects of Interferon Beta Combined With Vitamin D on Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis Patients
Official Title: A One Year Prospective, Randomized, Double Blind Interventional Study to Assess Tolerability, Quality of Life and Immunomodulation With Interferon Beta Combined With Vitamin D in Patients With Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The investigators hypothesize that vitamin D supplementation may ameliorate interferon beta-induced flu-like symptoms, owing to reduced release and activity of the cytokines that are in correlation with this adverse event. Vitamin D supplementation may also positively affect injection site reactions due to its immunomodulatory effects. Vitamin D may also augment the therapeutic efficacy of interferon beta among multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. Vitamin D intake may influence melatonin levels of MS patients as they share the same nuclear receptor.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Detailed Description of Study Evaluations

Adherence to treatment evaluation:

Patients will be asked to bring the empty packages of the IFN beta and Vitamin D that were used during the study.

Flu like symptoms and Injection site reactions evaluation:

Data regarding FLS and ISRs will be collected by means of a telephone interview every other week. The extent of FLS on the day of injection will be evaluated using a self-rating scale. A score from 0 (not at all) to 5 (very strong), will be given to each FLS component, i.e.: myalgia, chills, headache, malaise and fatigue, exacerbation of neurologic symptoms, sweating and difficulty to function compared to the time before injection. Patient will also record their oral temperature upon awakening as well as at their discretion. All patients will be provided with the same thermometer. Participants will be asked to report the frequency of Ibuprofen or Paracetamol use. and will be recommended not to exceed 800mg of Ibuprofen or 1000mg of Paracetamol per day, unless the symptoms are unbearable.

Patients will be inquired about the subjective degree of injection site pain for the first injections of every other week, by means of a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS scale). Patients will be seen at the clinic at 3 months intervals and in that visit the injection site will be inspected by the evaluating physician/ nurse and will be graded on a 0 to 3 scale: 0-none, 1- pain, itching or erythema, 2- swelling with inflammation and 3- ulceration and/or necrosis. Mode of application (manual or automatic injection) as well as needle size will be also recorded.

Patients will be instructed to refrain from reporting FLS and ISRs on the occasion of inter-current febrile illness or during and 4 weeks after corticosteroids treatment. In that case, patients will postpone the report by a week.

MS clinical parameters:

Patients will be clinically evaluated at enrollment and at 6 and 12 months for disease progression, by means of the EDSS score . The evaluating neurologist will be blinded to the patient's treatment.

Relapses, characterized by emergence of new symptoms or the worsening of existing ones for more than 24 hours in the absence of fever or infection ( McDonald et al., 2001) and severe enough to warrant corticosteroids treatment will be recorded.

Health related quality of life will be also evaluated at baseline and at the completion of the study, by means of a MS-specific validated questionnaire - FAMS (Functional Assessment of MS) (Miller A, 2006). (Attached)

Laboratory evaluation:

The following measurements will be obtained at the beginning of the study for the purpose of excluding patients with baseline impairment of mineral metabolism and at the end of the study to evaluate the resulting changes in mineral homeostasis consequent to vitamin D supplementation: blood levels of 25-OH- vitamin D, PTH, Magnesium, Calcium, Albumin, Creatinine, Urea, Phosphor, Alkaline phosphatase and 1-25- di-OH-D .

The follow

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Occurrence and severity of Interferon beta related Flu Like Symptoms and Injection Site Reactions.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D3
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D3

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01005095
