CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03871751
Title: Home-based SSP on Individuals With PWS
Official Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Home-based SSP on Individuals With PWS
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The Polyvagal Theory focuses on how function and structure changed in the vertebrate autonomic nervous system during evolution. The theory is named for the vagus, a major cranial nerve that regulates bodily state. As a function of evolution, humans and other mammals have a "new" vagal pathway that links the regulation of bodily state to the control of the muscles of the face and head including the middle ear muscles. These pathways regulating body state, facial gesture, listening (i.e., middle ear muscles), and vocal communication collectively function as a Social Engagement System (SES). Because the Social Engagement System is an integrated system, interventions influencing one component of this system (e.g., middle ear muscles) may impact on the other components.

Individuals with Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) exhibit many behaviors that are consistent with a compromised Social Engagement System. Atypical function of the Social Engagement System results in problems associated with state regulation (e.g., impulsivity, tantrums, and difficulty with change in routine), ingestion (e.g., difficulties in sucking at birth, hyperphagia), coordination of suck/swallow/breathe, intonation of vocalizations, auditory processing and hypersensitivity, and socialization. The investigatiors propose to confirm that several features of the behavioral phenotype of PWS may be explained within the context of a dysfunctional SES, which may be partially rehabilitated via an intervention designed as a 'neural exercise' of the SES (i.e., the Safe and Sound Protocol, "SSP").

Specific Aims:

Aim I: To demonstrate the effectiveness of the Safe and Sound Protocol (SSP) on improvement of social and regulation behaviors in individuals with PWS.

Aim II: To evaluate a new methodology for collecting and evaluating vocal samples for analyses of prosody, one of the indices of the functioning of the SES.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in sensory sensitivities at 1 week

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Safe and Sound Protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03871751
