CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02214641
Title: Resilient, Empowered, Active Living: REAL Diabetes Study
Official Title: Diabetes Self-Management Lifestyle Intervention for Urban Minority Young Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 81
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This three-year award will pilot-test an innovative intervention, Resilient, Empowered, Active Living with Diabetes (REAL), targeting underserved minority young adults with poorly-controlled diabetes. The individually tailored, community-based intervention merges findings of an in-depth needs assessment, principles of an evidence-based occupational therapy intervention (Lifestyle Redesign®) and evidence-based diabetes self-management strategies. A proof-of-concept study demonstrated that REAL is feasible to implement, acceptable to young adults with type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes, and has potential to produce positive changes in diabetes self-care and glycemic control. The study will randomize 80 young adults with diabetes to receive either the six-month REAL intervention or an attention control condition. Blinded data collectors will assess glycemic control, diabetes self-care behaviors and quality of life outcomes, as well as potential intervention mediators, before and after the six-month intervention. It is anticipated that findings from this pilot study will be used to inform a large-scale randomized controlled trial of the REAL intervention.

The study's specific aims and hypotheses are as follows:

Aim 1. Determine the intervention's efficacy for the primary outcomes: glycemic control and diabetes self-care.

Hypothesis: At 6 months (immediately following the intervention), intervention group participants will demonstrate improvements in A1c and diabetes self-care as compared to control group participants.

Aim 2. Conduct exploratory analyses of the intervention's impact on secondary outcomes and potential mediating mechanisms (to inform power estimates for a large-scale RCT).

Hypothesis 1: At 6 months, intervention group participants will demonstrate improvements in secondary outcomes: diabetes-related stress and quality of life, depression, and life satisfaction as compared to control group participants.

Hypothesis 2: At 6 months, intervention group participants will demonstrate improvements in potential mediators of the intervention: habit strength, problem solving, activity participation, self-efficacy and diabetes knowledge as compared to baseline.

Aim 3. Conduct a process evaluation utilizing mixed methods to evaluate and refine intervention delivery (e.g. treatment fidelity, patient satisfaction) and study procedures (e.g. recruitment, retention, testing protocol).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resilient, Empowered, Active Living with Diabetes
  - BEHAVIORAL: Information Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02214641
