CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03824106
Title: Frailty Rehabilitation
Official Title: Frailty Rehabilitation: A Community-based Intervention to Promote Healthy Aging
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 324
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Frailty is an important clinical state that contributes to falls, hospitalization, institutionalization and death. When an individual simultaneously has many health problems, a frailty "tipping point" may be triggered by even a minor stressful event such as adding a new drug or urinary tract infection. Our research suggests that approximately 23% of Canadians over age 65 are frail, and by age 85 this estimate increases to over 40%. As we learn more about frailty and its consequences, there is an urgent need to develop community-based interventions that will prevent or delay frailty in older adults. Our proposed study will examine if frailty rehabilitation program is an effective community-based intervention to promote healthy aging. The primary objective of our study is to determine if 4-month frailty rehabilitation improves physical function compared with control and exercise alone in community-dwelling older adults living with frailty and sarcopenia. Secondary objectives of our study are to determine if 4-months of frailty rehabilitation can improve functional abilities and reduce healthcare utilization during a 6-month follow-up period compared with control and exercise alone. Results will translate the first Canadian model of frailty and sarcopenia rehabilitation and management.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this multi-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT), 324 community-dwelling older adults (aged 65+) with frailty and at high risk for mobility disability will be randomized into one of three arms (control, exercise only, multi-modal rehabilitation) stratified by sex, age and location preference. Rolling recruitment will occur with ten cohorts total (2-3 cohorts per site, n=33 participants per cohort), enrolled across the partner Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) sites.

Building upon the RCT, we aim to understand which components of a functional rehabilitation program are essential to change the trajectory of sarcopenia in older adults and explore the feasibility of a functional rehabilitation program with older adults. All participants will be screened for sarcopenia at baseline. Of the 324 participants, a subset of participants with sarcopenia will undergo additional assessments.

A validated frailty questionnaire can be administered over the phone and will provide an estimate of frailty status.

Stratified block randomization (1:1 randomization ratio) with the allocation sequence generated by a computer will be used to randomly allocate eligible participants to their group assignment. Participants will be stratified based on their sex, age (\<80 or \>=80 years), and location preference. To protect against selection bias, the randomization sequence will be adequately concealed so that investigators/participants are not aware of the upcoming assignment. The proposed duration of treatment is 4-months.

Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed at 0 and 4-months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical Performance
  - Change in Walking Speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Control
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group Exercise
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Nutrition and Medication review
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Protein Supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03824106
