CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05729087
Title: Development of a Blended Lifestyle Intervention to Promote Physical Activity, Diet, and Health in Hong Kong Older Adults
Official Title: Feasibility, Acceptability, and Potential Effectiveness of a Web and Center-based Blended Lifestyle Intervention to Promote Physical Activity, Diet, and Health in Hong Kong Community-dwelling Older Adults: A Pilot Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This pilot study will provide a theory-based low-cost and easy-to-operate program in the area of healthy lifestyle promotion among community dwelling older adults. The blended intervention product will be helpful for health professionals, social workers and practitioners working in the elderly centers and health centers to promote older adults' PA, healthy diet and wellness. Furthermore, this study would initiate advocacy for policymakers to disseminate cost-saving, time-efficient and effective healthy lifestyle programs to the communities for healthy aging promotion.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Project Objectives

1. To review and meta-analyze lifestyle interventions for promotion of physical activity, diet and health among older adults.
2. To assess the feasibility of the pilot study.
3. To assess acceptability of the pilot study.
4. To examine between-group differences in changes of physical activity (min/week), diet (portion/day), physical health-related outcomes (physical fitness, blood pressure, fasting blood sugar, and blood lipids), mental health-related outcomes (depression, loneliness) and health-related quality of life (QoL) among the sample.

A series of generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) will be applied to evaluate the intervention effects on outcome measures at T2, with time, groups, and their interaction as fixed effects. Per-protocol analyses will be used for primary analyses, while intention-to-treat approach will be used for sensitivity tests.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of weekly Physical activity (minutes per week)
  - Change of Fruit and Vegetable Intake (portions/day)
  - Change of Meat, Fish, Egg & Alternatives (MFEA) (taels/day)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Blended intervention group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 79 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05729087
