CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04259697
Title: Effects of Clinical Pilates and Whole Body Vibration Exercises in Postmenopausal Osteoporotic Women
Official Title: Comparison of the Effects of Clinical Pilates and Whole Body Vibration Exercises on Strength, Flexibility, Balance, Bone Turnover Markers and Quality of Life in Postmenopausal Osteoporotic Women
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim is to compare the effects of clinical pilates and whole body vibration exercises in postmenopausal osteoporotic women on strength, flexibility, balance, bone turnover markers and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to compare the effects of clinical pilates and whole body vibration exercises in postmenopausal osteoporotic women in terms of strength, flexibility, balance, bone turnover markers and quality of life. Thirty-four women who are diagnosed with postmenopausal osteoporosis will be recruited into the study. Participants will be divided into two groups: (1) clinical pilates group, (2) vibration exercises group. Exercise programs will be performed two times per week for twelve weeks. The strength of the extensor muscles of the hip, knee, back, elbow will be measured with a hand-held dynamometer. Flexibility will be assessed measuring the fingertip-to-floor distance in flexion and lateral bending. The balance performance will be assessed using the timed up and go test, Tetrax fall index and the maximum hold time on unipedal stance and on tandem stance. The short form-12 questionnaire will be used to assess the quality of life. Also, bone turnover markers will be measured. All assessments will be performed before and after exercise programs.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Strength
  - Flexibility
  - Timed up and go test
  - The maximum hold time on unipedal stance and on tandem stance.
  - Tetrax fall index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Clinical pilates
  - OTHER: Whole body vibration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04259697
