CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06912919
Title: Effects of Low-intensity Blood Flow Restriction Exercise on Aerobic Capacity, Muscle Strength, Muscle Size, Biochemical-hormonal Parameters and Antioxidant Parameters in Overweight and Obese Individuals.
Official Title: Effects of Low-intensity Blood Flow Restriction Exercise on Aerobic Capacity, Muscle Strength, Muscle Size, Biochemical-hormonal Parameters and Antioxidant Parameters in Overweight and Obese Individuals.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Participants will be selected from sedentary men aged 18-30 and over with a body mass index of 25. First, an informed consent form will be signed by the individuals. The 'International Physical Activity Questionnaire' will be applied to the participants and it will be ensured that the participants have not participated in vigorous and moderate activities and therefore are inactive or minimally active individuals. The study will consist of an intervention group and a control group, and the groups will be randomized via computer. The exclusion criteria of the study are that the participants do not have any known cardiac or pulmonary pathology and do not have any musculoskeletal disorders that will affect their participation in exercise. First, blood samples will be taken from the participants. They will be sent to the laboratory for examination of biochemical, hormonal and antioxidant parameters. Then, the muscle cross-sectional area and muscle thickness values of the rectus femoris muscle will be calculated from the participants with ultrasound measurements. After these procedures are completed, Vo2Max calculation will be performed on the participants with a cardiopulmonary exercise test. In addition, 40% of the Vo2Max value calculated in this test will be calculated and the pulse range to be used in the exercise will be determined. In the final stage, participants' strength isokinetic test and knee flexion extension strength and endurance values will be calculated.

After the evaluations are completed, individuals will start a 6-week exercise program. The intervention group will exercise with the blood flow restriction method under 160 mmHg pressure for the first 3 weeks and 180 mmHg pressure for the last 3 weeks. The device will be applied by placing it at the most proximal point of the thigh. The control group will do the same exercise without restricting blood flow. Both groups will be followed for 6 weeks with a 5-minute warm-up followed by a 20-minute exercise program. Participants will report their fatigue with the Borg scale after each exercise session.

After the exercise sessions are completed, blood will be taken on an empty stomach within 24 hours of the last exercise. Then, muscle size measurement with ultrasound, Vo2Max calculation and isokinetic test power calculation will be noted, respectively. The values obtained will be compared with the initial values.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in VO2Max
  - Change in Isokinetic Muscle Strength
  - Change in Muscle Cross-Sectional Area (CSA)
  - Change in Muscle Thickness (MT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: BFR-Aerobic Training
  - OTHER: Aerobic Training Without BFR

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06912919
