CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05331794
Title: Effects of Training on Outdoor Fitness Equipment for Health Improvement
Official Title: Design and Development of a New Line of Outdoor Fitness Equipment: "BIOFIT-Park" A Study on Ergonomics, Safety and Efficiency
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Aging causes various changes in the body. This, together with a sedentary lifestyle, can lead to health problems such as loss of muscle mass and strength, bone mineral density and cardiovascular capacity. Therefore, it is essential to remain physically active in adulthood.

Outdoor fitness equipment offer a free and easy-to-use option for physical activity and health improvement. However, there are few studies that quantitatively evaluate the physical fitness and health improvement associated with the use of these parks.

Hence, the main objective is: 1) To evaluate the effects of training on outdoor fitness equipment on different body composition and health-related fitness parameters.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Physiological, psychological and functional deterioration is associated with the aging process. It has been demonstrated that the practice of physical activity can prevent, slow or reduce this deterioration. Bio-healthy parks are an alternative for practicing physical activity outdoors and free of charge. However, there is no research that analyzes the effect of a planned training program in these parks.

Therefore, the objectives of this project are 1) To evaluate the effects of training on outdoor fitness equipment on different body composition and health-related fitness parameters.

The present project will be developed through a randomized controlled trial, with

1 experimental and 1 control group, with pre-test and post-test, with intra-group and inter-group analysis for each of the dependent variables of the study. The inclusion criteria are: (a) not having participated in a structured exercise program for at least 1 year, (b) being older than 50 years of age, and (c) being physically independent. The exclusion criteria are: (a) having musculoskeletal injuries or limitations that could affect the health and physical performance of the person; (b) being under medical prescription for taking medications that could influence physical performance; (c) not regularly attending the proposed sessions. Body composition and bone mineral density will be assessed by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA).

Blood pressure by means of an automatic device (Colin BP 880, Inc., Tampa, FL). Strength by manual dynamometry (TKK 5401; Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) and maximal isometric strength of knee extension and biceps flexion. Functional capacity will be assessed by means of the Chari stand test, gait speed, time up and go test and Short physical performance battery (SPPB), Sarcopenia will be assessed taking into account the reference values established for muscle quality (hand grip strength and chair stand test), muscle quantity (DEXA fat-free mass) and functional competence (gait speed, time up and go test, SPPB and 400 meter walk) established by the European Consensus (EWGSOP2). The Spinal Mouse device (Switzerland) will be used to assess the sagittal disposition of the spine (thoracic curve, lumbar curve and pelvic tilt) in standing and relaxed sitting. This technique is non-invasive. Health-related quality of life and satisfaction with life will be assessed by means of the SF36 and The Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWL) questionnaires. Mediterranean diet adherence will be assess with a Mediterranean diet adherence questionaire. Experimental group 1 will receive the exercise program on bio-healthy machinery with a frequency of 2 sessions per week of 55 minutes for 8 weeks. The machines used will be rider, low gemini, high gemini, walk, bottoms, flywheels circles, flywheels rotation, twin swing, surf, swing press and rowing.

Intensity will be controlled by subjective perception of effort and heart rate (Polar 420). There will be a warm-up 8-10 minutes, a m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rest Metabolic Rate
  - Heart Rate Variability
  - Blood Pressure
  - Counter Movement Jump Test
  - Knee Extension Rate of Foce Development Strength Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Training on BIOFIT-Park
  - BEHAVIORAL: Training on gym park equipament

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05331794
