CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06618365
Title: Oral or intramuscular Vitamin D2 Vs Oral or intramuscular Vitamin D3 in Treatment of Vitamin D Deficiency
Official Title: Oral or intramuscular Vitamin D2 Vs Oral or intramuscular Vitamin D3 in Treatment of Vitamin D Deficiency.
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The main purpose of this research is to find out if there is any difference between treating vitamin D deficiency with oral vitamin D3 or I.M vitamin D2. The second aim of this research is to confirm the superiority of Vitamin D3 over Vitamin D2 in treating vitamin D deficiency. Additional useful information in this research is to find out the best recommended maintenance dose of vitamin D and formula by having regular follow up of treated individuals once their serum vitamin D level reach the recommended normal serum level.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In a systemic review, it was found that treating individuals who have vitamin D deficiency with vitamin D3 rather than vitamin D2 would be a better option. Vitamin D3 is superior in treating Vitamin D deficiency according to this systemic review. However, this systemic review raised a question of comparing oral to I.M treatment of vitamin D deficiency and no Data was available to support either treatment above the other.

The main purpose of this research is to find out if there is any difference between treating vitamin D deficiency with oral vitamin D3 or I.M vitamin D2. The second aim of this research is to confirm the superiority of Vitamin D3 over Vitamin D2 in treating vitamin D deficiency. Additional useful information in this research is to find out the best recommended maintenance dose of vitamin D and formula by having regular follow up of treated individuals once their serum vitamin D level reach the recommended normal serum level.

The research will involve 100 patients between the age of 20-50 years old. They will be divided into 4 groups. Each group will have either oral or I.M vitamin D2 or oral or I.M vitamin D3. The oral doses will be 50000 international units to be taken weekly and the I.M doses will be of 300000 international units which will be taken once every 6 weeks. Vitamin D level will be checked once every 4 weeks. The initial expected duration of the first phase of the research will be about 6-12 weeks which will give us a good orientation to answer the main and the second questions. Then the follow up may take up to another 6 months to check the maintenance dose of the best recommended oral or I.M treatment of bolus doses in certain intervals as initial trial.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Is oral Vitamin D3 superior to I.M Vitamin D2 in treating vitamin D deficiency?

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin D Deficiency

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06618365
