CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05459961
Title: Metabolic Responses to Spermidine Supplementation.
Official Title: Randomized, Double-Blind, Crossover Study to Assess the Effects of a Spermidine Supplement on Metabolomics in Older Men
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Spermidine is naturally present in cells, organs, circulating cardiovascular system, and as part of our normal dietary intake. Studies suggest Spermidine is involved in antioxidation, autophagy, apoptosis, and immune regulation. Spermidine is typically present in foods of plant origin, such as natto, beans, fruits, vegetables, cheese, potatoes, bread, and cereals. Adequate spermidine dietary intake is important, given evidence of declining spermidine levels with age in humans and other species, and the evidence for positive effects of spermidine supplementation on age related biology.

To date, human research studies utilised extracts containing low levels of spermidine (\< 10%) and multiple other constituents, but this study will use pure spermidine to explore relevant mechanisms of action, biological effects, and identify potential biomarkers of positive biological effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a placebo controlled, double blind, randomised, within subject controlled study of supplementation with oral spermidine or placebo each for up to four weeks. The primary objective of this exploratory study is to examine the safety and biological effects of this pure full-dose spermidine supplement on metabolomics, inflammatory and metabolic markers, and transcriptomics.

Study subjects are generally healthy males aged 50-70 After screening, subjects will enter a two week run-in (stabilisation) phase and then be randomised to blinded active or placebo for the first one week supplementation period. After a washout period, subjects will receive either blinded placebo or active for a second supplementation period of up to four weeks. The full study will require six visits by each study subject to the study site over a period of nine weeks, for blood and urine samples, and dietary intake assessments.

Subjects are required to maintain a normal consistent dietary intake during the study and abstain from alcohol in the 24 hours before study visits.

Assays include routine haematology and chemistry, CRP (C-reactive protein), lipid screen, serum and urine metabolomics and polyamines, lipidomics, transcriptomics, and autophagy assays.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of the safety and effects of a high purity Spermidine supplement in healthy older men.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: oral spermidine

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 70 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05459961
