CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06504680
Title: Results of 8 Strand Repair of Flexor Tendon Injuries
Official Title: Results of 8 Strand Repair of Flexor Tendon Injuries Zone II With and Without Splinting of the Wrist A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Functional results of 8 strand repair of flexor tendon injuries zone II with and without splinting of the wrist

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Flexor tendon injuries of the hand, account for 30% of all hand injuries, but are difficult to treat and are associated with frequent poor outcomes . While major progress has been made with the treatment of these injuries, current surgical treatment relies mostly on conventional suturing techniques with variable results, concluding in re-operation rates of 12%, and complication rate of up to 20% Restoration of tendon gliding is the goal when repairing flexor tendon injuries. The tendon forces experienced during postoperative, active flexion exercises are significantly larger than the tendon forces experienced by patients engaging in only passive flexion. Multistrand sutures (typically four- or six-strand repairs) may withstand much greater tension than conventional two-strand sutures during early active mobilization.

However, multistrand (particularly eight-strand) repair requires complicated surgical skills; such repair is difficult. Here, we present a new eight-strand suture for flexor tendon repair that features easier passages through the tendons and fewer knots than existing approaches; it affords the necessary tensile strength to prevent both gap formation and ultimate failure.

The important aspects of flexor tendon repair are that the suture should have sufficient mechanical strength, and it should not result in a bulky configuration, which would affect tendon gliding .

Using the 8-strand repair technique and active mobilization performed by the patient is both practical and cost-saving. Intensive supervision of a hand therapist is generally not required. Notably improved outcomes have been achieved while preventing adhesions at the repair site.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - range of motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Repair of flexor tendon injury zone ll using 8- strand

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06504680
