CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03839667
Title: Intensive Diet and Physical Activity on Diabetes
Official Title: Effect of Intermittent Intensive Diet Intervention and Enhanced Physical Activity on Glycemic Control in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Type 2 diabEtes (IDEATE)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 326
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
It is a multicenter, open-label, parallel-group, randomized controlled clinical trial, which is designed to enroll newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients with overweight or obesity. The patients are randomized to an intensive diet intervention (intermittent very-low -calorie diet), enhanced physical activity intervention (high-intensity interval training exercise prescription combined with resistance training) or standard education group (diabetes health education only, including lifestyle education and guidance) for 12 weeks. This trial will test the primary hypothesis of whether an intensive lifestyle treatment (diet or physical activity) is more effective than a standard education in glycemic control. The secondary hypotheses are to compare the intensive lifestyle treatment with a standard education on adipose distribution, metabolic parameters, metabolic molecules, Framingham Risk Scores, and quality of life, et al.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The trial will recruit 324 patients from 2-3 hospitals within the China Diabetes Clinical Research Network. Eligible criteria include men and women aged 40-70 years; newly-diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus; BMI ≥25 kg/m2 and \<40 kg/m2. Main exclusion criteria include known type 1 diabetes, usage of insulin; symptomatic cardiovascular diseases, and other serious illness. The proposed trial has 90% statistical power to detect an absolute 0.5% reduction of HbA1c changes between intensive intervention and standard education groups at a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. To achieve the proposed study objectives, we plan to perform the following specific aims:

1. Recruit 324 study participants who meet the eligibility criteria and randomly assign 108 to the intensive diet intervention group, 108 to the enhanced physical activity intervention group and 108 to the standard education group for 12 weeks;
2. Employ a study-wide strategy to encourage standard of care for all participants for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and other metabolic disorders;
3. Obtain clinical data on study outcomes for up to 12 months of follow-up among all trial participants;
4. Perform strict quality control procedures for intervention and data collection;
5. Conduct data analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle;
6. Disseminate the study findings to influence clinical practice and clinical guidelines.

The results will be analyzed to examine the pan-omics changes after the interventions and clarify their predictive benefits on the effects of the interventions.

After the 12-week intervention, participants will receive post-intervention follow-up visits at 24 weeks, 36 weeks, 48 weeks, and 5 years from the baseline enrollment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in HbA1c level (%)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: intensive diet intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced physical activity intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03839667
