CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04767854
Title: Digital Osteoarthritis Care
Official Title: Digital Osteoarthritis Care- DigiOA
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 68
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis (OA) is among the most prevalent and costly diseases, with an estimate of $460 billion in all-cause medical costs. It causes pain and reduced physical function, and with no existing cure, the recommended first-line treatment is information, exercise and weight management if indicated. As the prevalence of OA is expected to increase in the coming years, exploring innovative solutions to maintain economical sustainable treatment in the future becomes a necessity. Telerehabilitation, technology which involves providing treatment through information and communication technology, regardless of the patient's geographical location, has shown its potential within cardiac, pulmonary, neurological and musculoskeletal conditions.

Virtual Training (VT) is a generic mobile health application used to deliver digital home exercise programs with text, audio and video support. Through a novel feedback system the therapist is able monitor the patients progress and pain level during exercise. This project aims to investigate, through a randomized controlled trial (RCT), whether the use of the VT-app is as effective as supervised exercise therapy in improving pain, physical function and disease activity in patients with hip and/or knee osteoarthritis. In addition, the investigators want to investigate if the use of the app is more cost effective than supervised exercise therapy, whether the use increases adherence with first line treatment, and whether there are certain characteristics of the patients responding to the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study is a two-armed non-inferiority randomized controlled trial (RCT) situated in the primary care setting in Norway. Participants diagnosed with hip and/or knee OA will be randomized to either exercise therapy via app or usual care. Patients aged 18 years and older presenting with activity-related hip and/or knee pain/complaints and clinical signs and symptoms corresponding to hip and/or knee OA seeking treatment at physiotherapist working in private practice, will be included if eligible for the study.

The research questions are:

1. Is exercise therapy, delivered through a mobile health application (Virtual Training), as effective as supervised exercise therapy in patients with hip and/or knee OA, measured by number of patients classified as responders according to the OMERACT-OARSI responder criteria?
2. Is exercise therapy delivered through Virtual Training more cost-effective regarding health care and medication use than supervised exercise therapy for patients with hip and/or knee OA?
3. Will patients with hip and/or knee OA, using Virtual Training, be more adherent to exercise during the intervention period compared to patients undergoing supervised exercise therapy, and are there any demographic or clinical factors characterizing the OMERACT-OARSI responding patients using Virtual Training?

The primary analysis will be conducted on an intention-to-treat basis by comparing the proportion of responders at 6 weeks and 3 months post-intervention according to the OMERACT-OARSI responder criteria in the intervention and the control group using logistic regression analysis. Per-protocol analyses will also be conducted. Difference in secondary outcomes will be assessed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) on the post-intervention values, with baseline values as covariates.

Cost-effectiveness will be evaluated assessing the difference in health care and medication use and quality of life during 3-month follow-up, reporting the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) reflecting the between-group difference in incremental cost per adjusted life years (QALYs). Between-group difference in adherence to exercise will be assessed using linear regression, while patient characteristics in the intervention group will be assessed using logistic regression. Additional analyses assessing associations between physical activity, efficacy, barriers for exercise and OA-related questions will also be assessed in secondary analyses.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of responders according to OMERACT-OARSI responder criteria

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: OA school
  - OTHER: Virtual Training mobile health application
  - OTHER: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04767854
