CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01686308
Title: The Effect of Cataract on Photoentrainment of the Circadian Rhythm in Humans
Official Title: The Effect of Cataract on Photoentrainment of the Circadian Rhythm in Humans
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Cataract is globally the most common cause of blindness and in Denmark the operation with - 50.000 treatments per year - is the most common eye operation. The cause of cataract is growth and denaturation of the lens proteins. This leads to an increased absorption of blue light and increased light scatter. This may affect newly discovered cells in the retina that are involved in the regulation of the circadian rhythm. When the internal circadian rhythm is not synchronized with the external day and night a phase-shift occurs. Most people know of this discomfort as jet-lag, but the consequences may be much more severe such as heighten risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease.

The goal of this project is to study how the circadian regulating cells of the retina is affected by cataract and by the operation. Cataract patients are studied before and after the operation with questionnaires, hormone and activity measurements and with a specialized pupil measurement that measures the indirect response of the circadian regulating cells to blue light.

Results from this study aim to shed light on the regulatory mechanisms of the eye on the circadian rhythm and how these are affected by cataract. Furthermore, choice of intraocular lens is evaluated. This may have impact on clinical practise especially with regard to choice of intraocular lens and widened indications for cataract surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pupillary response to blue light

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Yellow Intra Ocular Lens (IOL)
  - PROCEDURE: Conventional Intra Ocular Lens (IOL)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01686308
