CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04860869
Title: Endocrine, Metabolic and Microbiome Influence on the Post-acute Sequelae SARS-CoV-2 (PASC)
Official Title: Endocrine, Metabolic and Microbiome Influence on the Post-acute Sequelae SARS-CoV-2 (PASC)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is characterize the endocrine, metabolic and microbiomes of patients with post-acute sequelae SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) and patients that have recovered from COVID without lingering symptoms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to a subset of patients that, once recovered from the acute infection, also experience an intractable and debilitating set of lingering symptoms termed post-acute sequelae SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC). The most common symptoms include anxiety, shortness of breath, continued loss of the sense of smell and taste, loss of appetite with subsequent weight loss, sleep difficulties, severe fatigue, cognitive dysfunction (foggy brain) and increased frailty. These patients frequently present to the emergency room looking for symptom management because they are unable to perform normal activities of daily living and maintain job performance. Thus, it is critical to characterize the baseline endocrine, metabolic, inflammatory and microbiome alterations in the post-COVID syndrome patients to better identify and manage the symptoms to prevent potential long-term health consequences.

University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) has established a post-COVID clinic for management of these patients, but it is recognized that a more complete clinical picture of the underlying mechanisms driving these lingering symptoms is needed.

Persistent and long-lasting health problems are common in patients after COVID-19 infection. In a recent study of patients that had been hospitalized with COVID-19, two months after discharge, 87% reported at least one lingering symptom (joint pain, fatigue, breathing issues, etc), more than 50% reported more than three lingering issues, and over 40% reported a reduction in their of quality of life. Another study found that at 1-month after hospitalization for COVID-19, 74% reported persistent issues related to shortness of breath and a decrease in both physical and mental health. Preliminary data from the UTMB Post-COVID Recovery clinic agree with these two recent reports. In a recent study, 1 1/2 months after COVID-19 diagnosis, patients reported on average 10 of the 18 common symptoms (with 90% having chest pain, 87% dyspnea, 75% fatigue, and 90% with cognitive changes). While the previous studies examined patients that had severe COVID-19 infections, \>50% of the patients were never hospitalized, yet have numerous persistent symptoms. This has serious implications for the ability of patients to return to work, downstream effects on mental health due to sometimes drastic lifestyle and work capacity changes, and the ability to engage in activities or hobbies enjoyed prior to COVID-19 illness.

Notably, the cluster of symptoms associated with PASC include profound fatigue and cognitive dysfunction, which are strikingly consistent with a syndrome that the investigators clinical research team has described in patients after traumatic brain injury (TBI) designated Brain Injury Associated Fatigue and Altered Cognition (BIAFAC). Over the last 12 months the investigators have reported the characteristics of BIAFAC syndrome. In particular, TBI patients with BIAFAC present with lingering and profoundly de

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1)
  - Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH)
  - Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG)
  - Total Testosterone
  - Free Testosterone

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04860869
