CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04478851
Title: EXCEL: Exercise for Cancer to Enhance Living Well
Official Title: Project EXCEL: Dissemination, Implementation, and Effectiveness of the Exercise Oncology Survivorship Partnership Model - Reaching Rural Cancer Survivors to Enhance Quality of Life
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1500
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Project EXCEL will provide community or online exercise programs to rural and remote and under-served cancer survivors, as well as encourage participants to become life-long exercisers. Exercise is an evidence-based self-management strategy that benefits all cancer survivors. However, most cancer survivors who live in remote or rural places don't have adequate opportunities to be involved in exercise programs that are tailored to their needs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
As cancer survivorship numbers grow, a focus on positive health in survivorship is essential. Exercise is an evidence-based effective self-management strategy that benefits all cancer survivors (CS). However, the majority of research and the limited development of evidence-based clinical or community programs in exercise and cancer has been conducted almost exclusively in urban academic and clinical settings, with very limited implementation outreach to "hard to reach" CS.

In this proposed cancer exercise hybrid implementation effectiveness research, over 5 years we will use an integrated knowledge translation approach to move the current evidence-base that clearly supports the role of exercise in cancer survivorship, into sustainable and effective community-based or online settings that will optimize the delivery of exercise to rural/remote and underserved CS (RCS). Implementing and evaluating the proposed Exercise Oncology Survivorship (EOS) partnership model will result in a sustainable resource to support the implementation and delivery of exercise oncology programs in rural Canadian communities.

Investigators will work to develop lasting referral pathways between cancer care clinics and local fitness professionals. These fitness professionals will have additional cancer specific training to ensure they can effectively and safely deliver the program. Eligible and consenting participants will be screened for exercise safety, and following fitness testing will be triaged to appropriate exercise programming. If, due to COVID-19 public health restrictions, community based programming cannot occur, the exercise sessions will be delivered online by fitness professionals.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity Minutes Per Week

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group Exercise Classes

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04478851
