CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06428513
Title: Health Coaching Telemedicine Program for Lung Transplant Candidates With End-stage Lung Disease.
Official Title: SHEBA-9466-22-RP-CTIL Health Coaching Telemedicine Program for Lung Transplant Candidates With End-stage Lung Disease: A Feasibility Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Lung transplantation has become standard of care for selected patients with end stage pulmonary disease. While on the lung transplantation waiting list, patient health, emotional wellbeing and quality of life can deteriorate. By improving or changing patient physical activity, healthy nutrition, tobacco cessation, patient preparation for lung transplantation can be optimized, risk of complications can be reduced, and outcomes post transplantation can be improved.

The potential of health coaching to improve health outcomes has been demonstrated in several chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, and rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, health coaching was proven effective through telemedicine.

No studies so far have addressed the potential effect of a pre-transplant health coaching program on existing medical conditions, transplant rates and post-transplant outcomes. Investigators hypothesized that health coaching can improve health outcomes and survival of lung transplantation candidates by supporting and growing patients' capacity to cope with the demands of their end stage pulmonary disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND Lung transplantation has become an established standard of care for selected patients with end stage pulmonary disease. Candidate selection begins with a referral from the non-transplant pulmonologist and if deemed suitable, begins an evaluation process that determines eligibility for transplantation. Candidates who meet all requirements are listed for transplantation. While on the waiting list, physical activity, healthy nutrition, tobacco cessation, and a few other health behaviors are essential to maintain candidacy. In addition to the physical limitations imposed by end-stage lung disease, transplant candidates face a range of psychosocial issues relating to changes in functional capacity, including social roles, relationships, perceptions of self, and life plans and goals. Efforts targeted at these domains may improve quality of life, optimize patient preparation for transplantation, reduce the risk of complications, and improve outcomes.

Health coaching has emerged as a widely adopted intervention that may help individuals with chronic conditions adopting health behaviors that improve quality of life, health, and emotional wellbeing. It is a patient-centered approach wherein the individual and coach work together through active health education processes and motivational interviewing to set goals that improve health outcomes. The potential of health coaching to improve health outcomes has been demonstrated in several chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, and rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, health coaching was proven effective through telemedicine; and recently, it has developed national standards and accreditations in the US. Therefore, health coaching was selected as our telemedicine approach, and a novel health coaching telemedicine program (HCTP) was developed at Sheba Medical Center for lung transplantation candidate.

No studies so far have addressed the potential effect of pre-transplant health coaching program on existing medical conditions, transplant rates and post-transplant outcomes. Investigators hypothesized that health coaching can improve health outcomes and survival of lung transplantation candidates by supporting and growing patients' capacity to cope with the demands of their end stage pulmonary disease.

SPECIFIC AIMS Specific Aim 1: To assess whether HCTP is feasible among participants with end stage lung disease who are candidate for lung transplantation.

Specific Aim 2: To collect data on the impact of a HCTP on health-related quality of life, lung functions, functional capacity, cardiometabolic parameters (e.g., weight, lipid profile, fasting glucose), and hospital services utilization of participants with end stage lung disease who are candidate for lung transplantation Specific Aim 3: To collect data on experience and capacity to cope with the demands of the illness of participants with end stage lung disease who are candidate for lung transplantation

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility outcomes
  - Participant adherence
  - Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and Forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio: FEV1/FVC Ratio
  - Total lung capacity (TLC)
  - Diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HCTP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06428513
