CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02148471
Title: Fatty Acids, Genes and Microbiota in Fatty Liver
Official Title: Non-alcoholic Steatohepatitis Versus Simple Hepatic Steatosis: Is There a Difference in the Nutritional Factors Influencing Lipid Perioxidation and Inflammation?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 205
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The first aim of this study is to assess oxidative stress and nutritional status in patients with elevated liver enzymes who were found to have either simple steatosis (SS) or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) or normal histological findings on liver biopsy by measuring liver lipid peroxides and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, liver pathology and immunohistochemistry, liver function tests, liver and red blood cell membrane fatty composition, insulin resistance (IR) parameters, plasma lipid peroxides, plasma antioxidant vitamins and antioxidant power, lipid profile, subject demographics, medical history and medication use. The second aim is to detect differences in hepatic gene expression (messenger RNA, mRNA) and epigenetic regulation (micro RNA, miRNA) between patients with SS or NASH and healthy controls, in addition to determine in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD = SS+NASH combined) whether there is an association between hepatic n-3 PUFA content and gene expression. The third aim is to determine the intestinal microbiome (microbial composition and metagenome) in patients with SS or NASH and healthy controls.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
NASH is associated with obesity, diabetes and hyperlipidemia. Fat accumulation in the liver is likely due to variable degrees of disordered fatty-acid metabolism and insulin resistance (IR). Liver steatosis, especially polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in the liver, increases lipid peroxidation and is associated with a reduction in the antioxidant defense system. This oxidative stress can lead to increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, transforming growth factor-beta) contributing to the development of steatohepatitis and fibrosis.TNF-α - may further contribute to IR. In addition, changes in fatty acid composition within the liver may influence lipid metabolism and inflammation. In particular, n-3 PUFA have an effect on the insulin sensitivity, transcription of antioxidant genes, inflammatory response and production of reactive oxygen species. Differences might be seen on the gene expression level (mRNA) and also in epigenetic regulation (miRNA).

Microbiota composition might influence energy metabolism, and inflammatory tone and IR through increased endotoxemia and therefore could also play a role in the development of NAFLD.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hepatic fatty acid composition in total lipids in liver biopsy
  - Hepatic gene expression
  - Intestinal microbiota composition

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02148471
