CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05737732
Title: The Ambient Light Multiple Myeloma Study
Official Title: Systematic Light Exposure Effects on Circadian Rhythms Entrainment, Inflammation, Neutropenic Fever and Symptom Burden Among Multiple Myeloma Patients Undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The aim of this multi-site randomized control trial will be is to assess the impact Systematic lighting on circadian rhythm entrainment, Inflammation, Neutropenic Fever and Symptom Burden among Multiple Myeloma Patients undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation. To achieve this aim, 200 multiple myeloma patients will receive one of two different light-treatments that are designed to promote circadian rhythm alignment. While receiving these light treatments, participants' sleep efficiency, urine melatonin levels, blood inflammatory cytokine levels and symptoms will be assessed over a 2-month period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Individuals undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT) experience major transplant-related complications including elevated symptom burden, high rates of neutropenic fever, and increases in inflammatory cytokines. These transplant-related complications are augmented by circadian rhythms disruption (CRD), which leads to misalignment between melatonin levels and sleep times. Since light is a strong synchronizer of circadian rhythms, the proposed multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) will investigate whether lighting designed to deliver circadian effective light that promotes circadian alignment, will: 1) promote higher nighttime melatonin levels and better nighttime sleep, 2) reduce pro-inflammatory cytokines, 3) lower rates of neutropenic fever and 4) improve symptom burden in cancer patients undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplant.

Hospital rooms for patients undergoing inpatient Autologous Stem Cell Transplant at the Mount Sinai Medical Center (MSMC) and at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC)) will be retrofitted to install 1 of 2 lighting interventions, either circadian-effective (intervention) and circadian-ineffective (comparison) ambient light that may improve sleep.

1-2 weeks and no more than 2 months prior to transplant, participants will be given an Actiwatch, Daysimeter (personal light meter), sleep logs, questionnaires, and a urine collection kit to assess melatonin. One blood sample for cytokine analyses will be collected during one of the hospital visits prior to transplant. Blood draws are always done in the morning and always at a similar time for the same individual. The same outcomes (questionnaires, Actiwatch, Daysimeter, urine samples, blood samples) will be collected during transplant period and once, four weeks after engraftment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Urinary Melatonin

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Circadian Effective Lighting
  - DEVICE: Circadian Ineffective Lightning (CIL)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05737732
