CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01993615
Title: A Physical Therapy Program Versus Surgery for Femoroacetabular Impingement: Randomized Clinical Trial
Official Title: A Supervised Physical Therapy Program vs. Arthroscopic Surgery for Femoroacetabular Impingement: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to compare the outcomes for patients that receive two different treatments used for FAI (Femoroacetabular Impingement). The programs are 1) a 6-week supervised physical therapy program and 2) arthroscopic surgery. Enrollment is limited to patients that have already been determined surgical candidates. The study is following patients for a 2-year period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study plans to enroll a total of 60 Tricare beneficiaries primarily from the Madigan Healthcare System with a diagnosis of FAI that are surgical candidates and have already failed at least six weeks of conservative treatment.

This is a randomized controlled study comparing outcomes for the standard treatment for FAI and/or acetabular labral pathology (arthroscopy with or without labral repair) versus physical therapy. For subjects in the arthroscopy group, the surgery will be performed by the Orthopedic Surgical Service at Madigan Army Medical Center.

Subjects randomized to the physical therapy group will follow a treatment plan implemented by a physical therapist within the Madigan Army Healthcare System.

After consent, subjects will be randomized into one of two arms (Group I = hip arthroscopy, Group II = physical therapy). Group I will undergo hip arthroscopy with or without labral repair. Group II will follow a FAI-based physical therapy program x 12 sessions (6 weeks).

The arthroscopy group will complete outcome measures at time of consent and following surgery at 6 months, 1 year and 2 year time periods. Subjects in this group will follow a standardized post-operative rehabilitation protocol.

The physical therapy group will complete outcomes measures at time of consent and at 6 month, 1 year and 2 year time periods following the initial physical therapy evaluation. Subjects in this group will complete 6 weeks of an impairment-based physical therapy program.

In addition to the outcome measures taken, healthcare utilization and associated costs for hip-related care during this 2-year period will also calculated for comparison between the 2 groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hip Outcome Score - ADL Subscale at 24 Months
  - Hip Outcome Score - Sport Subscale at 24 Months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic Surgery
  - PROCEDURE: Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01993615
