CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07482046
Title: Effectiveness of Topical Menthol as A Cooling Method During Exercise in A Recreational Runner Population
Official Title: Effectiveness of Topical Menthol as A Cooling Method During Exercise in A Recreational Runner Population
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 37
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of topical menthol as a cooling method during exercise in a hot air environment in healthy adult recreational runners aged 18 to 45 years.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

What is the difference in thermal sensation between the topical menthol gel application and a placebo during exercise? How does the application of topical menthol affect body temperature, heart rate, and physical performance compared to a placebo? Researchers will compare a 4% Menthol gel to a placebo gel in a cross-over design to see if the menthol gel improves thermal sensation, regulates body temperature, and enhances physical performance and comfort.

Participants will:

1. Undergo a screening process including a medical history review, physical examination, resting ECG, blood sugar test, and a Bleep fitness test.
2. Participate in two separate running activities at an athletic field, separated by a wash-out period of 7 days + 1 day.Have the assigned gel (menthol or placebo) applied to their neck, front upper arms, and front upper legs while running (specifically between kilometers 2.5 and 2.8).
3. Complete pre-run and post-run assessments measuring weight, skin and tympanic temperature, heart rate, vertical jump height, running duration, perceived exertion (RPE), thermal sensation, and comfort.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Thermal Sensation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Light blue gel with the trademark Counterpain COOL® (License Number: POM QD. 111 709 501) containing the active substance Menthol 4%.
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07482046
