CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01564433
Title: Effects of Electromechanical Gait Trainer in Patients With Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: The Effects of an Electromechanical Gait Trainer in Gait Impairments and Endurance in Patients With Cerebral Palsy: a Randomized Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Cerebral Palsy (CP) describes a group of chronic conditions affecting body movement and muscle coordination caused by damage to one or more areas of the brain, usually occurring during fetal development or infancy. One of the most disabling mobility impairments in CP is gait impairment, clinically characterized by reduced speed and endurance, as well as reduced step, stride length and toe clearance during gait.

Recently, gait rehabilitation methods in patients with neurological impairment have relied on technological devices, which drive the patient's gait in a body-weight support condition and emphasize the beneficial role of repetitive practice. Early studies in gait rehabilitation in patients with CP were carried out by using partial body-weight support treadmill training (PBWSTT) and robotic-assisted treadmill therapy. Despite their potential, these technologies have practical limitations in their routine application.

More recently, several studies have focused on the use of a new electromechanical gait trainer (Gait Trainer GT I; Reha-Stim, Berlin, Germany) in adult patients who have experienced a stroke. They have shown that training with this device may significantly improve gait performance. Despite the clinical impact of this new rehabilitative procedure, to date, no studies have been conducted on its use in children with CP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral Palsy (CP) describes a group of chronic conditions affecting body movement and muscle coordination caused by damage to one or more areas of the brain, usually occurring during fetal development or infancy. The motor disorders of CP are often accompanied by disturbances of sensation, cognition, communication, perception, behavior, and/or a seizure disorder. One of the most disabling mobility impairments in CP is gait impairment, clinically characterized by reduced speed and endurance, as well as reduced step, stride length and toe clearance during gait.

Recently, gait rehabilitation methods in patients with neurological impairment have relied on technological devices, which drive the patient's gait in a body-weight support condition and emphasize the beneficial role of repetitive practice. The rationale for these approaches originates from animal studies which have shown that repetition of gait movements may enhance spinal and supraspinal locomotor circuit.

Early studies in gait rehabilitation in patients with CP were carried out by using partial body-weight support treadmill training (PBWSTT) and robotic-assisted treadmill therapy. The majority of these studies consisted of single case, small or unselected patient samples and/or uncontrolled trials. In a recent randomized control trial study, Willoughby et al. showed that PBWSTT was no more effective than overground walking for improving walking speed and endurance in children with CP. They concluded that the progressive reduction of body weight support along with adding concurrent overground walking practice to a treadmill training protocol may increase the intensity of training and assist with carry over of improvements to overground walking. Despite their potential, these technologies have practical limitations in their routine application: PBWSTT requires the assistance of one or two physiotherapists to control the patient's weight shift and lower limb position during training and proper placement of the patient onto the machine (Lokomat, Hokoma Inc., Volketswill, Switzerland) for robotic-assisted treadmill training is time-consuming.

More recently, several studies have focused on the use of a new electromechanical gait trainer (Gait Trainer GT I; Reha-Stim, Berlin, Germany) in adult patients who have experienced a stroke. They have shown that training with this device may significantly improve gait performance. Despite the clinical impact of this new rehabilitative procedure, to date, no studies have been conducted on its use in children with CP.

The primary aim of the present randomized controlled trial is to evaluate whether repetitive locomotor training with the Gait Trainer GT I can improve endurance in tetra- or diplegic ambulatory children with CP. The secondary aim was to assess whether training can also have a positive impact on spatiotemporal gait parameters and quality of life.

Study Design Randomised controlled, blinded clinical trial.

Materials and methods Twenty C

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Six Minute Walking Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Device: Electromechanical gait trainer
  - PROCEDURE: Convetional control treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01564433
