CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05965518
Title: High-Intensity Exercise to Combat Vascular and Cognitive Dysfunction in Adults With HIV
Official Title: A Pilot Trial of High-Intensity Exercise to Combat Vascular and Cognitive Dysfunction in Older Adults With HIV
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This is a single site, randomized exercise trial with individuals at least 50 years of age living with HIV who experience suboptimal cognition. The overall goals of this proposal are to determine whether 16 weeks of structured high-intensity interval training (HIIT) can overcome vascular and cognitive impairments (Aim 1) to a greater extent than continuous moderate exercise. Additionally, investigator will seek to identify barriers to engagement in exercise and the participants' perceptions of the study and exercise interventions (Aim 2). This study will enroll 60 participants in Birmingham, Alabama. Data collection will occur at each visit, with baseline data collected at the initial visit with a 3-month follow-up occurring following completion of the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single site, randomized exercise trial with individuals at least 50 years of age living with HIV who experience suboptimal cognition. The overall goals of this proposal are to determine whether 12 weeks of structured high-intensity interval training (HIIT) can overcome vascular and cognitive impairments (Aim 1) to a greater extent than continuous moderate exercise. Additionally, investigator will seek to identify barriers to engagement in exercise and the participants' perceptions of the study and exercise interventions (Aim 2). This study will enroll 60 participants in Birmingham, Alabama.

Vascular function will be measured using pulse wave velocity. Cognition will be assessed using the full neuropsychological battery. Additionally, perceptions of exercise and the study as well as barriers to engaging in exercise will be determined through the analysis qualitative interviews.

The overall hypothesis is that HIIT will result in greater enhancements in vascular and cognitive function. The investigators expect that individuals randomized to HIIT will result in greater satisfaction with the protocol. Based on the data collected, the investigators seek to develop tailored intervention to promote successful aging among older people living with HIV.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in vascular function
  - Change in cognitive function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High-Intensity Interval Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Continuous Moderate Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05965518
