CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01534871
Title: The Effects of Cardiac Rehabilitation on Cardiovascular Disease Risk in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients
Official Title: The Effects of a 12-week Cardiovascular Rehabilitation Exercise Program on Inflammatory Markers and Traditional Coronary Artery Disease Risk Factors in Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects approximately 1% of all Canadians. RA is associated with a higher rate of disease and death as well as a decreased life expectancy. Changes in death rates and life expectancy are mainly the result of an increased frequency of cardiovascular disease (CVD). The increase in CVD frequency is primarily attributable to accelerated atherosclerosis. It is believed that elevated levels of inflammation, which are characteristic of RA, play a key role in accelerated rate of CVD in RA patients. Thus, inflammation is considered a primary risk factor for CVD in RA patients. Interestingly, despite a better understanding of the relationship between RA and CVD and improved treatment for RA patients the death rate in RA population continues to increase. Thus, there is an immediate need to develop treatment strategies to reduce the risk of CVD associated with inflammation in the RA population.

Exercise is commonly used to reduce the risk of CVD. Preventative exercise programs are often offered as part of cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs. These programs help patients modify CVD risk factors, improve physical capacity and decrease CVD risk. Studies also suggest that CR programs decrease levels of inflammation. Since RA patients have an elevated risk for CVD, which is primarily attributed to increased levels of inflammation, they are prime candidates for CR programs. However, RA patients are very rarely referred to CR programs. Thus, there is a lack of information regarding the effects of CR on RA patients. Thus studies are needed to determine whether CR modifies levels of inflammation and decreases CVD risk in RA patients. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to determine the effects of a 12-week standardized cardiac rehabilitation exercise program on systemic inflammation and CVD risk in individuals with RA. Specifically, this study will characterize the effects of a community based CR exercise program on systemic markers of inflammation (proinflammatory cytokines) and global CVD risk (Framingham risk profile) as well as the therapeutic effects of CR exercise on the severity of RA.

This study will help to clarify the mechanism(s) by which exercise impacts CVD risk in patients with inflammatory disease. In addition, the study will show how CR may benefit patients with inflammatory disease with respect to their ability to exercise, global risk for cardiovascular disease and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that impacts approximately 1% of all Canadians. RA is associated with increased mortality, decreased life expectancy and increased morbidity, which is primarily attributable to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Traditional risk factors (e.g. dyslipidemia, hypertension, physical inactivity, etc.) contribute, in part, to the elevated risk of CVD in individuals with RA. However, the higher incidence of CVD events in RA appears to be independent of the influence of traditional CVD risk factors. Non-traditional risk factors, such as inflammation, also contribute to the increased risk of CVD in RA patients. In fact, when traditional CVD risk factors and co-morbidities are controlled for in people with RA, markers of systemic inflammation confer a significant additional risk for CV death. This suggests that systemic inflammation significantly contributes to the increased risk of CVD in individuals with RA. Thus, there is an immediate need to develop intervention strategies to reduce the inflammatory mediated risk of CVD in the RA population.

One possible intervention that could be used to decrease CVD risk in RA patients is exercise. Exercise can modify both traditional (e.g. dyslipidemia) and non-traditional (e.g. inflammation) risk factors to decrease the risk of CVD. For patients with cardiac disease, clinical guidelines recommend regular exercise. For this, patients are referred to cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programs, where exercise represents the cornerstone of the program. The goal of these programs is modify CVD risk factors, improve physical capacity and decrease CVD risk. Thus, CR programs may offer a suitable therapeutic intervention to help decrease CVD risk in RA patients. However, RA patients are rarely referred to CR despite their increased risk of CVD. Thus, the effects of CR on inflammation and CVD risk in patients with RA remains unclear.

The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of a 12-week cardiac rehabilitation exercise program on systemic inflammation and CVD risk in individuals with RA. The specific objectives of the study are: 1) to determine whether it is feasible for RA patients to complete a 12-week high intensity CR exercise program, 2) examine the effects of a 12-week standardized CR exercise program on systemic markers of inflammation in individuals with RA, 3) to examine the effects of a 12-week standardized CR exercise program on CVD risk in individuals with RA and 4) to characterize the effects a 12-week standardized CR exercise program on the severity of the patient's RA and their functional ability.

This study is meant to be a pilot study that will help provide insight into the therapeutic effects of CR on inflammation and CVD risk in RA patients. Based on the results from this preliminary work, a larger scale study will be developed to evaluate the effects of exercise intensity on cardiovascular risk in patients with inflammator

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Framingham risk score
  - Levels of systemic inflammation
  - Severity of rheumatoid arthritis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01534871
