CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06356142
Title: The Effects of Palmar Cooling on Repeated Sprinting Ability
Official Title: The Effects of Palmar Cooling on Repeated Sprinting Ability
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Repeated sprinting ability is key for athletic performance in a variety of sport settings. Significant degradations in work output (i.e. fatigue) have been shown to develop after just one sprinting bout1. This pilot study aims to investigate the effects that noninvasive transient temperature manipulation has on an individual's ability to perform repeated sprints. The investigators aim to enroll 90 healthy individuals, 18-30 years of age. Participants will be randomized into two groups (Group A, and B). All groups will perform a ten-minute warm-up followed by two minutes of rest. Following the warm-up and rest period, all groups will participate in a series of five sprints, 60 meters in total length with two 180 degree changes in direction. Between sprints, participants will have 10 seconds rest. After the first series of five sprints participants will be given a 2-minute rest interval. Then participants will perform another series of five sprints followed by another 2-minute rest interval. During each rest interval, Group A will utilize a palmar cooling device. Group B will utilize a placebo version of the palmar cooling device. All sprints will be timed. Heart rate recovery will be measured during all rest breaks, and a rating of perceived exertion will be measured at the beginning and end of each resting interval. Delayed onset muscle soreness will be assessed 48 hours post sprinting, utilizing a visual analog scale.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participants Sprinting times

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Palmar Cooling
  - DEVICE: Placebo Palmar Cooling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06356142
