CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03095664
Title: Effect of a Lifestyle Intervention on Nutritional Status and Prognosis of Endometrial Cancer Survivors
Official Title: Effect of a Lifestyle Intervention on Nutritional Status and Prognosis of Endometrial Cancer Survivors
Status: SUSPENDED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 286
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The objective of the present study is to implement and evaluate the effect of a counseling program to promote healthy eating and practice of physical activity in the nutritional status, quality of life and prognosis of women Type I (endometrioid) endometrial cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Endometrial cancer (EC) is the fifth most commonly diagnosed malignant neoplasm among women worldwide. The incidence of EC is higher in high-income countries, but it has been increasing in low- and middle-income countries.

The main risk factors for EC include the presence of comorbidities, such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension, as well as conditions associated with prolonged exposure to estrogens. Obesity is recognized as a major risk factor for many cancers, including EC. Multiple mechanisms related to obesity are probably involved in the carcinogenesis of EC. Among obese women in the postmenopausal period, there is an increase of bioavailable circulating estrogens. These estrogens come from the aromatization of androgens in adipose tissue and from increased circulating estrogens secondary to the reduced synthesis of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) in the liver. insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, increased secretion of adipocytokines and pro-inflammatory cytokines may also play a role in the carcinogenesis of EC.

Although the incidence of EC is remarkable, insufficient data has addressed the impact of obesity on EC outcomes. Since about 70% of women diagnosed with endometriod EC are obese, the consequences of obesity-related diseases should be taken into account in order to implement strategies to improve survival outcomes among these women.

Sedentary lifestyle and physical inactivity also seem to be relevant, and have been identified as predictors of poor prognosis in patients with different types of cancer. However, the role of lifestyle (including eating and social habits and physical activity) on endometrial cancer prognosis has not been assessed prospectively yet. Studies assessing nutritional status and lifestyle before and after EC diagnosis may elucidate whether and when these factors influence clinical outcomes, including long-term survival.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Overall survival

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intervention group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 69 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03095664
