CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05647135
Title: ImpACt of Very High Protein Content Enteral nUtrition Formulas on Critically Ill MUltipLe trAuma paTiEnts
Official Title: ImpACt of Very High Protein Content Enteral nUtrition Formulas on Protein Metabolism and Residual Gastric Volume in Critically Ill MUltipLe trAuma paTiEnts
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
This prospective observational randomized study aims to determine energy, protein intake and gastrointestinal tolerance while using enteral nutrition formulas with very high protein content and enteral nutrition formulas with normal protein content.

* Differences regarding achieving protein and calorie daily targets when using enteral nutrition formulas with different protein content
* Differences regarding residual gastric volume when using enteral nutrition formulas with different protein content
* Differences regarding body composition when using enteral nutrition formulas with different protein content

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
ImpACt of very high protein Content enteral nUtrition formulas on protein metabolism and residual gastric volume in critically ill MUltipLe trAuma paTiEnts

\- ACCUMULATE trial -

Background and rationale:

Despite an increased survival among critically ill patients, many of the ICU "survivors" may develop prolonged functional disabilities. It has already been proven that nutritional therapy is essential, considering that an adequate provision of calories and proteins may influence patients prognostic.

Multiple trauma patients are on a particular nutritional risk, since their high nitrogen demands and associated nutritional therapy challenges, caused by repeated surgical intervention or multiple imagistic procedures. Although nutritional therapy impact on mortality is still in debate, clear, positive results were obtained in decreasing ICU and hospital stay after adequate nutritional support.

According to ESPEN guideline on clinical nutrition in the ICU early enteral nutrition (within 48 h) should be initiated in order to assure an adequate calorie and protein intake. Beside optimal timing, the management of nutrition therapy in critically ill patients should also integrate the optimal route and caloric/protein targets.

Energy requirements monitoring through indirect calorimetry has been proposed as a standard-of-care method for critically ill patients, considering its proven superiority towards predictive equation.

Beyond calorie intake, proteins proved to play a central role in maintain lean body mass, healing wounds and supporting immune function.For multiple trauma patients it was reported that protein losses may reach 14 % of the total body stores, thus this type of patients are exposed to a particular increased risk of protein deficits. If calorie administration benefits from a proper monitoring tool, protein requirements are still based on predictive equation. The impact of protein administration is also lacking of direct measurements techniques. Lean body mass evaluation by ultrasound and computerized tomography has been reported to have a good correlation with hospital stay and pots-ICU functional capacity. Moreover muscle function evaluation through a hand-grip dynamometer was also tested with good results in patients with ARDS.

Source of administered protein may also influence nitrogen balance, considering that whey proteins (rich in leucine) promote a slower hydrolysis and allow a longer period for absorption.

Reaching the recommended goals is often impeded by gastric intolerance manifested through increased gastric volume residues. It has been already demonstrated that large gastric volume residues are associated with impaired absorption and an increased incidence of aspiration pneumonia.

Gastrointestinal dysfunction in multiple trauma patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) is an important yet underrecognized consequence. There are various causes of gastrointestinal tract dysfunction mostly related to patients gene

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Calorie and protein target
  - Calorie and protein target

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Medical food

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05647135
