CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03956784
Title: E-assisted Follow up Diagnosis of Post Operative Digestive Complications
Official Title: Impact of E-assisted Connected Follow up on the Delay of Management of Postoperative Complications in Digestive Surgery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 233
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Postoperative management in digestive surgery has been modernized thanks to improved rehabilitation measures. These measures include an earlier refeeding, mobilization, restriction of infusions (out of a total of 22) and showed their benefit in colorectal, gastric and bariatric surgery. It is thus possible to perform sleeve gastrectomy, bypass, restorations of digestive continuity and colectomies with early discharge or one day surgery.

The most serious complications (fistula, sepsis) occur in the first 10 days postoperatively with an average readmission rate of 10%. Their screening is based on clinical signs (tachycardia, pain) or biological (C-Reactive Protein (CRP) assay on Day 3 or Day 4). It is important to manage these complications early so that their morbidity is lower, resulting in shorter stays and less severity.

The monitoring and safety of patients discharged early are therefore essential and for the moment poorly codified, ranging from simple nursing to follow-up via a health provider. Recently, coordination structures including nurse platform and smartphone follow up app have emerged. Thanks to this system, the patient collects his own history and biological results which allows him to be monitored continuously, as in the hospital. In case of no filling or sign of complication, the nurse platform contacts the patient.

This connected follow-up would make it possible to reinforce the safety of the patient discharged early after a complex digestive procedure performed on an outpatient basis. Its benefit has been poorly evaluated but it is however more and more used by surgeons convinced of its interest especially as it goes in the direction of the development of the outpatient activity requested by the High Authority of Health with economic benefits interesting also the administration of the care structures.

The purpose of the investigator's study is to evaluate the impact of e-assessed follow-up during 10 days after surgery compared to a conventional follow-up. The hypothesis is that this connected follow-up would allow earlier detection of complications requiring rehospitalization (within 48 hours), resulting in faster and less severe treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time required for the management of post-operative complications requiring rehospitalization

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: E-assessed clinical and biological follow up
  - OTHER: Usual at home follow up

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03956784
