CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06404866
Title: Satisfaction With eMotion in a Diverse Group of Women
Official Title: Satisfaction With eMotion in a Diverse Group of Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 5
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The eMotion intervention, developed by the PI, provides training on multiple emotion regulation skills based on leading theories and evidence-based emotion regulation interventions. After initial pilot testing of eMotion, the investigators revised the intervention to make it more relevant to women from diverse backgrounds, as these women are disproportionately impacted by social determinants of health that complicate their recovery. It is important to revise the intervention to be acceptable to women from diverse backgrounds and to address their unique needs. The investigators want to explore if women from diverse backgrounds find the revised intervention relevant, meaningful, and easy to understand and apply to their lives. Their feedback will help investigators further revise the intervention to make it acceptable for this population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single-group study assessing participation satisfaction with the 10-week eMotion intervention. The eMotion intervention is based on feasibility testing of the successful in-person program with critical refinement to improve accessibility. eMotion has undergone subsequent content validity testing with intervention development, self-management, cardiovascular health, and health information technology delivery experts. eMotion teaches a carefully selected repertoire of emotion regulation strategies well suited for adults following a first cardiac event.

Participants will complete one lesson per week. The weekly education targets women and contains personalized content via diverse lesson narratives. Each week, participants listen to scripted sessions they can complete on their own time regarding each weekly topic (lasting about 30 minutes). At the end of the week, participants meet individually with a study team member virtually to discuss the same subject. The lessons will be comprised of rich emotion regulation strategies selected based on the efficacy and preferences of middle-aged and older adults. The 10 lessons covered are, 1) safe exercise guidelines and strategies, 2) why emotions matter and identifying emotions, 3) becoming an emotion detective, 4) mindful walking, 5) selecting and changing situations, 6) evaluating a challenge and responding, 7) choosing what to pay attention to, 8) thinking positively, 9) emotional responses for change, and 10) changing strategies and recognizing strengths.

Baseline and concluding surveys will be completed by participants that will take approximately 20 minutes. The baseline and concluding measures will help investigators characterize our sample and further understand risk factors that may contribute to dissatisfaction or confusion. After each week's lessons, each participant will be sent an individualized survey link to complete an IU RedCap survey with questions covering participant satisfaction with the eMotion intervention. The intervening surveys (weeks 2-9) should take approximately 10 minutes to complete each week.

Each week's content, including lessons, and surveys will last approximately 45-60 minutes, or 10 hours across the entire intervention period.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Distress-Depression and Anxiety Stress Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: eMotion

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06404866
