CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04751916
Title: Nutritional Stimulation of Muscle Protein Synthesis and Metabolic Rate After Bariatric Surgery
Official Title: Nutritional Stimulation of Muscle Protein Synthesis and Metabolic Rate After Bariatric Surgery
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Bariatric surgery is an effective treatment for severe obesity but results in loss of muscle mass. The investigators will test the hypothesis that consumption of an Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation will maintain muscle mass while stimulating fat loss after bariatric surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Objectives

   Bariatric surgery has become a common treatment for severe obesity, and results in a loss of fat mass. However, muscle mass is also lost following bariatric surgery. It is the investigators' overarching premise that consumption of the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation following bariatric surgery will preserve muscle mass by stimulating muscle protein synthesis. As a result, the energy utilization associated with the combination of maintained muscle mass and stimulated muscle protein synthesis will counter the decrease in metabolic rate that normally occurs in hypocaloric circumstances. maintenance of a higher total energy expenditure by Essential Amino Acid consumption will accelerate loss of body fat, as well as accelerate loss of body weight. The investigators further propose that consumption of an Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation will reduce muscle intra-cellular lipid accumulation, which will translate to greater improvements in glucose homeostasis and muscle protein metabolism. The loss of muscle mass in those with obesity undergoing rapid weight loss post-bariatric surgery, is not in itself, a disease or a medical condition.

   The following aims will test specific hypotheses related to the scientific premise:

   Aim 1. Supplementation of the usual diet following bariatric surgery with a proprietary Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation twice per day for 6 months will maintain muscle mass and reduce fat mass more than supplementation of the diet with an isonitrogenous amount of whey protein. Muscle mass will be directly measured using a novel tracer-dilution technique using deuterium-labeled creatine. Fat mass and lean body mass will be measured by Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry.

   Aim 2. Muscle protein fractional synthetic rate and total muscle protein synthesis (muscle mass x fractional synthetic rate) will decline less from pre-surgery values in participants consuming the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation as compared to whey protein. Muscle protein fractional synthetic rate will be measured by the novel "virtual biopsy" method, which provides an integrated value over three weeks.

   Aim 3. The pre-surgery rate of total energy expenditure will be better maintained in participants consuming the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation as opposed to whey protein. Change in total energy expenditure will be measured over 10-day intervals using the doubly-labeled water technique, before to 6 months following surgery.

   Aim 4. Six months after bariatric surgery muscle intra-cellular lipid accumulation will be reduced from the pre-surgery value to a greater extent in participants consuming the Essential Amino Acid-based nutritional formulation than whey protein. Muscle intra-cellular lipid accumulation will be measured by means of magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging. The investigators anticipate that a greater reductio

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lean body mass
  - Lean body mass
  - Total energy expenditure
  - Total energy expenditure
  - Muscle mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Essential Amino Acid Protein Supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beneprotein®

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04751916
