CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05385731
Title: MUSCLE - Nordic Walking in MUltiple SCLErosis
Official Title: MUSCLE - Nordic and Free Walking in People With Multiple Sclerosis: Clinical-functional, Motor Control, and Gait Analysis Findings: a Randomized Controlled Multicentre Clinical Trials
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to analyze the effects of Nordic Walking and free walking in the clinical-functional, postural balance, motor control, muscular echographic quality, and gait analysis (pendulum gait mechanism), in people with Multiple Sclerosis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: Analyze the effects of Nordic Walking and free walking in the clinical-functional parameters, postural balance, muscular echography quality, pendulum gait mechanism, in people with Multiple sclerosis. Experimental Design: Randomized controlled multicenter clinical trial with translational study characteristics. Search Location: Exercise Research Laboratory at the School of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Dance, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, and University of Pavia, on Department of Public Health, Experimental Medicine and Forensic Sciences, Pavia, Italy. Participants: 60 patients from the Unified Health System (UHS) of both sexes, from 20 to 75 years old, diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, sedentary. Interventions: In this research, four groups of patients with multiple sclerosis will receive intervention during 4 months of different physical therapy programs (Nordic walking and free walking), who will receive telephone guidance for performing home-based exercises. The training programs will have a duration of 3 months and will be periodized so that the duration of the sessions is matched between them. The intensity of the interval training will be manipulated by the subjective effort scale (Borg) and by the heart rate, with predetermined series durations. All training programs will have a frequency of two sessions per week and a duration of 60 minutes. To evaluate the effects of the training, evaluations will be performed before and after the training period: 1) Basal (month 0): initial pre-training evaluation; 2) month 4: Evaluation 48h after the last training session. Outcomes: clinical-functional parameters, postural balance, muscular echography quality, pendulum gait mechanism, and biochemistry. Data Analysis: Data will be described by average values and standard deviation values. The comparisons between and within groups will be performed using a Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) analysis, adopting a level of significance (α) of 0.05. Expected Results: The intervention groups of the Nordic walking are expected to be more effective in all outcomes analyzed, especially improving functional mobility when compared to the control group of unsupervised home exercises. In addition, it is expected that the results of the research will be expandable and the possibility of future developments in the scientific, technological, economic, social, and environmental fields and that they will be implemented in the Unified Health System (UHS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Test Timed Up and Go
  - Locomotor Rehabilitation Index
  - Self-selected walking speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Nordic Walking (NWG)
  - OTHER: Free Walking (FWG)
  - OTHER: Health Education (HEG)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05385731
