CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06292975
Title: Exercise for Improving Radiotherapy Efficacy in Rectal Cancer
Official Title: A Single Arm Feasibility Study of Exercise for Improving Short-course Radiotherapy Efficacy in People Diagnosed With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This is a single arm feasibility study of exercise for improving short- course neoadjuvant radiotherapy efficacy in people diagnosed with locally advanced rectal cancer. The study aims to recruit up to 30 patients from the Queen's Centre for Oncology and Haematology of Castle Hill Hospital, Cottingham, diagnosed with locally advanced rectal cancer. Consenting patient's will be provided with a 7 weeks course of structured aerobic exercises and resistance training in the periods before, during and after their radiotherapy treatment. The patients will be followed up for 6 months post short course neoadjuvant radiotherapy, with a total of 3 assessment periods.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will take place at Castle Hill Hospital, where the participants' usual care will be given. The study will also recruit at this site. Patients, who have been diagnosed with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC) short-course radiotherapy (NART) will be pre-screened for any obvious exclusions with those that are potentially eligible approached by their clinical oncologist to discuss participation in these studies. If the patient is agreeable, further contact will be made by a member of the research team for further discussion. The aim is to include about 30 participants in this study. The participant information sheet will be provided and any uncertainties about the study raised by the potential participant will be addressed. The potential participant will be given sufficient time, up to a week, to consider their participation in the study, as typically, there is on average a 31-day period between decision to treat and start of neoadjuvant oncological treatment. After all questions are answered and provided the participant is willing to take part in the study, they will be asked to sign the consent form to confirm participation.

Once a participant agrees to taking part, their medical history, and investigations (performed as part of routine clinical care) will be reviewed. Each participant's data from investigational phase for rectal cancer up to short-course NART completion and re-assessment will be collected. Data on age, gender, stage of rectal cancer, and any comorbidities will be collected from medical notes. Participants will then be invited for a baseline assessment at Castle Hill Hospital in a designated risk assessed rehabilitation gym.

In this baseline assessment, further personal details will be taken from the patient, including height and weight measurements to calculate Body Mass Index (BMI), other descriptive information such as ethnicity will also be taken. The Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) will be completed either independently by participant or with the help of a member of the research team if required by participant. Some of the questionnaires, such as the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer EORTC-QLQ-CR29 and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Colorectal (FACT-C), contained in this study contain some questions that may be perceived to be intrusive. They however are validated questionnaires that has previously been used in numerous rectal cancer research studies. To mitigate embarrassment, participants will be forewarned about the contents of these questionnaires and potential to cause embarrassment. Participants will be reminded that their response will be anonymised. Questions relating to stoma and sex life are presented much later in the questionnaires where rapport may have already been established. Participants will be encouraged to consult with their oncologist if the questionnaires prompt any treatment related problems they may be experiencing.

Participants will also on

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recruitment rate
  - Attendance rate
  - withdrawal rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Supervised Vigorous intensity aerobic interval exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06292975
