CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05482386
Title: STREAM Trial - Biomarker
Official Title: Utility of Biomarkers With Statin Therapy in Multimorbid Older Adults - An Ancillary Study Nested Within a Randomized Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 500
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Statins are among the most widely used drugs. While they were found to be effective for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in middle-aged subjects, their benefits for primary prevention in older adults (aged ≥70 years) without CVD are uncertain, particularly for those with multimorbidity. Older patients with elevated biomarkers associated with cardiovascular (CV) risk might benefit from continuing statins to prevent CV outcomes, but this hypothesis has not been rigorously tested in randomized clinical trials (RCTs). To address these questions, the investigators conduct a RCT in 500 multimorbid adults ≥70 years old taking statins for primary prevention who will be randomized to statin continuation vs. statin discontinuation, and measure baseline biomarkers to determine if the risk of a composite outcome of CV events and all-cause mortality after statin discontinuation differs among those with baseline levels of previously validated blood biomarkers associated with increased risk of CV outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background \& rationale: The benefit of statin use for primary prevention is uncertain in older adults with multimorbidity, while harms such as side effects may be more common in this population. Therefore, the 2018 AHA/ACC cholesterol guidelines mention that it may be reasonable to discontinue statins in multimorbid older adults without cardiovascular disease (CVD). Older patients with elevated biomarkers associated with cardiovascular (CV) risk might benefit from continuing statins to prevent CV outcomes, but this hypothesis has not been rigorously tested in randomized clinical trials (RCTs). To address this question, the investigators conduct a RCT in 500 multimorbid adults ≥70 years old taking statins for primary prevention who will be randomized to statin continuation vs. statin discontinuation, and measure baseline biomarkers to determine if the risk of a composite outcome of CV events and all-cause mortality after statin discontinuation differs among those with baseline levels of previously validated blood biomarkers associated with increased risk of CV outcomes.

Specific aim:

To determine if the risk of a composite outcome of CV events and all-cause mortality after statin discontinuation differs according to the baseline levels of previously validated blood biomarkers associated with increased risk of CV outcomes (lipoprotein(a), inflammatory markers \[high-sensitivity C-reactive Protein\], myocardial damage/wall strain \[NT-proBNP, troponin\]).

Design:

The study is a multicenter, randomized, non-inferiority trial conducted in multiple centers in Switzerland. Study subjects are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either discontinue (intervention arm) or continue (control arm) statin therapy. The study is open-label, with blinded outcome adjudication. After inclusion the study participants will be followed with phone calls, first after 3 months and then yearly for a mean of 24 months (min. follow-up period 12 months, max. follow-up period 48 months). Outcomes are assessed at each study follow-up. We will measure previously validated biomarkers at baseline.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite endpoint of all-cause death and major non-fatal CV events (non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal ischemic stroke)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Statin discontinuation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05482386
