CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03001999
Title: Boosting Emotions & Happiness in Outpatients Living With Diabetes: Phase I
Official Title: A Novel Psychological-behavioral Intervention to Improve Activity in Type 2 Diabetes: Proof-of-concept Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The focus of this study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary impact of a customized, combined positive psychology and motivational interviewing (PP-MI) health behavior intervention in a group of patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators are proposing a study that will specifically and innovatively focus on the development of a novel positive psychology intervention that is adapted for patients with T2D. The MGH Diabetes Center and MGH primary care clinics will serve as the source of subjects for the study, with patients who have a diagnosis of T2D serving as potential subjects. The investigators will enroll 12 T2D patients, who will take part in an 16-week PP-MI health behavior intervention.

In this project, the investigators plan to do the following:

1. Test a 16-week, telephone-delivered health behavior intervention utilizing PP exercises and systematic goal-setting in a brief, non-randomized, proof-of concept trial (N=12).
2. Determine whether this initial intervention is feasible in a small cohort of T2D patients.
3. Explore potential benefits of the intervention on outcomes of interest (e.g., optimism, positive affect).

Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of the population. This information will include data regarding medical history (type 2 diabetes mellitus), current medical variables (conditions affecting physical activity), medications, and sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

Participants will undergo an initial screening visit during which they will meet with study staff in person. At this visit, study eligibility will be confirmed, and eligible and willing participants will be enrolled. Following enrollment, participants will complete self-report measures, and nurses in the Translational and Clinical Research Center will collect vital signs and draw blood for A1c. To ensure that participants have low baseline physical activity, they will then take home and wear accelerometers for 1 week.

Participants will undergo a second in-person visit to confirm that participants are eligible to complete the program and--if so--to initiate the program. During this session, A1c and accelerometer data will be reviewed. Participants will be required to have an A1c value between 6.5% and 9%, unless they have had an eligible A1c level in the past 6 months, in which case their current A1c may be between 6% and 9.5%. Furthermore, participants must have low physical activity (\< 75 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity over the past week, measured by accelerometer) to continue in the program. Upon confirmation of eligibility, participants will begin the study intervention.

During this second in-person visit, participants will receive a PP-MI treatment manual. For each session, a PP exercise will be described in the manual, with instructions and space to write about the exercise and its effects. Next, an MI section will outline specific MI-based topics (e.g., pros/cons, managing slips) and facilitate physical activity goal-setting. Interventionists will complete PP exercise 1 and MI session 1 to

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility of recruitment procedures
  - Feasibility of study procedures

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: PP-MI health behavior intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03001999
