CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06778694
Title: Comparative Effects of Motor Control and Isolated Strengthening Lumbar Exercises on Functional Outcomes in Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Motor Control and Isolated Strengthening Lumbar Exercises on Functional Outcomes in Patients with Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Comparative effects of motor control and isolated strengthening lumbar exercises on functional outcomes in patients with chronic low back pain

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
As there is an increasing population of low back pain because of the stress and workload that lead to poor posture. Poor posture leads to tightening of flexor muscles and weakness of lumbar extensors that knowns as lower cross syndrome and it will become the chronic low back pain if not treated on time. Most of the therapist only work on the pain management but not focus on the functional outcome of the patient so the isolated lumbar extensor strengthening exercises and motor control exercises should be evaluated to know the effectiveness in improving the functional outcome of patients.

To compare the effects of motor control and isolated strengthening lumbar exercises on functional outcome in patients with chronic low back pain. A randomized controlled trial with a sample of 35 patients with chronic low back pain will be taken from Physiotherapy OPDs of Madinah Teaching Hospital, Allied hospital, In motion physiotherapy clinic and The Physio Rehab clinic. Participants will be randomly divided into two groups using convenient sampling technique. Both groups will be experimental groups. Patients in Group A will do Motor control exercises. Patients in Group B will do isolated strengthening lumbar exercises. Hot pack will be applied for 15 minutes and Ultrasound therapy (1MHz) for 3-5 minutes as baseline treatment in both groups. Patients will be included based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Assessment will be done by using NPRS and Oswestry disability Index Questionnaire.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NPRS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Motor control exercises
  - OTHER: Isolated strengthening lumbar exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06778694
