CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05853497
Title: A Multi-Component Weight Loss Intervention to Improve Outcomes of Total Knee Replacement
Official Title: A Multi-Component Weight Loss Intervention to Improve Outcomes of Total Knee Replacement
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Obesity, specifically BMIs ≥35 or 40 kg/m2, are associated with an increased probability of poor outcomes of Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) including increased pain, risk for infection, poor joint function, and increased rates of hospital readmissions. Several orthopedic and public health organizations recommend weight loss prior to TJA for individuals with overweight/obesity. However, empirical evidence suggesting the effectiveness of pre-surgical weight loss on surgical and functional outcomes of TKA is extremely limited and is based primarily on non-randomized observational studies. Thus, to gain further insight regarding the feasibility and potential effectiveness of pre-surgical weight loss on outcomes of TKA, the proposed pilot trial will randomize 30 patients (age 50-75 yrs., BMI 35\<40 kg/m2) scheduled for TKA through The University of Kansas Health System Department of Orthopedics and Sports Medicine (KUOrtho) to a multi-component weight loss (3-mo. pre-TKA, very low-calorie diet) and maintenance intervention (3-mo. post TKA, conventional maintenance diet) or standard care control which will include no dietary or weight loss advice. The weight loss/maintenance interventions will include reduced energy intake or energy intake prescribed for weight loss maintenance, increased physical activity, and individual behavior counseling. Outcomes will be assessed 1) baseline, i.e., 3 mos. prior to surgery, 2) 3 mos. i.e., at the completion of the weight loss intervention prior to TKA, 3) within a minimum of 2 weeks post TKA, and 4) 3 mos. post-TKA, i.e., after completion of the weight maintenance intervention to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of a remotely delivered multi-component pre-TKA weight loss and a post-TKA weight maintenance intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participant Retention Feasibility
  - Participant Attendance Feasibility

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multi-Component Weight Loss Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05853497
