CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03528473
Title: Adapted Physical Activity (APA) in a Breast Cancer Population.
Official Title: Adapted Physical Activity (APA), insulin Resistance, Oxidative Stress and Microcirculatory Haemodynamics in Breast Cancer Patients.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of a 6-months program of Adapted Physical Activity (APA) on lifestyle, physical activity levels, insulin resistance and adipokines, oxidative stress, microcirculatory haemodynamics and serum levels of specific circulating miRNA in post-menopausal, physically inactive breast cancer patients in oncologic follow-up with or without hormone therapy that had completed adjuvant treatment (radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy) .

Furthermore, the study will determine the impact of APA on functional capabilities, on self-reported physical activity, quality of life and psychic health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized controlled double-group assignment study with intermedial switch-over including post-menopausal, physically inactive breast cancer patients in oncological follow-up with or without hormone therapy, that had completed adjuvant post-surgical treatment (radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy) from at least 3 months and from not more than 3 years.

Patients in hormonal therapy and patient not in hormonal therapy will be assigned in two different groups, each one of 50 patients. In each groups, patients will be randomized divided in a control group (25 pt) and in a 6 months-physical training group (25 pt). After 6-months patient in control group will be switched in the physical training group.

The duration of the study is 2 year. Clinical evaluation of the patients will be made: at the enrollment, after 6, 12, and 24 months.

Physical activity will be adapted according to arm and shoulder morbidity, after fracture risk assessment. Exercise will be concentrated solely on leg muscles (pedalling on a cycle or bed ergometer) in individuals with limitations in the range of motion of the arms (eg, due to breast, axillary, or thoracic surgery). In patients experiencing ataxia, dizziness, or peripheral neuropathy, walking outdoors and mostly cycle-ergometry training will be preferred to other activities that also involve large muscle groups but require additional balance and coordination (eg, treadmill walking, outdoor cycling).

Exercises will be performed at the Unipolar Spinal Unit of "S. Maria della Misericordia" Hospital, Perugia.

The aim of the study is to confirm the positive effect of APA on metabolic stress, body mass composition, functional capacity, serum levels of specific circulating miRNA and quality of life in breast cancer patients in oncological follow-up.

Currently, only few data are available about the relationship between physical activity and microcirculatory hemodynamics that, together with oxidative stress, could be involved in genesis and progression of breast cancer.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in physical activity levels
  - Change in BMI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03528473
