CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04009304
Title: Effective Training Models for Implementing Health-Promoting Practices Afterschool
Official Title: Effective Training Models for Implementing Health-Promoting Practices Afterschool
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 113
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study of the dissemination of the Out-of-school Nutrition and Physical Activity Initiative will utilize a 3-arm group-randomized control trial to establish the effectiveness of two learning collaborative training models (e.g. train-the-trainer in-person vs. online) for an evidence-based out-of-school time (OST) nutrition and physical activity intervention. The study will compare sites that receive the training models with a control group. Investigators will work with YMCA leadership to recruit 45 demographically diverse YMCA OST sites from across the country. Sites will be matched on racial/ethnic composition, proportion of students eligible for free or reduced price meals, program enrollment, urban/rural/suburban setting, and physical activity and food service facilities available. One-third of the sites will be randomized to participate in the online training over the school year, one-third will participate in the in-person train-the-trainer model, and one-third will serve as controls. After randomization, in fall 2016, teams of YMCA OST directors and line staff will be invited to participate in the OSNAP learning collaborative trainings. The intervention follows the social ecological model with activities targeting multiple levels of change-school district/program sponsor, OST site, interpersonal, and individual-and emphasizing on adoption of the following OSNAP goals: ban sugar-sweetened drinks from snacks served and brought in from outside the snack program; offer water as a drink at snack every day; offer a fruit or vegetable option every day at snack; ban foods with trans fats from snacks served; serve whole grains; offer 30 minutes of physical activity to all children daily; offer 20 minutes of vigorous physical activity to all children 3 times per week; and eliminate television, movies, and non-educational screentime. Sessions are designed consistent with the Institute for Healthcare Improvement Breakthrough Series Collaborative model and use constructs from social cognitive theory-knowledge and skill development coupled with action planning-to drive environmental and behavior change. Teams of afterschool staff will use the Out-of-School Nutrition and Physical Activity Observational Practice Assessment Tool (OSNAP-OPAT), decision aids, policy writing guides, and other resources available at www.osnap.org to set data-driven goals and implement discrete practice, policy, and communication action steps throughout the year. Staff will also receive training on the Food \& Fun After School curriculum available at foodandfun.org.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in nutrition and physical activity goals met (aggregate score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: OSNAP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04009304
