CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02883127
Title: Motivational Interviewing With Focus on Diet and Weight Gain in Pregnant Women With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: The Effect of Motivational Interviewing With Focus on Diet and Weight Gain on Prevention of Excessive Fetal Growth in Pregnant Women With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 189
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The primary goal of this case control study is to investigate the effect of implementation of motivational interviewing with focus on diet and weight gain in addition to the routine treatment on prevention of excessive gestational weight gain and fetal growth in pregnant women with type 2 diabetes.

Design: Prospective cohort study where an unselected cohort of all pregnant women with type 2 diabetes are offered intervention with motivational interviewing in addition to routine treatment in the period 2015-2017. For comparison a historical cohort (2013-2015) treated with routine treatment only will be studied. With an inclusion period of 2 years, each cohort is expected to include 150 participants. The women in the study group will receive one-to-one coaching based on the principles of motivational interviewing, every second week throughout the pregnancy. Both cohorts receive the same routine care for pregnant women with type 2 diabetes. An appropriate GWG is targeted. Primary outcome measures are maternal gestational weight gain and the infants Large for Gestational Age.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Aims: First, to investigate the effect of implementation of motivational interviewing focusing on diet adherence in addition to routine treatment on prevention of excessive gestational weight gain and fetal overgrowth.

Secondly, to investigate the impact of quantity and quality of carbohydrate consumption on HbA1c, gestational weight gain and fetal overgrowth.

Thirdly, to explore the occurence of anxiety and depression and relation to pregnancy outcome.

Study design:

The study group will get a life-style intervention with motivational interviewing focusing on following the recommended diabetes diet and gestational weight gain recommendations in addition to routine care - as described below.

The control group was given the same routine care with the same treatment goals, but without motivational interviewing.

Lifestyle intervention with motivational interviewing:

The individual sessions with a lifestyle coach will be scheduled for each participant and tailored to suite in the routine clinical visits of the patients. The women will follow routine visits and the lifestyle coaching is sought implemented in the routine clinical setting without excess use of one-to one contacts with a caregiver.

The lifestyle coaching is built op on principles of patient empowerment and cognitive behavioral techniques, inspired by motivational interviewing. In the program, one-to-one contact will be offered. The aim is to provide a one-to-one contact every second week of approximately 10 minutes duration. Women living in a long distance form the clinic may convert some of the one-to-one contact to telephone calls. The timing of these contacts and the time between these contacts are dependent on the preference of the participant and the availability of the lifestyle coach in order to deliver the intervention with the most appropriate timing and to optimize changes of the uptake of behavior change. However it is stressed that the one-to-one coaching sessions should be initiated within 14 days after first visit at the clinic and occurs before gestational week 20. The first phase of behavioral change is centered on intention formation (motivation). Current behavior will be assessed and motivation for change will be established. When the woman is ready to make the change, personal goals will be set. An action plan for improving dietary behavior will be made during the first session and evaluated in subsequent sessions. The following dietary objectives will be set for each participant to achieve or to maintain:

1. Watch portion size - to be conscious about the amount of carbohydrates in each meal.
2. Eat mainly carbohydrates of low glycaemic index (i.e. vegetables and rye bread).
3. Reduce the intake of carbohydrate of high glycaemic index (i.e. white bread, cakes, candy, snacks, chips, ice cream)
4. Watch daily weight changes - aim for the recommended weekly changes.

The lifestyle coaches have received a special training program containing motivational intervi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gestational weight gain
  - Large for gestational age
  - HbA1c

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Motivational interviewing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02883127
