CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06038253
Title: Relation Between NAFLD and BM DENSITY
Official Title: Relation Between Non- Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease and Bone Mineral Density in Egyptian Adults
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
In general NAFLD is a common denominal for a broad spectrum of damage to the liver, which can be due to hepatocyte injury, inflammatory processes and fibrosis. This is normally seen on liver biopsy and can range from milder forms (steatosis) to the more severe forms (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), advanced fibrosis, cirrhosis and liver failure). In these patients, advanced fibrosis is the major predictor of morbidity and liver-related mortality, and an accurate diagnosis of NASH and NAFLD is mandatory .

NAFLD is closely associated with metabolic disorders, including central obesity, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, hyperglycaemia and persistent abnormalities of liver function tests. NAFLD was shown to be connected with diseases that are usually not dependent on obesity, such as sarcopenia and osteoporosis

Target of the study :

1. Clarify predictive value of fibroscan and u/s in diagnosis of NAFLD.
2. Estimate the metabolic effect of NAFLD on bone density
3. Estimate the correlation between obesity , NAFLD and BMD

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION:

In general, the prevalence of NAFLD has increased over the last 20 years. The Middle East and South America have the highest NAFLD prevalence at 31% and 32% respectively with the lowest prevalence in Africa at 13.5% .

NAFLD is closely associated with metabolic disorders, including central obesity, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, hyperglycaemia and persistent abnormalities of liver function tests. NAFLD was shown to be connected with diseases that are usually not dependent on obesity, such as sarcopenia and osteoporosis In general NAFLD is a common denominal for a broad spectrum of damage to the liver, which can be due to hepatocyte injury, inflammatory processes and fibrosis. This is normally seen on liver biopsy and can range from milder forms (steatosis) to the more severe forms (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), advanced fibrosis, cirrhosis and liver failure). In these patients, advanced fibrosis is the major predictor of morbidity and liver-related mortality, and an accurate diagnosis of NASH and NAFLD is mandatory .

Osteoporosis is a group of bone diseases with various causes, including general factors related to aging, obesity and sex steroid deficiency, as well as specific risk factors such as the use of glucocorticoids, reduced bone quality, and disruption of microarchitectural integrity. In most cases of osteoporosis, the reduction in bone tissue is mainly due to increased bone resorption. Osteoporosis is characterized by low bone mineral density (BMD), bone pain and easy fracture.Osteoporosis is a silent disease until fractures occur with increasing frequency, which can cause important problems and even death. In industrialized countries, 9%-38% of women and 1%-8% of men \>50 years suffer from osteoporosis.

Therefore, osteoporosis is not only harmful to health but also increases the financial burden of the impacted countries.

Many studies have demonstrated that NAFLD is associated with low BMD and osteoporosis.

Liver is the source of many proteins and is the regulator of several pathways involving bone metabolism; one of the most well-known of all is vitamin D metabolism pathway. Considering the role of liver in bone metabolism, the association between NAFLD and bone abnormalities is not surprising especially with substantial supporting evidences in recent years .

Besides its role in the calcium and bone metabolism, vitamin D may also exert pleiotropic effects in many tissues. NAFLD patients were reported to have a marked reduction in serum 25(OH) vitamin D when compared with control Liver biopsy remains the current gold standard for diagnosis of NAFLD, despite limitations regarding sampling variability, invasive nature, and high cost. However, numerous non-invasive biomarkers, including mainly serum markers or imaging modalities, intend to detect the presence of steatosis, NASH or advanced fibrosis. To date, ultrasound is suggested as first-line screening tool for defining steatosis in a selected population, while

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Level of vit D level in serum in NAFLD patients
  - Degree of osteoporosis in NAFLD patients
  - Level of parathyroid hormone level in NAFLD PATIENTS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Fibroscan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06038253
