CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06175871
Title: New Clinical Rehabilitation Approach for the Management of Falls Risks
Official Title: Development of a New Clinical Rehabilitation Approach for the Management of Elderly People With a Neuromusculoskeletal Disorder and a Risk of Falls: a Partnership Project Between UQAC and the Specialized Geriatric Services of CIUSSS-SLSJ
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 92
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Accidental falls in older adults are one of the world's major pubic health problem, because of their strong association with injuries and mortality rates. In Quebec, falls are responsible for a high rate of hospitalization (more than 1800 emergency department visits every day) and deaths (more than 10,000 in recent years). Preventing falls is therefore a key mission for health professionals. This research program aims to develop a new clinical approach to the rehabilitation management of the older with a neuro-musculoskeletal disorder and a risk of falling. This program is part of a new partnership project between UQAC and specialized geriatric services at the CIUSSS Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean (La Baie site). These geriatric services admit more than 400 new patients per year, representing a large pool of participants for the new program's development. Specifically, this program has 4 phases: 1) Create a clinical profile of patients in rehabilitation care from specialized geriatric services (ex: reasons for consultation, neuro-musculoskeletal disorders, rates and causes of falls, etc.); 2) to diagnose functional deficits of these patients on different dimensions of functional and physical evaluations, using standardized tests and high-tech instruments (ex: platform of force); 3) determine the effectiveness of a new exercise intervention program (OTAGO) for falls prevention; and 4) Measure client and professional team satisfaction as well as long-term impact of this new approach used to prevent falls. The most significant impact of this new program will be to reduce public health expenditure for care of older adults with balance disorder and risk for falls; and therefore, be implanted in other CIUSSS institutions from Quebec.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This research program on aging to create Living Lab Sag aims at maintaining older adult's full individual and collective abilities in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean (SLSJ) region. The need for innovation and creativity aims at optimizing independence, whether for mobility, the ability to take charge of one's health, to remain at home, to have access to services, and to prevent falls in a frail and aging population. Thus, this program includes expert investigators in the areas of health, engineering and computer science, aging, neuropsychology, geriatrics, and rehabilitation/prevention within a multidisciplinary work approach for durable health for older adults in Saguenay. Living Lab Sag will be implemented based on an enriched research program, approved by the CIUSSS SLSJ (CER# 2019-008) and entitled: Development of a new clinical approach in rehabilitation for the care of older adults with a neuro-musculo-skeletal disorder and a risk of falling: Project in partnership between UQAC and the specialized geriatrics services of the CIUSSS-SLSJ. Canada census reports clearly show the demographic aging of the local population. It is predicted that people 65 years and older will comprise about 24% of the population in 2036, in Canada and Quebec. In parallel with this demographic phenomenon, 50% of Canadians live with at least one chronic disability that is often associated with advanced age, as well as with different neurological, orthopedic and cardiopulmonary degenerative diseases. Some diseases affecting the neuro-musculo-skeletal system will lead to physical disability and to a significant functional limitation in terms of balance, mobility and walking and, consequently, to an increase in the risk of falling. Falls have a significant financial effect on healthcare services. Every year, in Quebec, approximately 1/3 of people aged 65 and over will fall and, sadly, some data suggest that 424,000 people will die, worldwide, because of a fall. The present scenario also shows the importance of developing strategies to reduce the weight of falls on the healthcare system, such as the creation of Living Lab Sag where the older adults will be at the heart of the situation. With team's experience in the area, one strategy among others is the early identification of physical-functional factors leading to a fall, despite the presence of other associated extrinsic factors that are also associated with the fall (i.e., multifactor phenomenon). This identification can be realized through neurophysiological measures from valid and reliable biological signals in rehabilitation, that will help determine the neuromuscular responses associated to the level of physical frailty of the individual and his/her fall risk. However, geriatric services in general don't often have access to high-end screening tools that permit an early detection of balance problems and fall risk. Within an innovative action plan, our research program, in partnership with specialized geriatric servic

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postural control
  - Walking
  - Trunk postural control on wobble chair
  - Machine learning-driven neuromusculoskeletal (NMS) assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: OTAGO exercises
  - OTHER: Conventional therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06175871
