CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02253615
Title: Effects of Resistance Training in Untrained Older Adults
Official Title: Effects of 16 Weeks of Resistance Training Using Elastic Resistance or Machines on Muscle Mass, Strength and Postural Control in Untrained Older Adults.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 68
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The latest randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews of resistance training performed by older adults reported that the systematic use of exercise in machines improves muscle strength and power, functional abilities, body mass and body balance. However, the effect of resistance training with elastic tubes exercises have not been studied in all the variables described above. The objective of this study is to analyze the effects of elastic tubes exercises on muscle mass, muscle strength, functional performance and postural control in elderly untrained.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized clinical trial study (RCT) with 2 parallel arms. The subjects will be divided in 2 groups with a randomized block technique: Elastic Training Group (ETG) and Machine Training Group (MTG). The subjects will be submitted to a two-week familiarization period and then a sixteen-week of strength training program will be performed twice a week.

This regimen of resistance training in both groups will consist of four exercises for lower limbs and four exercises for upper limbs which will be alternately performed with a one-minute interval between them during familiarization and training periods. Lower limb exercises will consist of: hip extension and abduction, and knee flexion and extension. Upper limb exercises will consist of: bench press, rowing, triceps and high pulley exercise.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Mass
  - Change in Muscle Strength
  - Change in Postural Balance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Machines exercises
  - OTHER: Elastic exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02253615
