CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06442774
Title: MamaConecta: Digital Tool for Maternal Mental Health
Official Title: Digital Tool to Improve Maternal Mental Health: Enhancing Well-being, Early Detection, Diagnosis Support, and Monitoring of Mental Health Problems During the Perinatal Period
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1200
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this randomized controlled trial is to validate a digital health tool, Dana app, that enhances well-being and supports mental health monitoring for women during the perinatal period. The primary purpose is to improve maternal well-being, early detection of mental health issues, and aid in the diagnosis and monitoring by healthcare professionals in women transitioning into motherhood. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does the app improve overall maternal well-being during the perinatal period?
* Can the app increase the early detection rates of perinatal mental health disorders?
* Can the app be an effective tool to support healthcare professionals to diagnose perinatal mental health problems?
* How effective is the app in improving obstetric outcomes and the psychological and cognitive development of infants?

Researchers will compare the group using the app with a control group not using the digital tool to see if Dana provides significant improvements in maternal and infant health outcomes.

Participants will:

* Use the mobile application from 12-14 weeks of gestation until 24 months postpartum.
* Undergo regular assessments to monitor their emotional state, lifestyle, clinical, and obstetric data.
* Participate in evaluations for their infants' psychological and cognitive development at various stages from birth to two years old.

This trial is conducted at multiple centers, including Hospital Vall d'Hebron, the Sexual and Reproductive Health Care Services (ASSIR) in Tarragona and ASSIR Litoral (Barcelona), Hospital del Mar, following CONSORT standards. The study aligns with the Health and Culture priorities of the Spanish Government's Scientific, Technical, and Innovation Research Plan 2021-2023.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND:

Mental disorders are becoming one of the major health problems in today's society, exacerbated in women who are and will become mothers. Global studies indicate that 80% of women who are going to become mothers experience mood disorders such as stress, fear, loneliness, or guilt during the perinatal period. In 1 out of every 5 cases, these mental disorders worsen and lead to severe mental health issues such as post-traumatic stress disorder, psychosis, suicidal ideation, or postpartum depression. However, 75% of women with perinatal mental disorders are underdiagnosed and do not receive adequate treatment, either due to a lack of detection or support within healthcare systems. This has a consequent impact on the health and well-being of the mother, her family, the child, and ultimately, society. In this context, the company A Thousand Colibris S.L (ATC) has developed digital health software to improve well-being during this period, as well as to detect, assist in the diagnosis, and monitor mental health disorders in mothers from pregnancy up to two years after childbirth.

Consequences of Perinatal Mental Health Disorders:

The consequences of perinatal mental health problems extend beyond the mother, affecting the child, the family, and society as a whole.

1. Maternal health disorders: Perinatal mental health disorders have been identified in women of all cultures, ages, social levels, and races. Although the term postpartum depression is often used to describe disorders that develop after childbirth, a range of disorders can appear during pregnancy and the postpartum period, including anxiety, depression, stress disorders, panic, or postpartum psychosis. If left untreated, these illnesses can have a devastating impact on women and their families, being one of the leading causes of maternal death during pregnancy and the two years following childbirth.
2. Impact on the future health of the child: Without appropriate intervention, these disorders can persist and have negative consequences for both the mother and the baby. The impact of the mother's health on the future health of the baby, on mother-newborn interactions, breastfeeding difficulties, and the mother-child bond is well documented. The failure to detect certain aspects of maternal health can manifest in complications during childbirth or later in the child's development.
3. Impact on family well-being: The mother's mood and symptoms of anxiety and other disorders also have a direct impact on the partner, who may not understand what is happening, feel overwhelmed, and not know how to help.

Digital psychological interventions:

Given the growing ubiquity of the Internet and the widespread use of smartphones, mindfulness-based cognitive-behavioral interventions can also be offered digitally. In this regard, researchers have been successfully adapting decades-old techniques commonly used in cognitive-behavioral therapies to the context of smartphone applications, which have 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maternal well-being

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mobile application
  - OTHER: Monitoring via wearable

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06442774
