CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06896487
Title: The Effect of Superficial EMG Biofeedback Training on Muscle Activation, Proprioception, Reaction Time and Upper Extremity Functions in Patients With Chronic Neck Pain: A Single-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: THE EFFECT OF SUPERFICIAL EMG BIOFEEDBACK TRAINING ON MUSCLE ACTIVATION, PROPRIOCEPTION, REACTION TIME AND UPPER EXTREMITY FUNCTIONS IN PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC NECK PAIN: A SINGLE-BLIND RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIAL
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Musculoskeletal disorders are among the health problems that most distract individuals from work life in both developed and developing countries. According to the 2019 Global Burden of Disease Study, when evaluated in terms of burden of disease, life expectancy with disability and rehabilitation needs, low back and neck pain are at the top of this category. According to the Health Research Report published by the Turkish Statistical Institute (TurkStat) in 2019, musculoskeletal disorders in the neck region are more common in women and were determined as the musculoskeletal disorder with the highest increase by 12.9% between 2016 and 2019.

It has been reported that in approximately half of individuals with neck pain, this pain recurs and becomes chronic. Factors such as sedentary lifestyle, history of low back pain, being female, anxiety disorders, sleep problems and smoking are thought to contribute to the chronicization of pain. Chronic neck pain is defined as pain in the neck region lasting longer than twelve weeks.

Cervical muscle activations have been monitored with EMG studies in the patient population with neck pain from past to present and altered cervical muscle activations have been reported in individuals with neck pain. The main muscle groups in which muscle activation has been monitored with superficial EMG and changes have been found in individuals with neck pain are upper trapezius, sternocelidomastoid, cervical erector spinal muscles and thoracic erector spinal muscles. On the other hand, it is still debated whether these muscle activation changes are the cause or a normal consequence of chronic neck pain.

In recent years, it has been reported in the literature that EMG Biofeedback studies have been included in patients with neck pain, but more studies are needed to determine its superiority to conventional applications. In the light of this information, in our study titled "The Effect of Superficial EMG Biofeedback Training on Muscle Activation, Proprioception, Reaction Time and Upper Extremity Functions in Patients with Chronic Neck Pain; Randomized controlled study", both the effect of EMG Biofeedback muscle training application on the symptoms of patients with neck pain will be investigated and data that will be a reference for future studies in this field will be obtained.

The study in patients with chronic neck pain had two aims. To investigate the effect of EMG Biofeedback relaxation training (upper trapezius muscle) combined with active EMG Biofeedback exercises + routine exercise program on muscle activation, pain, proprioception, reaction time and upper extremity function in patients with neck pain. To compare the effects of EMG Biofeedback training with standard physiotherapy program.

Hypotheses of the study; H0: EMG Biofeedback relaxation training (upper trapezius muscle) combined with active EMG Biofeedback exercises + routine exercise program has no effect on muscle activation, pain, proprioception, reaction time and upper extremity function in patients with neck pain H1: EMG Biofeedback relaxation training (upper trapezius muscle) combined with active EMG Biofeedback exercises + routine exercise program has an effect on muscle activation, pain, proprioception, reaction time and upper extremity function in patients with neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Upper Extremity Reaction Time
  - Cervical Proprioception

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Surface EMG Biofeedback Muscle and Relaxation Training
  - OTHER: Conventional Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06896487
