CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02694263
Title: Canagliflozin (Invokana™) vs. Standard Dual Therapy Regimen for T2DM During Ramadan
Official Title: A Randomised Controlled Trial for People With Established Type 2 Diabetes During Ramadan: Canagliflozin (Invokana™) vs. Standard Dual Therapy Regimen: The 'Can Do Ramadan' Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to determine if the addition of Canagliflozin (Invokana™) therapy to monotherapy of metformin is more effective at achieving the double composite endpoint of a reduction in HbA1c (≥ 0.3%) and weight loss (≥1kg) 3-4 weeks post-Ramadan. The study will also include patients currently on dual therapy, specifically metformin plus a sulphonylurea, pioglitazone or repaglinide to determine whether switching to metformin plus Canagliflozin (Invokana™) is more effective at achieving the composite endpoint compared to those remaining on previous dual therapy. There are a number of secondary outcomes including weight loss, rates of hypoglycaemia, blood pressure and a number of biochemical endpoints.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There are over one billion Muslims in the world with the majority participating in Ramadan. The prevalence of diabetes in several countries with large Muslim populations is similar to the rates observed in westernised countries, which increases by 10% annually as a result of urbanization and socioeconomic development. Observance of Ramadan is an integral part of Islamic identity being one of the five main pillars that constitute this widely followed religion. Muslims observing Ramadan are required to fast from sunrise to sunset during this holy month. The timing of Ramadan follows the lunar calendar which occurs 10 days earlier each year; this means that the fasting period coincides with the summer season for many consecutive years before moving in line with the winter months. During the summer season Ramadan can take place with the longest hours of daylight which has a greater impact and risk for people with diabetes who fast during this period.

Although the Quran exempts "sick" people from the duty of fasting many Muslims with diabetes do not consider themselves to be sick and are keen to fast. A recent epidemiological study involving 13 Islamic countries reported that 43% of patients with Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and 79% of people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) fast during this religious period.

Concern for Muslims with diabetes fasting during Ramadan has been recognised by religious leaders and indeed 2009 saw a landmark event. A statement was issued at the meeting of the Council of the International Islamic Fiqh Academy of the Organisation of Islamic Conference at its 19th session. In brief, people with diabetes were classified into four categories in line with expert recommendations published in 2005. Categories 1 and 2 include those with diabetes at very high risk of serious complications and high risk of complications due to fasting, respectively. These two groups are exempt from observing Ramadan. Categories 3 and 4 include those with diabetes who have a medium risk of complications and those with a low risk of complications due to fasting, respectively. The latter two groups are not automatically exempt from observing Ramadan. The risk of complications in this context refers specifically to the likelihood of hypoglycaemic events, and includes other acute illnesses associated with diabetes, patients on renal dialysis, women with diabetes during pregnancy, patients with macrovascular disease, and those who live alone and are on insulin therapy or oral insulin secretagogues. Additionally, all people with T1DM are classed as category 1. However, the impact of the feasting part of Ramadan, for example on hyperglycaemia or deterioration of glycaemic control, is not considered in this statement. Furthermore, it is not known to what extent these guidelines are followed in practice.

There is an abundance of evidence describing the impact of Ramadan on people with T2DM from retrospective to population-based studies. However, there

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c + weight loss

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Canagliflozin
  - DRUG: Repaglinide
  - DRUG: Pioglitazone
  - DRUG: Gliclazide
  - DRUG: Glimepiride

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02694263
