CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03329898
Title: Comparing the Efficacy of Two Methods for the Therapy of Uterine Adhesion
Official Title: Randomized, Controlled Trial to Assess the Efficacy of Disposable Balloon Uterine Stent Combined With Estrogen or Dried Biological Amnion Graft in the Prevention of Adhesion Reformation After Hysteroscopic Adhesiolysis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Asherman's syndrome is characterized by the presence of intrauterine adhesions (IUA) as well as symptoms such as amenorrhea, hypomenorrhea, pelvic pain, and infertility. The gold standard for the treatment of intrauterine adhesions is hysteroscopic intrauterine adhesions. The recurrence of intrauterine adhesions is a major challenge in clinical practice. It has been reported that dried biological aminion graft was used to prevent adhesion after the operation of intrauterine adhesions. Intrauterine balloon can reduce the recurrence of adhesions after operation. Does the combination of balloon and amniotic products can improve clinical outcomes? Therefore, this study was conducted.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The diaposable balloon uterine(a special intrauterine balloon) is usually inserted into the uterine after a hysteroscopic adhesiolysis and removed after on the 7th day after surgery. Another group, the diaposable balloon uterin and dried biological amnion will be inserted into the uterine after a hysteroscopic adhesiolysis and removed after on the 7th day after surgery.Several investigators demonstrated its favorable effect in the recurrence of adhesion after the treatment of intrauterine adhesion. Disposable balloon uterine stent is specially designed to fit into the cavity of the uterus, and usually removed on the 7th day after surgery.

Allocation: Randomized Endpoint Classification: Safety/Efficacy Study Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment Masking: Single Blind (Subject) Primary Purpose: Prevention

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - second diagnostic hysteroscopy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: dried biological amnion graft
  - DEVICE: disposable balloon uterine stent
  - DRUG: estradiol valerate tablets
  - DRUG: dydrogesterone Tablets

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03329898
