CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06137833
Title: Wide Spectrum Micronutrients Supplementation in Patients With Cancer Related Fatigue During Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Official Title: Clinical Study on Wide Spectrum Micronutrients Supplementation in Patients With Cancer Related Fatigue During Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 92
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the effect of the administration of APPORTAL® in addition to the SoC (recommended physical exercise), in patients with breast cancer, suffering from fatigue during neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* if the food supplement APPORTAL® can be of help in supporting the physiological energy level, against the fatigue symptom in cancer patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy;
* if the supplementation with APPORTAL® can optimize the nutritional status, the muscular strength, the quality of life of the patient.

Also, the patients' satisfaction on the product received, the adherence to treatment will be evaluated and the overall safety and tolerability of the study product.

The patients will be asked to perform 3 study visits from baseline to the end of treatment (at 4 and 8 weeks after baseline) and a follow-up visit after 12 weeks from baseline.

The main assessments at each visit will be:

* physical examination, weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), body temperature (°C), heart rate, respiratory frequency, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure;
* previous and concomitant treatments;
* fatigue assessment through BFI questionnaire;
* quality of life through questionnaire SF-12;
* muscular strength (dynamometer)
* Adverse Event check (from Visit 2) Moreover, at visit 1 (baseline) and at visit 3 (end of treatment) a blood sample will be collected to evaluate the blood metabolites.

Telephonic follow-up will be done at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 10 weeks to assess compliance and to recommendations on physical activity and to study treatment (only at 2 and 6 weeks) and tolerability/safety.

Participants will receive the nutrition supplement or the placebo, in addition to the SoC (recommended physical exercise), for 8 weeks.

Researchers will compare Apportal® and Placebo groups to see if the physiological energy level against the fatigue symptom, the nutritional status, the muscular strength, the quality of life of the patient improve after 8 weeks of treatment with APPORTAL® in addition to SoC (recommended physical exercise).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION Considering the average of the BFI 5 in the placebo group and the average 3 in the treated group, with standard deviation of 3, power at 80% and alpha 0.05, we obtain 37 patients per group, thus a total of 74 patients. If a drop-out rate of 20% is fixed, 92 patients in total are obtained. So, a sample of 92 subjects would be sufficient.

DATA SAFETY MONITORING BOARD / DATA MONITORING COMMITTEE No Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) or Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will be convened for the evaluation of safety data during the study. However, the Network Italiano Cure di Supporto in Oncologia (NICSO) society will be in charge of the evaluation of safety information. In fact, a Scientific Committee, composed by NICSO members, has been established to support the Sponsor in the continuous evaluation of safety data emerging from the study.

MONITORING AND QUALITY ASSURANCE The study will be monitored by adequately qualified and trained clinical monitors. Before the start of the study, the CRO (Contract Research Organization) responsible for the study site has the task to assess the adequacy of the study site and the staff involved. After start, the study will be monitored to ensure the proper conduct of the clinical study.

DATA COLLECTION An Electronic Case Report Form (e-CRF) will be used for recording patient's study data.

The Investigator will maintain a list of all persons authorized to make entries and/or corrections on the CRFs. Each authorized person will be provided with a user-specific ID (Identification) protected by a renewable password. Data entries and corrections will be made only by the authorized persons. The e-CRF system will record date and time of any entry and /or correction and the user ID of the person making the entry/correction. The system will keep track of all old and new values (audit trail).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The change of fatigue perception by the patient through the BFI questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: APPOPRTAL®
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06137833
