CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05482750
Title: Resistance Training in the Fasted State
Official Title: Effects of Resistance Training Performed in the Fasted State Compared to the Fed State on Morphological and Neuromuscular Adaptations in Young Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
It is well evidenced in the literature that fasting aerobic exercise generates a series of metabolic differences when compared to exercise performed in the fed state, including the use of fats predominantly as an energy source. Consequently, increases in adaptations to aerobic training, related to health and physical performance, are observed when sessions are performed in the fasted state. In relation to resistance training, the evidence is limited. There is a lack of data in the literature regarding the effects of fasting on resistance exercises and whether this practice may reflect in losses or improvements in morphological and neuromuscular adaptations related to resistance training. Thus, the aim of the present project is to compare the effects of resistance training performed in the fasted state compared to the fed state during 12 weeks on body composition and physical performance in young adults. Thirty-four eutrophic or overweight individuals, not engaged in regular resistance exercises, aged between 20 and 40 years, will be recruited. They will be put on a standard customized diet and will perform 2 weekly sessions of resistance exercise after overnight fasting (10 to 12 hours) or in the fed state, for 12 weeks. Before, in the middle and after this period, evaluations of body composition, muscle thickness and quality, maximum dynamic strength and maximum power will be analyzed. Comparisons will be performed using Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE), adopting the factors group (2 stratifications) and time (3 stratifications). All results will be expressed as mean and standard deviation and the accepted significance level will be 5%.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body mass
  - Lean body mass
  - Fat body mass
  - Muscle thickness
  - Muscle quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance training in the fasted state
  - OTHER: Resistance training in the fed state

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05482750
