CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06500221
Title: Incentive Spirometer Training in Type 2 Diabetes With Sarcopenia
Official Title: Breathing New Life: The Impact of Incentive Spirometer Training on Rehabilitation and Health in Type 2 Diabetes With Sarcopenia
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
In patients with Type 2 diabetes, the risk of developing sarcopenia is three times higher compared to individuals with normal blood sugar levels. Sarcopenia is often accompanied by reduced physical activity, immobility, slow gait, and poor endurance. More importantly, previous studies have shown that sarcopenia leads to a decrease in mobility, which in turn results in reduced cardiopulmonary function, difficulty in breathing, and subsequently even less activity. In diabetic patients, this can cause poor control of blood sugar and lipids, as well as sarcopenic obesity, creating a vicious cycle. Therefore, preventing such a cycle is a crucial issue that needs attention. The incentive spirometer is widely used in physical, speech, and respiratory therapy, as well as in preventing postoperative pulmonary infections and improving sputum clearance. Consequently, this study aims to further confirm the role and effectiveness of incentive spirometry in improving lung function, activity endurance, and long-term blood sugar and lipid indices in patients with Type 2 diabetes combined with sarcopenia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In patients with Type 2 diabetes, the risk of developing sarcopenia is three times higher compared to individuals with normal blood sugar levels. Sarcopenia is often accompanied by reduced physical activity, immobility, slow gait, and poor endurance. More importantly, previous studies have shown that sarcopenia leads to a decrease in mobility, which in turn results in reduced cardiopulmonary function, difficulty in breathing, and subsequently even less activity. In diabetic patients, this can cause poor control of blood sugar and lipids, as well as sarcopenic obesity, creating a vicious cycle. Therefore, preventing such a cycle is a crucial issue that needs attention. The incentive spirometer is widely used in physical, speech, and respiratory therapy, as well as in preventing postoperative pulmonary infections and improving sputum clearance. Consequently, this study aims to further confirm the role and effectiveness of incentive spirometry in improving lung function, activity endurance, and long-term blood sugar and lipid indices in patients with Type 2 diabetes combined with sarcopenia.

The inclusion criteria:

1. Diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes (ICD-10 diagnosis codes: E10.x or E11.x)
2. Screened with a score of 4 or above on the screening self-administered sarcopenia (SARC-F) questionnaire.
3. Aged between 20-90 years old and able to communicate in Mandarin or Taiwanese

The exclusion criteria:

1. Patients with a functional status grade of ≥5 on the Modified Rankin Scale (MRS), indicating severe disability or bedridden condition.
2. Patients suffering from dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, etc.
3. Patients with acute psychiatric symptoms unable to communicate.
4. Currently diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or any other respiratory system diseases.
5. Moderate or severe heart disease (New York Heart Association functional classification Class III or IV).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lung function: FVC
  - Lung function:FEV1
  - Lung function: FEV1/FVC ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: incentive spirometry

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06500221
