CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04327544
Title: A Health Promotion Program to Prevent Frailty and Improve Frailty Status Among Pre-frail Elderly: Frailty Intervention Through Nutrition Education and Exercises.
Official Title: Nutritional Education and Exercise Intervention in Preventing Frailty Among Pre-frail Malaysian Elderly in PPR Flats Kuala Lumpur
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 59
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Prevention of frailty is a major concern in geriatrics due to its high prevalence and various adverse health outcomes among elderly population. This two phases of study aims to develop, implement and evaluate the effectiveness of nutritional education and exercise intervention among pre-frail Malaysian elderly. In the first phase of the study, the frailty intervention module and educational materials (flipchart, PowerPoint slides, booklet and posters) for the frailty intervention program will be developed based on extensive literature review and discussions with research group (dietitians, nutritionists, physiotherapists and medical doctor). The module will be developed to provide knowledge and skills to health practitioners in order to conduct the program towards pre-frail elderly, while the educational materials will aid health practitioners and the elderlies in teaching and learning process respectively. Evaluation for acceptability of frailty intervention module and educational materials will also be conducted in phase 1 study. The second phase of the study will be a three- month (12 weeks), single-blind, two-armed, cluster randomised controlled trial (cluster RCT) research to evaluate the effects of combined nutritional education and exercise intervention among pre-frail elderly in PPR flats Kuala Lumpur. Screening of the pre-frail status among the elderly in PPR flats Kuala Lumpur will be conducted in order to recruit subjects who match the inclusion criteria to join the intervention program. Evaluation will be performed during pre-intervention (1 week before intervention starts), post-intervention (3 month immediate after intervention starts) and 3-month follow-up (3 months after post-intervention). The frailty intervention includes both nutritional education and low-intensity exercise intervention. Generally, respondents in the intervention group will received the developed educational materials and participate in healthy eating talk, group diet counselling, multicomponent exercise sessions. In short, the interventions being examined will provide major potential benefits to the older population in terms of preventing transition to frailty and potentially reduce adverse health outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Frailty score
  - Changes of Frailty status

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Frailty Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04327544
