CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07460544
Title: Improving Health Among Disadvantaged Girls to Slow Pubertal Onset and Reduce Long-term Health Risks
Official Title: Improving Health Among Disadvantaged Girls to Slow Pubertal Onset and Reduce Long-term Health Risks
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study is testing whether improving health in girls during the prepubertal period may slow the onset of puberty. This study will focus on prepubertal girls who have a high weight status (at or above the 85th percentile for body mass index). Half of the girls who join the study will participate in a treatment program to reduce weight and improve lifestyle behaviors, and half of the girls will participate in a control condition. The frequency of pubertal onset will be compared across the groups. This research is important because girls who experience puberty at an earlier age are at risk for poor psychological and physical health.

Girls in the treatment condition will participate in the Family Based Treatment (FBT) program, an established treatment for children who are overweight or obese. Families attend 20 weekly sessions (30 minutes each) over a 5-month period. Sessions are led by a trained interventionist and focus on healthy eating and physical activity behaviors.

Girls in the control condition will receive their usual medical care through their pediatric care doctor or other care provider. Families will also receive educational handouts about 1 time per month, addressing topics related to healthy eating and physical activity behaviors.

Families in both the treatment and control conditions will participate in assessments conducted at baseline and approximately 6-, 12-, 18-, 24-, 30-, and 36 months follow-up. These assessments are led by a data collector and include the measurement of height and weight, pubertal status, and health behaviors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Abundant research shows girls who experience earlier pubertal onset exhibit substantial risk for poor outcomes in multiple areas of psychosocial functioning and physical health. At the same time, abundant research shows prepubertal body mass index (BMI) is a critical determinant of earlier pubertal onset. Integration of these research areas points to the novel focus of the proposed study which seeks to test whether an RCT targeting weight loss and positive health behavior change in the prepubertal period may slow pubertal onset in girls at risk for accelerated pubertal development. At-risk is defined as 1) being overweight/obese and 2) experiencing socioeconomic disadvantage, both factors with strong prospective links to earlier pubertal onset.

Recruitment efforts will target prepubertal girls from disadvantaged families who are overweight/obese (BMI percentile ≥85th) and ages \~6.5-8.0 years at screening with subsequent participation in the baseline assessment and randomization to the intervention/control condition. Disadvantaged families will be defined by low household income. This will be determined based on local income eligibility criteria for subsidized housing. In King County, the largest county in WA, in which the majority of subjects are expected to reside, the income requirement for subsidized housing is 80% of the area median income (AMI) adjusted for family size. This metric accounts for local variations in costing of living, which, for King County, is 58% higher than the US average. Recruitment parameters will also require at least 50% of the girls (balanced across intervention/control) will identify as Black, Latina, or 'multiple' race or ethnicity.

A total of 240 families will be randomized to the Family Based Treatment (FBT) program (n=120) vs. control condition (n=120). During a 1-2 week 'run-in' period, each family will be screened and those families who are eligible will proceed to participate in the full baseline assessment. Families who successfully complete these activities will be randomized to the FBT program vs. control condition. INTERVENTION: FBT intervention will be implemented over a 5.5-month period. Trained interventionists will lead 20 in-home, weekly sessions (30 min each) with girls and their mothers together and 20 corresponding mother-only group sessions (40 min each) online. A subset of 4 group sessions (1, 2, 10, 20) will be held in-person with both girls and their mothers attending concurrent but separate sessions. Remote sessions will be conducted via secure video-conferencing, which was tested during the COVID-19 pandemic and found to enhance session attendance. The in-home sessions (dyads) will provide protocol-based tailored support for behavioral skills related to family eating and physical activity change and will focus on feedback, accountability, and problem solving for skill use and barriers and goal-setting specific to each family. The mother-only group sessions (\~6 members each) will provide e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pubertal onset (gonadarche)
  - Pubertal onset (adrenarche)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family-Based Treatment (FBT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 8 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07460544
