CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06581237
Title: Nutrition for Health and Performance in Female Collegiate Soccer Players
Official Title: The Effects of App-Based Dietary Guidance on Determinants of Underfueling and Performance in Female Collegiate Soccer Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to conduct a pilot trial using an app-based approach to improve the health and performance of female collegiate soccer athletes through nutrition education and personalized feedback. The app-based program is designed to promote better performance through education on sport-specific fueling and good nutrition practices.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives: Combat female soccer athletes underfueling during their competitive season.

Study Overview: This project proposes an open label, pilot research endeavor between the Department of Nutrition at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), Pennington Biomedical Research Center (PBRC) and the NCAA Division III CWRU Women's Soccer Team. The proposed study design will implement a commercially available, dietitian-designed phone app, Eat2Win. Eat2Win provides targeted nutritional education, specifically for soccer athletes, to improve fueling for sport and health. Additionally, Eat2Win's photo-based phone app technology will be used to provide individualized feedback to improve athlete fueling. Anthropometric, aerobic fitness (VO2), resting metabolic rate, physical activity, body composition and health-related questionnaire data will be collected from a subset of athletes at three timepoints: pre-season, in-season, and post-season. Biological measures from fingerstick blood and breath will be collected in a subset of participants at the three timepoints.

General Aims/Hypothesis: Our intervention will strive to improve athlete health and performance through nutrition education and personalized feedback using the Eat2Win app.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Low Energy Availability in Females Questionnaire (LEAF -Q)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Eat2Win App

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06581237
