CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05551728
Title: Autism Caregiver Coaching in Africa
Official Title: Autism Caregiver Coaching in Africa
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Around the world there is a growing need to develop early intervention services in local communities that support a better quality of life for all autistic people. The South African study will test an approach where caregivers are coached by non-specialists in early intervention strategies. Caregivers can then use these strategies during everyday activities with their young autistic child.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Globally there is a growing need to implement community-based services that support improvements in quality of life of autistic people. Early autism intervention is critical because it can significantly improve both child and family outcomes, but implementation gaps exist worldwide. These gaps are starkest in Africa, where by 2050, forty percent of the world's children will live. Given the lack of specialists in Africa, task shifting early autism intervention to non-specialists will be a key implementation strategy. Naturalistic Developmental Behavioral Interventions (NDBI), are a class of early autism intervention approaches, that can be effectively delivered by caregivers. Through a partnership between Duke University and the University of Cape Town, the team laid the groundwork for an innovative and scalable coaching intervention for young autistic children. A caregiver coaching NDBI was systematically adapted for the South African context in which coaching is effectively delivered by non-specialist Early Childhood Development practitioners employed by the Education Department. The proposed study will build on this foundational work by conducting a type 1 hybrid effectiveness implementation trial of the coaching intervention, delivered by non-specialists, within an existing system of care in South Africa. The goal is to implement a feasible, scalable early autism intervention model in Africa by conducting research with culturally and linguistically diverse participants in community-based settings, that is inclusive of diverse stakeholder perspectives and incorporates task-shifting. The proposed study will build on current relationships with families, practitioners, and policy makers by formalizing these relationships and including other key stakeholder groups such as South African autistic self-advocates through a community-academic partnership, a key bridging factor in the EPIS (Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment) implementation framework. The proposed project has three main objectives. First, to evaluate the real-world effectiveness of non-specialist delivered NDBI caregiver coaching for improving patterns of caregiver-child interaction and child developmental outcomes, and assess the cost-effectiveness of this approach. Second, to identify implementation determinants to inform scale-up. Third, to expand African autism research capacity to enhance scalability. This project also offers a unique opportunity to study variability in autism-related behaviors and phenomenology. The study will therefore assess the degree to which response to intervention is moderated by caregiver and dimensional child characteristics. In addition, using an innovative digital assessment method, changes in dimensional quantitative measures of autism-related behaviors will be examined. Finally, cross-cultural differences in dimensional autism-related behaviors will be evaluated via comparison with existing quantitative phenotypic data gathered in U.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline VABS-3 Communication Domain Standard Score at 6 months
  - Change from Baseline Griffiths III Language and Communication Developmental Quotient at 6 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ESDM-informed caregiver coaching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Months to 72 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05551728
