CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05339841
Title: Italian Digital Primary Cardiovascular Prevention Study
Official Title: Digital Strategies in Primary Cardiovascular Prevention in the Italian Population
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27520
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
The CV-PREVITAL study is a randomised clinical trial (RCT) controlled versus usual-care designed to compare the effectiveness of a mobile health (mHealth) intervention with that of usuALCARe in reducing specific cardiovascular (CV) risk factors (in the short term) and the occurrence of vascular events (in the long term). Promoted by the Italian Network of Cardiology (ICN, a cardiovascular research network promoted by the Italian Ministry of Health), in collaboration with the Consorzio Sanità (Co.S., an Italian consortium of general practitioners), CV-PREVITAL aims to develop an innolvative model of cardiovascular primary prevention and to validate it in a very large sample of subjects and in 'real life' conditions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
CV-PREVITAL is an RCT investigating whether an mHealth application (App) provided on top of usuALCARe, can improve lifestyle habits and CV risk factor control in the short-term, and the incidence of major CV events in the long- term. Participants undergo two clinical visits, the first at baseline and the second after 12 months. During these visits, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglyceride, HbA1c, blood pressure, heart rate, BMI and waist circumference are measured. In addition, using questionnaires provided digitally, participants self-report data on the following topics: adherence to the Mediterranean diet, salt intake, alcohol consumption, physical activity, current and previous smokinGHistory, psychosocial profile, and sleep quality. Demographic information, including education, socio-economic status and ethnic origin are also obtained at baseline. Subjects in the intervention group also receive the credentials to download the App, which contains educational information on cardiovascular risk factors, diet, physical activity, lifestyle and psycho-behavioral aspects. Using ad hoc designed algorithms, the App delivers personalized prevention programs based on periodic messages providing advice, motivational reminders and support to improve lifestyle and risk factor control. When at baseline high levels of blood pressure, blood glucose or cholesterol are detected, the App support the participant in self-monitoring the clinical changes of such variables during the follow up. The efficacy of the intervention is evaluated at the12th month using a cardiovascular risk score developed ad hoc in an Italian population (Modified Moli-Sani Score). The ability of the intervention to maintain its effect over time and its effectiveness in improving clinical outcomes are assessed at the 7th year of follow-up. The cost-effectiveness of the intervention is also evaluated at the 7th year.

The study envisages the recruitment of 82,800 participants (aged ≥45y) nationwide. Of these, 50,000 are selected among those who daily access the GPs ambulatories associated to the Co.S. consortium. In order to assess whether the scheduled mHealth intervention can be effective also in settings different from the primary care, several specific cohorts in primary prevention are also enrolled by specialized units belonging to Scientific Institutes for Research, Hospitalization and Health Care (Italian acronym IRCCS). These cohorts include 32,800 subjects in total. Specifically, the UO-1 (IRCCS Cardiologico Monzino in Milan) enrolls 5,000 participants selected among citizens attending to community pharmacies; the UO-2 (IRCCS Auxologico in Milan) enrolls 5,000 subjects, 1,500 of which belonging to the Centre for Sleep Medicine; the UO-3 (IRCCS Humanitas in Milan) enrolls 2,000 subjects attending the institution; the UO-4 (IRCCS Mario Negri in Milan) does not recruit any subject but provides scientific and organizational support for the enrolment carried out by Co.S.; the UO-5 (IR

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cardiovascular risk as assessed by Modified Moli-Sani risk score in the Italian population
  - Long-term CV clinical outcome at 7 years follow-up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mobile health application

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05339841
