CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06565468
Title: The Effect of Cold Water Immersion on Recovery and Performance in NCAA Division I Athletes
Official Title: The Effect of Cold Water Immersion on Recovery and Performance in NCAA Division I Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
In this study, the investigators will examine the effect of cold-water immersion (CWI) on objective and subjective recovery metrics, as well as simple performance metrics, in National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA) Division I Men's and Women's Volleyball players, Men's Football players, and Men's and Women's Cross Country runners. This is a cohort cross-over study that will take place over the course of four weeks during an intensive training cycle. Participants will wear a WHOOP monitoring device on their wrists at all times during the study period. The two-week intervention will consist of ten minutes of CWI to take place within one hour of the completion of the last training session of the day. The target water temperature will be 55 degrees Fahrenheit, and each participant will complete five sessions of CWI per week (for a total of ten sessions over the two-week intervention phase). Objective recovery measures will include heart rate variability, resting heart rate, total sleep time, slow wave sleep time, sleep consistency, blood oxygenation, and nocturnal skin temperature, all of which will be collected continuously by the WHOOP monitoring device. Subjective recovery measures will include three surveys to be completed daily, including the Likert Scale of Muscle Soreness, the Total Quality Recovery Scale, and the Single-Item Sleep Questionnaire. Performance measures will include a counter-movement jump to be completed two times per week, an isometric mid-thigh pull to be completed once per week, and a drop jump to be completed once per week. These outcome measures will similarly be collected during the two-week control period, during which participants will not have access to CWI following training sessions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a cohort cross-over design that will take place over four weeks during an intensive training cycle. The study population will be randomized into two cohorts. The first cohort will begin with the control phase and then transition to the intervention phase. The second cohort will begin with the intervention phase and then transition to the control phase.

Control phase:

Participants will complete normal training sessions over a 14-day period and will not have access to cold water immersion (CWI) during this time.

Intervention phase:

Participants will complete normal training sessions over a 14-day period. They will complete a session of CWI within one hour of finishing the last training session of the day. CWI will consist of ten minutes of submersion to the neck in a cold-water tub with a target temperature of 55 degrees Fahrenheit (daily temperatures will be recorded at the time of each session). The acceptable range for the CWI protocol will be from 53-57 degrees Fahrenheit. The immersion process will not be completed if the temperature of the water is outside of this range. Participants will complete five sessions per week, with a total of 10 sessions to be completed over the 14-day intervention.

Participants will wear a WHOOP 4.0 wrist device throughout the entire four-week study period to collect continuous biometric data and to monitor sleep patterns overnight. Athletic performance testing will consist of a counter-movement jump completed two times per week, an isometric mid-thigh pull completed one time per week, and a drop jump completed one time per week. Participants will complete three surveys daily over the four-week period. Participants will be aware of their performance testing metrics and physiologic measures as reported in the WHOOP app.

Physiological Measures:

Biometric Monitoring:

Participants will be asked to wear a WHOOP 4.0 wrist device throughout the entirety of the study period. This device will provide continuous biometric data including resting heart rate, exertional heart rate, heart rate variability, respiratory rate, blood oxygenation, and skin temperature.

Sleep Monitoring:

Participants will be asked to wear a WHOOP 4.0 wrist device throughout the entirety of the study period, which will provide detailed data regarding sleep quantity, quality, consistency, and efficiency. It will also provide information about the time spent in each phase of sleep (light, REM, slow wave \[deep\], and awake) and respiratory rate throughout sleep.

Athletic Performance Testing:

Counter-movement jump:

The Counter-movement Jump (CMJ) is a vertical jump test performed by having an athlete quickly squat on a force plate to a self-selected depth and then jump as high as possible. It is primarily used for monitoring sports performance, inter-limb asymmetries, neuromuscular fatigue, and the effectiveness of different training programs.

Isometric mid-thigh pull:

The Isometric Mid-Thigh Pull (IMTP) is performed on a dual forc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Heart-rate variability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Cold water immersion pool.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06565468
