CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01428401
Title: Astragalus Membranaceus for Brain Edema Induced by Hemorrhagic Stroke
Official Title: 
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Astragalus membranaceus (AM) is used to treat stroke for a long period, and a number of studies have known that AM can reduce cerebral infarction area and has anti-oxidation. Hemorrhagic stroke will induce secondary peri-blood clot edema and that may increase intracranial pressure to exacerbate clinical symptom. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of AM on hemorrhagic stroke edema. The investigators selected 80 hemorrhagic stroke patients , and who the stroke is first attack, they were randomly divided into control and experimental groups, and each group was 40 patients as follows: 1) control group, accepted AM placebo 2.8 g three times per day (tid) treatment for continuously 14 days from second day of admission or operation, except standard ordinary treatment; 2) experimental group, accepted AM 2.8 g tid treatment for continuously 14 days from second day of admission or operation, except standard ordinary treatment. Computer tomography (CT) examination was done at first day, 4th day and 7th day of admission, respectively. The ratio of brain edema was calculated by CT image, and inflammatory index including the levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)，Creatine Kinase BB Isoenzyme (CMBB). D-dimer from venous blood also were measured. In addition, the score including Glasgow outcome scale (GOS), Modified rankin scale (MRS), Function independence measure (FIM), Barthel index (BI) was recorded one week, four weeks and 12 weeks after admission or surgical operation, as an index for clinical symptoms. The index for the therapeutic effect of AM was according to above-mentioned the ratio of brain edema, inflammatory index and clinical symptoms.

The investigators expected the results of the present study may provide a scientific evidence for the hemorrhagic stroke edema treatment of AM, thus, the present study may contribute to use the method of integrated Chinese and Western Medicine for the treatment of stroke, and to the research of Chinese Medicine.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - patients' scores(BI,FIM,GOS,mRS) on several clinical scales

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Chinese Herb Astragalus membranaceus
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01428401
