CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04741282
Title: Pulmonary Tele-rehabilitation and Progressive Muscle Relaxation on Discharged Covid-19 Patients
Official Title: Effect of Pulmonary Tele-rehabilitation With and Without Progressive Muscle Relaxation Program in Covid-19 Patients After Hospital Discharge: Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate efficacy of internet based pulmonary rehabilitation and progressive muscle relaxation program on functional capacity, depression and anxiety, dyspnea, fatigue, sleep quality and quality of life in covid19 patients after hospital discharge

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid19) could cause respiratory and physical dysfunction, anxiety and depression, fatigue and affect sleep quality and quality of life in infected patient after hospital discharge. there is expect that pulmonary rehabilitation can improve these symptoms and prevent complications in these cases. It seems that Progressive muscle relaxation exercise could improve pulmonary rehabilitation effect. Due to social isolation of Covid 19 patients after hospital discharge, internet base rehabilitation will be used in this study. participants will be randomized in two pulmonary tele-rehabilitation groups after hospital discharge. One group will be received pulmonary rehabilitation include education, breathing exercises, aerobic and upper and lower limbs muscle strengthening exercises. Another group will be perform progressive muscle relaxation in addition of these exercise. Treatment duration is 6 week with 5 days/week frequency. Two exercise sessions per week will be supervised with expert physiotherapist via videoconferencing.

Outcomes will be measured at baseline, within two week and at the end of six week exercises program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pulmonary telerehabilitation
  - OTHER: progressive muscle relaxation training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04741282
