CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04796753
Title: Detection of Neuromuscular Deficits in Uninjured Youth Basketball Players
Official Title: Detection of Neuromuscular Deficits in Movement Pattern in Uninjured Federated Youth Basketball Players: a Cross-sectional Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 575
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Basketball is an impact, coordination-opposition sport with continuous contact among players and it is considered a sport of medium-high injury incidence. Players are force to have a physical condition appropriate to their practice and the demand to which they must respond due to the intensity of the efforts this sport requires. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to establish an evaluation protocol that allows the detection of functional deficiencies, to guide and conduct in a specific and early way every moment of players' health and growth.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate and detect federated youth basketball players' (U12 - U17) neuromuscular deficiencies in mobility, stability and landing technique in static and dynamic situations to simulate all the most important actions of basketball demands.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is intended that the specific detection and individualized approach to neuromuscular deficiencies will decrease the prevalence of injuries and accidents and therefore, the performance of training basketball players will be improved. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and detect federated youth basketball players' (under 12 years until under 17 years) neuromuscular deficits in mobility, stability and landing technique in static and dynamic situations similar to simulate the most important actions of basketball demands.

This cross-sectional study was conducted from October 2018 to May 2019. A total of 778 basketball players were selected for the present study. In order to evaluate this specific tests and trials will be carried out on different teams from various clubs in the categories from under 12 years (U12) to under 17 (U17), both male and female. The evaluations will consist of a static physical measures and a dynamic one. These will be conducted throughout the season. Inclusion criteria were: age \> 12 years and \<18 years at testing, and to be actively competing during the study. Subjects were excluded if they had suffered any injury in lower limbs before the screening; presented any injury (overuse or acute) at the time of testing or if they suffered any oncological, psychological and/or psychiatric illnesses, or if they did not attend on the day of the assessment. The main outcomes were ankle joint dorsiflexion was analyzed with Weight-bearing Dorsiflexion Test; monopodial ankle stability was analyzed with Single Leg Balance Test. Dynamic lower extremity valgus was analyzed with Single Leg Squat Test, Modified Tuck Jump Test, Single Leg Squat Test and Hurdle Step Test were used to evaluate also Lumbopelvic stability and dynamic postural control. Neuromuscular deficits during continuous tuck jumps, landing technique flaws and Plyometric Technique were analyzed with Modified Tuck Jump Test. All these tests are scientifically validated for this purpose. All players were familiar with the procedures of all test before. Testing was performed in the same day, in the same order, at the same time of the day (18:00-20:00).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Ankle joint dorsiflexion
  - Ankle stability
  - Dynamic lower extremity valgus
  - Lumbopelvic stability
  - Dynamic postural control

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Basketball Injury Defense

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04796753
