CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02909725
Title: The Blossom Project: "BlossomUP" Methods to Decrease Sedentary Time in Pregnancy
Official Title: The Blossom Project: "BlossomUP" Evaluating Methods to Decrease Sedentary Time in Pregnancy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Multiple studies have demonstrated a very low prevalence of women meeting physical activity and weight gain recommendations during pregnancy. Additionally, previous Blossom Project studies have shown that when pregnant women engage in a 20 minute walk each day, they spend significantly more time sitting in addition to longer bouts of sitting resulting in increased total sedentary time. We are going to test which method works best to decrease sitting time, and how those methods effect metabolic parameters such as insulin resistance and blood glucose. This study will consist of three groups, each utilizing a commercially available fitness tracker, Fitbit. Group 1 (SR): will reduce sedentary time by interrupting prolonged sitting. Group 2 (WALK): will reduce sedentary time via walking. Group 3 (UC): will continue on with their normal daily routine; usuALCARe.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pregnant women will be recruited using mass email recruitment, fliers posted at local community settings, and at local OBGYN offices in Ames, IA. Pregnant women will be recruited between 16 and 22 weeks gestation. Interested individuals will contact the Blossom Project staff for further information.

A randomized controlled design will be used. Following baseline data collection, women will be randomized into group 1 (n=12), group 2 (n=12) or group 3 (n=12).

For this study, the goal is to have a total of 10 women in each of the three groups. With an attrition rate of 15%, investigators plan to enroll a total of 36 women. Furthermore, increased enrollment numbers will cover inconsistencies that may arise with missing or uninterpretable data.

Individuals who contact the Blossom Project will be screened for eligibility. Individuals that meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will meet with a Blossom Project staff member to sign an informed consent form approved by the Iowa State University Institutional Review Board (ISU-IRB). A "medical consent form" (not the consent form for the study participant) will be sent to the woman's primary obstetric provider asking to confirm qualification criteria. Participants will then be asked to complete a medical history questionnaire.

Eligible participants will be asked to participate in a 6 week intervention. Participants will report to the Nutrition Wellness Research Center (NWRC) either on campus (HNSB 2021, 2022, 2023) or the facility located at 2325 North Loop Drive, Suite 6100, Ames, IowA-50010 at the start of week 1 and week 6. Week 1 and 6 include an 8-day data collection period outlined below. Weeks 2-6 include the intervention period.

Data that will be collected during each of the data collection periods will include:

Week 1 Visit: Pregnant between 16 and 22 weeks of gestation:

* Consent form: Participants will meet with a staff member to discuss the consent form and requirements of the study. Signed informed consent will be obtained from each participant.
* Medical provider consent: Medical providers will confirm qualification criteria for each participant. The medical provider consent must be received prior to a woman beginning participation in the study. Participants will sign this form at visit 1 to grant Blossom Project staff the permission to contact their medical provider.
* Medical history questionnaire: Each participant will fill out a medical history questionnaire.
* Physical activity assessment: Participants will receive verbal and written instructions on how to collect data regarding their physical activity. Each participant will wear 2 activity monitors to assess physical activity patterns over the 8-day monitoring period during baseline data collection and the sixth week of the study. The sensors will be worn on the left arm over the triceps muscle (SenseWear Mini armband) and on the right leg over thEQuadriceps muscle (activPAL). All of these monitors have been used in our previo

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Time Spent Sedentary

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Limit accumulation of sedentary time
  - OTHER: Walk
  - OTHER: Normal daily routine; UsuALCARe

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02909725
