CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03679299
Title: Vascular Implications of a Naturally Occurring Asthma Exacerbation
Official Title: Vascular Implications of a Naturally Occurring Asthma Exacerbation
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 3
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Although asthma is a disease of the airways, research is now showing that asthmatics are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) compared to non-asthmatics. Vascular dysfunction is seen in people at high risk of CVD and has been linked to inflammation. During an asthma attack, levels of inflammation in the whole body increase, which could potentially explain why asthmatics are at increased risk of CVD. In the proposed study the investigators will examine if asthma attacks lead to increased risk of CVD by evaluating inflammatory levels and vascular function directly following asthma attacks, 2 days and 14 days after discharge. The investigators will compare these results to non-asthmatics. The results from this study will help us understand why asthmatics are at increased risk of CVD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND \& SCOPE: While asthma is generally considered to be a disease of the airways, there are important systemic consequences which have predisposed people with asthma to become more likely to die from cardiovascular (CV) disease compared to non-asthmatics. Additional CV risks have been reported in people with severe asthma, and there is a relationship between reductions in lung function and cardiac death. To date, little is known in regards to the interaction between an asthma exacerbation and CV risk.

Brachial flow-mediated dilation (FMD) is used as a non-invasive tool to evaluate endothelial function. Brachial FMD is impaired in people with coronary dysfunction, and has been shown to predict future CV events better than traditional CV risk factors. People with asthma have previously been shown to have impaired endothelial function compared to non-asthmatics, but the underlying mechanism(s) are unclear. The aim of this study is to evaluate the endothelial function in people with asthma directly following an asthma exacerbation, 2 days and 14 days post-exacerbation, as well as non asthmatic controls.

Applanation tonometry is a non-invasive tool to evaluate arterial stiffness. It measure the pulse wave velocity (PWV), which is an independent predictor of cardiovascular risk. People with asthma have previously been shown to have increased arterial stiffness compared to non-asthmatics, but hte underlying mechanism(s) are unclear. Arterial stiffness will be evaluated in people with asthma directly following an asthma exacerbation, 2 days and 14 days post-exacerbation, as well as non asthmatic controls. Arterial stiffness, together with endothelial function will give information on the vascular function of the individuals.

Chronic systemic inflammation is an established risk factor and predictor of future CV events, and levels of systemic inflammation has been shown to be increased in asthma and to be are related to disease severity. While systemic inflammation can directly impair vascular function, it is unknown how an asthma attack may affect vascular function and CV risk. Thus, to gain better understanding of the increased CV risks associated with an asthma exacerbation, this study will evaluate the level of systemic inflammation in people with asthma directly following an asthma exacerbation, 2 days and 14 days post-exacerbation, as well as non asthmatic controls.

OBJECTIVE 1: To examine the vascular function and systemic inflammation in young adults experiencing a naturally occurring asthma exacerbation and to compare these data to values obtained from two follow up visits, as well as to healthy controls.

METHODS \& PROCEDURES: Outline:

Each participant from the exacerbation group will be tested at three different times: Day 1) ED visit, Day 2) 48 hours post ED, Day 3) 14 days post ED.

A waist circumference measurement will be taken. Waist circumference will be measured at the level of the last rib to the nearest 0.1 cm after a norm

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Flow-mediated dilation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Observational - No intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03679299
