CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04315350
Title: The Effect of Curcumin on the Development of Prednisolone-induced Hepatic insulin Resistance
Official Title: The Effect of Curcumin on the Development of Prednisolone-induced Hepatic insulin Resistance in Overweight and Obese Participants
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to investigate whether ingestion of curcumin will prevent hepatic insulin resistance (assessed by homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR)) induced by short-term oral glucocorticoid (prednisolone) administration in overweight and obese participants. As a secondary endpoint it will be investigated if prednisolone administration induce or worsen the degree of NAFLD in overweight or obese participants using magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy (MRS), and if curcumin can ameliorate this effect. Also, the possible anti-inflammatory effect of curcumin will be elucidated as a range of inflammatory markers before and after intervention will be measured. Thus, prednisolone treatment is used as a model of development of pre-diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
AIMS OF STUDY The aim of this study is to investigate whether ingestion of curcumin will prevent hepatic insulin resistance (assessed by homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR)) induced by short-term oral glucocorticoid (prednisolone) administration in overweight and obese participants.

BACKGROUND The increasing incidence and prevalence of obesity and its comorbidities calls for research in preventing these diseases. The progression to insulin resistance and increased blood sugar levels (i.e. prediabetes) and ultimately type 2 diabetes (T2D) in obesity is believed to be caused by various factors of which low-grade inflammation in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle tissue seems to inflict insulin resistance initiating metabolic deterioration towards the type 2 diabetic phenotype. Curcumin, a polyphenolic compound that can be extracted from the turmeric root, have been shown to exert anti-inflammatory properties in both in vitro and animal studies. Furthermore, animal studies indicate that curcumin is a modulator of gut microbiota composition in a metabolic beneficial direction. Studies have shown positive results in terms of lowering hepatic insulin resistance with curcumin in rodents and humans (measured by HOMA-IR), and another clinical trial has shown that curcumin can prevent worsening of HOMA-IR and development of T2D in a prediabetic population.

Glucocorticoids are a group of frequently used compounds, prescribed for a wide range of diseases and have severe metabolic side effects as insulin resistance, T2D and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Interestingly, curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from the turmeric root, and curcumin analogues have been shown to ameliorate glucocorticoid-induced 'dysmetabolism' in rodent studies, but no human data exist. Also, results from both in vitro and in vivo studies with curcumin have shown promising effects in preventing NAFLD development, but solid human data are missing. Because of the temporary effects on glucose metabolism, short-term treatment with glucocorticoids can be used as an investigative model of these metabolic changes. Previous studies from the research unit performing the current study, used this setup to investigate changes in glucose homeostasis, incretin hormones and insulin resistance. Two different mouse studies indicate that curcumin could be beneficial in terms of preventing the metabolic changes associated with systemic glucocorticoid treatment, but no human studies have investigated if curcumin can prevent glucocorticoid-induced increase in HOMA-IR.

The aim of the study is to investigate the effects of curcumin of the metabolic changes caused by short-term systemic prednisolone in a double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial in overweight and obese individuals.

STUDY DESIGN

Participants 27 overweight and obese individuals without diabetes

METHODS

In this randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, eligible participants will undergo baselin

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HOMA-IR

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Curcumin Liposome
  - DRUG: Prednisolone
  - DRUG: Placebos

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04315350
