CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03193489
Title: Two-year Follow-up to High-intensity Multi-component Agility Intervention That Improves Clinical and Motor Symptoms of Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: A High-intensity Multi-component Agility Intervention in Parkinson's Patients: Two-year Follow-up
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 3
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Individualization of exercise is recommended but rarely performed in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).

Unusually High Intensity and Individual Sensor Motor with Visuomotor Mobility Trainer The clinical symptoms, mobility and posture of PD patients. After 3 weeks of intensive treatment, treated patients and the control group were subjected to a two-year observation.

Objectives: The effect of the unusually highly intense and strictly individualized sensomotor and visuomotor agility program was determined for the clinical symptoms, mobility and stability of non-demented PD patients with a two-year follow-up. Detection and comparison of results of patients undergoing biphasic maintenance with the results of intensively treated patients and the control group.

Patients were recalled every 3 months after the first intensive examination and one year after a one-year control. The results of the active group were continuously compared with the results of the passive and control groups, thus determining the effectiveness of our treatment and the deterioration of the other groups in life-quality.

The treated groups will be divided into two. One Parkinson's group takes part in a treadmill treatment that takes place 3 times a week for 2 years. The other group does not undergo a special series of exercises after 3 weeks of intensive therapy.

Main outcome measures: Movement disorder Society Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale, Motor Experiences of Daily Living, a measure sensitive to changes in a broad spectrum of PD symptoms.

In group time, repeated measurements of variance analysis were compared to MDS-UPDRS M-EDL, Beck Depression Score, PDQ-39, EQ5D VAS, Schwab \& England Scale for Parkinson's Disease. The TUG test and 12 static posturographic measurements are compared and compared to the healthy group as a standard.

An at-limit and individualized sensorimotor and visuomotor agility exercise program vs. standard care, will improve non-demeted, stage 2-3 PD patient's clinical symptoms, mobility, and postural stability by functionally meaningful margins. As a long-term solution, a follow-up treatment can slow down the progression of clinical symtoms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - EQ5D-5L
  - posturography
  - Timed up and Go test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Follow-up
  - OTHER: Post-treatment control
  - OTHER: Control Parkinson group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03193489
