CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04806308
Title: The Impact of Intraoperative Stretching Microbreaks on Otolaryngologists
Official Title: The Impact of Intraoperative Stretching Microbreaks on Otolaryngologists
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
There have been numerous survey-based and observational studies reporting a high percentage of otolaryngologists suffering from work-related musculoskeletal symptoms, in which more than half attributed to poor ergonomics in the operating room. Interventions have been implemented in the past to alleviate ergonomic hazards in general surgery such as intra-operative stretch breaks. However, there has not yet been an intervention done to alleviate ergonomic hazards in otolaryngologists. Our study aims to explore the efficacy of implementing intraoperative stretch breaks and assess their effect on otolaryngologists' practices and musculoskeletal pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study subjects will be recruited voluntarily from George Washington University Hospital otolaryngology attending physicians, residents, and fellows, as well as Children's otolaryngology faculties. Pre-survey will be sent prior to the intervention to obtain background information and baseline ergonomic assessment conducted by physical therapy students. Interventions will include intra-operative stretch breaks that will be implemented by surgeons at their convenient time during the surgery. Post-survey will be sent out to obtain the subjects' experiences after each intervention.

Each survey will be sent via email using a secured third-party vendor, RedCap. Results will be retrieved only by the research assistants listed on the institutional review board (IRB). The survey will not ask for any identifying information and will not publish identifying information. The raw data will be analyzed by the PI and research assistant for publication. The study should take less than a year for data collection and analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body part discomfort
  - Body part discomfort
  - Body part discomfort
  - Body part discomfort

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Otolaryngology stretching micro-breaks (OSMB)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04806308
