CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02125643
Title: EIMD Mechanisms Causing Force Loss
Official Title: The Underlying Mechanisms From Exercise-induced Muscle Damage on Force Loss
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 3
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
We have hypothesized: 1) Caffeine will increase maximal voluntary strength compared to placebo in undamaged muscle. 2) Caffeine will increase muscle activation compared to placebo in undamaged muscle. 3) Caffeine will enhance spinal excitability (indicated by an enhanced H-reflex) compared to placebo in undamaged muscle. 4) Caffeine will raise the pressure-pain threshold (indicating decreased pain sensitivity) in the calf muscle compared to placebo in undamaged muscle. 5) Caffeine will reduce the amount of low-frequency fatigue, indicated by an enhanced 20-100 hertz strength ratio, compared to placebo in undamaged muscle. 6) Caffeine will increase maximal voluntary strength compared to placebo in damaged muscle. 7) Caffeine will increase muscle activation compared to placebo in damaged muscle. 8) Caffeine will enhance spinal excitability (indicated by an enhanced H-reflex) compared to placebo in damaged muscle. 9) Caffeine will raise the pressure-pain threshold (indicating decreased pain sensitivity) in the calf muscle compared to placebo in damaged muscle. 10) Caffeine will reduce the amount of low-frequency fatigue, indicated by an enhanced 20-100 hertz strength ratio, compared to placebo in damaged muscle.

The proposed research will determine the effects of a 5mg/kg body weight dose of caffeine on muscular strength, activation, H-reflex function, and excitation-contraction coupling before and after exercise-induced muscle damage. The long term objectives are to gain a better understanding of caffeine and its affects following exercise-induced muscle damage allowing us to understand how caffeine is mechanistically interacting with functions of the body.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A within participant, repeated measures experimental design will be used such that each participant will serve as his/her own control. Caffeine and placebo will be administered in a double-blind, counterbalanced manner. Caffeine and placebo (white flour) pills will be prepared by Kerri Tiedman or Jackie Straughn at the Doctors Park Pharmacy using an analytical balance. Anhydrous caffeine or white flour will be placed into opaque capsules. The pills will be placed into envelopes by Chris Black. He will then use a computer generated random number table to assign caffeine or placebo pills for each testing session in a counter-balanced fashion. The participant's identification number, as well as session number will be placed on the envelope. A spreadsheet containing only the participants' numbers and the testing condition will be kept by Chris Black until the study is complete. Jessica, Robby, Alex, Josh, and Jamie the research assistants, who will be blinded to the contents of the envelopes, will administer the pills to the participants and collect data from the participants. This will ensure the blinding of the researchers to the condition during data collection. Following the completion of data collection the spreadsheet will be given to all the above stated research assistants and the blinding will be broken for data analysis.

Total time commitment for the study will be approximately 10 hours over the course of 14 days. Three familiarization session and 5 testing sessions will be completed.

Test Day 1: - Potential participants will report to the sensory and muscle function lab for a 30 minute session involving the following:

D1.1 Written and verbal description of the experiment and all procedures will be given, and any questions will be answered. Informed consent will be completed.

D1.2 A physical activity readiness questionnaire (PAR-Q) will be completed (identifies contraindications to exercise.D1.3 A questionnaire screening for the potential adverse reactions to caffeine, current medication and supplements as well as an increased risk of rhabdomyolysis use will be competed. D1.4 Seated, resting blood pressure will be assessed in the right brachial artery. D1.5 Potential participants deemed eligible for the study will be asked to orally state to the researchers what they will be expected to do in the study and explain the risks and benefits of the study to confirm they understand the procedures, time commitment, freedom to withdraw, and risk and benefits of study participation. D1.6 Next, participants will practice the procedure for determining maximal voluntary isometric strength (MVC) of the plantar flexor muscle group. Participants will be seated in a specially designed chair with their hip at an angle of 90 degrees. A series of 3 maximal, all-out isometric contractions (contractions against a stationary object where the muscle does not shorten or lengthen) will be performed. Each contraction will last approximately 3 seconds. Participan

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in maximal voluntary strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Caffeine
  - OTHER: Flour

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02125643
