CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03628365
Title: Can Beta-Hydroxy-beta-Methylbutyrate Supplementation Counteract Muscle Catabolism in Critically Ill Patients?
Official Title: Can Beta-Hydroxy-beta-Methylbutyrate (HMB) Supplementation Counteract Muscle Catabolism in Critically Ill Patients? A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 37
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
The rapid decline of muscle mass and function in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients is associated with prolonged length of mechanical ventilation, prolonged intensive care (ICU) and hospital stay, increased ICU and hospital mortality, and prolonged impairment in physical function and quality of life. High protein feeding only partially attenuates the muscle loss. The aim is to study the impact of HMB (3 g/day) on the muscle mass of the critically ill patients from day 4 of their admission to maximum 30 days, but at least for 10 days.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The rapid decline of muscle mass and function in mechanically ventilated critically ill patients is associated with poor outcome, and limitations of functional recovery. High protein feeding only partially attenuates the muscle loss. The aim is to study the impact of HMB (3 g/day) on the muscle mass of the critically ill patients from day 4 of their admission to maximum 30 days, but at least for 10 days. The study is testing a nutrition complement (HMB) that is included in feeding products registered for medical nutrition by Swiss Federal Authorities, but who do not provide sufficient protein quantities.

On days 4 and 15 after ICU admission, specific investigations will include: Ultrasound measurement of the musclEQuadriceps femoris (CSA), bioimpedance analysis (BIA) of body composition, protein synthesis and catabolism using amino acid tracers. On D30 and D60: telephone contact to assess global health and mobility (SF-12).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle mass of the thigh

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: HMB (beta-hydroxy beta-methylbutyrate)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03628365
