CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06555159
Title: Exploring Physical Exercise for the Regulation and Control of Metabolic Disorders in College Students.
Official Title: EFFECT OF AN AEROBIC EXERCISE PROGRAM ON METABOLIC DISORDERS LEVELS IN HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENTS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF COLIMA, RANDOMIZED CLINICAL TRIAL.
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial objective is to evaluate the effect of an aerobic physical exercise program on reducing triglycerides, blood pressure, abdominal obesity, altered glucose levels, and the increase in HDL in college-level students at the University of Colima. It will try to answer whether aerobic physical exercise reduces metabolic disorders (altered blood pressure and glucose levels, abdominal obesity, and increased HDL). A simple randomized clinical trial will be conducted with a sample of 48 voluntary students from the University of Colima, divided into two groups of 24 people (Control group -A-, will perform aerobic physical exercise, which will be walking at 57% to 76% of HRmax; and Experimental Group -B-, will undergo an aerobic physical exercise (APE) program involving jogging, swimming, and static cycling, with a progressive intensity, which will start at 57%-63% of the maximum heart rate (HRmax) in the first 4 weeks of the study, and will increase to 64% -76% in the final four weeks, fulfilling the principle of progressive overload).

Researchers will compare the results of both groups to confirm the effectiveness of the planned aerobic physical exercise in reducing these risks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Once the project is approved by the Bioethics Committee from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Colima and the Ethics Committee from Colima's Regional Hospital, annexing a no-conflict of interest letter, letters of intent will be prepared and sent to the directors of the faculties within the central campus of the University of Colima. Their purpose is to inform them about the project's generalities, obtain permission to share it with the students and address any questions they may have Those who agree will receive an informed consent form for their respective signatures. They will be informed about the appropriate attire for the study (for women, this includes sports shoes, leggings, and a top or T-shirt, and for men, shorts and a T-shirt), the requirement to fast for a minimum of 8 hours on the data collection day, and the date (Saturdays), time (8:00 am to 12:00 pm) and place (Faculty of Medicine, University of Colima) of the initial tests (these tests will also be considered the baseline for people who are found to have a metabolic alteration).

On assessment day, the project team will execute the following tests: application of the IPA-Q questionnaire, abdominal circumference, blood pressure, blood collection by venipuncture for HDL, triglycerides and glycemia, and the Queen's College step test to determine their cardiorespiratory capacity, (after completing all the tests, every participant will receive refreshments and will be asked if they are in good condition to conclude their assessments, if not, they will be monitored until their answer is affirmative).

Once all blood samples are collected, they will be taken to the laboratory at the Faculty of Chemical Sciences, University of Colima, for processing. Simultaneously, data from the other assessments will be synthesized. When the final results from all 5 tests are collected, a sample of 48 subjects will be selected for the protocol, considering the established inclusion criteria. With this sample, simple randomization will be performed in a new meeting, using sealed envelopes (each containing a letter indicating group assignment that will not be seen by participants). Participants will draw an envelope and mark it with their names, and they will hand the envelope to the designated person (principal investigator).

At the end of the meeting, the envelopes will be opened by the organizers in the absence of the participants to reveal whether they belong to the (A) control or (B) experimental group. This process ensures single-blind criteria, where participants do not know their group assignment.

After forming the (A) control and (B) experimental groups, they will be divided to provide them instructions for compliance with the exercise program while maintaining single-blind conditions. In the control group (A), the exercise prescription used by Habibzadeh in 2010 will be implemented: which involves walking for 30 minutes at an intensity of 57% to 76% of the maximum heart rate, thre

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HDL (Lipidic profile)
  - hypertriglyceridemia
  - Glucose alterations
  - Arterial Hypertension
  - Abdominal circunference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical exercise prescription: Continuous aerobic training (jogging, swimming, static cycling)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control group: Continuous aerobic physical exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06555159
