CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05124756
Title: Effects of Bioelectric Stimulation in Patients With Non-Dialysis Dependent Chronic Kidney Disease
Official Title: Effects of Bioelectric Stimulation on Kidney Function and Sarcopenia in Patients With Non-Dialysis Dependent Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD): Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) consists of kidney damage, with a consequent progressive and irreversible loss of kidney function. In the early stages of the disease, there is already a reduction in circulating levels of α-klotho protein, which is related to worsening renal function. Therapeutic strategies that increase serum α-klotho levels can be of great value in the treatment of CKD. Electrical stimulation contributes to the reduction of reactive oxygen species, DNA damage and improves the efficiency rate of dialysis, suggesting a systemic effect in patients with end-stage CKD. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of bioelectric stimulation on renal function and physical capacity in patients with CKD. For this, patients will be randomized into bioelectric stimulation or a control group. Bioelectric stimulation will be performed three times a week for eight weeks. The control group will only be evaluated and re-evaluated. The following pre-and post-intervention assessments will be performed: analysis of the plasma content of α-Klotho and soluble creatinine to assess renal function, six-minute walk test to assess functional capacity; dosage of interleukins and tumor necrosis factor to analyze the inflammatory profile; sit and stand test with 10 repetitions and load cell dynamometry to assess lower limb muscle strength and application of the EuroQoL-5D questionnaire for quality of life. Biochemical analyzes for renal function and inflammatory profile will also be performed after four weeks of follow-up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from kidney function
  - Change from kidney function
  - Change from kidney function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Bioelectric stimulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05124756
