CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05090501
Title: The Effects of High Intensity Circuit Training in Nature Vs. Indoor on Exercise Performance, and Wellbeing
Official Title: A Randomized Trial of High Intensity Circuit Training in Nature and Indoors to Compare Exercise Performance, Emotions, Perceived Exertion, and the Variability of Movement and Heart Rate in Recreational Exercisers.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 104
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Exercising in a nature setting has been credited with benefits for health and well-being, more so than exercising indoors. Additionally, motoric performance in the same exercise (e.g., running speed, more strenuous physical activity) has been reported in some studies to be greater if practiced outdoors, in a nature setting. The explanation may be in the inherent variability of natural landscapes, the textures, elevations, obstacles and objects which are not found in standard built and indoor settings. Indoor settings are characterized by safe, organized, patterned textures and objects created for specific ends, which inhibit variability in physical and physiological behavior. Variability in the environment turns into variability in body systems, which benefits health, well-being, and skill acquisition.

Variability in behavior depends also on the task. Running or walking is essentially a journey throughout the environment in which interaction with obstacles, puddles, and other runners is part of the variability of the activity. On the other hand, physical activity such as HICT is done in a small area, and is a scripted, prescribed activity (e.g., push-ups, sit-ups), which lowers the amount of variability in behavior. The aim of this trial is to test if a low variability activity shows differences in performance, wellbeing, and behavior measures according to the amount of variability in the environment.

In this trial the participants will engage in two high intensity circuit training (HICT) interventions - one in an indoor setting, and another in a nature setting. The HICT intervention includes 12 calisthenic exercises, and will be performed at a self-selected intensity by the participants. Each exercise will be performed during one minute, followed by 30 seconds of rest where the participants will be instructed what the next exercise will be. Before exercising, the participants put a heart rate monitor and two inertial measurement units (IMUs) on the right arm and leg, according to the correct usage guidelines, and rate their positive affect, arousal, and perceived exertion. Immediately after exercising, they rate the same measures again.

Research Hypotheses:

Greater movement variability, heart rate variability, performance, wellbeing, and arousal during HICT in nature setting than indoor setting.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction: Nature environments are "any outdoor spaces that retain noticeable elements of nature, ranging from pristine or seminatural areas to urban green or blue spaces, including green infrastructure". Exercising in nature settings has been shown to improve well-being outcomes such as lower anxiety and greater positive mood, more so than exercising in artificial environments like urban spaces or indoors.

Over the past decades, the well-being benefits of nature-based exercise have been extensively reported in the literature, but exercise and sport performance have not been studied as much, in spite of some studies showing that performance may be better in natural settings than indoor conventional settings (e.g., dancing more vigorously, more power in cycling, ability to run more distance until exhaustion). This raises the question of how nature may impact performance efficacy (the product of performance, i.e., running faster) and efficiency (the psychological and physiological processes that may enhance performance efficacy) in exercise and sport activities, especially since many studies show, for example, that achieving the same goal in nature is less effortful than doing the same activity indoors.

The relationship between the exercise factor and the environment factor for potential health and performance benefits can be seen as sub-additive (less than total independent benefits of both exposures), additive (equal to the sum of the parts), and synergistic (greater than the sum of the parts).

Mechanisms: The mechanism by which physical activity in nature environments induces greater health and may enhance performance is not yet fully understood. Historically, the exercise and sport communities have created "proper" spaces to undertake their physical activities, such as gyms, stadiums, tracks. However, these standardized and artificial spaces are believed to offer limited variability in action. The ecological dynamics perspective views nature settings as a more varied and challenging landscape of affordances (possibilities for action) than that of built environments. Variability in the environment turns into variability in body systems, allowing for degenerate behavior (changing movement structure without compromising functionality). Assuming that the nature environment presents a richer and more variable landscape of affordances to exercisers has given birth to a theory within the ecological dynamics framework, labelled EVA, or the Empowering Variability of Affordances of Nature. To this end, EVA assumes that the uneven surfaces, objects and obstacles of nature settings such as grassland and trees allow for more variable athletic behavior, which has been deemed beneficial for exercise and sport performance. It must not be a coincidence that activities mostly practiced in natural environments such as extreme sports, are notorious for their demand for adaptability and creativity, and for promoting health.

Furthermore, for exercisers, the n

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Heart Rate Variability
  - Movement Variability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity Circuit Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05090501
