CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04106661
Title: Tai Chi as Physical Activity for Women With Morbid Obesity
Official Title: Tai Chi Via DVD Instruction as an Introduction to Physical Activity for Women With Morbid Obesity: a Feasibility Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study investigated the use of Tai Chi as a feasible form of physical activity for women with morbid obesity utilizing an instructional digital video disc (DVD). Two groups of women with morbid obesity (body mass index of \>40) were placed into the Tai Chi intervention group or the control group. Initial function was assessed with a series of tests and then repeated after 8 weeks. During the 8 weeks, the Tai Chi intervention group met once a week for 45 minutes to participate in a group exercise class. The control group was asked to continue their regular activity. At the end of the 8 weeks, both groups were reassessed with the same tests from the start of the study. The investigators hypothesized that the Tai Chi group would show more improvement in their functional scores for strength, balance and quality of life than the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study was to investigate an alternative approach to physical activity in people who are morbidly obese to improve their overall health, functional mobility, and quality of life. Although physical activity is recommended in most weight management programs, the type of physical activity that results in the most successful outcomes has not been determined. Walking programs are among the most common forms recommended, however few parameters or guidelines are provided, and well-controlled comparisons to other types of exercise are lacking. Compliance with exercise programs is also a factor that impacts success, therefore offering solutions that improve compliance would be beneficial as well. This study investigated the use of home-based exercise enhanced with DVDs along with weekly, supervised group sessions to compare Tai Chi to a walking program in participants who are morbidly obese.

The participants were recruited from the community with the requirement that they have a body mass index of \>40 and have a diagnosis of morbid obesity. A falls risk screening, the Four Square Step Test (FSST), was performed on which they must score as a low fall risk. A battery of physical and paper tests will be completed prior to starting the study to assess balance, endurance, functional lower extremity strength, and quality of life. Both groups completed a self-report of their weekly physical activity that was submitted on an Activity Log. Those who were designated to be in the control group did not have any additional interaction with the study until week 10 when they returned for post-testing. The Tai Chi intervention group met one time per week as a group to practice Tai Chi with the DVD as the guide. Physical therapy students and faculty were present at each session to modify and supervise as needed. The intervention group also followed the DVD in the home setting for 2 additional sessions each week. Following the 8 weeks of structured classes and home activity, the participants returned the following week for the post-testing session.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Four Square Step Test
  - Zeno Walkway Analysis of Gait Speed
  - 36-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36)
  - Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT)
  - 30 Second Sit to Stand

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tai Chi

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04106661
