CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03718156
Title: The Prevention Program for Alzheimer's Related Delirium (PREPARED) Trial
Official Title: The Prevention Program for Alzheimer's Related Delirium (PREPARED) Cluster Randomized Trial
Status: SUSPENDED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 800
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
By the year 2038, over a million Canadians are expected to have Alzheimer's disease, a type of dementia. Dementia increases the risk of nursing home placement among the elderly more than fivefold. Given the exceptionally vulnerable nature of this patient population, there is a pressing need to ensure that the clinical care they receive is evidence-based, tailored specifically for them, and meeting the high standards of quality that would be expected in any other health-care setting. Delirium is a sudden and severe change in brain function that can cause a person to appear confused or disoriented, have memory loss, and have difficulties maintaining focus. It is an urgent care issue facing elderly patients residing in nursing homes, or long-term care (LTC) facilities. Delirium is a significant cause of illness and mortality, affecting between 10%-89% of LTC patients, but little research has focused on delirium prevention in the LTC setting. This study will assess the effectiveness of a LTC multicomponent delirium prevention program (PREPARED Trial intervention). The PREPARED Trial intervention is an intervention provided to nursing staff working in LTC facilities that consists of four components: a decision tree, an instruction manual, a training package, and a toolkit. The feasibility and acceptability of the PREPARED Trial intervention has already been successfully demonstrated; however, a thorough and well-designed large scale study is needed in order to confirm its ability to reduce delirium among LTC residents. In this study, approximately 40-50 LTC facilities will be randomized to either receive the PREPARED Trial intervention or to receive usual care. At the end of the 4-year study period, the investigators will be able to demonstrate the degree to which the PREPARED Trial intervention reduces: 1) the number of new cases of delirium; 2) delirium severity; and 3) the duration of delirium episodes. This study will provide the blueprint of a program that can be transferable to LTC facilities across Canada.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overall Goal: To reduce the incidence, severity, duration, and frequency of delirium episodes in cognitively impaired long-term care (LTC) residents at high risk for delirium.

Background: Delirium is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality among older people admitted to both acute and LTC settings. Prevention, founded on a thorough understanding of associated risk factors, is the best approach for dealing with delirium. Several successful multicomponent interventions have been developed to reduce delirium incidence in the acute care setting (30%-73% reduction) by intervening on identified modifiable risk factors. Little work, however, has focused on using this approach to reduce delirium incidence in LTC. As such, co-investigators within the study team employed an integrated knowledge translation strategy to develop a LTC multicomponent delirium prevention program (PREPARED Trial intervention). The feasibility and acceptability of this program has been demonstrated using a participatory approach in two Quebec LTC facilities (LTCFs), and the program has received recognition by the scientific community. Given its large expected impact and high knowledge translation potential, a thorough and well-designed large-scale evaluation is urgently needed in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the multicomponent delirium prevention program in preventing delirium among high-risk LTC residents.

Primary Objective: To assess efficacy of the PREPARED Trial intervention in reducing delirium incidence, and delirium episode severity, duration, and frequency among cognitively impaired, high-risk LTC residents.

Secondary Objectives: To compare the effect of the PREPARED Trial intervention to that of usual care on the incidence of falls among cognitively impaired LTC residents, to estimate the association between medication use and delirium incidence in LTCFs, to estimate if there is an effect modification by motor subtype of delirium or by dementia subtype, and to measure the prevalence of delirium in participating institutions.

Tertiary Objectives: To compare the effect of the PREPARED Trial intervention on other health outcomes, including: changes in functional autonomy or social engagement, the number of transfers to acute care, consultations with healthcare providers, and mortality rates.

Methods: This 4-year cluster randomized study will involve nursing staff and residents in 40-50 public and semi-private LTC facilities in Quebec, Canada. Institutions within all 5 of the Montreal island Integrated University Health and Social Services networks (CIUSSS) and one private provincial network are currently participating. Approximately 900 LTC residents will be enrolled in the study and followed for 18 weeks only if they are at high risk of delirium and are delirium-free at baseline. The PREPARED Trial intervention is a program consisting of four components: a decision tree, an instruction manual, a training package and a toolkit. Primary study outcome

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of delirium
  - Delirium severity
  - Delirium episode duration
  - Number of delirium episodes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PREPARED Trial Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03718156
