CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04548206
Title: Effect of Pilates Training in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis
Official Title: Effect of Pilates Training on Sensory, Muscle Strength, Balance, and Gait in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Knee flexor and extensor muscle weakness in MS patients causes a decrease in walking distance and is an important determinant of walking capacity. Exercise training has beneficial effects on muscle strength, balance, and walking in MS patients. Although the effects of aerobic and resistant exercise training in MS patients are often emphasized, today the effect of different exercise types is also wondered. Pilates is a core stability-based exercise method that improves endurance, flexibility, movement, posture, and respiratory control. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of Pilates training on sensation, muscle strength, balance, and walking in MS patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients with MS between 0-5,5 score according to the Extended Disability Status Scale (EDSS) will be included in the study. The balance, gait, position sense, and muscle strength will be evaluated. The study was designed as a prospective, randomized controlled study. The patients will be randomly assigned to two groups, the "Pilates training" group, and the control group. Pilates training will be performed by the Pilates training group 2 times for 8 weeks under supervision in the outpatient clinic. The control group will be taught relaxation exercises and will be asked to perform the exercises 2 times for 8 weeks at home. Statistical analyses will be performed using the SPSS software version 15 (SPSS Inc. Chicago, IL, USA). The pre-training and post-training measurements of groups will be compared with the paired sample t-test.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gait
  - Balance
  - Light touch-pressure sensation
  - Vibration sensation
  - Two-point discrimination

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pilates training
  - OTHER: control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04548206
