CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00645385
Title: Examination of Changes on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) in Patients Who Receive Gliadel Wafers During Initial Surgery for Glioblastoma Multiforme. Response or Failure to Gliadel Wafers for Subjects With Glioblastoma Multiforme.
Official Title: Treatment Of Newly Diagnosed, High-Grade, Malignant Glioma With Polifeprosan 20 Containing Carmustine Implant (Gliadel® Wafer) Using MR Spectroscopy Data As A Primary Indicator Of Therapeutic Response.
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Subjects with newly diagnosed brain tumors who undergo surgical resection and whose pathology in the operating room shows a high grade glioma will be eligible.

During a screening visit, the study will be discussed, inform consent discussed and signed, a medical history will be taken and a physical examination and laboratory tests will be performed. If these tests are all within acceptable ranges, the subject will be considered for inclusion on this treatment protocol. If the results of any tests are extremely different from normal expected values, she/he may not be able to participate.

Prior to surgery, the subject will have a contrast enhanced MRI and MRS. The neurosurgeon will attempt to remove the majority of the tumor in the operating room and will send a portion of the specimen removed to the pathologist immediately. This is called a "frozen section". If the pathologist believes that the tumor is a high-grade malignant brain tumor, then the surgeon will place up to 8 dime-sized chemotherapy wafers in the tumor cavity of the brain. The remainder of the tumor specimen will be given to the pathologist to review more closely in the laboratory. If the frozen section does not show that the tumor is a high-grade malignant brain tumor, the subject will not receive the Gliadel wafers and will be removed from the study. The surgeon will then discuss with the subject the appropriate treatment options for the disease he or she has.

During recovery in the hospital, another contrast enhanced MRI will be performed within the first 72 hours after surgery. This is a standard of care for patients who are not involved on this protocol as well. The subject will have another contrast enhanced MRI and MRS performed at the 21st Day after his or her surgery. After Day 21, He or she may begin other forms of treatment. The last contrast enhanced MRI and MRS assessment will be performed 12 weeks after the surgery and the implantation of the Gliadel wafers. Further MRI and MRS may be performed subsequently at the discretion of the doctor.

Throughout the course of treatment, clinical data will be collected.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stabilization or reduction of tumor on gadolinium enhanced MRI and changes in choline/creatine ratio and NAA on MR Spectroscopy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: MRS Spectroscopy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00645385
