CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03990857
Title: Comprehensive Care Protocol in New Diagnosis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Associated Comorbidities in Primary Care
Official Title: Comprehensive Care Protocol in New Diagnosis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Associated Comorbidities in Primary Care: Quasi-experimental Study.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 123
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Introduction

Type 2 Diabetes is a very prevalent chronic disease in our environment. It usually exists with other chronic diseases. Although drug intensification at the time of new diagnosis has proven effective in reduction of cardiovascular and diabetes control and complications, an intensification of comprehensive health education has not been proven so. Currently, there is a great variability in practices of Primary Care nurses in front of the health education in the moment of new diagnosis.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a systematic protocol with an integrated care in people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes (DM2) and associated comorbidities, which included 5 structured individual visits post-diagnosis with the Primary care nurse.

Methods

Quasi-experimental design, comparing a group of individuals taking part in the intervention with a similar group receiving usual care. Data will be collected at the beginning, at the end of the intervention and after 6 and 12 months. 10 primary care centers in the city of Barcelona will be selected on a convenience basis as IG and CG. The subjects of the GC will be monitored as usual. Performed analysis will be the baseline comparability between GI and GC in relationship to different variables as well as the changes in dependent variables along the study; establishing comparisons between GC and GI . The results will be measured in terms of quality of life related to health, development of biological parameters (HbA1c and weight) and compliance with the therapeutic plan.

Discussion

The results of this study will help to 1)demonstrate that by intensifying the hygienic-dietetic measures in the initial stage of DM2 diagnosis, the disease and associated co-morbidities are controlled in a better way. 2) validate a material that allows to decrease the variability in the care offered by primary care nurses to people in this group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives

To evaluate the effectiveness of the systematic application of the comprehensive care protocol in people who debut in DM2 and associated comorbidities, applied during 3 months in primary care, in terms of quality of life related to Health, weigh loss and Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) compared to people who receive normal practice.

Secondary: To evaluate the effectiveness of the systematic application of the comprehensive care protocol of DM and associated comorbidities, during 3 months in primary care, in the parameters:

* Evolution of the specific biological parameters: TA, BMI, lipid profile, abdominal perimeter.
* Evolution of the consumption of drugs.
* Compliance with dietary recommendations.
* Increase in physical activity.
* Satisfaction / opinion of the participants. According to a questionnaire of user satisfaction of the ICS adapted to our study.
* Health frequentation in Primary Care Centers.

Methods and Analysis Study Design: A quantitative quasi-experimental design, multicenter, one-year follow-up, comparing a group of patients with a recent DM2 debut (less than 5 months) treated according to the comprehensive care protocol in DM2 with comorbidities, the intervention (IG), with a group of similar characteristics who receive the usual care (CG). The response variables will be evaluated before starting the care according to protocol, after (3 months) and at 6 and 12 months of initiating the intervention, in both groups.

Scope of the study: It will be developed in 10 urban primary care health centers, in 5 centers the intervention will be carried out and in 5 the controls will be selected. The allocation of a center as an intervention or comparison will be random. In the calculation of the sample the cluster effect attributable to this design has been considered.

Subjects of the study: The study population will consist of patients attended in the selected Primary Care Centers with a new diagnosis of DM2 (less than 5 months from the debut) that present comorbidity with an other chronic cardiovascular condition (Hypertension, dyslipidemia and/or obesity). Will be excluded COPD and IC, because they are attended with a specific protocol of care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change is being assessed in Health Related Quality of Life will be measured through the EuroQoL (EQ-5D)
  - HbA1c
  - Change is being assessed in Weigh

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Comprehensive care protocol in new diagnosis of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and associated comorbidities in Primary Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03990857
