CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01788683
Title: Regenexx™ SD Versus Exercise Therapy for Rotator Cuff Tears
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial of Regenexx™ SD Versus Exercise Therapy for Treatment of Non-retracted Supraspinatus Tendon Tears
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 51
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study is to compare the improvement in subject-reported clinical outcomes, for Regenexx SD treatment vs. Exercise Therapy of non-retracted supraspinatus tendon tears, from baseline to 3 months, with continued evaluation of efficacy and durability up to 24 months.

Secondary objectives include evaluation of US evidence of tendon repair; incidence of post-operative complications, adverse events, re-injections, and surgical intervention; change in pain score and use of pain medications.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Prospective, randomized, controlled to include 34 subjects treated with Regenexx SD and 17 subjects treated with Exercise Therapy alone (2:1 randomization).

Subjects will have a non-retracted supraspinatus tendon tear comprising at least one half the tendon thickness in the anterior-posterior and/or superior-inferior planes as evidenced with positive diagnostic imaging such as arthrogram, ultrasound and/or MR.

Subjects will be enrolled within 60 days prior to Regenexx-SD injection or initiation of exercise therapy and take part in follow-up visits for two years following treatment. A preoperative visit will occur at the time of enrollment; follow-up visits will occur at the clinical site at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months post injection.

The primary endpoint analysis will be conducted once all subjects reach the 3 month endpoint. At that point, subjects enrolled in the Exercise Therapy group will be given the option of crossing over to the Regenexx SD treatment groups. Subjects will continue to be followed through the 2 year endpoint with data analysis performed at the 1 year and 2 year time points.

Subjects will complete the study following the 2 year follow-up visit.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - DASH Score Change from Baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Regenexx SD
  - OTHER: Exercise Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01788683
