CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04812158
Title: Video Aided Mindful Deep Breathing for Pain Management
Official Title: Effect of Mindfulness Training in Chronic Ankle Instability Among Collegiate Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is the most common musculoskeletal injury in sports and the rate of CAI accounts for 85% of ankle injuries. It has been estimated that 23,000 ankle sprains occur each day in the United States, representing approximately 1 sprain per 10,000 people per day and nearly one in five ankle injuries result in chronic symptoms. Numerous researchers applied mindfulness for improving the performance of various sports such as table tennis, shooting, cricket, archery, golf, swimming, and cycling. Since many of the players do not possess effective pain coping skills, they are at risk for lifelong impairment of their emotional, social, and physical functioning. Mindfulness-centered interventions may well serve to mitigate pain-related disability. Training in mindfulness meditation improves anxiety, depression, stress, and cognition. Mindfulness-related health benefits are associated with enhancements in cognitive control, emotion regulation, positive mood, and acceptance, each of which have been associated with pain modulation. Since mindfulness has been proven effective in managing various health disorders and in enhancing sports performance, our study aims to apply the mindfulness approach in rehabilitating the most common sports injury, CAI. The improvement in CAI due to the mindfulness approach will be assessed by the improvement in pain response through the Cumberland ankle instability tool, Functional ankle disability index (FADI), Visual analog scale (VAS), Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Y-balance test, Mindfulness attention awareness score (MAAS), Oxford Happiness Questionnaire (OHQ) quantitative electroencephalography (Q-EEG). This study finding will be useful in assessing the effectiveness of mindfulness in rehabilitating CAI and identify the correlation of CAI pain response with VAS \& BPI, quantitative electroencephalography - Q-EEG. In this clinical trial, the investigators wish to use noninvasive methods such as quantitative EEG (electroencephalogram) to find the brainwave patterns during the different stages of mindfulness intervention (pre and post). The outcome of this study will eventually lead to the identification of a better assessment method to indicate the pain response for the appropriate physiotherapy management. The application of mindfulness technique in CAI management and the usage of Q- EEG to assess the pain response in chronic ankle injury athletes are the novel approaches of this research study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Inversion Ankle injuries (IAS) are among the most common musculoskeletal injuries in sports and the rate of IAS accounts for 85% of ankle injuries. The hallmarks of chronic ankle instability (CAI) include repeated ankle sprains that have led to an altered patient activity level. Important factors include injuries sustained, frequency of events, localization of pain, and prior treatment modalities. The degree of disability appreciated by the patient is one of the most important factors and can be significant in both high- and low-demand individuals. The most commonly cited characteristics of CAI include giving way to the ankle, mechanical instability, pain and swelling, loss of strength, recurrent sprain, and functional instability. Residual problems can persist for decades, with up to 72% of people unable to return to their previous level of activity, such as fear of the ankle giving way. Functional ankle instability includes a perceived or actual giving way of the ankle (or both) and other characteristics previously associated with CAI in general: pain, swelling, and recurrent sprain. Functional insufficiencies among individuals with either CAI have been demonstrated by quantifying deficits in ankle neuromuscular response times, postural control, and strength.

Researchers have found that injured athletes experience clinically significant depression 6 times as often as non-injured athletes. Injured athletes also exhibit significantly greater anxiety and lower self-esteem than non-injured. Athletes with more severe injuries are more likely to become depressed than the non-injured. Since many of the players do not possess effective pain coping skills, they are at risk for lifelong impairment of their emotional, social, and physical functioning. Mindfulness-centered interventions may well serve to mitigate a pain-related disability. Training in mindfulness meditation improves anxiety, depression, stress, and cognition. Mindfulness-related health benefits are associated with enhancements in cognitive control, emotion regulation, positive mood, and acceptance, happiness each of which have been associated with pain modulation. Successively mindfulness has been proven effective in managing various health disorders and in enhancing sports performance. This study aims to apply the video-assisted mindfulness deep breathing training (VAMDBT) approach in rehabilitating CAI, the most common sports injury. In addition, applies Quantitative Electroencephalogram (QEEG) as one of the parameters to measure the pain response of collegiate athletes.

Literature Chronic ankle pain can affect all age groups, ranging from young athletes to elderly patients with degenerative joint and soft-tissue disorders. Although physical activity brings a range of lifelong health benefits, it may also lead to injuries that pose a significant threat to health. Among 90 Plus League volleyball players age 18-37, over 87% of the respondents suffered from at least one sport

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline ankle stability by Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT), 9-item scores at week 3, week 6 and week 12
  - Change from baseline dynamic ankle stability by Y-balance test (YBT) scores at week 3, week 6 and week 12
  - Change from baseline in pain by visual analog scale (VAS) at week 3, week 6 and week 12
  - Change from baseline in pain by Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) at week 3, week 6 and week 12
  - Change from baseline ankle stability by Functional ankle disability index (FADI ), 34-item scores at week 3, week 6 and week 12

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: standard ankle physiotherapy or rehabilitation for chronic ankle instability

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04812158
