CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04862481
Title: Physical Function of Older Citizens During Municipality-based Rehabilitation
Official Title: Older Citizens During Municipality-based Rehabilitation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 115
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
When choosing outcomes to assess rehabilitation's effect or progress, it is essential to consider the constructs being measured and their value to the patient and the psychometric properties. Choosing an outcome that reflects all aspects of International Classification levels of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) is challenging, especially in heterogeneous groups. However, it is important to know the psychometric properties as this gives important knowledge on how to interpret results and, consequently, how this can inform the patient's care. The Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (SMFA) questionnaire can reflect differences in patients' functional status with a broad range of disorders, like for elderly citizens undergoing municipality-based rehabilitation. Nevertheless, since there is no golden standard to measure rehabilitation outcomes, construct validity needs to be established to investigate how scores of SMFA can be related to measures on all levels of ICF.

Therefore, this study has three main objectives:

1. To investigate how scores of the SMFA questionnaire are related to measures on different ICF levels
2. To describe the characteristics of older citizens starting municipality-based rehabilitation on all ICF levels
3. To investigate predictor variables of upper- and lower extremity strength

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present study is a sub-study to the Randomized Controlled Trial (NCT04091308).

The present study aims to include 115 participants who will undergo measures specified in the "Outcome" section. The principal investigator of the study will conduct the testing.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measure of physical functioning with Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (SMFA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04862481
