CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06524453
Title: Exercise Program for Individuals With SCI in Community
Official Title: Study on the Safety and Effectiveness of a Rehabilitation Exercise Program for Individuals With Spinal Cord Injury in Community: A Randomized Controlled Trials
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) who have reduced mobility have difficulty exercising on their own without proper guidance in the community. Community-based exercise programs are effective in removing various barriers such as lack of exercise programs, lack of experts, and lack of facilities. This study aims to verify the effectiveness and safety of a systematically designed customized exercise program for patients who live in the community and want to participate in exercise. Our study results will serve as a basis for creating an environment where more individuals with SCI can continue to exercise proactively and in the long term.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
People with SCIMust perform regular exercise to improve function, quality of life, and reduce medical costs. However, SCI people with reduced mobility have difficulty exercising on their own without proper guidance in the community. Rehabilitation exercise for SCI people should be applied based on accurate functional assessment, and risk factors related to exercise should also be assessed. Community-based exercise programs are effective in removing various barriers such as lack of exercise programs, lack of experts, and lack of facilities.

This study aims to verify the effectiveness and safety of a systematically designed customized exercise program for SCI people who live in the community and want to participate in exercise. Based on the results of many previous studies, the investigators expect that program participants will have improved cardiopulmonary endurance and quality of life. Our study results will serve as a basis for creating an environment where more people with SCI can continue to exercise preemptively and in the long term.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6 minute push test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Wheelchair accessible exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06524453
