CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02564718
Title: Rivaroxaban for Treatment in Venous or Arterial Thrombosis in Neonates
Official Title: 7-day Study of the Safety, Efficacy and the Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Properties of Oral Rivaroxaban in Children From Birth to Less Than 6 Months With Arterial or Venous Thrombosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to find out whether rivaroxaban is safe and effective to use in children age newborn to less than 6 months and how long it stays in the body and how it is used in the body. Safety will be assessed by looking at the incidence and types of bleeding events. There will also be a check for worsening of blood clots.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Neonates and infants aged less than 6 months who pass the screen of in- and exclusion criteria, who have been treated for at least five days with heparin and /or vitamin K antagonist (VKA) for confirmed symptomatic or asymptomatic arterial or venous thrombosis are eligible for the study. Study treatment consists of a 7-day treatment with an age- and body weight-adjusted three times daily, approximately 8 hours apart oral rivaroxaban dosing to achieve a similar exposure as that observed in adults treated for venous thromboembolism (VTE) with 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily. Rivaroxaban will be provided as granules for preparation of an oral suspension (1 mg/mL after re-suspension) using a t.i.d. regimen with 8-hour intervals. An ultrasound will be performed before starting rivaroxaban at treatment day 1 and after the end of rivaroxaban treatment at day 8. The last dose of rivaroxaban treatment will be followed by a 30-day post study treatment period, regardless of the duration of study drug administration. After cessation of rivaroxaban, it is at the investigator's discretion to continue with anticoagulants. The principal safety outcome is the combination of major and clinically relevant non-major bleeding. The efficacy outcome is the composite of all symptomatic recurrent thromboembolism and asymptomatic deterioration in thrombotic burden on repeat imaging. All suspected recurrent thromboembolism, asymptomatic deterioration in thrombotic burden on repeat imaging, deaths, as well as all episodes of bleeding will be evaluated by a central independent adjudication committee (CIAC). Adjudication results will be the basis for the final analyses.

For all children, visits are scheduled at regular time points (see Table 1). Enrolled children who are not treated or those with premature discontinuation of rivaroxaban will at least be seen at the end of the study treatment period. During all contacts, the treatment and clinical course of the child will be evaluated. Children with suspected efficacy or safety outcomes will undergo confirmatory testing as per standard of care. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic (PK)/pharmacodynamics (PD) will be taken at defined time points (see Table 2).

An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will monitor the children's safety during the study and give recommendations to the steering committee.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of Rivaroxaban in Plasma as a Measure of Pharmacokinetics at Day 1
  - Concentration of Rivaroxaban in Plasma as a Measure of Pharmacokinetics at Day 3
  - Concentration of Rivaroxaban in Plasma as a Measure of Pharmacokinetics at Day 8
  - Change From Baseline in Prothrombin Time at Day 1
  - Change From Baseline in Prothrombin Time at Day 3

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Rivaroxaban (Xarelto, BAY59-7939)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 6 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02564718
