CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05837715
Title: Effects of Cervical Stabilization Exercises and Vibration Application in Individuals With Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Investigation of the Effects of Cervical Stabilization Exercises and Vibration Application to the Cervical Region on Motor Symptoms and Sensory Profile in Individuals With Parkinson's Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease that causes a progressive decrease in motor functions, which is caused by the influence of dopaminergic pathways in the substantia nigra (SN). Motor and non-motor symptoms seen in PD seriously affect patients negatively.

Proprioception, which is one of the deep senses, is known to help maintain body verticalization in the sense of posture and movement and has a primary importance in the regulation of motor activities. Depending on the progression of the disease, flexion of the body is triggered as a result of the deterioration of proprioception over time. It is suggested that the losses in proprioception may result from the inability to properly regulate motor control and body reflexes. Therefore, the assessment of proprioception plays an important role in assessing changes in postural instability, gait and fall risk.

It is said that while peripheral muscle feedback is preserved in Parkinson's patients, there is deterioration in integration in the central. Changes in the supraspinal processing of proprioceptive input in PD have been demonstrated by analyzing the effect of mechanical vibration applied to the tendon of a stretched muscle during voluntary movements. Vibrator stimulation activates muscle spindle afferents, particularly primary endings. It is also stated that muscle feedback is not only related to the movement performed, but also to the response induced by vibration.

In line with this information, vibration applications have been added to the treatment of PD in recent years with the aim of stimulating postural adjustments through the application of an external proprioceptive input.

It is selectively used in neurological rehabilitation because of the effect of local vibration training on spinal excitability. When the literature is examined, it has been determined that the studies on the effects of local vibration applied to the neck region on posture, balance, proprioception and other sensory profiles are insufficient, especially in individuals with Parkinson's disease.

In this project, it is aimed to guide professionals working with Parkinson's disease in the management of this disease by determining the effects of cervical stabilization and local vibration application to the cervical region on motor symptoms and sensory profile in individuals with Parkinson's disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of Recording Demographic Data
  - Change of Movement Disorders Association, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale
  - Change of cervical region joint position sense
  - Change of Vibration Sense
  - Change of Light touch-Pressure Sense

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Chattanooga Stabilizer pressure biofeedback
  - DEVICE: VibraSens - Focal Vibration Therapy (TechnoConcept - France)
  - OTHER: Telerehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05837715
