CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07502040
Title: Impact of Exercise Access on Physio Outcomes Post Knee Replacement
Official Title: A Feasibility Study To Determine The Effect Of An Artificial Intelligence (AI) Based Motion Tracking Exercise Programme (Kemtai) On Amount Of Physiotherapy Contact And Length Of Hospital Stay After Knee Arthroplasty Compared With Exercise As Usual .
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
To stay strong, patients should do some strength training at least twice a week. However arthritic pain can limit walking and activity. The wait for knee surgery can be long, which can lead to loss of muscle strength. Patients who need a new knee joint tend to be older. If older people do not exercise and become weak, they tire easily, and may take longer to recover after surgery. Patients recover faster after having a new knee joint if their leg muscles are strong. This is why exercise before surgery can help people to make the most of their new joint. Patients come to a joint school where the investigators show them exercises and advise how to get ready for surgery. Patients are given a sheet of pictures and prompts for each exercise but the investigators know that some people don't do the exercises that they are given. Exercises are more likely to be done if they are fun, if people can see they make a difference, if they know what to do, and if their physiotherapist can check what they are doing.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To stay strong, patients should do some strength training at least twice a week. However arthritic pain can limit walking and activity. The wait for knee surgery can be long, which can lead to loss of muscle strength. Patients who need a new knee joint tend to be older. If older people do not exercise and become weak, they tire easily, and may take longer to recover after surgery. Patients recover faster after having a new knee joint if their leg muscles are strong. This is why exercise before surgery can help people to make the most of their new joint. Patients come to a joint school where the investigators show them exercises and advise how to get ready for surgery.

Patients are given a sheet of pictures and prompts for each exercise but the investigators know that some people don't do the exercises that they are given. Exercises are more likely to be done if they are fun, if people can see they make a difference, if they know what to do, and if their physiotherapist can check what they are doing.

Patients come to a joint school where the investigators show them exercises and advise how to get ready for surgery. Patients are given a sheet of pictures and prompts for each exercise but the investigators know that some people don't do the exercises that they are given. Exercises are more likely to be done if they are fun, if people can see they make a difference, if they know what to do, and if their physiotherapist can check what they are doing.

Kemtai is an online exercise program which shows how to do the exercises and tells the patient how to move in the right way if they are not doing it correctly. The patient gets a score to show how well they are doing the exercise. This makes the task fun. Their physio can see when they have exercised and if they are making progress.

The investigators will perform a small study called a pilot randomised controlled trial to find out how many people are eligible to take part, how many agree to take part, and the reasons for not being able to do so.

This study will tell us how many patients can use online programmes and have access to computers, tablets or smartphones that can run the Kemtai programme. The investigators can provide data if someone is able to take part but are unable to provide a smartphone or tablet. This study will tell us how many patients would need data or devices to take part in a bigger study.

The investigators also want to know if there are any differences in amount of exercise done before surgery, and in length of stay in hospital, amount of physiotherapy, pain, movement and quality of life after surgery between those who used a paper exercise prompt sheet and those who used an online exercise programme (Kemtai).

Joint school physios will identify who is eligible for the study. If interested, the patients will be given a leaflet and invited to watch a presentation about the study. Those patients who wish to take part will be asked to give informed consent and asked to fill in t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Length of stay in hospital
  - Number of post operative physiotherapy contacts

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Kemtai Digital App
  - BEHAVIORAL: NHS standard care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07502040
