CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02014233
Title: Short Term Omega-3 Supplementation on Performance
Official Title: The Effect of Short Term Omega-3 Supplementation on Exercise Performance and Neuromuscular Function.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Nerves are the rate limiting factor that control muscle function. However, it is unknown if a nutritional supplement can change the nerve-muscle interaction, and therefore alter human performance. This study will be the first to examine the effects of omega-3 supplementation on neuromuscular function in trained individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will come to the lab for 3 sessions, one for familiarization and two for testing.

Familiarization - At this time, anthropometric measurements including height, weight, BMI (body mass index) and body composition will be determined. Participants will be familiarized with the interpolated twitch technique and performing a maximal voluntary contraction of the quadriceps muscle. Next, Participant's 10 repetition maximum squat weight will be established by starting at a participant selected weight and gradually increasing until only 10 squat repetitions can be completed. A VO2max (maximum oxygen consumption) test will be performed on a cycle ergometer using standard methods.

On testing sessions 1 and 2 the following neuromuscular and performance measures will be evaluated:

1. Quadriceps muscle voluntary activation will be assessed using the interpolated twitch technique and doublet twitch technique. Participants will be seated and instructed to perform three 5 second maximal voluntary isometric contractions at least 1 minute apart - participant's ankle will be restrained by a padded cuff attached to a load cell.

   For the second maximal isometric contraction at 3 seconds into the contraction, a square wave superimposed stimulus will be delivered for 1 milliseconds to the femoral nerve from a monopolar touch-proof cathode electrode secured in the femoral triangle. 2, 7 and 12 seconds after the contraction a resting twitch will be delivered for comparison of muscle force.

   For the third maximal isometric contraction, at 3 seconds into the contraction, two 1 millisecond square wave superimposed stimuli at 100 Hz will be delivered 10 milliseconds apart. 2 seconds after the contraction the same stimulus will be applied. At 7 seconds after, two stimuli will be delivered 100 milliseconds at 10 Hz apart and 12 seconds after a single stimulus will be delivered.

   The percutaneous electrical stimulation will be delivered from a Biopac stimulator (BSLSTMA, Biopac Systems, Santa Barbara, California) with a maximum voltage of 400 V. During familiarization, participants will receive several submaximal stimulations for acclimatization before the current intensity is gradually increased until peak twitch torque and muscle action potential amplitude is reached. A stimulus of 1.2 times the current required to elicit peak twitch torque and action potential amplitude will be used to ensure maximal activation. The interpolated twitch technique will be used to examine the difference in muscle activation during maximal contraction and a superimposed stimulation. Voluntary activation will be calculated using the formula:

   Voluntary activation (%) = (1- superimposed twitch / twitch evoked at rest) x 100

   Surface self-adhesive silver chloride electrodes will be placed over the belly of the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis and biceps femoris muscles to measure muscle electrical activity (electromyography) during maximal voluntary contractions as pre

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in maximum voluntary contraction force

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Olive oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02014233
