CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05225129
Title: Effects Of Blood Flow Restriction Exercise Applications On Physical Fitness Parameters
Official Title: Effects Of Blood Flow Restriction Exercise Applications On Physical Fitness Parameters and Sporting Motivation in Canoe Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Aim: The aim of the study; during the non-race season, blood flow-restricted exercises applied in addition to routine training programs to determine the effects on physical fitness parameters and sportive motivation of male canoe athletes aged 18 and over and to compare the results between the groups.

Method: Male athletes aged 18 and over who are licensed and actively engaged in canoeing in Turkey will be included in the study. Subjects will be divided into two groups , training and control. The training group will be given blood flow restricted exercise for 8 weeks and resistance training equivalent to 30% of 1 maximum repetition. In the control group, 30% of 1 MT of resistance training will be applied for 8 weeks without blood flow restriction. Before and after, athletes will be evaluated with sport-specific performance tests, muscle thickness measurement with ultrasound, isokinetic measurement of hamstring and quadriceps muscles at a speed of 60°/sec and 300°/sec. In addition, the muscles of the athletes will be evaluated with dynamic muscular measurements.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The first evaluation will be made before the 8-week training, and the second evaluation will be made at the end of the 8-week training. Both groups will be re-evaluated for follow-up at 6 and 12 months from the start of the study. In the 4th week, it is aimed to improve the exercise protocols by increasing the number of sets and repetitions in both groups.

The training will start with a 10-minute warm-up exercise on the static bike, and then stretching exercises will be applied. The athlete is dressed in the KAK apparatus and the pressure is given continuously so that it is on the device. In the 30-minute CAC exercise training, the athlete will complete the resistance exercises on the Leg Press, Leg Curl, Leg Calf Raise, Quadriceps Extension machines while attached to the device.

In the exercise prescription, which is planned as 3 sets of 10 repetitions, a rest period of 60 seconds will be given between sets. A 10-minute cool-down period will be added at the end of the training.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in the sportive performance will be measured by ergometer
  - Changes in muscle thickness will be measured by ultrasound
  - Quadriceps and Hamstring muscle strength, endurance, Ham/Quad ratio will be evaluated with an isokinetic dynamometer.
  - In the Dynamic Measurement of Muscular Strength, a repetitive maximum method is used to measure the force with the dynamic method.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: blood flow restriction exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05225129
