CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05624021
Title: Effect of Functional Training and Isometric Exercises on Pain, ROM, and Functional Status in Patients With Neck Pain
Official Title: Efficacy of Scapular Functional Training Combined With Isometric Exercises on Pain, Range of Motion, and Functions Among Individual With Mechanical Neck Pian
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Work-related musculoskeletal disorders have been rising fast around the globe leading to neck pain and scapular muscle dysfunction, contributing to a decrease in neck movements and functional limitations. This study aimed to determine the efficacy of scapular functional exercise (SFE) in combination with cervical isometric exercises (CIE) on neck pain, cervical range of motion, and functional limitations among participants with chronic mechanical neck pain.The study was based on a two-arm parallel group pretest-posttest randomized control trial design. Thirty participants (females 21 and males 9; average age 28.94±3.77 years) were randomly allocated to groups A and B (n=15/group). The group's A and B participants received a common intervention, such as CIE and hot packs. However, group A received the SFE in addition to common interventions. The outcomes, such as neck pain, cervical ROM, and functional limitations, were evaluated using a numeric pain rating scale (NPRS), standard universal goniometer, and neck disability index questionnaire at baseline and 4-week post-intervention. The paired and unpaired t-test was used to analyze the intervention effects on the outcomes within-group and between-group, keeping the significance level alpha set at p\<0.05.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study hypothesised that adding the scapular functional training to the cervical isometric exercises will be equally effective than cervical isometric exercises alone on managing neck pain, cervical ROM, and functional limitations among participants with chronic mechanical neck pain. The present study is helpful for chronic mechanical neck pain patients and physiotherapist to better understand the effect of incorporation of the scapular functional training in the treatment of neck pain. Therefore, this protocol may be used as a treatment in chronic mechanical neck pain because it alleviates pain, neck disability, improving cervical range of motion in chronic mechanical neck pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Neumeric pain rating scale (NPRS)
  - Range of Motion (ROM)
  - Functional limitations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Scapular functional training
  - OTHER: Cervical isometric exercises
  - OTHER: Moist heating

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 22 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05624021
