CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04946344
Title: The Cherokee Study: Cherokee Health for Elderly Residents With Osteoarthritis of the Knee
Official Title: Cherokee Health for Elderly Residents With Osteoarthritis of the Knee in the Eastern Band
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to develop and demonstrate the effectiveness of a systematic, practical, cost-effective diet-induced weight loss and exercise intervention in Cherokee, North Caroling that will recruit American Indian participants; that can reduce pain and improve other clinical outcomes in knee OA patients. This pragmatic community-based trial will determine if the investigators previous findings translate to real-world settings and will address common concerns about barriers to effectiveness/ implementation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is a modifiable risk factor for knee osteoarthritis (OA), and weight loss is an effective non-pharmacologic treatment to reduce pain. Recently, the investigators determined that under ideal, highly controlled circumstances, a diet-induced weight loss of 10% combined with exercise was significantly better at reducing pain than either intervention alone. Compared to the investigators previous longterm weight loss and exercise trials of knee OA, the diet-induced weight loss and exercise group was twice as effective at relieving pain. Whether the investigators results can be generalized to less rigorously monitored patient cohorts is unknown. Thus the challenge the investigators now face is to provide the practical means to implement this proven treatment in the community setting. This study aims to develop and demonstrate the effectiveness of a systematic, practical, cost-effective diet-induced weight loss and exercise intervention in both urban and rural communities that can reduce pain and improve other clinical outcomes in knee OA patients.

Participants will be 30 ambulatory, community-dwelling, overweight and obese men and women who meet the American College of Rheumatology clinical criteria for knee OA. The primary aim is to determine whether a pragmatic, community-based 3-month diet-induced weight loss and exercise intervention implemented in Cherokee, North Carolina significantly decreases knee pain in overweight and obese adults with knee OA relative to an attention control group. Secondary aims will determine whether this intervention improves self-reported function, health-related quality of life, and mobility. The investigators will also establish the cost-effectiveness of this pragmatic, community-based, multimodal diet-induced weight-loss and exercise program by conducting cost-effectiveness and budgetary impact analyses using data from the current trial in a validated computer-simulated model of knee OA.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Western Ontario McMasters Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) - Knee Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diet & Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Attention Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04946344
