CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03864783
Title: The Effect of Curcumin on Liver Fat Content in Obese Subjects
Official Title: The Effect of Curcumin on Liver Fat Content in Obese Subjects
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
The majority of obese have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NALFD). Currently, no pharmacological agents are licenced for the prevention or treatment of NAFLD, and weight loss, notoriously difficult to obtain (and specially to maintain), remains the only treatment option. Interestingly, curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from the turmeric root, has from in vitro and animal studies shown promising effects in preventing and treating NAFLD, and the sparse available human data point in the same direction; but solid human data are missing. This study will delineate the effects of curcumin when treating NAFLD in humans.

The primary aim of this study is to investigate the effect of 6 weeks of curcumin on liver fat content (assessed by magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS)) in obese subject with NAFLD. Additionally, a range of secondary endpoints have been chosen in order to delineate the role of NAFLD in the newly discovered liver-alpha cell axis governing circulating levels of the glucose-mobilising pancreatic alpha cell hormone glucagon and, thus, to elucidate the link between liver fat content and the risk of developing reduced glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Also, the anti-inflammatory effect of curcumin will be elucidated, as inflammatory markers will be measured before and after intervention. Furthermore, the effect of curcumin will be measured by measuring the following parameters before and after intervention: Transient elastography, anthropometric measurements, body weight, appetite, food-consumption, calory balance, resting energy expenditure, gut microbiota, bioimpedance measures, visceral- and subcutaneous fat, glucose tolerance, lipids, blood pressure, pulse, liver parameters (blood-tests) and adipokines. During the oral glucose tolerance test before and after intervention, incretin hormones, glucagon, amino acids, insulin, c-peptide and urea will be measured.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide. Obesity and its associated complications represent an enormous burden for obese individuals, their families, healthcare systems and societies. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has emerged as a frequent and serious complication of obesity. Steatosis, the benign and potentially reversible form of NAFLD, may progress to a more severe form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which can result in fibrosis and ultimately liver cirrhosis, and rarely hepatocellular carcinoma. The majority of obese have NAFLD. Currently, no pharmacological agents are licenced for the prevention or treatment of NAFLD, and weight loss, notoriously difficult to obtain (and specially to maintain), remains the only treatment option. Interestingly, curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from the turmeric root, has from in vitro and animal studies shown promising effects in preventing and treating NAFLD, and the sparse available human data point in the same direction; but solid human data are missing. This study seeks to investigate the effects of curcumin on treating NAFLD in humans by looking at the effects of ingestion of curcumin for 6 weeks in obese subject with NAFLD on lipid, glucose and protein metabolism.

In this randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, eligible participants will undergo baseline assessments before being randomised to receive two capsules of placebo twice daily or two capsules of curcumin (corresponding to 200 mg) twice daily for 6 weeks. In the end of the 6-week intervention periods, end-of-trial assessments (similar to baseline assessments) will be performed.

Information meeting:

Prior to any protocol-related procedures, an information meeting at Center for Clinical Metabolic Research, Gentofte Hospital, will be arranged, and subjects will be informed of the possibility of bringing a person of own choice to the visit. During this meeting, a member of the research group will explain the purpose, procedures and possible risks of the study in undisturbed and confidential surroundings. The subject will be informed that if extra time to evaluate participation is needed, a minimum of 24 hours from oral information is given until the consent and sign the informed consent form should be given is acceptable. After obtaining the informed consent, time of screening is planned. The subject will be informed that it is possible to withdraw the written consent at any time prior to or during the study.

Screening visit:

If a person agrees to participate in the study following the information meeting, and oral and written informed consent has been obtained, a screening visit will be planned. The subject will be instructed in a 10 hour overnight fast before screening (including medicine, but water may be consumed until 2 hours before screening). After this fast the subject will meet in the department in the morning. Height and body weight will be measured, medication and medical history wil

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Curcumin's effect on steatosis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Curcumin (Meriva®)
  - DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03864783
