CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03805646
Title: Mobile Phone-administered Triage Tool to Followup on Discharged Trauma Patients
Official Title: A Mobile Phone-based Triage Tool to Identify Discharged Trauma Patients in Need of Further Care in Cameroon
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 3990
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
After being admitted to and then discharged from a hospital in Cameroon for having experienced an injury, there is no established way for the health system to check in on how the discharged person is doing. The investigators have developed a set of questions with the hope that asking these questions--over the phone--to those who have been discharged from the hospital will allow them to determine which post-discharge patients would benefit from further care. The investigators believe that asking these questions over the phone is a good way of determining which post-discharge trauma patients would benefit from further care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Broadly, this study aims to answer three questions. (1) Is it feasible to call discharged trauma patients on their mobile phones to check up on them? (2) Can a defined set of questions help determine which discharged trauma patients require further medical care (and which discharged trauma patients do not require further medical care)? (3) Will checking in on discharged trauma patients reduce their experience of disability and economic consequences?

If an individual was a trauma patient who was admitted at and then discharged from one of the study's partner hospitals in Cameroon, the discharged individual (hereafter referred to as "the participant') will be receiving phone calls from one of the study's research assistants at the following post-discharge timepoints: 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months. Whether the research assistant administers the defined set of questions developed by the study's investigators (see question 2, above) will depend on when the participant was discharged from the hospital. Regardless, all participants will be asked other important questions about the injury and any associated disabilities and economic consequences.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of Successful Contacts
  - Median Number of Attempts Required to Achieve a Successful Contact
  - Median Cost Associated With Personnel Time
  - Median Cost Associated With Telephone Time
  - Telephone Triage Tool Administration Time

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Mobile Phone-based Triage Tool

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03805646
