CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06005194
Title: InMotion - Telehealth Delivered Exercise Promotion to Treat Major Depression After TBI
Official Title: Telehealth Delivered Exercise Promotion to Treat Major Depression After TBI: A Randomized Controlled Trial (InMotion)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate whether the InMotion intervention, delivered via telehealth (using a HIPAA-compliant video platform or phone), which uses evidence-based behavioral and motivational counseling to increase daily physical activity, is an effective treatment for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) for people who are at least one year out from sustaining a traumatic brain injury (TBI). The first aim is to compare the efficacy of the InMotion intervention to the waitlist control (WLC) condition on measures of depression severity and associated conditions in under-active adults with TBI and MDD. For the second aim the investigators plan to identify possible moderators of exercise treatment effects. The third aim will examine possible mediators of treatment outcome. In addition, the weekly dose of exercise, the extent to which exercise generates positive affect, and engagement in enjoyable or meaningful aspects of life will be explored.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Telehealth delivered exercise promotion to treat major depression after traumatic brain injury (TBI): A randomized controlled trial, or InMotion, is a fully-powered, single-blind, randomized controlled trial versus wait-list control (WLC) condition focused on the comparing the InMotion intervention. The intervention is delivered via telehealth and uses evidence-based behavioral and motivational counseling to increase daily physical activity, and is being tested to see whether this can be an effective treatment for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) for people who are at least one year out from sustaining a traumatic brain injury (TBI). The goal of the study is for all participants to achieve 150 minutes per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA), a dose of physical activity already shown to be effective to treat MDD in a healthy population.

The InMotion intervention is a home- and community-based physical activity counseling program based on the widely replicated Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP). The physical activity coach/Interventionist is a mental health provider (Master of Social Work/MSW) who has training and supervision in behavioral aspects of exercise promotion and will use motivational interviewing, telehealth technology using a HIPAA-compliant telehealth delivery model. The intervention also includes the use of a wearable activity monitor (Fitbit activity tracker watch - Charge 5) to facilitate goal setting.

Enrollment into the Traumatic Brain Injury Model System (TBIMS) study is required for eligibility for InMotion. Additionally, this study will capitalize on the infrastructure of the TBIMS for its screening and some data collection.

Specific Aims Aim 1: To compare the efficacy of the InMotion intervention to the waitlist control (WLC) condition on measures of depression severity and associated conditions in under-active adults with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and Major Depressive Disorder (MDD).

Hypothesis 1a: There will be a significantly greater reduction in depression severity as measured by the Symptom Checklist-20 (SCL-20) over 12 weeks in the InMotion intervention group vs. the wait-list control (WLC) group.

Hypothesis 1b: Compared to the WLC group, the InMotion intervention group will demonstrate significantly greater improvement on secondary outcome measures: MDD diagnosis (yes/no), depression remission (yes/no), anxiety, pain, fatigue, and quality of life from baseline to 12-weeks.

Hypothesis 1c: Within the InMotion intervention group, the investigators will describe how much/if any improvement on outcomes is maintained from the end of the treatment period (12 weeks) to follow-up (24 weeks).

Rationale for Aim 1: A statistically significant reduction in depression symptom severity is the most common metric for depression treatment efficacy and what will be used to power the study. However, the investigators also want to assess clinically meaningful changes in depression such as depression diagnosis and d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hopkins Symptom Checklist-20 (SCL-20)
  - Hopkins Symptom Checklist-20 (SCL-20)
  - Hopkins Symptom Checklist-20 (SCL-20)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: InMotion

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06005194
