CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07441824
Title: Pancreatic Enzyme Replacement in Acute Necrotizing Pancreatitis
Official Title: Effect of Pancreatic Enzyme Replacement Therapy in Patients With Acute Necrotizing Pancreatitis: A Multicenter Double Blinded Randomised Placebo Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
In this multicenter, double blinded, placebo-controlled, 1:1 parallel group RCT, the investigators propose to evaluate the impact of pancreatic exocrine replacement therapy on patients with acute necrotizing pancreatitis (ANP). The investigators will include patients of 18-60yrs age and both genders with \>50% pancreatic parenchymal necrosis and at least 5% loss of body weight.

The primary outcome measure is percent change in body weight at 3 months after enrolment. The intervention will include pancreatic enzyme consisting of 25000 IU of lipase and similar appearing placebo.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Acute pancreatitis (AP), an inflammatory disorder of the pancreas, is mild and self-limiting in most patients. Around 10-20% of AP patients develop acute necrotizing pancreatitis (ANP) which is characterized by destruction of both pancreatic and peripancreatic tissue and is associated with high rate of morbidity and mortality due to both local and systemic complications.

Early recognition and close monitoring of affected patients is crucial. Treatment consists of goal-directed intravenous fluid resuscitation, pain control, and enteral nutrition as early as possible. While sterile necrosis might resolve with above conservative measures, infected necrosis requires antibiotics and further interventions such as percutaneous drainage, minimally invasive surgeries, and endoscopic necrosectomy.

In ANP patients there is direct destruction of acinar tissue that results in pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (PEI). In PEI there is insufficient secretion of pancreatic enzymes that causes inadequate nutrient digestion and absorption resulting in weight loss, malnutrition, metabolic bone disease and fat-soluble vitamins and mineral deficiencies. The risk of PEI after ANP is about 25% over 3 years. According to two meta-analysis, PEI was found to be more prevalent during the index AP episode and it remained persistent in about half of the study population at follow-ups. They also reported that the risk of developing PEI is more in those with alcoholic etiology and severe and necrotizing pancreatitis. Hence, management of PEI following ANP is important to improve nutritional status and quality of life. Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT) is the mainstay of treatment for PEI. While the use of PERT is well-established in chronic pancreatitis, its efficacy in patients with ANP is still unclear. Hence, in this study, the investigators aim to provide insights into the potential benefits of enzyme supplementation in patients with ANP by evaluating nutritional status, clinical outcomes, and quality of life.

This is a multicenter, double blinded, placebo-controlled, 1:1 parallel group RCT, the investigators propose to evaluate the impact of pancreatic exocrine replacement therapy on patients with acute necrotizing pancreatitis (ANP). The investigators will include patients of 18-60yrs age and both genders with \>50% pancreatic parenchymal necrosis and at least 5% loss of body weight.

The primary outcome measure is percent change in body weight at 3 months after enrolment. The intervention will include pancreatic enzyme consisting of 25000 IU of lipase and similar appearing placebo.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent change in body weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Pancreatic enzyme capsules
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07441824
