CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04100161
Title: Nutritional Strategies After Muscle Strain Injuries
Official Title: Skeletal Muscle Strain Injuries and the Connective Tissue: Optimal Nutritional Strategies During Rehabilitation After Acute Muscle Strain Injuries
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Muscle strain injuries are a particularly frequent type of sports injury in soccer, athletics, badminton/ tennis and cross-fit fitness, thereby affecting a broad range of popular leisure time activities. Depending on severity, sports-active individuals may experience long-term functional impairment and pain. Additionally, individuals having sustained one strain injury have a substantially increased risk of injuring the same muscle again. Strain injuries lead to long-term, potentially permanent, loss of muscle mass, thereby weakening the muscle. Muscle atrophy is likely a major factor in the high re-injury risk. Further, strain injuries are associated with a long-term inflammatory response.

In the current study, the investigators seek to study interventions to prevent the loss of muscle mass and elaborate on strategies to address the prolonged inflammation observed at the site of the injured muscle.

The primary aim of this study is to investigate the effect of protein supplementation on the reduction of muscle atrophy following a severe muscle strain injury in comparison to a carbohydrate supplement. As a second purpose, this study aims to elaborate on findings of prolonged inflammation intra-/ intermuscular by large-scale protein analysis and the characterization of cells active at the site of injury.

The study includes the following hypotheses:

1. Protein supplementation administered in combination with a gradually increasing loading regime (rehabilitation with weekly progression in load/ intensity) will be effective in reducing the injury-related loss of muscle mass.
2. The environment at the site of injury is not only pro-inflammatory, but contains proteins associated with proteolysis.
3. Cells belonging to the group of fibro-adipogenic progenitors will be accumulating intra- and inter-muscularly.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle volume

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Protein supplementation
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Carbohydrate supplementation
  - PROCEDURE: Active rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04100161
