CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05347186
Title: Effects of 8-weeks Systematic Corrective Exercise Program in Pronation Distortion Syndrome
Official Title: Effects of 8-weeks Systematic Corrective Exercise Program on Body Posture and Stability in Pronation Distortion Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Pronation distortion syndrome is a postural complexity of lower extremity which primarily involves hyper pronation of feet leading to other dysfunctional movement patterns throughout the kinetic chain and gait mechanics. Excessive foot pronation is followed by internal tibial rotation and adduction of knees forming knock knees. This lower extremity distortion pattern causes a chain reaction of muscle imbalances. The objective of this study is to determine effects of 8-Weeks Systematic Corrective Exercise program on Body Posture and stability in Pronation Distortion Syndrome. This study will be a Randomized Controlled trial and will be conducted at Riphah college of rehabilitation sciences and Ibrahim medical Centre Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of 10 months. Convenient sampling technique will be used to collect the data. A sample size of Total 36 patients will be taken in this study. Patients will be divided into two groups. Group A will be treated with conventional treatment along with systematic corrective exercise program. Group B will be given conventional treatment only. The groups will participate in the training program one day after the pre-test, three sessions per week for two months. The diagnosis of pronation distortion will be detected by navicular drop in detectable flat feet without pain. Variables to be tested will be, functional movement screen test, navicular drop, knock knees and lordosis, and will be measured before the start of treatment and after 8 weeks of treatment. Data will be analyzed on SPSS 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pronation distortion syndrome is a common postural distortion of the lower extremity, involving the anterior part of the leg. In this deformity, the head of the talus and navicular bones are rotated inward and downward, and the body's center of gravity shifts inward, resulting in flat feet. It may cause pain in the leg and disturbances in the tarsal part, in addition to distal and proximal parts. Excessive foot pronation include inward rotation of the tibia, internal rotation of the thighs associated with flat feet, genu valgum (knock-knee), and increased lordosis thus causing abnormalities in lumbo-pelvic region and lower limb.

In this deformity, peroneal muscle, gastrocnemius muscle, hamstrings, soleus muscle, iliotibial band, adductors, and psoas muscle are functionally tightened, while posterior and anterior tibialis, gluteus Medius, gluteus maximus, vastus medialis, and hip external rotators are inhibited. Excessive pronation will misalign the entire lower body, reducing the ability of powerful muscles like the quadriceps and glutes to maintain force production. Length tension relationships establish that the resting length of a muscle determines whether it can generate optimal tension, if the feet excessively flatten and the femur excessively rotates and adducts, then the joints don't stack, the tissues don't load, and energy is lost. Over time, tissues may become irritated, inflamed or even weakened, which often leads to more serious problems, such as ruptured tendons or stress fractures . The body weight normally falls on the center of the foot, and balance is maintained by the muscle activity of the foot. If the foot becomes diseased or deformed, the foot adapts to perform its functions under the conditions of disease or deformity. Several factors of pronation distortion can increase the likelihood of cuboid syndrome including midtarsal instability, excessive body weight, ill-fitting or poorly constructed orthoses or shoes and inadequate exercise recovery. The postural defects cause pronated subtalar joint, inverted forefoot and instability of mid tarsal joint leading to improper dynamic stabilization. Every degree of subtalar pronation that occurs produces an exponential increase in midtarsal joint instability. Pronated feet are very common among people with flexible flat feet in which the medial longitudinal arch of the foot largely collapses during the stance phase of gait causing over supination and over pronation but restores after removal of body weight. Kinetic coupling of 4 pronated feet alters during improper gait mechanics and results in changes of inter joint angle coordination. This disturbs the inter joint coordination which is involved in determining movement flexibility and stability thus effecting gait pattern leading towards occurrence of injury. In the case of postural distortion, instability and damage to the lower extremity cause hypermobility, and passive instability and more neurological control by the neuromuscula

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional Movement screen test
  - Navicular drop test
  - Valgus angle by Goniometer
  - Knock Knee by Sliding caliper
  - Lumbar lordosis measured by Kidoz Flexible ruler

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Systematic corrective exercises and non-biomechanical functional exercises
  - OTHER: Non biomechanical functional exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05347186
