CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03165812
Title: A Diabetes Improvement in Medical Therapy Versus SADJB Study
Official Title: Single Anastomosis Duodeno Jejunal Bypass With Sleeve Gastrectomy (SADJB-SG) Versus Intensive Medical Therapy (IMT) in the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Among Asian Patients With BMI 23.5 - 30 kg/m2: A Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The incidence of diabetes mellitus is increasing annually in Asia. It is the leading cause of blindness, chronic renal insufficiency, and amputations, multiplying the risks of heart disease and stroke. Ninety percent of diabetic patients are type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), which is usually associated with overweight and obese. Single Anastomosis Duodeno-Jejunal Bypass with Sleeve Gastrectomy (SADJB-SG) is a type of bariatric surgery whereby food is bypassed into the distal jejunum, and the duodenum is excluded. Sleeve gastrectomy offers the restrictive component by reducing the capacity of the stomach. In short, this combined technique results in food restriction and malabsorption. A total of 84 patients will be recruited in this study. An equal number of patients will be allocated into two groups. There will be an intensive medical therapy group (IMT) and SADJB-SG group. The patients in IMT group will be subjected to strict adherence to diet, optimization of diabetic medications and close monitoring of blood glucose and glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level. The SADJB-SG group will be undergoing surgery. The variables that will be studied include body mass index (BMI), fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), C- peptide, plasma insulin and Homeostatic Model Assessment of insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR). Biochemical markers are important in this research as the development of T2DM involves both multi-organ insulin resistance and inadequate insulin secretion by pancreatic β-cells, leading to high blood sugar during fasting and post meal. Other mechanisms proposed in this study are leptin, adipokines, incretins, amino acids, and diabetic dyslipidaemia. The raw data will be analysed using the SPSS statistical software. At the end of the study, the investigator will evaluate and determine the role of SADJB-SG in glycaemic control and BMI in T2DM patients compared to IMT. The investigator hypothesized that there is an improvement in HbA1c level in T2DM patients in SADJB-SG group compare to IMT group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Recruitment will be a prospective study in patients with body mass index (BMI) of 23.5-30 kg/m2, aged between 18 and 65 years old. Each patient will be preoperatively screened (including psychologist assessment) and evaluated by the study multidisciplinary team before recruitment. The study will involve two groups with equal allocation of patients in the intensive medical therapy (IMT) group and Single Anastomosis Duodeno Jejunal Bypass with Sleeve Gastrectomy (SADJB-SG) group with stratification by use of insulin at screening. All patients who agree to participate in this study will be assigned to one of the treatment groups by the doctor without randomization. Before making a final decision for treatment, every patient will undergo a detailed and up-to-date evaluation by the doctor regarding the suitability, the pros and cons, risk and benefits, the potential postoperative complications and the likelihood of requiring postoperative nutritional supplementation. Patients that are eligible to take part in this study will be informed, and the final decision will solely be made based on patients' willingness. The patients will also be made aware that this is an experimental trial and both verbal and written informed consent will be taken before treatment. In addition, the patients will be informed regarding the use of the clinical and analytical data for publication purposes. Initial assessment of the patient's social demographic data, history of present illness (duration of diabetes, oral hypoglycemic agent used), medical and surgical history, family history, anthropometric measurements (height, weight, BMI, calculated as weight (kg)/height (m2), waist, hip and neck circumference), history of weight loss attempt, diet and lifestyle assessment, quality of life assessment and biochemical measures including fasting blood glucose (FBG), glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), C- peptide, plasma insulin and HOMA-IR, assessment for obstructive sleep apnea, depression and sleep quality will be obtained upon approval of participation in the study or before any form of treatment. An additional pre-operation questionnaire will be given to the SADJB-SG group during initial assessment to ensure understanding of the patients towards the surgery. Adverse events will be monitored closely at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after surgery. In any occurrence of an adverse event, it will be documented and reported within 14 days.The study will be terminated if there are life-threatening or severe adverse events associated with SADJB-SG group or IMT group.

Patients will not be given access to the study data however the patients will be informed regarding their progress during every follow-up visit. All medical records and research data will be kept in the investigator's hard disk and web-based storage (i-cloud and i-drive) for two years. Study data will be held even after the study period as there will still be a continuous follow-up with the patients for life. However, all patients' info

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) patients in SADJB-SG group achieving glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level of less than 7% (with or without diabetes medications) in 2 years as compare to patients in IMT group.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: SADJB-SG group
  - PROCEDURE: IMT group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03165812
