CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06147193
Title: Effects of Resistance Sprint Training With and Without Power Training on Sprint and Agility Performance
Official Title: Effects of Resistance Sprint Training With and Without Power Training on Sprint and Agility Performance in Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study will be randomized clinical trial will be used to get expected outcomes. Hence under ethical consideration athletes of Pakistan football federation will go under the selection criteria and chosen voluntarily to participate in the study. Data will be collected with non-probability convenient sampling technique and 40 football players will be participated in this study. Participates will be divided into two groups with randomization process. 20 athletes will be in each group. Group A will be treated with squats jumps, change of direction speed, countermovement jump, bench press, Romanian deadlift and barbell squats, resistance band sprints, stair sprints and weighted sled pulls and Group B will be treated with squats jumps, change of direction speed, countermovement jump, resistance band sprints, stairs sprints and weighted sled pulls. These exercises will be given in 3 sets with 10 repetitions in each set. Pre and post interventions measures will be taken on 1st day and at 6th week there will be 3 sessions in a week. SPSS version 25 will be used to analyze the data.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Football is a sport which is of high-intensity intermittent game that requires players to be physically capable of coping with high-intensity movements, having repeated changes of direction, sprints, and accelerations/decelerations, with complex and physically demanding technical different actions Developing and loading strength techniques in football come from knowledge of game performance and its specific components and limitation components. Most of the important factors in football are explosiveness activities such as changing direction, jumping, sprinting, and kicking. Working on these explosive performances have been found after strength training that improved the available force of muscular contraction in appropriate muscle groups. Vertical jump and sprint performances are interlinked with maximal muscular strength in football players and the heavy resistance training can also increase running economy and which ultimately increases the aerobic performance of the athlete

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Resisted sprinting speeds at 10-30 m
  - Change of direction speed (COD) testing
  - Squat jumps (SJ)
  - Countermovement Jump (CMJ)
  - Horizontal Jump (HJ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: with baseline intervention and power training interventions
  - OTHER: baseline interventions and without power training interventions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06147193
