CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05978323
Title: The Effect of a Brief Intervention on Behavıoral Change, Anthropometric and Metabolic Variables
Official Title: The Effect of Brief Interventıon on Behavıoral Change, Anthropometrıc and Metabolıc Varıables In Overweıght Women wıth Low Health Lıteracy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 124
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study will evaluate the effect of a brief intervention on anthropometric and metabolic changes in overweight women with low health literacy. The total number of samples was determined as 88. It was decided to recruit a total of 124 people, 62 people in each group, with a 40% loss in the groups. Brief intervention interviews will be conducted with the intervention group. Brief intervention interviews will take an average of 20-30 minutes and four times. The control group will not be intervened except for the first and last evaluations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will evaluate the effect of a brief intervention on anthropometric and metabolic changes in overweight women with low health literacy. The total number of samples was determined as 88, 44 in each of the intervention and control groups. It was decided to recruit a total of 124 people, 62 people in each group, with a 40% loss in the groups. Randomization will be performed after obtaining consent from the participants who meet the eligibility and exclusion criteria. The sampled individuals will be assigned to the Intervention and Control groups according to the block randomization method. Brief intervention interviews will be conducted with the intervention group. It was determined as the first evaluation and the follow-ups on the 1st day, 15th day, 1st month, 3rd month, and the last evaluation (6th month). Brief interventions, 5A for those who are ready to change their behavior (Ask, Advise, Assess, Assist, Arrange); those who are not ready to change their behavior 5R (Relevance, Risks, Rewards, Roadblocks, Repetition) model will be used. At the end of brief interventions applied to overweight women with low health literacy for 20-30 minutes, a total of four times; weight change, waist circumference change, blood pressure change, blood glucose change, blood lipid change, diet, and exercise behaviors will be evaluated. The control group will not be intervened except for the first and last evaluations.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of weight change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brief intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05978323
