CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07204834
Title: A Physical Activity Program for People With Heart Failure
Official Title: A Step-Based Physical Activity Intervention in Patients With Heart Failure: The STEP-IN Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
STEP-IN is a research study that examines the effects of a physical activity program designed to increase the daily steps and cadence of patients with heart failure, compared to standard medical care, on functional capacity and other markers related to heart and brain health.

The primary hypothesis is that participating in the physical activity program for 9 months will improve functional capacity, the primary clinical measure, significantly more than receiving only the standard medical care in people with heart failure. It is also hypothesized that the physical activity program will have positive effects on symptoms and limitations related to heart failure, inflammation, as well as heart and brain health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart failure is associated with disabling symptoms of dyspnea, fatigue, low exercise tolerance, and frequent hospitalizations. Managing heart failure is challenging, as it often coexists with several comorbidities related to cardiovascular- and brain-health (e.g., hypertension, dyslipidemia, cognitive impairment). Physical activity programs represent a promising adjuvant to pharmacological treatments to improve patients' functional capacity, reduce their symptoms, and facilitate long-term physical activity maintenance as patients' exercise tolerance improves. However, few patients with heart failure attend and adhere to traditional structured exercise programs such as cardiac rehabilitation. In response, the overall objective of STEP-IN is to design and test the effectiveness, feasibility and safety of a real-world, individualized step-based physical activity intervention to improve functional capacity, heart failure symptoms and limitations, systemic inflammation and additional heart-brain outcomes in patients with heart failure.

STEP-IN is a two-arm, single-blind multicenter randomized controlled trial. A total of 200 adults with heart failure with reduced (≤40%) or mildly reduced ejection fraction (41-49%) and a II or III NYHA functional class will be enrolled. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to a 9-month step-based physical activity intervention or enhanced usual care. The intervention will leverage wearable devices and a personalized online platform alongside behavior change methods to progressively increase participants' daily step count (volume) and step cadence (intensity), with increments individually planned every 2 weeks. To test the effectiveness of the program all participants will undergo several evaluations at baseline, and 3, 9 and 12 months after randomization, with the main timepoint of interest being from baseline to 9-month follow-up.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in functional capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07204834
