CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06479538
Title: Effects of Post Isometric Relaxation and Post Facilitation Stretching on Young Fast Bowlers
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Post Isometric Relaxation and Post Facilitation Stretching on Pain, Rom and Functional Disability Among Young Fast Bowlers With Quadratus Lumborum Tightness
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
ThEQuadratus lumborum muscle exhibited the highest degree of asymmetry in fast bowlers with low back pain, the identification and correction of this asymmetry is always of interest. Fast bowlers in cricket are more likely to experience non-contact LBP if they use improper technique, prepare less physically, ball too hard, or take on an excessive workload. ThEQuadratus lumborum muscle exhibited the highest degree of asymmetry in fast bowlers with low back pain due to extreme side flexion at non-dominant side and hence results in QL tightness at that side.

The study design will be a Randomized Controlled Trial. This study will be conducted in Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of eight to ten months after the approval of the synopsis. The sample size will be 34 subjects. Non-probability convenient sampling technique will be used to recruit the individuals for the study. Then randomization will be done by lottery method to divide the individuals into 2 treatment groups. The experimental group A will be given Post isometric relaxation for 20 minutes for 4 weeks (four times per week) on the other hand experimental group B will receive Post facilitation stretching and after that measure their pre-post values on SPSS. Pain will be measured with VAS, range of motion with inclinometer and functional disability with athlete's disability index questionnaire. In this study, it will be aimed to examine the comparative effects of both techniques that affect pain, range of motion and functional disability with quadratus lumborum tightness in young fast bowlers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The main objective of this study is to apply post isometric relaxation and post facilitation stretching techniques and to compare the results to identify their influence on pain, range of motion and functional disability on quadratus lumborum tightness in young fast bowlers.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analogue Scale
  - Inclinometer
  - Athletes Disability Index Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Post isometric relaxation
  - OTHER: Post facilitation stretching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 19 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06479538
