CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04320316
Title: A Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of KRN23 in Epidermal Nevus Syndrome (ENS)
Official Title: An Open Label Trial to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of KRN23, an Investigational Antibody to FGF23, in a Single Pediatric Patient With Epidermal Nevus Syndrome (ENS) and Associated Hypophosphatemic Rickets
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
KRN23 is a fully human immunoglobulin monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to and inhibits the activity of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), leading to an increase in serum phosphorus levels. There are multiple disorders that result in unusually high circulating levels of FGF23, which in turn result in renal phosphate wasting and reduced levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D (1,25\[OH\]2D). Across these disorders the clinical symptoms are similar and often include osteomalacia (and, in children, rickets), muscle weakness, fatigue, bone pain, and fractures. KRN23 has been studied in one of these disorders, X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH). In single- and repeat-dose clinical studies in subjects with XLH, subcutaneous (SC) administration of KRN23 consistently increased and sustained serum phosphorus levels and tubular reabsorption of phosphate (TRP) without a major impact on urine calcium levels or vitamin D metabolism. Positive results were also observed in a nonclinical pharmacology model of XLH. It is hypothesized that KRN23 may provide clinical benefit in this patient due to the common underlying feature in this patient and in patients with XLH - abnormally elevated FGF23 in the context of low age -adjusted serum phosphorous levels. The primary objective is to study the effect of KRN23 treatment on normalizing age-adjusted fasting serum phosphorous levels in a single pediatric patient with Epidermal Nevus Syndrome associated hypophosphatemic rickets.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
KRN23 is a fully human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody (mAb) that binds to and inhibits the activity of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), leading to an increase in serum phosphorus levels. There are multiple disorders (each with a unique underlying cause) that result in unusually high circulating levels of FGF23, which in turn result in renal phosphate wasting and reduced (or aberrantly normal in relationship to elevated FGF23) levels of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D (1,25\[OH\]2D). Across these disorders the clinical symptoms are similar and often include osteomalacia (and, in children, rickets), muscle weakness, fatigue, bone pain, and fractures. KRN23 has been studied in one of these disorders, X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH). In single- and repeat-dose clinical studies in subjects with XLH, subcutaneous (SC) administration of KRN23 consistently increased and sustained serum phosphorus levels and tubular reabsorption of phosphate (TRP) without a major impact on urine calcium levels or vitamin D metabolism. Positive results were also observed in a nonclinical pharmacology model of XLH. It is hypothesized that KRN23 may provide clinical benefit in this patient due to the common underlying feature in this patient and in patients with XLH - abnormally elevated FGF23 in the context of low age -adjusted serum phosphorous levels.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Participant Will Achieve Normal Age-adjusted Phosphorous Levels as Tested by Fasting Serum Lab Values

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Crysvita (burosumab-twza) Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Months to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04320316
