CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05730829
Title: Pain Informed Movement for People With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Pain Informed Movement for People With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Pilot and Feasibility Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 69
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare a pain informed movement program to standard neuromuscular exercise in people with knee osteoarthritis. The main question it aims to answer are:

1. Are the two interventions a) pain informed movement program plus pain neuroscience education and b) neuromuscular exercise plus standard osteoarthritis education feasible in terms of recruitment, treatment adherence, timelines, data collection procedures, patient follow-up, and resources required?
2. Is there a difference in patient's satisfaction and acceptability of the two programs?
3. Are there any differences in the potential effects of the two programs on subjective pain measures, self-reported function, quality of life, functional leg strength, nervous system pain modulation, brain derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor levels, and psychological factors?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is critical to understand the underlying mechanism of knee osteoarthritis (OA) pain in order to effectively manage knee OA. It has become clear that alterations in central and peripheral nervous system functioning occurs in people with knee OA and pain sensitization is a common feature. Descending modulation from the central nervous system can facilitate or inhibit nociception. Endogenous pain modulation through the descending system is an important factor as its dysregulation has significant ramifications in pain facilitation and promotion of chronic pain development and maintenance at all levels of the nervous system. The current guidelines lack focus on how to effectively manage it, which is a potential reason for why the current methods in conservative management of knee OA pain are only moderately effective. Mind-body approaches are uniquely positioned to potentially reverse the sensitization, induce positive neuroplastic changes, and improve descending pain modulation resulting in decreased pain intensity in many chronic pain populations. This study involves an exercise program which the investigators call 'Pain Informed Movement' that includes evidence-based exercises combined with mind-body techniques and pain neuroscience education. The data from this phase will be used to inform a multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the program's effectiveness with the primary outcome of change in pain severity mediated by change in descending pain modulation.

Exercise is regularly used as a first-line management option for knee OA, and its use is supported by high quality evidence to improve pain and function. Clinical practice guidelines for people with knee OA recommend the use of aerobic and strength training for the reduction of pain and improved physical function. Currently, one of the key components of conservative management of knee OA often implemented by clinicians is a type of exercise called neuromuscular exercise, which aims at improving sensorimotor control and the functionality of the knee joint by addressing movement in all three movement planes. Previous research has showed that the neuromuscular exercise programs designed specifically for knee OA can reduce pain, improve function, alter knee biomechanics, and improve the muscle-activation patterns of the surrounding knee musculature. While exercise is the first line treatment for knee OA and can lead to improvements in physical function and pain, it is important to highlight that it has a moderate effect, which may be short term.

In recent years multiple guidelines for non-surgical management of knee OA have begun to include mind-body therapies, such as yoga or tai-chi, as conditional or core treatment recommendations. Mind-body therapies can lead to pain reductions and improvement of function through various techniques. For instance, breathing exercises including breath awareness and regulation can activate the parasympathetic nervous system and decrease the da

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Follow up

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: pain informed movement
  - OTHER: standard neuromuscular exercise
  - OTHER: Pain Neuroscience Education (PNE)
  - OTHER: Standard osteoarthritis (OA) education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05730829
