CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01961219
Title: Manipulation Under Anesthesia Versus Arthroscopic Capsular Release in the Treatment of Adhesive Capsulitis
Official Title: Manipulation Under Anesthesia Versus Arthroscopic Capsular Release in the Treatment of Adhesive Capsulitis: A Comparison.
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Shoulder pain is one of the most common causes of musculoskeletal disability in the adult population. Adhesive capsulitis is one of a multitude of reasons that can cause shoulder pain and dysfunction. It is a painful and disabling condition that can cause frustration for patients and caregivers due to slow recovery time. It is important to meticulously diagnose the source of the symptoms. Adhesive capsulitis is treatment by non-operative therapies such as physical therapy, exercise, steroids \& pain medications. For some patients a quicker return to function is necessary; in th is situation an operative treatment is an option. This study will compare two surgical techniques for adhesive capsulitis.

Purpose

1. To directly compare outcomes of patients with adhesive capsulitis who have failed pain management and failed improvement in range of motion after at least 3 months of supervised, regimented conservative treatment and have subsequently been randomized to either closed manipulation under anesthesia or arthroscopic capsular release.
2. To blind both patient and assessing physician/nurse study coordinator to the treatment that was received for the duration of the study. This will reduce the effect of any potential bias on the results as much as possible.
3. To collect outcome data, both subjectively from the patient using proven outcome measures, and objectively from regularly spaced follow up visits with blinded assessors.
4. To collect and comment on data from the two treatment groups regarding duration of post-operative narcotic use, duration of post-operative physical therapy required, post-operative pain levels, and elapsed time until back to work/activity post-operatively.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Shoulder pain is one of the most common causes of musculoskeletal disability in the adult population. Adhesive capsulitis is one of a multitude of pathologic entities that can cause shoulder pain and dysfunction. The condition is seen frequently in the clinics of primary care providers and orthopedic surgeons. Patients who develop adhesive capsulitis will typically present with complaints of pain and a progressive loss of active and passive motion of the shoulder.

The disease course of adhesive capsulitis has been extensively studied. Despite this, controversy remains as to the natural history of the disease. It is generally believed that adhesive capsulitis is a self-limiting process typically lasting twelve to thirty-six months. In one retrospective study of 50 patients with 10 year follow up, Miller et al7 found significant improvement in range of motion and resolution of pain in all patients treated conservatively. In another study, it was shown that 90% of patients treated with a stretching exercise program alone reported satisfactory outcomes at a mean follow up of 22 months8. This would mean that up to 10% of patients suffer from long-term problems. Shaffer et al9, however, reported that 50% of patients treated nonoperatively still complained of some residual pain, stiffness, or both at an average follow up of 7 years. Despite evidence that the disease improves without any intervention, many patients do not want to wait potentially as long as two to three years for resolution. For these patients, it is not unreasonable to proceed with interventions aimed at resolution of pain and improvement of motion. Levine et al10 provided some insight into predicting which patients might benefit most from proceeding with surgery. He found that patients who report more severe symptoms, are younger in age at symptom onset, and continue to have a reduction in motion after at least four months of physical therapy were more likely to eventually require surgery.

The course of progression of untreated adhesive capsulitis is described as a continuum of three clinical phases4. The first phase is characterized by pain and is termed the 'freezing' phase. In this phase, patients experience a gradual onset of diffuse shoulder pain that is progressive over a course of weeks to months. In general, pain will begin before any restriction of motion. Patients may report pain at night and often relate difficulty sleeping on the affected side. As use of the arm decreases secondary to pain, stiffness begins to set in. Phase two is characterized by stiffness and is known as the 'frozen' phase. This phase may last four to twelve months. Patients will see their pain slowly decrease, however, the limitation in motion continually increases. Phase three is known as the 'thawing' phase and may last from five to twenty-six months. This is characterized by resolution of pain and slow improvement in range of motion. Most authors agree that a longer 'freezing' phase is associated wi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - quick Disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (quickDASH) score.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Manipulation Under Anesthesia
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic capsular release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01961219
