CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04289077
Title: Quality of Life of Patients With Desmoid-type Fibromatosis
Official Title: The Evaluation of Health-related Quality of Life Issues Experienced by Patients With Desmoid-type Fibromatosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 156
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Rationale: Desmoid-type fibromatosis (DTF) is a rare, histologically benign, soft tissue tumour. Although incapable of metastasizing, the clinical course is unpredictable and can be aggressive because of local invasive growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Various treatments are available including; surgical resection, radiotherapy, hormonal therapy and chemotherapy. Nowadays there is a tren towards a more conservative strategy with a wait and see policy because of high recurrence rates after surgical resection. Health-related quality of life (HRQL) is a corner stone in treatment choice and can be used during the disease for monitoring the impact of the disease on physical, psychological and social level. Additionally, HRQL can be in important endpoint for future clinical trials. Today, no HRQL-tools are available which capture the needs of DTF patients. The hypothesis is that patients with DTF have issues on several HRQL domains including physical, social and emotional well-being. For this reason we developed a list of items based on previous research. This study aims to evaluate HRQL issues experienced by DTF patients.

Purpose: Multi-centre, cross-sectional, observational study to measure HRQL of DTF patients and to evaluate the prevalence of the experienced problems.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives: The primary objective is to evaluate HRQoL problems in adult DTF patients. The secondary objectives are: 1) to compare the level of HRQoL of DTF patients to the general population, 2) to identify patient subgroups who are at risk for developing certain HRQoL problems, 3) to evaluate patient preferences regarding their health care needs for DTF.

Outline: All patients, aged above 18 years, with a histopathological proved DTF tumour and sufficient Dutch language skills who have received their last check-up in the hospital within the last five years (April 2014). Patients treated in one of the participating centres, will be asked to fill out a set of questionnaires (baselinEQuestionnaire, health care utilization, decision making, EORTC QLQ-C30, DTF-specific questionnaire, and the EQ-5D-5L). Patients will only have to fill out thesEQuestionnaires once.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of LifEQuestionnaire-Core-30; version 3.0)
  - DTF-QoL questionnaire (Desmoid-type fibromatosis Quality of LifEQuestionnaire)
  - EQ-5D-5L questionnaire (EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire; version 1.0)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Questionnaires

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04289077
