CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01621113
Title: Combination Therapy With Dalfampridine and Locomotor Training for Chronic, Motor Incomplete Spinal Cord Injury
Official Title: Restoring Lost Functions After Spinal Cord Injury: Combination Therapy With Dalfampridine and Locomotor Training for Persons With Chronic, Motor Incomplete Spinal Cord Injury
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with dalfampridine in combination with locomotor training in persons with chronic, motor incomplete SCI.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research suggests that combining therapies could result in important gains in restoring function and improving quality of life in persons with spinal cord injury (SCI). Locomotor training is an activity-dependent rehabilitation therapy that provides repetitive stepping facilitated by manual assistance and body weight support on a treadmill. Recent studies report improvements in walking and standing in individuals with motor incomplete SCI that have undergone intensive standardized locomotor training therapy. Extended release dalfampridine (also known as fampridine or 4-aminopyridine \[4-AP\]) is a broad spectrum potassium channel blocker that has been shown in animal studies to increase conduction of action potentials in demyelinated axons. Dalfampridine was recently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a treatment to improve walking in persons with multiple sclerosis (MS). Demyelination is also a prominent feature of incomplete SCI that contributes to the clinical presentation of persons with these injuries.

The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with dalfampridine in combination with locomotor training in persons with chronic, motor incomplete SCI. We hypothesize that persons undergoing combination therapy with dalfampridine and locomotor training will show significantly greater improvements in walking speed and other measures of SCI function than those receiving locomotor training alone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT) Distance at 10 Weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Dalfampridine
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01621113
