CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02358928
Title: Low Carbohydrate Diet: The Effects on Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Obese Teens With Metabolic Syndrome
Official Title: Low Carbohydrate Diet: The Effects on Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Obese Teens With Metabolic Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Concurrent with the rising prevalence of childhood obesity, the co-morbid condition of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the leading cause of chronic liver disease among children. NAFLD is characterized by accrual of excess triglycerides (TG) in the liver that leads to inflammation, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. One-third of the pediatric population has NAFLD, a disease strongly associated with insulin-resistance and metabolic-syndrome (Met-S). NAFLD is predicted to become the leading cause of liver transplantation in adults by 2030.

Current understanding of NAFLD indicates that presence of excess TG in liver is an absolute requirement for disease progression. First-line therapy for NAFLD is focused on decreasing adiposity and improving insulin sensitivity through diet and exercise. Recent adult data indicate that dietary carbohydrate-restriction is more effective at reducing hepatic TG-content than traditional calorie-restriction. Few studies have been conducted to establish resolution of hepatic steatosis by any intervention. Such studies in pediatrics are primarily limited by a need for liver biopsy. However, hepatic proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) is a new innovative tool used to quantitatively measure hepatic TG content in a non-invasive manner.

The primary aim is to compare the impact of dietary weight loss via carbohydrate-restriction and calorie-restriction on hepatic TG-content quantified by H-MRS in obese children with biopsy-proven NAFLD and Met-S.

This IRB approved protocol is a randomized control study. The investigators will recruit subjects from the Center for Obesity and its Consequences in Health and the pediatric gastroenterology clinics between the ages of 11-17 years who meet criteria for NAFLD and Met-S. A H-MRS will be obtained in each subject prior to the start of dietary intervention. Fifty-four subjects will be randomized to either a carbohydrate-restricted or calorie-restricted diet for 6 months with no change in baseline activity. A repeat H-MRS will be compared to baseline to determine the whether dietary carbohydrate-restriction is superior to calorie-restriction for reducing hepatic TG content. The investigators believe that subjects on the carbohydrate-restricted diet will have marked decrease in hepatic TG content compared to those in the calorie-restricted diet given the same degree of reduction in body mass index.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific Aims and Hypothesis:

The Primary aim is:

To compare the impact of dietary weight loss via carbohydrate-restriction and calorie-restriction on hepatic TG content quantified by H-MRS in obese children with biopsy-proven NAFLD and Met-S.

Our Secondary aims are:

To compare BMI z-score, ALT (analine transaminase) and cytokeratin 18 in obese patients with NAFLD and Met-S after a 6 month dietary weight loss via either carbohydrate or calorie restriction.

Hypothesis: Obese children with biopsy-proven NAFLD and Met-S will experience a reduction in liver TG content, assessed by H-MRS, concurrent with 6 months of dietary weight loss; however, we anticipate that subjects undergoing carbohydrate restriction will experience a greater reduction in hepatic fat than those undergoing calorie restriction due to the limiting of precursors for lipid synthesis inherent to the diet (CHO) and the expected increase in hepatic oxidative metabolism (TG accrual is attenuated while disposal is enhanced).

Methodology:

Design:

Our study is a 6 month prospective randomized controlled trial with outcomes assessment monthly for the first 6 months and a follow up visit at 10- 12 months after randomization.

Setting:

Recruitment and data collection will be completed at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and Children's Health, Dallas TX by study personnel. All patients who agree to participate will give informed written consent and assent. A study staff member will explain the study and review the consent and HIPAA forms with each patient. A copy of each signed form will be kept in the patient's study file. Each patient will also receive signed copies.

Subjects:

All patients referred (male and female) within the age range of 11 - 17 years who are obese (BMI \>= 95th percentile) and meet criteria for metabolic syndrome (MetS) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) will be offered to participate in study.

Inclusion Criteria:

1. Age 11 - 17 years
2. Male and Female subjects
3. BMI \>= 95th percentile according to CDC body mass index chart for age and gender
4. Must be willing to participate and undergo "willingness to change" evaluation
5. Metabolic Syndrome(MetS) which is defined when 3 of the following are met:

   1. Central adiposity (waist circumference ≥90th% for age and sex)
   2. Hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides ≥ 110mg/dl)
   3. Low HDL cholesterol ≤40mg/dl
   4. Elevated blood pressure systolic or diastolic blood pressure \> 90th % adjusted for age, sex and height or ≥ 130/85
   5. IFG (Impaired fasting glucose ≥ 100mg/dl or elevated HOMA- IR ≥3.16)
6. ALT greater than 60 U/L and Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease based on histologic confirmation on liver biopsy (minimum of 5% of hepatocytes with macrovesicular fat) obtained within 6 months before randomization

Exclusion Criteria:

1. Those patients with a history of poor compliance or adherence to energy restriction diets
2. Patients on medications that could alter appetite includ

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HepaticTrigylceride Content quantified on proton magnetic spectroscopy (H-MRS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Diet Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02358928
