CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00054106
Title: Hormone Therapy and OGX-011 Before Radical Prostatectomy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
Official Title: A Phase I Study Of Combination Neoadjuvant Hormone Therapy And Weekly OGX-011 (Clusterin Antisense Oligonucleotide) Prior To Radical Prostatectomy In Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
RATIONALE: Androgens can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer cells. Drugs such as flutamide and buserelin may stop the adrenal glands from producing androgens. OGX-011 may help flutamide and buserelin kill more tumor cells by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. Giving flutamide and buserelin with OGX-011 before surgery may shrink the tumor so it can be removed during surgery.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining hormone therapy with OGX-011 before radical prostatectomy in treating patients who have prostate cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of OGX-011 (clusterin antisense oligonucleotide) when administered with neoadjuvant hormonal therapy before radical prostatectomy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the pharmacokinetics of OGX-011 when this regimen is administered in these patients..
* Assess the effects of this regimen on pathologic complete response rates in these patients.
* Correlate plasma and/or prostate concentrations of OGX-011 with patient response or toxicity measures.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of OGX-011.

Patients receive OGX-011 IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 15, 22, and 29; oral flutamide three times daily for 4 weeks; and buserelin subcutaneously on day 1.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients (except for 1 patient at starting dose) receive escalating doses of OGX-011 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. The recommended phase II dose is the dose preceding the MTD.

Patients undergo radical prostatectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy 1 week after the last dose of neoadjuvant therapy.

Patients are followed at 7 days after surgery and then at 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 25-33 patients will be accrued for this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  Not specified

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: buserelin
  - DRUG: custirsen sodium
  - DRUG: flutamide
  - PROCEDURE: conventional surgery
  - PROCEDURE: neoadjuvant therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 120 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00054106
