CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05294601
Title: Effect of High Intensity Children's Games Compared With Medium Intensityregulation, Obesity Biomarkers and Body Composition in Boys and Girls
Official Title: Efecto de Los Juegos Infantiles de Alta Intensidad Comparado Con Los de Mediana Intensidad Sobre la regulación autonómica Cardiaca, Biomarcadores de Obesidad y composición Corporal en Niños y Niñas de 6 a 9 años Con Obesidad o Sobrepeso
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
To evaluate the effect of high intensity children's games compared with those of medium intensity on cardiac autonomic regulation, obesity biomarkers and body composition in Boys and Girls from 6 to 9 years old with Obesity or Overweight

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Childhood obesity presents as a multifactorial disease with serious health consequences . In the department of Huila, the situation with respect to cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and childhood obesity is similar to the whole country and is a public health problem, recognized by the territorial entities. Autonomic dysfunction associated with obesity has been documented in adults and has been related to eventual CVD. The evidence for autonomic dysfunction in children remains contradictory, as well as whether this eventual dysfunction can be reversed with training. High intensity interval training (HIIT) is considered efficient because it achieves similar benefits to moderate or low intensity aerobic exercise, but in less time in the adult population ; In children and adolescents, HIIT training strategies have been tested with excellent results, related to both body weight and cardiorespiratory fitness, and could improve autonomic control. In the case of children, HIIT must be transformed to adapt them to the corresponding age. Children's recreational games have a similar pattern to HIIT; with intervals of high intensity alternated by short periods of rest; However, high-intensity games take into account children's motor development and aim to achieve some benefits of HIIT without necessarily meeting its goals in terms of cardiovascular demand. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of high intensity children's games (HIIG) compared to medium intensity games (MIIG) on cardiac autonomic regulation and body composition in Boys and Girls from 6 to 9 years old with Obesity or Overweight from the city of Neiva-Huila.

In this research, an experimental type design, a randomized controlled clinical trial, will be applied. Reference population: Children between 6 and 9 years old with overweight and obesity, enrolled in educational institutions in Neiva. To determine the experimental sample, the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be applied. The participants will subsequently be randomly divided into two intervention groups and a control group. The sample for this study will be 35 children in the control group and 35 children in the HIIG group and 35 MIIG children, randomly chosen from among the boys and girls who have authorization from their tutors and who agree to participate voluntarily who have complied with the above criteria. The project will be developed in different four research phases: Phase I (Sensitization to parents and children), Phase II (Medical Assessment, Course navette test, Measurement of heart rate variability, Initial measurement of anthropometric parameters, body composition , salivary biomarkers for obesity), Phase III (high intensity children's games program will be for 12 weeks for the HIIG group and moderate intensity children's games program for the MIIG group according to Biljon et., al and Phase IV (Again, measurement of phase II variables.) It is hoped to determine if training through games changes cardiac aut

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - IL-6 salival levels
  - TNF-α salival levels
  - Leptin salival levels
  - Adiponectin salival levels
  - insulin salival levels with elisa test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High-Intensity Interval Training
  - OTHER: Medium-Intensity Interval Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 9 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05294601
