CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06474117
Title: Muscle-tendon Interaction in the Spastic Sural Triceps During Gait
Official Title: Muscle-tendon Interaction in the Spastic Sural Triceps During Gait
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This project aims to study the mechanical behavior of the muscle-tendon unit (MTU) of the gastrocnemius medialis (GM) and the Achilles tendon (AT) in post-stroke and spinal cord injured (SCI) patients compared to a healthy population, focusing on the variations in muscle and tendon length during the stance phase of the gait cycle. The primary objective is to assess the respective contributions of the GM and AT lengthening in the MTU during walking. Inclusion criteria include adult post-stroke and post-SCI patients with voluntary motor function and some walking capacity. Methods include ultrasound measurements and 3D gait analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary Objective: Evaluate the respective contributions of the gastrocnemius medialis (GM) muscle and the Achilles tendon (AT) within the muscle-tendon unit (MTU) during the single support phase of walking in post-stroke patients compared to healthy subjects.

Study Description: Strokes often lead to spastic paresis, degrading patients' walking performance. Instrumented gait analysis allows for the evaluation of these performances to propose adapted therapeutic strategies. This project will compare muscle and tendon behavior during walking between healthy individuals and post-stroke patients.

Methodology:

* Participants: Adult post-stroke patients or incomplete SCI patients with voluntary motor function on the triceps surae and walking capacity. Control group composed of healthy adults.
* Procedures:

  * Measure the force/length profile of the GM on an isokinetic dynamometer with simultaneous ultrasound.
  * Conduct gait analysis coupled with ultrasound to measure the lengths of the AT and GM.
  * Compare muscle and tendon length data during the stance phase of the gait cycle between the two groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Length of the Achilles Tendon (AT), Muscle Fibers of the Gastrocnemius Medialis (GM), and the Muscle GM During the Single Support Phase of Walking

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Gait analysis coupled with ultrasound
  - OTHER: Isokinetic dynamometer with simultaneous ultrasound

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06474117
