CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01987804
Title: Dose-relationship of Vaginally Administrated Oxytocin in Postmenopausal Women
Official Title: A Double-blind, Placebo Controlled Single Centre Trial to Evaluate the Dose-relationship of the Effects of Vaginally Administered Oxytocin on the Vaginal Mucosal Membrane in Postmenopausal Women With Vaginal Atrophy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Up to 50% of all postmenopausal women, experience vaginal drynes, i.e. vaginal atrophy is a consequence due to the lack of estrogen. In addition, vaginal atrophy is associated with an increased pH, which creates an environment more susceptible to infections . The mucosal epithelium shows signs of severe senile atrophy and cytological examination demonstrate increased number of the basal and parabasal cells and reduced number of superficial cells . Unlike some other menopausal symptoms (for instance hot flushes), vaginal symptoms generally persist or worsen with aging.Oxytocin is a peptide hormone and it is released systemically via the posterior pituitary. The most well known effects of oxytocin are its roles in female reproduction such as facilitation of birth and breast feeding. Oxytocin has also shown to exert positive effects on the proliferation of human vaginal mucosal cells from postmenopausal women, an effect which could be attributed either to the direct stimulation of new cell formation or to an increased production of other growth factors. The primary objective is to investigate the dose relationsship of topical administrated Vagitocin on the vaginal mucosal membrane, measured in the change (%)of superficial cells up to 7 weeks after baseline.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To investigate the dose-relationship of topical Vagitocin on the vaginal mucosal membrane.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Oxytocin 100 i.u.
  - DRUG: Oxytocin 400 i.u.
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01987804
