CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04359888
Title: A Balanced Assessment and trening Protocol (BATP) to Address Balance Disorders in Older and Neurologically Disabled Veterans
Official Title: A Balanced Reach trening Platform to Address Balance Disorders in Older and Neurologically Disabled Veterans
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Falls are by far the leading cause of accidental injury and death in older adults. The Veteran population is more severely affected by falls since it is significantly older than the overall population (45% over 65 years of age vs. 13%); and Veterans would benefit substantially more from an accurate diagnosis and treatment of fall propensity. Despite its importance, much is still unknown about the manner in which balance control is compromised by age and disease. Therapeutic interventions for people who are at risk of fallinGHave proven to be of limited utility. Engineering methods are well suited to study and evaluate balance; but have to date been applied to overly simplified scenarios that lack the complexity to probe the musculoskeletal and neurophysiological bases for balance and falls.

The long term objective of this research, which began with a VA Rehabilitation Research \& Development (RR\&D) Career Development Award (CDA-2), is to develop improved directives and protocols for the diagnosis and treatment of balance-related posture and movement coordination problems. This proposal significantly advances engineering methods to address existing gaps in the diagnosis and treatment of balance impairments through the development of a Balanced Assessment and trening Protocol (BATP). The BATP continuously challenges subjects to perform reaching tasks at the limits of their balance for an extended period of time, and increases these limits as subjects demonstrate improved performance. The goal of this tool is to quantitatively assess and improve at-risk individuals' ability to maintain balance when disturbed by volitional movements of the body and its parts-an important class of balance disturbances integral to many activities of daily living that can precipitate falls. The BATP focuses on performance at and just beyond the limits of balance, unlike most such tests and trening protocols that do not challenge subjects in this way. The BATP's most immediate and salient metric is the limiting boundary of standing reach; and we hypothesize that expanding this boundary, as the BATP is designed to do, will improve balance and make individuals more resistant to falls (in the context of expected balance disturbances).

Confirmation of this hypothesis could provide a new perspective on existing trening protocols' modest success rates, and direction for the design of new protocols with the potential to significantly improve these rates. \[Though the BATP is a trening platform, we also believe that the performance metrics and analytical results produced by it can form the basis for new diagnostic measures that more reliably and precisely quantify and explain balance performance problems; and track changes in them over time.\] Such diagnostic and treatment protocols would be particularly beneficial to the VA Health Care System, as it would lead to improvements in: patient throughput, quality of care, and treatment costs. Though this proposal targets the aging Veteran population, the BATP is a general tool that can aid in the diagnosis and treatment of balance disorders arising from conditions other than aging. These include obesity, diabetes (which often leads to lower extremity muscle degeneration and peripheral neuropathy), sarcopenia, vestibular disorders, and neurological disorders such as stroke. Veterans whose balance has been compromised by Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) (whether combat-related or not) may also benefit from the BATP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overview: This study comprises three Specific Aims (SAs): SA-1) Development of the Balanced Assessment and trening Protocol (BATP). SA-2) Assessment of the BATP's trening efficacy. SA-3) Assessment of the BATP's time course of motor learning.

Methods Related to Specific Aim 1: Development of the BATP SA-1.1: Develop of the BATP's Assessment Module. The investigators will develop a BATP such that each foot's position and its associated vertical ground reaction force (used to detect stepping), as measured by the investigators' extant measurement systems, are continuously streamed to a Real Time Computing Workstation and read by the experimental control program, enabling it to monitor thesEQuantities on an ongoing basis. The investigators will next incorporate code to establish target disk position corresponding to the subject's Limit of Balance (LoB), based on stepping. The investigators will establish LoB corresponding to seven target disk motion directions, each corresponding to a particular direction of Center of Mass (CoM) Motion. Target motion will be programmed to move unpredictably within a small circular region with center r and centerline coinciding with one of the specified directional lines. The subject then tracks the target using their dominant hand index finger until the subject (wearing a harness to guard against falling) must step to avoid a loss of balance. During this task the subject will be instructed to step rather than curtail their tracking movements when they believe they are at risk of falling. LoB in each direction is the point at which the subject steps.

The Assessment Module will record the following data to characterize performance in the tracking task

1. The values of r, , and LoB corresponding to each (Figs. 7A and 1);
2. The motion (position vs. time) of the target disk;
3. The motion of each of 15 body segments (Table 1), and the tip of the tracking finger (measured by the investigators' Vicon Motion Capture System);
4. Ground reaction forces, moments, and CoP for each foot and for both feet combined (dual Bertec force plates); All data will be saved for offline post-test processing and analyses. SA-1.2: Develop the BATP's trening Module. aromasingle trening session begins by administering the Assessment Module to establish the subject's Loblast and cruiseorresponding overall target excursion amplitude, and computing the unpredictable target disk trajectory based upon it. The trening Module then presents an operator-specified number of trening bouts; aromasingle one of which consists of presenting the trajectory for the subject to track for four minutes without stepping, followed by a three minute sitting rest period. Performance data is recorded throughout the tracking period. trening bout and rest period durations can be varied (with the goal that a trening session deliver 60 minutes of actual trening) to optimize trening efficacy and accommodate individual subject needs and capabilities. Subjects will be harnessed

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Root Mean Squared Deviation between Center of Mass and Center of Base of Support (RMSD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multi-Modality Balance Intervention
  - OTHER: Balanced Reach trening (BRT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04359888
