CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03844087
Title: TopSpin360 in Female Varsity Athletes
Official Title: Effect of Training on the TopSpin360 on Neck Strength and 40-yard Dash Times in Female Varsity Level Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 87
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The growing recognition of the short and long-term effects of head-neck trauma on athletes is stimulating the search for preventative measures while improving on-field performance. This study's goal is to evaluate the effect of a 12-week training protocol of the TopSpin360 neuromuscular training device on static and dynamic neck strength and sprinting performance in female varsity level athletes. This study will recruit athletes from the women's varsity soccer and rugby teams. As part of their standard out of season testing, they will have their static and dynamic neck strength, neck girth and 40 yard dash times assessed at inception into the study. The athletes will then be invited to participate in the TopSpin360 training program. This program incorporates training sessions on the TopSpin360 of 3-5 sets of 50 revolutions in each direction of clockwise and counterclockwise three times a week to improve static and dynamic neck strength but not sprint performance specifically. The sessions last 10-15 minutes and will run for 12 weeks. Members of the research team will supervise these training sessions 3 days per week as an addition to their out of season training program. Neck girth, static and dynamic neck strength and 40 yard dash times will be reassessed after the 12 week training intervention. The study hypothesis is that training on the TopSpin360 will result in improved static and dynamic neck strength and improved 40-yard dash times. A secondary hypothesis is that the change in neck strength will be positively associated with the change in 40-yard dash times, aligning with an emerging theory of athletic performance related to dynamic control of the entire kinetic chain including the neck. Routine re-evaluation of neck strength throughout the duration of the 12-week program will provide additional information on the trajectory of training effects and estimates of time-to-peak performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effect of training using a new neck protocol on two primary outcomes: neck strength (both dynamic and static) and 40-yard dash times in a group of healthy university-aged female athletes.

The secondary purposes are to 1. explore the temporal components of performance increase, notably the trajectory of training effects. 2. explore the carryover effects of training between performance metrics by evaluating the associations between dynamic performance on the training device, isometric neck strength and 40-yard dash times. 3. examine the effects of the training program on neck girth. 4. As a sub-purpose for further research, capture available data to explore a potential relationship between previous concussion history and static and dynamic neck strength during training.

All participants will be informed of the study through an email from the team's coaching staff prior to their team's out of season baseline testing at the Kirkley Training Centre at TD (Toronto Dominion) Stadium and Thompson Arena indoor track. Interested athletes will be given an email address of one of the research team to contact for further information. Those who consent will undergo a screening protocol to identify any gross cervical dysfunction prior to a baseline evaluation that includes static and dynamic neck strength assessment, neck girth measurement and 40 yard dash time. A member of the research team (physiotherapy student) will perform the screening protocol. This involves assessing full active range of motion in 6 planes of movement, no pain during the 4 quadrants 'combined planes' test, no pain with the Spurling's cervical compression test (Tong, Haig, \& Yamakawa, 2002). Static neck strength will be assessed by a neck strength assessment protocol as described by Versteegh et. al. (Versteegh, Beaudet, Greenbaum, Hellyer, Tritton, Walton, 2015). Briefly, this involves having the participant hold a handheld dynamometer (force measuring device) with a soft foam contact area that is placed against the head at different points (front, back, and each side one at a time). The participant applies their own resistance with their arm(s) as they push maximally into the dynamometer with encouragement from the researchers. Peak force is held in each direction for 3 seconds and peak strength values are recorded in each direction (8 total tests). These 8 test values will be summed and divided by 8 to provide a composite neck strength score as the primary outcome measure and dependent variable for data analysis.

Following baseline testing, each participant will be familiarized with the TopSpin360. The TopSpin360 is a neuromuscular training device that is akin to a 'hula hoop' for the neck, the protocol leverages self-generated centripetal force created by using the neck to keep a weighted arm rotating about the top of a custom-fitted helmet. Each participant will have the properly sized device securely fastened to their head using the p

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in static neck strength as measured using a handheld dynamometer
  - Change in Dynamic neck strength
  - Change in 40 yard dash time

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Multiplanar neuromuscular training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03844087
