CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03455790
Title: Relationship Between Muscle Strength,Anaerobic,Aerobic Capacity,and Sportive Performance in WC Basketball Athletes
Official Title: An Investigation of the Relationship Between Upper Extremity Muscle Strength, Anaerobic Capacity, Aerobic Capacity and Sportive Performance in Wheelchair Basketball Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to investigate the relationship between shoulder internal and external rotation isokinetic muscle strength, grip strength, anaerobic capacity, aerobic capacity and sportive performance in wheelchair basketball athletes. Through this work, we aim to contribute to the literature with objective, blood-based results.

The wheelchair (WC) basketball characterizes high intensity activities such as rolling, rebounding, rolling, smashing overhead. Because these activities are fast and powerful, they require both anaerobic and aerobic capacities. The main factors affecting WC Basketball performance are upper extremity muscle strength and aerobic capacity. It is stated that higher muscle power and aerobic performance in WC Basketball will provide more independence in daily life activities as well as increased speed and power during sports play.

WC basketball players have both a spore-specific activities and a shoulder rotational muscle strength aerobic power components have a critical functional role when using a wheelchair. When the literature on this subject is examined, it is seen that there is a limited number of works for WC basketball sport which is very popular nowadays. Assessment of upper limb muscle strength, aerobic capacity and sporting performance in wheelchair basketball athletes is crucial in regulating the athletes' trening programs and establishing individual trening programs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was aimed to investigate the relationship between isokinetic muscle strength of shoulder internal and external rotation, grip strength, anaerobic capacity, aerobic capacity and sportive performance in wheelchair basketball athletes.

26 wheelchair basketball athletes were involved into the study. Wheelchair basketball players were divided into two groups according to the classification levels (Group 1: less than 3 points, Group 2: 3 points and higher). Upper extremity muscle strengths were evaluated with the ISOMED 2000® isokinetic device. Hand grip strength was evaluated with hydraulic hand dynamometer. The measurement of the aerobic capacity was measured using its own wheelchair on the treadmill by applying a custom ramp protocol. Anaerobic capacity was evaluated with Wingate anaerobic power test (WAnT) for 30 seconds in standard laboratory conditions. The sportive performances were assessed by "20 m Sprint test", "Slalom Test" and "Zone Shot" tests.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of Isokinetic Muscle Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Aerobic Capacity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03455790
