CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05699772
Title: Expanding Delivery of an Evidence-based Weight-loss Intervention to Enhance Access and Reach Underserved Groups After TBI
Official Title: Expanding Delivery of an Evidence-based Weight-loss Intervention to Enhance Access and Reach Underserved Groups After TBI
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 85
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to extend the accessibility of the Diabetes Prevention Program Group Lifestyle Balance (DPP-GLB) modified for people with TBI (GLB-TBI) to reduce health inequities and reach a broad and diverse sample.

To increase the accessibility and reach of the GLB-TBI we will conduct a randomized control trial (RCT) to assess intervention efficacy of telehealth delivery of the GLB-TBI (tGLB-TBI). Results will provide a scalable telehealth weight-loss program that clinicians and community workers across the country can use to help people with TBI lose weight and improve health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetes Prevention Program Group Lifestyle Balance Program (DPP-GLB): The DPP-GLB is a 12-month, evidence-based, CDC-accredited weight-loss intervention designed for delivery in group-based, community settings, and has resulted in weight loss in a variety of settings such as community centers, churches, worksites, and healthcare settings. Alternate modes of delivery (e.g., DVD, telehealth, telephone call) have also proven efficacious. The primary goal of the DPP-GLB intervention is to help the participant achieve and maintain a 5-7% weight loss by following federal guidelines for physical activity participation (safe and progressive increase to achieve 150 minutes of moderate intensity activity each week) and dietary recommendations.

DPP-GLB for individuals with TBI: In 2015 we modified the DPP-GLB with a group of stakeholders to meet the unique needs of individuals with TBI (GLB-TBI). We pilot tested the GLB-TBI in a group of 18 individuals with TBI who lost -10.2±13lbs (-5% weight-loss) over 12 months. These results warranted rigorous testing.

Efficacy of the GLB-TBI using an RCT: We then completed an in-person randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the efficacy of the GLB-TBI compared to an attention control (NCT03594734) for Dallas residents after TBI. Individuals in the GLB-TBI group (n=27) lost -17.8±41.4lbs (-7.9%) over the 12-month program and the attention control group (n=28) lost 0±55.4lbs (0%). The GLB-TBI group also had significant improvements in diastolic blood pressure, waist circumference, triglycerides, and HDL cholesterol. As a result of this strong evidence, our GLB-TBI curriculum was recognized by the CDC as an evidence-based approach to in-person weight-loss.

The goal of this clinical trial is to extend the accessibility of the Diabetes Prevention Program Group Lifestyle Balance (DPP-GLB) modified for people with TBI (GLB-TBI) to reduce health inequities and reach a broad and diverse sample.

To increase the accessibility and reach of the GLB-TBI we will conduct a randomized control trial (RCT) to assess intervention efficacy of telehealth delivery of the GLB-TBI (tGLB-TBI). Results will provide a scalable telehealth weight-loss program that clinicians and community workers across the country can use to help people with TBI lose weight and improve health.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Telehealth-delivered Group Lifestyle Balance for people with TBI (tGLB-TBI)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brain Health Group (BHG)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05699772
