CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05915325
Title: Physical Training for Elderly Cancer Patients With Cachexia
Official Title: Physical Training for Elderly Cancer Patients With Cachexia (TEECH-01): a Prospective Clinical Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The goal of the clinical trial is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of physical training for elderly cancer patients at risk of cancer cachexia. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Whether a physical training program is feasible in elderly cancer patients with cachexia?
* What is the efficacy of a physical training program in reducing the severity of cancer cachexia in elderly cancer patients?

Participants will receive a 12-week supervised patient-tailored intensity-modulated physical training and being assessed for the severity of cancer cachexia before and after the training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The trial is to investigate the feasibility and efficacy of an artificial intelligence-based patient-tailored intensity-modulated physical training for cancer patients aged over 65 at risk of cancer cachexia. The primary endpoint is simplified cancer CAchexia SCOre (MiniCASCO) reduction. Secondary endpoints include geriatric assessment, physical activity and sarcopenia. This is an open-label, single-arm, single-center phase II investigator-initiated trial. The investigators assume a reduction of MiniCASCO by 10% after trial intervention. Under a statistical power of 80% and a probability of type I error at 0.1 (two-tailed), a minimal of 49 participants will be enrolled. All participants will receive a 12-week supervised physical training and nutritional intervention. Efficacy assessments will be conducted at baseline (week 0), post-intervention (week 12) and follow-up period (week 24). The investigators anticipate that the optimal patient-tailored training program is feasible and improves the symptoms and severity of elderly cancer cachexia. The results may shed light on the debilitating and burdensome condition and provide information on future clinical trials.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Simplified cancer CAchexia SCOre (MiniCASCO)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Physical training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05915325
