CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06718023
Title: Diverse Training Programs and Sarcopenia in Postmenopausal Women
Official Title: Effect of Diverse Training Programs on Prevention of Sarcopenia in Postmenopausal Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study explored preventive measures for sarcopenia in apparently healthy postmenopausal women. The investigators implemented a short Nordic walking intervention, Bungy Pumo exercises and strength training, and conducted a 3-month training program as an intervention method. The subjects divided into the NW (Nordic walking) test group, the ST (Strength Training) test group, BP (Bungy Pump exercises) test group and the control group, which engaged in regular daily activities without any additional physical exercise. The collected experimental data then processed and analyzed to objectively assess the benefits and limitations of different interventions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The tests were conducted twice (before and after the training period). Each test lasted two days and will be preceded by a 7-day measurement of physical activity using sport testers. On the first day, blood tests, microbiota, body composition and a preliminary analysis of diet diaries were performed. On the second day, physical fitness tests were carried out in the Physical Exercise Laboratory of the AWFiS in Gdańsk. Biological material (blood serum and feces) was frozen for testing by the project contractors in the Laboratory of Genetics in Sports of the AWFiS. The subjects were required to keep a diet diary in which they recorded meals during the 3 days preceding the blood and intestinal microbiota test.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Skeletal muscle index
  - Gait Speed
  - Hand Strength
  - Skeletal Muscle Mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nordic walking
  - BEHAVIORAL: Strength training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Bungy Pump Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06718023
