CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05373745
Title: Managing Pain and Cognitions in Older Adults With Early Cognitive Decline and Chronic Pain
Official Title: Addressing the Chronic Pain-Early Cognitive Decline Comorbidity Among Older Adults; The Active Brains Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 260
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The investigators aim to conduct a fully powered randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of two symptom management programs for older adults with early cognitive decline (either self-reported or confirmed by testing) and chronic pain, Active Brains 1 and Active Brains 2. The investigators will assess how each program may help in improving multimodal physical, cognitive and emotional function. The investigators will also assess whether improvements in outcomes from the two programs are maintained through 6-months follow-up. The investigators will also explore whether improvements in outcomes are mediated by nonadaptive pain reactions, adaptive coping, social factors and compensatory strategies and modified by demographic and clinical predictors. Both programs will be delivered virtually (Zoom).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators aim to conduct a fully powered randomized controlled trial to establish efficacy of two symptom management programs for older adults with early cognitive decline (either self-reported or confirmed by testing) and chronic pain, Active Brains 1 and Active Brains 2. The investigators will assess how the two programs may help in improving multimodal physical, cognitive and emotional function. The investigators will also assess whether improvements in outcomes are maintained through 6-months follow-up. The investigators will also explore whether improvements in outcomes are mediated by nonadaptive pain reactions, adaptive coping, social factors and compensatory strategies and modified by demographic and clinical predictors, and type of early cognitive decline. Both programs will be delivered virtually (Zoom).

Each group meets for eight, 90 minutes sessions over the secure Zoom platform. Each group has 5-8 participants. Participants receive a treatment manual. There are 3 assessment points: baseline, post program and 6-month follow-up. Assessments involve self-report questionnaires, a walk test and a neuropsychological evaluation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in PROMIS Physical Function
  - Change in Step Count via the ActiGraph wGT3X-BTLE Accelerometer
  - Change in six-minute walk test (6MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active Brains 1
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active Brains 2

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05373745
