CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03842735
Title: Physical Activity in Children DurinGHematopoietic Stem Cells trensplantation (HSCT)
Official Title: Promotion of Physical Activity for Children and Adolescents UndergoinGHematopoietic Stem Cells trensplantation (HSCT) During the In-patient Phase
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This interventional study was designed to assess the validity and the impact of a rehabilitation program on pediatric cancer patients undergoinGHematopoietic stem cells trensplantation (HSCT). Each participant will be randomly assigned to either an experimental or control (counseling rehabilitation care) group. The experimental group participate in an inpatient rehabilitation program for the duration of HSCT pathway. The program include standardized activities for 5 days a week in the child's room or in a pediatric gym at the hospital.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND Hematopoietic stem cell trensplantation (HSCT) is a potentially curative option for many diseases, such as hematologic malignancies and refractory solid tumors among children and adolescents. This procedure led to considerable improvement in survival rates, but also contributed to the development of late effects. Due to the severity of conditioning regimen, length of isolation and hospitalization period, weakness related to immunosuppression and drug toxicities, physical, cognitive and psychosocial functions are severely impaired. HSCT recipients may report impairments in cardiorespiratory fitness (fatigue), muscle bulk and strength, immunologic recovery, neuropsychological functions, functional abilities and autonomy with an undeniable decline of quality of life (QoL). Recently pediatric oncological research attentions have been directed to reduction of the impact of these side effects and to improvement of QoL, both during and after cancer treatment. The published studies about the effects of rehabilitation care, in pediatric population undergoinGHSCT show how rehabilitation, which consists in structured and adapted different therapeutic activities, is safe and feasible. In particular studies conducted on the inpatient phase for HSCT report how the execution of a low intensity level of activity doesn't have any bad effect on immunological recovery, positively affects BMI, gives benefits on general health status, improves QoL, protects from depressive symptoms by promoting a healthy lifestyle during survivorship. Moderate exercise in a chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) murine model receiving total body irradiation (TBI) and immunosuppression can reduce clinical severity scores, blood interleukine-4 (IL-4) and tumor necrosis factor α levels while increasing survival, physical fitness, circulating B220 and cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) lymphocytes. Finally, rehabilitation can improve immune function which has an impact on cancer control. Pediatric Oncohaematology Department of "Regina Margherita" Children's Hospital in Turin \["A.O.U. Città della Salute e della Scienza"\] is one of the most important structure in Italy for pediatric HSCT. In the year 2016, 47 patients underwent HSCT: 25 of them were less than 11 years old and 22 were older than 11 years. In 2017, until the month of August, 25 patients were trensplanted: 12 of them were less than 11 years old and 13 were older than 11 years. The in-patient phase lasted for a medium time of 40 days. From a recent review of the Department, in the period between March 2010 and November 2015, 207 children and adolescent patients benefited of a rehabilitation treatment, 42 of these during and after hospitalization for HSCT. However, to date rehabilitation programs have been implemented in a purely personalized perspective thus ignoring primary methodological issues (e.g., absence of a control group) which would allow an appropriate evaluation of outcomes generalizable to the tar

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in global motor skills level
  - change in range of passive ankle dorsiflexion
  - rate of immune cells recovery
  - participation rate at the exercise program
  - adhesion rate to rehabilitative counselling indications

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise and rehabilitation counselling
  - BEHAVIORAL: rehabilitation counselling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Months to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03842735
