CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05623137
Title: Acu-TENS to Improve the Sleep Quality in People with Stroke
Official Title: Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) Over Acupoints (Acu-TENS) for Improving Sleep Quality, Cognitive Function, Motor Function and in Post-stroke Patients
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Post-stroke sleep disorder and motor/cognitive dysfunction are common complications that affect the quality of life of older patients. The proposed study investigates the effects of an acupuncture-like method applied to six bilateral acupoints on sleep quality, motor function and cognition in older adults with chronic stroke. The study will be a single-blind (i.e., only patients will be blinded about the research purpose) randomized controlled trial (i.e., patients receiving the treatment is chosen at random) with a pre-mid-post follow-up design and involve two parallel groups of post-stroke survivors (aged \> 55 years) diagnosed with insomnia. Participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 radio to two independent groups, i.e., a treatment group or placebo group, namely a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation placed on acupoints (Acu-TENS) or a placebo group. The Acu-TENS group will receive a 6-week treatment that includes a 30-minute Acu-TENS + sleep hygiene program (SHP) twice a week. The placebo group will receive sham Acu-TENS (i.e., devices with the electrical circuit disconnected) + SHP with the same frequency as the Acu-TENS group. The selected acupoints will be bilateral Hegu (LI4), Quchi (LI11), Neiguan (PC6), Shenmen (HT7) on the arm and Sanyinjiao (SP6) and Zusanli (ST36) on the lower limb. The study's primary outcomes will be sleep quality measured by the device of ActiGraph and the self-report survey. The secondary outcomes will be motor function, measured by physical performance tests, cognition, measured by computer battery, and quality of life, measured by the self-report survey. All outcomes will be measured at the baseline assessment (before the treatment), mid-term assessment (after the three weeks treatment), post-treatment assessment (after the six-week treatment), and follow-up assessment (two weeks after the treatment ended). It is hypothesized that the Acu-TENS + SHP treatment will better alleviate insomnia, improve cognition and motor function in participants than the sham Acu-TENS + SHP treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study investigates the effects of non-invasive acupuncture techniques (i.e. transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation at acupoints; Acu-TENS) applied to six selected bilateral acupoints on sleep quality, motor function and cognition in older adult participants with chronic stroke. This proposed project aims to investigate the effectiveness of Acu-TENS + sleep hygiene program (SHP), compare with placebo-stimulation +SHP on sleep quality, motor function and cognition, and quality of life of older adults with chronic stroke.

Impact:

1. Practical significance: The proposed clinical-based randomized controlled trial will rigorously investigate the effects of Acu-TENS applied to selected acupoints on sleep quality, motor function, cognition, and quality of life in older adults with chronic stroke. The results of this study will shed light on the effectiveness of this non-invasive acupuncture treatment for treating insomnia and improving motor and cognition function in older adults with chronic stroke. This will help healthcare professionals treat this highly prevalent disorder for which effective treatments are currently lacking.
2. Scientific significance: The proposed study will be the first to investigate the effects of Acu-TENS on elderly patients with post-stroke insomnia. The objective measures used in the rigorously designed study will generate high-quality data and produce rigorous results.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI)
  - Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI)
  - Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI)
  - Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI)
  - Total sleep time

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Acu-TENS
  - DEVICE: Sham Acu-TENS
  - OTHER: SHP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05623137
