CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03840447
Title: Analysis of the Efficiency of a Chronic Disease Self-Management Programme in a Vulnerable Population in Five European Countries
Official Title: Analysis of the Efficiency of a Chronic Disease Self-Management Programme in Population With Socioeconomic Vulnerability in Five European Countries
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 235
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), it is estimated that around 35% of women and 29% of men are affected by chronic conditions and this percentage is clearly influenced by specific risk factors, such as lifestyle indicators. The high prevalence of chronic conditions put a large burden on national budgets. The healthcare costs of chronic conditions reach 6.8% of GDP in some European countries. The economic factors are also conditioning the individuals' lifestyles, including their concerns about health and self-care as a part of their way of life. the most educated patients suffering from a chronic disorder have often better skills to manage their conditions and therefore, show better health indicators than those less educated or with lowest socioeconomic status. In addition, the former are normally more interested in participating in community-based interventions, training programmes and research actions. Thus, the impact of interventions targeted to increase self-management skills and improve health condition of individuals with chronic diseases could be extremely higher in those individuals with education and socioeconomic vulnerability traits. Several health education programs have shown positive effects in the self-management of chronic disease. The Chronic Disease Self-Management Programme is a program based on empowering people with chronic diseases to manage and control their disease. This program has been used in several countries over the past twenty years and its effectiveness has been widely demonstrated. However, this programme has not been specifically offered to people in situations of socio-economic vulnerability. The implementation of the EFFICHRONIC project, in five European countries with different health systems and socio-economic contexts, will validate the effectiveness of this program with vulnerable people with chronic diseases. Indeed, the investigators believe that the benefit of interventions aimed at increasing self-management skills and improving the health status of people with chronic diseases could be greater for people with socio-economic vulnerability characteristics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluate the efficacy of a 6-weeks self-management program on the quality of life by SF-12 between baseline and 6 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Chronic Disease Self-Management programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03840447
