CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04765293
Title: GRAVITY System Therapy on Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: The Effect of GRAVITY System Therapy on Chronic Low Back Pain in Disc Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study was to examine the effect of GRAVITY system therapy on chronic disc-related pain in lumbar spine. Investigators made a hypothesis that patients who regularly perform core strengthening exercises based on gravity system will decrease pain and disability, and increase muscle strength in higher extent comparing to control group, that receive passive physical therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
GRAVITY therapy group had therapy twice a week for 4 weeks for 40 minutes that made 2x40 minx 4 weeks=320 minutes.

Clinical control group had standard, two weeks ambulant, every day, physical therapy sessions, 5 times a week 30 min, that is 10 sessions 30 min x10=300 min. So the total amount of treatment was comparable.

All participants in both groups completed the study. Investigators used the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) to determine the disability level of patient with low back pain (Shah et al, 2016), and VAS scale (visual analogue scale) (0-10) to measure pain intensity.

The next stage of examination was the lumbopelvic complex stability test. The test comprised of several activities which had to be performed without lifting the lumbar region. The more difficult activity a patient was able to perform, the higher was assessed their muscle strength.

All the patients were examined twice:

1. before starting the therapy cycle,
2. and after the therapy. They were informed about the aim of the study, the study course and the possible risks. The participation in the study was voluntary and anonymous. The patients signed informed consent to participate in the study. The next step was the lumbopelvic complex stability test. Patients took it in lying position. The therapist placed their hand under the patient's lumbar region, with the patient's spinous processes resting on second do fifth metacarpal heads. Then, the therapist instructed the patient on the type of movement the patient was supposed to perform. The patient's task was to perform the task without lifting the lumbar region off the therapists' fingers. If the task was performed correctly, the next level task ensued. If the patient lifted their lumbar region, it meant that they did not have enough muscle strength for that level. The test was to be performed without pain, and if the patient felt pain, the test was discontinued and the patient was assigned muscle strength from the level without pain syndromes. Each correctly performed task trenslated into a given level of muscle strength.

Level 0.3 - lying on the back with the limbs flexed at the hips and knees. The patient drew the knee to the chest, then returned to the starting position. Level 0.4 - lying on the back, the patient held flexed leg with their arms at their chest, and then drew the other leg. Level 0.5 - the same exercise as in position 0.4, yet without stabilizing the leg with the arms. Level 1a - one leg flexed at the hip and the knee, the other leg was lying extended and then it was raised upwards, extended. Then, the patient swapped legs and repeated the task. Level 1b - patient position as in 1a, yet the extended leg was brought up to the flexed leg. Then the patient swapped legs and repeated the exercise. Level 2 - one leg was flexed at 90° at the hip and at the knee, the other leg was extended. The patient extended the flexed leg, sliding the heel on the ground. After the knee was fully extended, the leg returned 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04765293
