CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06707649
Title: The Effectiveness of Self-Management Education and Telephone Follow-up in Patient with COPD Exacerbation
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Self-Management Education and Telephone Follow-up on Self-Care Agency and Symptom Management in Patients with COPD Exacerbation: a Randomized Controlled Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
According to the 2024 GOLD guidelines, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is defined as heterogeneous lung condition characterized by chronic respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, cough, sputum production, and/or exacerbations) due to abnormalities of the airways (bronchitis, bronchiolitis) and/or alveoli (emphysema) that cause persistent, often progressive, airflow obstruction. COPD is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity in Turkey and worldwide. Since COPD is an incurable and lifelong disease, it is important for patients to have high levels of self-management.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does self-management education and telephone follow-up intervention effect self-care agency and symptom management in people with COPD exacerbation?
2. Does self-management education effect self-care agency and symptom management in people with COPD exacerbation? This study will evaluate the effect of self-management education and telephone follow-up on self-care agency and symptom management. Patients hospitalized with COPD exacerbation will be trained in the hospital and will be followed up by phone call after discharge. During the study, 3 groups were planned; Group 1 will be educated and followed up by telephone Group 2 will only receive education and no telephone follow-up. Group 3 will not receive education and telephone follow-up, only standard care. It is planned to collect the data from the patients at the beginning of the study, at 1, 3 and 6 months.

Main outcomes:

* Level of self-care agency
* Level of symptom management The results obtained will be interpreted by comparing between 3 groups.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - mMRC Dyspnea Scale
  - The COPD Assessment Test
  - Clinical COPD Questionnaire (CCQ)
  - The Modified Borg Dyspnea Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Self Management Education
  - OTHER: Telephone Follow-up

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06707649
