CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04788160
Title: Cervical SNAG Half Rotation Technique in Cervicogenic Headache Patients.
Official Title: Effects of Cervical SNAG Half Rotation Technique in Cervicogenic Headache Patients.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to find out the effect of cervical sustained natural apophyseal glide half rotation technique in patients with cervicogenic headache. Not many researches have focused specifically on the cervical sustained natural apophyseal glide half rotation technique and this study intends to see its effect in the cervicogenic headache patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cervicogenic headache is a very frequent complaint that is commonly faced by general population. The International Headache Society placed cervicogenic headache in the secondary headache sub-group. The global prevalence of headache is about 47%, whereas 15% to 20% of those are Cervicogenic headache .Females are four times more prone to Cervicogenic headache than males. Persons with chronic Cervicogenic headache experience significant restriction of everyday function and are limited to social involvement, and emotional sufferings. Beside this, the poorer quality of life is seen in these individuals than normal. Headache can be classified as primary or secondary. Primary headache originates from a vascular or muscular source such as tension-type headache. Secondary headache is related to other structures with cervicogenic headache being the most common type that is related to cervical spine dysfunction. Up to about 70% of frequent intermittent headache are reported with associated neck pain making cervicogenic headache difficult to diagnose.

The C1-C2 segment is considered essential to be examined in Cervicogenic headache diagnosis. Moreover, muscle tightness especially of the upper trapezius and sternocleidomastoid muscles with impaired strength and neuromotor contract of the cervical flexors (superficial and deep) are frequently encountered in subjects with Cervicogenic headache. Different therapeutic approaches have been proposed for treatment of headaches; with physical therapy, pharmacological drugs, and cognitive therapies most commonly used. Several studies reported that manual therapy of the cervical spine can decrease pain intensity, frequency, and duration in addition to reduction in neck pain and disability. The "mobilization with movement" concept, known as the Mulligan concept, is entirely distinct from other forms of manual therapy. Mulligan described the sustained natural apophyseal glide on the joint with active movement done by the patient in the direction of the symptoms. This glide should be pain-free, with proper force applied by a trained person.

The efficacy of sustained natural apophyseal glide C1-C2 has been proven in a research in patients who were experiencing acute to subacute Cervicogenic headache for both short and long-term periods. Mulligan recommended that mobilization should be done towards the restricted site or in the direction of symptom reproduction, which is difficult to find in patients experiencing headache and dizziness in only one direction. There is evidence that mobilizing symptomatic and asymptomatic cervical levels results in immediate improvement of pain and segmental mobility at the same level as well as adjacent areas. sustained natural apophyseal glide Mulligan mobilizations are one of the most popular manual therapy techniques found to be effective in treating Cervicogenic headache as mentioned in the "Neck Pain Guidelines 2017" recommended by American Physical Therapy Association , which reporte

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS)
  - Flexion rotation test (FRT)
  - Neck disability index (NDI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cervical SNAGs along with conventional therapy
  - OTHER: Conventional Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04788160
