CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00956839
Title: Prospective Study of Efficacy of Intra-muscular Vitamin D3 in Tropical Calcific Pancreatitis
Official Title: Double-blind Randomized Study to Determine the Efficacy of Intramuscular Vitamin D3 Supplementation in Tropical Calcific Pancreatitis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of 2 different doses of intramuscular (IM) vitamin D3 as compared to an oral replacement dose in normalizing vitamin D levels in the blood of patients with tropical calcific pancreatitis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Tropical calcific pancreatitis (TCP) is a form of chronic pancreatitis unique to developing countries. Patients with TCP often have malabsorption leading to nutritional deficiencies. We have noted that vitamin D deficiency is common in patients with TCP. The ideal regimen for supplementing vitamin D3 in chronic pancreatitis remains unclear and there are no previous studies available. High dose oral vitamin D2 has been shown to be ineffective in normalizing vitamin D levels in patients with pancreatic insufficiency due to cystic fibrosis.

Intramuscular (IM) vitamin D3 supplementation in chronic pancreatitis has certain advantages. Firstly, decreased and inconsistent absorption from the intestine is avoided. Secondly, IM vitamin D3 has a long duration of action (6-12 months). The safety of high-dose IM vitamin D3 has been proven in previous studies in healthy individuals. Finally, the injection form is considerably less expensive as compared to oral vitamin D3.

The aim of the current prospective double blind study is to compare 2 regimens of high dose IM vitamin D3 replenishment with oral vitamin D3 in standard recommended doses in normalizing serum vitamin D3 levels in patients with TCP.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Patients With Serum 25 Hydroxy Vitamin D3 > 30 ng/ml

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin D3 (Cholecalciferol)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00956839
