CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06978309
Title: EMG Response in Forearm and Neck Muscles When Comparing Surgical Techniques.
Official Title: Exploring the Difference in EMG Response of Forearm and Sternocleidomastoid Muscles When Comparing Laparoscopic Surgery (LS) and Robot Assisted Laparoscopic Surgery (RALS).
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Surgeons are performing an increasing number of minimal access procedures because these offer certain advantages including improved recovery times. However, this also results in surgeons operating for longer periods which inevitably increases the already known prevalence of work-related Musculoskeletal (MSK) injuries amongst surgeons. Work-related MSK disorders account for 26 - 47.5% of illnesses and injuries due to overexertion and repetitive use, in professionals with ergonomically challenging jobs. Robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery (RALS) is a modern technology that could help mitigate these MSK problems and thereby improve patient care. In comparison to standard laparoscopic surgery (LS), RALS offers steadier wrist movements with a reduced fulcrum effect, thus benefiting the patient.

No study has compared the demands of RALS vs. LS on musculoskeletal fatigue (and subsequent injury risk). The investigators need to determine whether a career using RALS is associated with better musculoskeletal health of surgeons than standard LS when performing complex minimally invasive procedures.

The study will recruit Surgeons who perform prostate and bowel surgical procedures who have experience using RALS and/or LS. Surgeons will complete a series of validated questionnaires before and after each surgery to subjectively determine musculoskeletal strain/pain and will have body composition quantified.

They will be fitted with EMG (to measure muscle fatigue) whilst performing real-life surgery. Analysis of data gathered will be used to show what the short- and long- term musculoskeletal demands are and in turn determine if these are associated with changes in motor control.

The researcher's postulated hypothesis is that RALS should have less musculoskeletal effects both short and long term on surgeons, therefore, highlighting the fact that the implementation of RALS should be less controversial, because in the long run, the most expensive objects in the operating room are the personnel.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acute muscle activation- percentage of forearm maximal voluntary contraction (%) assessed using EMG frequency.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: No Interventions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06978309
