CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06727643
Title: Comparison of Acute Effects of Flexible and Rigid Taping on Core Strength in Healthy Young Adults
Official Title: Comparison of Acute Effects of Flexible and Rigid Taping on Core Strength in Healthy Young Adults: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Trunk stabilization refers to the optimization of posture for conscious and unconscious movements, the maintenance of upright posture, and the stabilization of arm and head movements.

Trunk stabilizer muscles reduce overload between the intervertebral joints and play an important role in maintaining the stability of the spine. Trunk stabilizer muscles are connected via fascia, and superficial and deep muscles control the positions of the trunk to facilitate trunk stabilization.

Prolonged activity of trunk stabilization muscles causes fatigue in one or more muscles, which can lead to loss of neuromuscular control and cause tissue damage and back pain due to uncontrolled movements.

Muscular fatigue is defined as a decrease in the maximum strength or strength capacity of muscles after continuous physical activity. Sore or weak muscles tend to fatigue more quickly, which leads to a decrease in the ability to perform physical activities. When the endurance of the trunk stabilizer muscles decreases due to muscle fatigue, concentric and eccentric signal patterns are disrupted, causing the muscles to react less quickly. Muscle fatigue also reduces exercise performance and increases the risk of pain and injury. Therefore, increasing muscle endurance in cases of spinal instability may be more important than muscle strength training. Recently, flexible tape has begun to be used in the treatment of muscle fatigue. Taping has been used for years in both athletes and physiotherapy clinics for reducing pain, preventing injuries, biomechanical correction, increasing stability, increasing proprioception, reducing edema, as well as muscle inhibition and facilitation. Recently, taping techniques that primarily aim to change muscle activity have become widespread physiotherapy methods. In particular, it has been shown that taping inhibits or facilitates the muscle by changing the muscle's reflex amplitude (H reflex). When the literature is examined, it is seen that studies on taping are focused especially on flexible taping applications, and that studies on rigid taping applications are few. Therefore, in this study, the researchers aimed to compare the effects of flexible and rigid taping on trunk muscle endurance (core) and trunk stability when all trunk stabilizer muscles are used.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will include 56 healthy individuals from the relatives of patients who are between the ages of 18-25, who have no medical history of spinal musculoskeletal disorders in the last 6 months, who do not have a current neurological or orthopedic contracture, who do not have a history of contact dermatitis or a history of cutaneous adverse reactions to flexible or rigid tape, and who have not been diagnosed with scoliosis or a herniated disc in the last 6 months and who agree to participate in the study.

The trunk muscle strength (core) of all individuals participating in the study will be evaluated with the McGill Core Endurance Tests and the Sharman Test, and their stability-balance with the Biodex Balance System (does not contain radiation or similar harmful rays) with eyes open and closed.

The individuals will be divided into two groups using the envelope drawing method and will be subjected to trunk endurance tests and trunk stability tests before taping. Flexible taping will be applied to one group and rigid taping will be applied to the other, and endurance tests and stability tests will be repeated immediately after taping. Tapings and measurements will be performed by different physiotherapists to ensure blindness.

The tapes investigators will use are the ones that people apply themselves, even on internet sites, and do not harm the person or the environment. The tapes will be applied by a specialist physiotherapist, will remain on the patient for the duration of the evaluations (20 minutes on average) and will be removed by the physiotherapist when the evaluations are over. The tapes will not be left on the participant.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Trunk Muscle Strength
  - Core Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: trunk muscle strength
  - OTHER: Core Strength
  - OTHER: Balance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06727643
