CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06801483
Title: Ankle Strengthening in Athletes With Chronic Ankle Instability
Official Title: Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Multiaxial Ankle Strengthening Training in Athletes With Chronic Ankle Instability
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Chronic ankle instability (CAI) is a common complication following an ankle sprain, affecting joint stability and leading to decreased muscle strength and poor neuromuscular control. These symptoms can significantly impact athletes' sports performance. Rehabilitation training for CAI majorly involves strengthening or balance training. Few studies have discussed treatment plans that combine the above two training, and the effectiveness of combined training is similar to that of single training content. Due to the lack of machines to train ankle strength, thera-bands were often used for ankle strengthening. However, the resistance thera-bands provide is limited and may need more for athletes requiring high-intensity training. In recent years, a local company has developed a multiaxial ankle training system for machine-based ankle strengthening. This machine allows for training the ankle joint in various directions while sitting and can provide greater training resistance. As this machine has recently been developed and there is seldom evidence for its use in training, this project aims to discuss the effectiveness of using the ankle training machine in athletes with chronic ankle instability. This study will compare the differences in muscle strength, morphology, muscle material properties, balance ability, and functional performance of athletes after a six-week combined training program with thera-band or the multiaxial ankle training system for providing resistance. Thereby establishing a training plan for athletes suffering from chronic ankle instability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Morphology
  - Y-Balance Test
  - Countermovement Jump
  - Triple Hop Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Strengthening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06801483
