CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00294164
Title: Safety and Efficacy Trial of Serostim® in the Treatment of Subjects With Human Immunodeficiency Virus-associated Adipose Redistribution Syndrome (HARS)
Official Title: Phase 2/3, Multicenter, Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Parallel-group, Dose-finding, Safety and Efficacy Trial of Subcutaneously Administered Serostim® (Mammalian Cell-derived Recombinant Human Growth Hormone, r-HGH) in the Treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus-associated Adipose Redistribution Syndrome (HARS)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 245
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This study is a Phase 2/3, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, dose-finding trial of Serostim® (mammalian cell-derived recombinant human growth hormone, r-HGH) versus placebo in subjects with human immunodeficiency virus-associated adipose tissue redistribution syndrome (HARS).

The primary study objective is to determine whether Serostim® treatment reduces adipose tissue maldistribution more effectively than placebo. The primary co-endpoints are derived from measures of visceral adipose tissue assessed by computerized tomography (CT) and the ratio of trunk; and limb fat assessed by dual-energy X-Ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans. Anthropometric measures, physical exams, quality of life assessments, serial photographs, and various laboratory measures will be used to address secondary objectives. These secondary objectives relate to the impact of Serostim® on Physician and subject assessments of change in body shape, health-related quality of life, attitude towards medication compliance, metabolic markers, fat redistribution, and safety.

On Day 1, eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive daily Serostim®, Serostim® and placebo given on alternate days, or daily placebo. Serostim® doses will be based on body weight, with a maximum dose of 4 milligram (mg).

Therapy will continue for 12 weeks. Treatment will then be altered and the new treatment will be continued through Week 24. Interim Study Visits will be required at Weeks 2 and 4 (Treatment Period 1) and at Weeks 14 and 16 (Treatment Period 2). Subjects will be offered to be enrolled into a maintenance Protocol (Study 23056) at Week 24.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in absolute area of visceral adipose tissue quantified by Computerized Tomography (CT) scan at Week 12
  - Change from Baseline in the ratio of trunk fat to limb fat quantified by Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DXA) scan at Week 12

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Serostim®
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00294164
