CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04094298
Title: Use of Extended Release Triamcinolone in the Treatment of Rotator Cuff Disease
Official Title: Use of Extended Release Triamcinolone in the Treatment of Rotator Cuff Disease
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 65
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study is to assess the overall safety and general tolerability of extended release triamcinolone acetate (TA-ER/FX006) in patient with rotator cuff disease. The study will enroll 65 patients, aged 40-75 years old, in a longitudinal case series level IV study using extended release triamcinolone to treat shoulder pain from rotator cuff disease. Inclusion criteria will be shoulder pain without a history of trauma and physical exam consistent with rotator cuff tendinitis, impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tear.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of TA-ER in the treatment of rotator cuff disease. The study will enroll 65 patients in a longitudinal case series level IV study using extended release triamcinolone to treat shoulder pain from rotator cuff disease. Inclusion criteria will be shoulder pain without a history of trauma and physical exam consistent with rotator cuff tendinitis, impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tear. Patients will have normal Xrays or Xrays indicative of chronic cuff tearing and a musculoskeletal ultrasound indicating an intact rotator cuff, partial cuff tearing or cuff tear. Patients will undergo an ultrasound guided injection of TA-ER into the subacromial space from a lateral access point at the time of the examination. They will be monitored for any immediate adverse effects. Patient reported outcomes measures will be recorded with online questionnaires which include a Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Single assessment numeric evaluation (SANE), Veteran's Rand 12 (VR-12) and American Shoulder and Elbow Scale (ASES) and will be recorder pre-treatment and at 2, 4, 8 and 12 and 24 weeks post treatment. Patients will be asked to follow up for an in person evaluation at 4 weeks, 12 weeks and 24 weeks post injection.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence of adverse events

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: FX006 Injection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04094298
