CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05683119
Title: The Effect of Menstrual Cycle and Oral Contraceptive Pill Phase on Aspects of Exercise Physiology
Official Title: The Effect of Menstrual Cycle and Oral Contraceptive Pill Phase on Aspects of Exercise Physiology and Athletic Performance in Female Athletes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This study will investigate the effect of menstrual cycle (MC) and oral contraceptive pill phase on aspects of exercise physiology and athletic performance in female athletes. Specifically, this study intends to investigate the effects of circulating fluctuations in oestradiol and progesterone, experienced during the menstrual cycle and oral contraceptive pill use, on aspects of exercise physiology and athletic performance in female athletes. This research will help researchers determine if a particular hormonal profile affects physiological functioning such as muscle strength, maximum oxygen uptake and athletic performance in female athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The menstrual cycle is the body's way of preparing for pregnancy. A "normal" or "healthy" cycle lasts an average of 21-35 days, which starts on the first day of bleeding. Throughout each cycle, levels of the hormones oestrogen and progesterone vary. The oral contraceptive pill is designed to prevent pregnancy; one way it does this is by lowering the levels of oestrogen and progesterone. The main purpose of oestrogen and progesterone is for reproduction. These hormones have also been shown to affect other bodily functions. The effects of oestrogen and progesterone on a woman's capacity to undertake exercise is an important factor for active women to consider to optimise training schedules and athletic performances. Emerging research has suggested that menstrual cycle phase or oral contraceptive use is associated with changes in sport and exercise performance. However, research on this topic is lacking (both in quality and quantity), and currently is quite contradictory. Much more high-quality research is required to explore the impact of both natural and supplemented oestrogen and progesterone on exercise-related outcomes to give convincing advice to active women. This research must follow strict procedural guidelines and include accurate hormonal measurement (through blood samples) to increase its usefulness to exercising women. Such research is needed to establish a cause-and-effect relationship for any differences in exercise physiology and athletic performance between the different phases of the menstrual cycle, between phases of oral contraceptive pill taking and not-taking, and between women using or not-using oral contraceptives.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood Sample
  - Cycling Protocol
  - Height
  - Weight
  - Stork Balance Stand Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise and blood draw

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05683119
