CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04060004
Title: The Effects of Dry Needling on the Superficial Neck Musculature
Official Title: The Effects of Dry Needling on the Superficial Neck Musculature in Patients With Chronic Myofascial Pain: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The term myofascial pain refers to the existence of myofascial trigger points (MTP), which are defined as hypersensitive points in a tense band of skeletal muscle, which can cause referred pain or autonomous phenomena.

To address the treatment of myofascial trigger points, conservative and invasive techniques have been proposed. Dry needling is one of the invasive techniques that have been shown to be effective in improving pain and function in patients with myofascial trigger points.

This trial aims to analyse the effectiveness of dry needling in patients with myofascial neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The main objective of the study is to analyze the effects of dry needling on the superficial neck musculature in patients with chronic myofascial neck pain in terms of pain, functional capacity, mobility, psychosocial variables and motor control compared with both sham dry needling group and control group.

In addition, a secondary objective is to analyze the relationships between the psychosocial variables and the results obtained in the variables analyzed in the patients belonging to the three groups.

For this purpose the investigators conduct a randomized controlled trial double-blind. Patients included are randomized into 3 groups. One receives dry needling, another one receives sham dry needling, and the last one is a control group.

The hypothesis of this study is that patients in the real dry needling group will improve more compared to patients in the sham dry needling group and the control group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Neck pain
  - Neck pain
  - Cervical disability
  - Cervical disability
  - Motor control

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dry needling
  - OTHER: Sham dry needling
  - OTHER: Electrotherapy + therapeutic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04060004
