CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05962736
Title: The Effect of Mirror Therapy After Thoracotomy
Official Title: The Effect of Mirror Therapy on Shoulder Pain and Function in Patients Undergoing Thoracotomy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
After thoracotomy, limitation in shoulder functions, ipsilateral shoulder pain, decrease in shoulder muscle strength and deterioration in quality of life occur. The exercise program applied after thoracotomy includes active range of motion exercises, postural correction activities, scapular strengthening exercises, and stretching of the chest and shoulder muscles. Mirror therapy can improve motor functions and reduce unilateral pain. This study aims to evaluate the effects of upper extremity exercises based on mirror therapy after thoracotomy on ipsilateral shoulder pain, shoulder joint range of motion, shoulder muscle strength, shoulder function, quality of life, movement and fear of re-injury. The patients were divided into 2 groups as "mirror therapy group" and "control group", by choosing a simple randomization so that they could not see what was written on their pre-prepared papers. Standard medical treatment, care and pulmonary rehabilitation program were applied to both groups. In addition to the routine rehabilitation program after thoracotomy, the study group received a total of 24 sessions of foal therapy, 3 sessions a week, for 8 weeks. Data were collected using the Personal Information Form including the demographic characteristics of the patients, Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale, Numerical Pain Rating Scale (NPRS), Shoulder Active Range of Motion, Pain Catastrophization Scale, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, Shoulder muscle strength, SF-12. performed before and after treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pelvic examination has been a worrisome examination for women since the first years of gynecology science until today. Previous studies have discussed patient anxieties experienced during interventions such as radiological imaging, endoscopy, colonoscopy, bronchoscopy, and invasive cardiac interventions. Short informative videos that do not cause any cost loss or harm increase the tolerance with these applications and reduce patient anxiety. Additionally, many studies have emphasized that doctors have no time to provide information trainings for the vaginal examination among their intense practices. Information that cannot be provided before the gynecologic examination due to limited time causes pelvic pain in women due to the anxiety experienced during the examination. In the literature, the concept of chronic pelvic pain is defined as non-cyclical pain that lasts longer than six months and develops the area below the umbilicus and between the gluteal lines; however, pelvic pain is observed depending on the excessive activity of pelvic floor muscles during the examination in patients who have the fear of the gynecologic examination.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of multimedia patient information training provided before the gynecologic examination on the patient's pelvic pain, anxiety, and fear.

The present study is designed as a randomized controlled single-blind prospective experimental study to examine the effects of patient training provided before the gynecologic examination on the patient's anxiety, fear, and pelvic pain.

The study is conducted with 80 voluntary patients in the age range of 18-50 years, who applied to the gynecology and obstetrics clinic.

The inclusion criteria are as follows; having no known cerebrovascular disease, having no morbid obesity and heart disease that would pose an obstacle to the study, having no cognitive disorder that would pose an obstacle to communication, having no stroke and the associated influence, and agreeing to participate in the study.

Participants are grouped as; who were gived information about vaginal examination in the training group (n=40) and who are not gived information about vaginal examination in the control group (n=40) groups. Randomization is performed by using the sealed envelope method, just before the evaluations. Vaginal examination information is video based patient education programme. That contained pelvic anatomy and how to practice vaginal examination by gynecologists.

Age, weight and height measurements, educational background, occupation, marital status, gravidity and parity, number of gynecologic examinations, presence of dyspareunia and dysmenorrhea, urinary incontinence complaints, smoking and alcohol habits of the patients in both groups are recorded. Clinical evaluation is carried out to provide information about the patients' demographic characteristics and medical condition. The patient completed the questionnaires. The researcher helped patie

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of Pain Score
  - Change of Active Shoulder Range of Motion
  - Change of Shoulder Muscle Strength
  - Change of Quality of Life Score
  - Change of Shoulder, Pain and Disability Index Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Mirror therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05962736
