CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01358643
Title: Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF)Veteran Preferences for Automated Physical Activity Interventions
Official Title: Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) Veteran Preferences for and Feasibility of Automated Physical Activity Interventions: A Pilot Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this pilot is to assess the feasibility and potential effectiveness of three specific e-health approaches. One approach, SparkPeople.com, involves the use of social media and can be accessed through a free website. This approach has the potential to provide support through an on-line community as well as a number of diet/weight and physical activity related tools. A mobile phone application is also available for those with smart phones. The second approach, BodyMedia, involves the use of an objective monitoring device that tracks all activity. This information can be uploaded to a website to provide ongoing monitoring and feedback about activity and energy expenditure. The third approach, P90X, involves a DVD based resistance focused exercise program. While DVD programs are not necessarily considered e-health, participants will be encouraged to participate in online community forums associated with the program. All participants, regardless of randomization, will be given 4 point of decision prompts that are laminated 8.5x11 posters encouraging healthier behaviors to display in various areas of their home.

The specific aims are:

1. To assess the effect of the intervention on weight, activity levels, depression, and adherence.
2. To determine level of interest, perceptions, feasibility and satisfaction of the proposed interventions (i.e. SparkPeople.com vs. BodyMedia vs. P90X) with particular attention to: 1) social media; 2) food logs; 3) objective monitoring of physical activity; 4) use of point systems

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a pilot study designed to better understand what elements/strategies help to engage Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) veterans in an e-health program for promoting weight loss and increasing physical activity. These data will be used as pilot information for a larger study to assess the effectiveness of using an e-health approach to promote weight loss and increase physical activity among post-deployment OEF/OIF veterans who are at risk for developing diabetes. Additionally, we seek to recognize any effects of the intervention on other health-related outcomes, such as stress, depression or other mental health measures, chronic pain, sleep, quality of life, satisfaction with care/ Veteran Affairs Health system, employment status, social support/connectedness.

Post-deployment OEF/OIF veterans worry about gaining weight and believe regular physical activity is beneficial, yet many don't exercise due to health problems and/or chronic pain. Healthy eating combined with physical activity are key strategies in maintaining or losing weight and is important in preventing diabetes, cardiovascular disease and other preventable illnesses as well as managing many mental health conditions and reducing chronic pain symptoms. In addition, maintaining or improving physical activity/exercise may be an effective strategy for addressing other post-deployment issues: stress, social issues.

E-health strategies may be an effective and potentially preferred as well as efficient (cost-effective) way to deliver or assist OEF/OIF veterans with health and lifestyle related health behaviors. There is a growing array of e-health tools, technologies and approaches to assist people with diet-related issues (for weight loss or maintaining a healthy weight) and to encourage physical activity. This includes cell phone applications, objective monitoring devices such as pedometers and web-based programs (as well as combination of these different strategies). However, the most effective and efficient way to encourage healthy eating and weight loss/maintenance or promote physical activity remains an open question and which tools and technologies might best engage the OEF/OIF veteran population in addressing these lifestyle issues is yet to be determined.

OEF/OIF Coordinators will include the study recruitment flyer in their initial informational mailing to new OEF/OIF veterans and publish the flyer in their monthly newsletter. The recruitment flyer will encourage interested veterans to contact study staff via a toll free number (where they will leave a message) or email. During one-on-one meetings, Coordinators will identify overweight and obese OEF/OIF veterans who are interested in losing weight with physical activity and with the veterans permission will forward the veterans name and phone number to the research study staff by leaving a voice mail on the study phone line. During these meetings, the OEF/OIF Coordinators will also provide basic inform

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Perceptions of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) Veterans of Different Physical Activity Interventions: Change from Baseline in perceptions of physical activity at 6 weeks and 12 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Three home-based diet and exercise programs

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01358643
