CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06390618
Title: Biopsychosocial Effectiveness of Exercise Trainings in Earthquake Survivors With Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
Official Title: Investigation of the Biopsychosocial Effectiveness of Different Exercise Trainings in Earthquake Survivors With Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
In study, the investigators aim to demonstrate the effectiveness of biopsychosocial-based exercise approach in post-traumatic stress disorder of physiotherapists in post-earthquake disaster management.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to compare the effects of aerobic exercise and biopsychosocial exercise in addition to aerobic exercise on functional capacity, trauma symptoms, depression, anxiety, stress, sleep quality, quality of life and biopsychosocial status in earthquake victims with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Individuals will be randomized using the covariate adaptive randomization method. According to this randomization, they will be divided into 3 groups: aerobic exercise group (AE), combined exercise (CE) group, in which biopsychosocial exercise is performed in addition to aerobic exercise, and control group (C).

A total of 16 sessions of treatment will be performed in 8 weeks, 2 days a week. In the control group, no intervention will be made. The change over time in the control group and individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder will be monitored.

Questionnaires for quantitative data before treatment and 8 weeks after treatment; Data will also be collected through interview questions for qualitative data about experience/change after 8 weeks of treatment. In our study, mixed methods research will be used because it is thought that the survey data can be more descriptive and meaningful by supporting qualitative interview questions. Explanatory sequential mixed methods type will be used as a mixed methods research design. According to this design, quantitative data will be collected first and then qualitative data about the topic to be focused on will be collected from group interviews with semi-structured interview questions. Phenomenology research focuses on the experiences of participants. Phenomenological research method will be used in qualitative research.

A moderate intensity (50-60%) aerobic exercise program will be applied 3 days a week, using the karvonen method for aerobic exercise. According to the aerobic exercise intensity karvonen method, the formula "(Maximal Heart Rate (220-years) - Resting Heart Rate) x 50-60% + Resting Heart Rate)" will be used. 1-4. week 50%, 5-8. Exercise intensity will be increased by 60% per week.

Cognitive Exercise Therapy Approach (BETY) will be applied as a biopsychosocial exercise. BETY method is a patient-centered biopsychosocial approach and a holistic treatment option. On the basis of the BETY session, warm-up movements, exercises and cooling movements will be performed sequentially. While authentic movements are performed accompanied by music as dance therapy during the warm-up and cool-down period, functional trunk stabilization exercises are used during the exercises period. In addition, cognitive change is aimed by expressing positive and negative emotions during side lying exercises. Social support will also be provided by holding BETY sessions as a group. Thus, the aim is biological recovery with exercises, psychological recovery by expressing negative-positive thoughts during exercises and emphasizing staying in positive thoughts, and social recovery with group treatme

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cognitive Exercise Therapy Approach-Biopsychosocial Questionnaire (BETY-BQ)
  - Qualitative Interview Questions (from group interviews with semi-structured interview questions)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic Exercise (AE) Group
  - OTHER: Combined Exercise (CE) Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06390618
