CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07200271
Title: Surgical Management of Lateral Ankle Instability: Modified Broström-Gould Versus Arthroscopic Allograft Reconstruction of the Anterior Talofibular and Calcaneofibular Ligaments.
Official Title: Surgical Management of Lateral Ankle Instability: Modified Broström-Gould Versus Arthroscopic Allograft Reconstruction of the Anterior Talofibular and Calcaneofibular Ligaments. A Randomized Stratified Clinical Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Primary Objective:

To clarify whether arthroscopic reconstruction with allograft provides tangible benefits over the modified open Broström-Gould technique, or if both are equivalent in efficacy and safety. The clinical AOFAS scale will be used for assessment.

Secondary Objectives:

To determine if there are differences in health outcomes and patient-perceived pain using the specific SP-36 scale and verbal numeric rating scale (VNRS). Additionally, to assess differences in postoperative complication rates and time to return to daily life activities between the two surgical techniques.

Study Design:

Prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trial with two parallel groups stratified by age and functional demand.

Condition or Disorder Being Studied:

Chronic lateral ankle instability.

Study Population and Sample Size:

The target population includes subjects diagnosed with chronic lateral ankle instability. The study population consists of patients diagnosed in the Orthopedics consultations at Hospital Infanta Elena who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Based on sample size calculations, a total of 36 patients will be recruited. However, due to the prospective nature and stratification by epidemiological and functional variables, the sample size may be increased to ensure comparable groups in each stratum.

Study Timeline and Estimated Completion Date:

The study is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2025. Recruitment is estimated to last 24 months, with a follow-up period of 12 months, for a total duration of 3 years, ending in the third quarter of 2028.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clarify whether arthroscopic reconstruction with allograft provides tangible benefits over the modified open Broström-Gould technique, or if both are equivalent in efficacy and safety.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic reconstruction surgery
  - PROCEDURE: Open surgery

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07200271
