CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05466916
Title: EDITS Pilot Study for Gynecologic Cancer Survivors
Official Title: Exercise and Diet Intervention opTimized for Gynecologic Cancer Survivors (EDITS Study): Development, Feasibility, and Acceptability
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The main goal in this project is to develop and pilot test a 12-week multiple health behavior change (MHBC) intervention for feasibility and acceptability. The pilot study will be guided by Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) framework, which uses highly efficient experiments to systematically test and compare intervention components' or component levels' individual and combined effects. The goal of the MOST framework is to balance effectiveness with affordability, sustainability, and efficiency.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aim 1: Develop the MHBC intervention with components optimized for gynecologic cancer survivors (GCS). 1a) To develop the intervention components for physical activity and healthy dietary practices, one-on-one interviews will be conducted with stakeholders including GCS (n≈30; until thematic saturation) and gynecologic oncology clinicians (n≈10; until thematic saturation). Clinician is operationalized as any cancer care health professional with direct gynecologic patient contact. Using directed content analysis, it is anticipated that reasons for low uptake in MHBC interventions and gain insight on preferences for intervention components and characteristics such as component delivery (simultaneous vs. sequential), frequency of contact, delivery modality (in-person vs. remote), and support materials (e.g., workbooks and logs) will be identified. The identified factors and preferences will be mapped onto theoretical tenets and taxonomy to develop intervention components. 1b) To refine intervention design and components we will elicit GCS stakeholder input using a cross-sectional study design with an online questionnaire. A questionnaire will be administered to the same 30 GCS from Study 1a to obtain feedback identify intervention preferences.

Aim 2: Determine the feasibility of the MHBC intervention and acceptability of components optimized among GCS. We will evaluate feasibility and acceptability of the 12-week MHBC intervention with 16 GCS. To determine feasibility, the following will be used: number of intervention participants who enroll, those who complete the study, those complete follow-up measures at Week 13, and attendance. Based on previous MHBC interventions with GCS, it is anticipated that 30% will enroll, 85% will complete the intervention, 75% will complete measures at Week 13, and \> 70% of the sessions will be attended. To determine acceptability, satisfaction with intervention components at Week 13 will be measured. It is predicted that 86% intervention group will report high satisfaction (cutoff score: \> 5 out 7).

Aim 3 (exploratory): Assess the preliminary effects of the intervention on behavioral and cardiometabolic outcomes. The preliminary effects of the intervention on behavioral outcomes including physical activity, healthy dietary practices, HRQOL and cardiometabolic outcomes including weight, waist circumference, body composition (% body fat), and blood pressure will be assessed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participant retention
  - Participant retention
  - Participant attendance
  - Participant attendance
  - Acceptability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise and diet education and instruction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05466916
