CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05425095
Title: Comparative Effects of Buteyko Exercise and Corpse-Pose Technique on Cardiac Surgery Patients
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Buteyko Exercise and Corpse-Pose Technique on Physical Health and Quality of Life in Post-Cardiac Surgery Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 46
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Open-heart surgeries such as coronary artery bypass grafting and valve replacements have been used to improve patient outcomes related to cardiac symptoms, prolongation of life, and health-related quality of life. Recovery from cardiac surgery is not entirely determined by physical attributes and medical treatment, but social and psychological factors may also influence the process of postoperative short and long-term recovery. The objective of this study is to find out the Comparative Effects of Buteyko Exercise and Corpse-Pose Technique on Physical Health and Quality of Life in Post-Cardiac Surgery Patients. This study will be a Randomized controlled trial and will be conducted in Faisalabad institute of cardiology after ethical approval. The study will be completed within the duration of 10 months after approval of synopsis. Nonprobability convenience sampling technique will be used. The sample size of 46 patients will be taken: 25 post-cardiac surgery patients in each group with a 10% attrition rate. There will be two groups in this study one will be given with the Buteyko breathing technique and other will be provided with corpse-pose technique. Treatment protocol for both techniques will be 4 weeks with 3 sets per day. A pre assessment at week 1 and a final assessment at week 4 will be made by using SF-36 questionnaire. Data will be analyzed on SPSS-25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Short Form-36 Health Survey Questionnaire (SF-36)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Buteyko Breathing Technique
  - OTHER: Corpse-Pose Technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05425095
