CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07051772
Title: Predictive Factors for the Success of Rehabilitation Programs in Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Predictive Factors for the Success of Rehabilitation Programs in Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 333
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic low back pain is the leading cause of years lived with disability in the world among 19-49 year olds. The usual progression leads to 15% of acute episodes of persistent pain and more than 50% of persistent activity limitations. Persistent pain lasting between 5 and 7 years causes relatively stable patterns, probably linked to well-known predictive factors of activity limitations such as psychosocial factors (catastrophizing, fears and maladaptive beliefs), physical (deconditioning), professional (fear of returning to work, stress, burden) or personal (financial, insecurity). The effectiveness of treatments is often difficult to predict. Current evidence does not support the use of pharmacological treatments given their low effectiveness and the risks associated with the prescription of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories or opioids, particularly in the chronic phase where the risk of dependence is highest. Thus, international recommendations strongly suggest the use of non-pharmacological therapies, including, physical exercises, rehabilitation, physical and sports activities and spinal manipulations. Most meta-analyses conclude that there is a cumulative effect of the different strategies, without the specific effect of each one being able to be isolated, justifying multidisciplinary protocols. A cornerstone of the management of chronic disabling low back pain therefore relies programs combining physical, cognitive-behavioral, psychological and professional care, most often in dedicated centers. The objective is to empower the patient and promote a change in behavior with regard to the consequences of their pain in the long-term. However, there are very few predictive criteria for the success or failure of these programs, probably because many multiple biological, psychological, and social factors interact over time. Certain models resulting from expert consensus seek to conceptualize these interactions and propose a categorization of these different factors. It is now crucial to validate these categorizations and their relative weight in the progression of patients to best guide their recovery. The aim of this work is to identify the biomarkers predictive of the success of multidisciplinary programs in the short-, medium- and long-term.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Level of disability
  - Level of disability
  - Patient age
  - Patient sex
  - Patient Body Mass Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mobility skills testing session

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07051772
