CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06594900
Title: Development of Muscle Function in Prepubertal Children As a Response to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and Resistance trening
Official Title: Muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and Development of Neuromuscular Capacities in Prepubertal Children - a Randomized Controlled Intervention Study
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Healthy skeletal muscle development is crucial for a life-long quality of life. Childhood and puberty may be key periods for developing muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and neuromuscular capacities, which are essential for bone-muscle interaction, metabolism, and participation in various sports. Even though the central role of physical activity in healthy physical development is well recognized, the decline in muscular fitness in today's children is alarming. This can lead to lasting deficits in muscle development and have a negative impact on overall health.

Well-designed resistance trening (RT) could address this problem, since it has an effective positive impact on muscular strength, bone density, metabolism, and spontaneous physical activity especially in childhood. In general, muscles adapt according to physical activity stimuli. However, children show different responses to exercise and trening. The physiologic differences, which are reflected in lower neuromuscular capacities and hormonal responses, but also in a better resistance to fatigue than in adults, are not yet fully understood. It is well established, that RT in children is safe, effective and has multiple benefits for health. However, the underlying mechanisms that lead to increased muscle strength are unclear and it is unknown how sustainable these are.

Today's common conception is that increased muscular strength is predominantly caused by neural adaptations and changes in muscle morphology due to lower androgenic responses are negligible.

Although higher neuromuscular adaptation potential is evident, it is still not sufficient to explain all strength increases, suggesting that additional mechanisms are involved in the process. Most studies are outdated, had methodological and statistical limitations, and many state-of-the-art methods have not yet been applied to children, hence, there is a need for a comprehensive, in-depth investigation to understand muscle adaptations to trening and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in children. With this better understanding of the impact and adaption to RT stimuli on neuromuscular and structural development the proposed project can serve as a foundation for more targeted prevention strategies.

The aim of this study is to investigate neuromuscular, hormonal, and morphological adaptations following 4 and 20 weeks of RT, while also examining their longitudinal retention through two consecutive follow-ups over 1.5 years. In this randomized controlled trial, state-of-the-art measurement methods are employed to accurately delve into mechanisms of adaptation, some of which have not yet used in children before due to limited time or infrastructure resources. The neuromuscular assessments include maximal and explosive strength of leg extensors, voluntary activation, motor unit decomposition, as well as central and peripheral neuromuscular fatigability. The hormonal changes are measured acutely (testosterone, cortisol, IGF-1 and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone) and chronically (testosterone, progesterone and IGF-1) in response to one or several trening sessions. Static and dynamic ultrasound imagining is used to quantify muscle size, fascicle shortening velocity and muscle architecture. This design allows in-depth insights into short- and long-term adaptations on several physiological levels to provide a novel mechanistic understanding of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and function in children.

The major innolvation of this research is the integration of diverse scientific perspectives, combining insights from neuromuscular physiology, endocrinology, and muscle morphology to provide a holistic understanding of RT adaptations and development in children of both sexes.

This comprehensive approach can form the basis for future trening programs, enabling next generations to better understand the potential impact of musculature on health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - maximal isometric voluntary contraction of knee extensor muscles

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: resistance trening intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 11 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06594900
