CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04234282
Title: Rate of Torque Development and Voluntary Quadriceps Activation in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Quantitative Analysis Before and After a Single Session of Manual Physical Therapy
Official Title: Rate of Torque Development and Voluntary Quadriceps Activation in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Quantitative Analysis Before and After a Single Session of Manual Physical Therapy - A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized control trial to determine if there is a measurable change in voluntary quadriceps activation, RTD, pain, and function before and after a single session of manual physical therapy.

The researchers will utilize a sample of convenience with consecutive sampling at the Brooke Army Medical Center physical therapy clinic for patients referred for knee osteoarthritis.

As is standard of care, patients will be provided a medical intake form and a clinical outcome measure commensurate with their primary anatomic region for which they are seeking physical therapy (i.e.: Lower Extremity Functional Scale for hip, knee, or ankle pain). If patients choose to partake in the study, they will complete the consent form and the initial physical therapy evaluation will be conducted. They will then be provided an appointment for data collection at the Army-Baylor Center for Rehabilitation Research biomechanics lab at the Army Medical Department Center and School.

The treatment group will receive one 30-minute session of orthopedic manual physical therapy targeting the knee joint and soft tissues with complementary exercises targeted at their impairment.

The control group will receive a 30-minute class on knee OA diagnosis, prognosis, various treatment options, and will conclude with a question and answer with the researcher. Both groups will receive their intervention from a board-certified physical therapist in the Army-Baylor Orthopedic Manual Therapy Fellowship program.

At the conclusion of formal testing, the patient will be provided standard physical therapy care as deemed appropriate by their evaluating physical therapist. Thus, all subjects, regardless of their assigned group, will receive the same standard of care for their knee pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
By participating in this study, it will not alter the standard of care provided during the course of the patient's rehabilitation in physical therapy. During the initial physical therapy evaluation, a member of the research team will determine if the patient would like to participate in the study and if they choose to do so they will then be consented. Based on the clinical presentation the standard evaluation will determine the primary limitations of the knee joint and surrounding soft tissue structures and outline the best course of manual physical therapy intervention deemed appropriate.

Should the patient choose to participate, they will then complete a pre-test maximal isometric contraction in the knee extension machine in the physical therapy clinic; this is an exercise device commonly used to strengthen the quadriceps muscles for patients with various types of lower extremity pathology. Patients will be monitored for any changes in pain during this screening pre-test in accordance with the Physical Therapy service standard operating procedures; those whom pain increases more than 3/10 points on the numeric pain rating scale from baseline will be excluded from this study and will be counted as screen failures; all others will be included in the study. The patient will then be provided an appointment slip to meet the research team at the Army-Baylor Center for Rehabilitation Research Biomechanics Lab at the Army Medical Department Center and School where all formal testing for this study will take place. All laboratory data will be collected for the bilateral lower extremities.

When the subject reports to the lab the following sequence will occur. They will be provided with an intake form to collect all baseline data, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, and numeric pain rating score. Pain scores will be elicited throughout the testing procedures to ensure patient safety and comfort per the PT service pain assessment standard operating procedures. Pain pressure threshold will be obtained using a handheld algometer as an adjunct to the numeric pain rating scale to better quantify their pain levels. Pain pressure threshold measures will be collected bilaterally over the Tibialis Anterior muscle belly approximately 2.5cm lateral and 5cm inferior to the tibial tubercle. A Timed up and Go test will then be administered using an accelerometer worn by the patient around the waist and bilaterally on the dorsum of the foot to quantify the velocity in which they complete the test among the various phases (sit/stand, walking, turning). This will be followed by the first isometric testing session to determine the baseline voluntary quadriceps activation and rate of torque development.

Subjects will undergo assessment of neuromuscular function using a combination of voluntary and evoked contractions. All test procedures will be performed on the unaffected limb first, followed by the affected limb. Electrically-evoked contrac

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of Torque Development
  - Voluntary Quadriceps Activation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Manual Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 74 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04234282
