CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01783704
Title: Improving Community Ambulation After Hip Fracture
Official Title: Improving Community Ambulation After Hip Fracture
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 210
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Activity and exercise are believed to be of benefit for reducing disability in older adults, yet the majority of older adults do not participate in regular exercise and is not active. This is especially true for older adults following hip fracture after they complete the usual rehabilitation program.

This study is being done to compare two 16-week supervised multi-part physical therapy programs (interventions) initiated up to 26 weeks after hip fracture. The investigators want to test whether the interventions lead to improvements in a person's ability to walk on their own in the home and in the local community. With this knowledge the investigators hope to help a greater number of hip fracture patients enjoy a more complete recovery and improved overall health.

ANCILLARY STUDY #1 - MECHANISTIC PATHWAYS TO COMMUNITY AMBULATION (CAP-MP) The goal of this ancillary study is to investigate several mechanisms thought to be related to recovery in ambulatory ability after hip fracture. Selected mechanistic pathways are being investigated by obtaining mechanistic measurements of the participants randomized in the University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) clinical site of CAP.

ANCILLARY STUDY #2 - DIET AND DIETARY PATTERNS IN OLDER ADULTS UNDERGOING HIP FRACTURE REHABILITATION The goal of this ancillary study is to analyze dietary patterns for the nutritional characterization of older adults recovering from a hip fracture. The identified dietary patterns, as well as motivators and barriers to intake, will be assessed for their impact on the rate of return to community ambulation in participants randomized at the University of Connecticut Health Center (UCHC) clinical site of CAP.

ANCILLARY STUDY #3 - ROLE OF GLUCOSE METABOLISM IN STRENGTH AND FUNCTIONAL RECOVERY AFTER HIP FRACTURE The goal of this ancillary study is to assess the impact of glucose metabolism on strength and functional performance following resistance training in participants randomized at the UCHC clinical site of CAP.

ANCILLARY STUDY #4 - MUSCLE MECHANISMS UNDERLYING RECOVERY OF FUNCTION AFTER HIP FRACTURE The goal of this ancillary study is to understand some of the key muscle mechanisms associated with recovery in community ambulation following hip fracture in response to the two interventions for participants randomized at the Arcadia University (AU) clinical site of CAP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
MAIN STUDY

Despite improvements in medical management, significant residual disability remains in older persons after a hip fracture. The goal of current clinical practice is independent, safe household ambulation two to three months after surgery. Hip fracture-acquired dependency in functional activities of daily living persists well beyond three months post-surgery. This residual disability indicates that current standard Medicare-reimbursed post-hip fracture rehabilitation (i.e., usual care) fails to return many patients to pre-fracture levels of function. In contrast to stroke and heart disease, other commonly occurring acute conditions in the older population, there are few intervention trials focused on decreasing disability following hip fracture. None of the trials for hip fracture has examined the effect of early post-fracture intervention on the ability to ambulate at a level required for independent function in the community (i.e., community ambulation). Thus, there is a paucity of evidence to justify extending medical management beyond usual care in persons following hip fracture to achieve community, rather than merely household, ambulation.

A randomized controlled trial (RCT) including 210 older adults who have experienced a hip fracture will be carried out at three clinical sites with half of the subjects receiving a specific multi-component intervention (PUSH) and the other half receiving a non-specific multi-component intervention (PULSE). Randomization of 210 participants meeting eligibility criteria will take place after post-acute rehabilitation ends, approximately 6 months (26 weeks) after admission to the hospital for hip fracture. The primary endpoint will be measured using the Six-Minute Walk Test (SMWT) at the end of the 16-week intervention period. The goal is to enable older adults who have experienced a hip fracture to recover sufficiently to become community ambulators.

Primary Aim The primary aim of the study is to determine if a specific multi-component 16-week intervention based on aerobic conditioning, specificity of training, and muscle overload (the PUSH intervention), initiated within 26 weeks of admission to the hospital for hip fracture, will be more successful in producing community ambulation at 16 weeks after randomization than a non-specific multi-component intervention of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), flexibility activities, and active range of motion exercises (AROM) (the PULSE intervention).

Secondary Aims

1. To determine whether the proportion of community ambulators differs between the PUSH and PULSE interventions at 40 weeks post-randomization and whether the difference in proportions at 40 weeks changed from the difference in proportions at 16 weeks
2. To compare the PUSH and PULSE interventions at 16 weeks and 40 weeks post-randomization with respect to five secondary outcomes that are thought to be precursors to community ambulation (endurance, dynamic balance, walking 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Ability to walk 300 meters or more in six minutes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition
  - BEHAVIORAL: PUSH
  - BEHAVIORAL: PULSE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01783704
