CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06758687
Title: The Effect of Kinesio Taping Applied to Operating Room Nurses on Low Back Pain, Fatigue, and Sleep Quality
Official Title: The Effect of Kinesio Taping Applied to Operating Room Nurses on Low Back Pain, Fatigue, and Sleep Quality: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to determine the effects of kinesiology taping applied to operating room nurses on lower back pain, fatigue, and sleep quality. The research will be conducted using a randomized controlled experimental design with pre-test and post-test control groups. The universe of the study will consist of 100 operating room nurses working in a university hospital. The sample size has been calculated as a total of 84 nurses (Intervention group: 42; Control group: 42) based on power analysis calculations. The study will commence after obtaining the necessary permissions. Data collection will involve the use of the Descriptive Information Form, Visual Analog Scale, Quebec Back Pain Disability Scale, Visual Analogue Scale for Fatigue, and the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire. Participants who consent to the study will be administered the Descriptive Information Form, Visual Analog Scale, Quebec Back Pain Disability Scale, Visual Analogue Scale for Fatigue, and Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire before the application of kinesiology tape. Subsequently, a physiotherapist from the research team will apply kinesiology tape to the paravertebral muscles using the muscle technique. As the literature suggests that the most suitable number of days for kinesiology tape application is four, participants will be instructed not to remove the tapes for four days. Additionally, participants will be informed that they can continue their daily activities and shower with the kinesiology tape on. The Visual Analog Scale will be applied to the participants at the end of the workday on the day of the kinesiology tape application and at the end of the workday for four days. At the end of the fourth day, all data collection tools will be applied. Seven days after the application, the scales will be filled out again by the nurses to determine if the effects of the kinesiology tape persist. Participants in the control group who agree to participate in the study will have data collected at the same time intervals as the intervention group participants using the same data collection tools. The Visual Analogue Scale will be administered to participants at the end of the day the data collection tools are filled out and at the end of the workday for four consecutive days. At the end of the fourth day, all data collection tools will be applied again. Seven days after the application, all scales will be refilled by the nurses..

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Skala
  - Visual Analog Skala
  - Visual Analog Skala
  - Visual Analog Skala
  - Quebec Low Back Pain Disability Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kinesiotape Application

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06758687
