CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01300598
Title: Autologous Adipose Tissue Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells Transplantation in Patient With Degenerative Arthritis
Official Title: Safety and Efficacy of Autologous Adipose Tissue Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells Transplantation in Patient With Degenerative Arthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of autologous transplantation of Adipose Tissue derived Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in patient with degenerative arthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
degenerative arthritis is the most common type of arthritis. It is estimated that 26.9 million Americans 25 years old or older have clinical degenerative arthritis of some joints, with a higher percentage of affliction in the older population. Its clinical manifestations include joint pain and impairment to movement, and surrounding tissues are often affected with local inflammation. The etiology of degenerative arthritis is not completely understood; however, injury, age, and genetics have been considered among the risk factors.

Degenerative arthritis is a progressively debilitating disease that affects mostly cartilage, with associated changes in bone. Cartilage has limited intrinsic healing and regenerative capacities.

Due to the increasing incidence of degenerative arthritis and the aging population coupled with inefficient therapeutic choices, novel cartilage repair strategies are in need.

The availability of large quantities of MSCs and their potential for ready chondrogenic differentiation after prolonged in vitro expansion have made MSCs the most hopeful candidate progenitor cell source for cartilage tissue engineering.

In the clinical study, mesenchymal stem cells will be isolated from adipose tissue and cultured, and administered into the cartilage tissue lesion by orthopedic surgery.

It will be stimulate the regeneration of defective cartilage tissue and to improve their functions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Safety evaluation
  - WOMAC(Western Ontario and McMaster Universities) Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Autologous Adipose Tissue derived MSCs Transplantation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01300598
