CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04915729
Title: A Study in Chinese Patients to Compare How Tenecteplase and Alteplase Given After a Stroke Improve Recovering of Physical Activity
Official Title: A Phase III Multi-centre, Prospective, Randomised, Open Label, Blinded Endpoint (PROBE), Active-controlled Parallel Group Trial to Assess Efficacy and Safety of Tenecteplase Versus Alteplase in Chinese Patients With Acute Ischaemic Stroke Within 4.5 Hours After Stroke Onset
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1489
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
This study is open to Chinese adults who had an ischaemic stroke, which means that blood vessels in the brain are blocked. To resolve blood clots, people in the study get either tenecteplase or alteplase within 4 hours and 30 minutes after stroke. The purpose of this study is to compare how tenecteplase and alteplase improve peoples' recovering of physical activity. Alteplase is standard of care. Tenecteplase is a modified variant of alteplase that is easier to administer and is approved to treat heart attack. This study is to find out whether tenecteplase is as good as alteplase in people with ischaemic stroke.

Participants are equally put into 2 treatment groups by chance. Participants in one group get tenecteplase as a single injection into a vein. Participants in the other group get alteplase as an injection into a vein (10% of the dose) and the remainder as an infusion over 1 hour.

Participants are in the study for about 3 months. They are in the hospital for the first week after treatment. Then they visit the study site 1 and 3 months after treatment. At these visits, peoples' ability to independently carry out daily activities is assessed. Scores for physical activity are compared between both treatment groups. The doctors also regularly check the general health of the participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants With Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) Score of 0 or 1

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: tenecteplase
  - DRUG: alteplase

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04915729
