CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06787794
Title: Reducing Itch With Hypnosis and Virtual Reality
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Virtual Reality-assisted Hypnosis in Reducing Itch: a Proof-of-concept Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic itch is a disabling condition with currently limited treatment options. Virtual reality (VR) is a relatively new approach that provides immersion in another environment and has been shown to have a temporary itch mitigating potential. Hypnosis, which is a state of relaxation, has been successfully applied with more long-term treatment effects in the specific case of itch as a result of severe atopic dermatitis. However, hypnosis tends to depend on an individual's susceptibility, or ease, to come into a hypnotic state. A combination of VR and hypnosis (VRH) has been put forward since it may combine the longer lasting effects of hypnosis with VR making the hypnosis more accessible by facilitating imagination. Even though VRH is a promising avenue, it has never been investigated in the context of itch. In this randomized controlled trial, comparing a VRH treatment with a waiting list control group after 6 sessions and at follow-up, it is aimed to assess the effectiveness of VRH in reducing itch along with its psychological burden in adult individuals with therapy-resistant disabling itch.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Chronic itch is a disabling condition with currently limited treatment options. Virtual reality (VR) is a relatively new approach that provides immersion in another environment and has been shown to have a temporary itch mitigating potential. Hypnosis, which is a state of relaxation, has been successfully applied with more long-term treatment effects in the specific case of itch as a result of severe atopic dermatitis. However, hypnosis tends to depend on an individual's susceptibility, or ease to come into a hypnotic state. A combination of VR and hypnosis (VRH) has been put forward since it may combine the longer lasting effects of hypnosis with VR making the hypnosis more accessible by facilitating imagination. Even though VRH is a promising avenue, it has never been investigated in the context of itch.

Objective: This study aims to assess the effectiveness of VRH in reducing itch along with its psychological burden in individuals with chronic itch.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinical itch intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Virtual Reality-assisted hypnosis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06787794
