CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03571594
Title: A Four-Part Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, PK and PD of ONO-5788 in Healthy Adult Volunteers
Official Title: A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-Controlled, Four- Part Study to Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of ONO-5788 in Healthy Adult Volunteers
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This is a first in human study to determine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ONO-5788 in healthy adult volunteers. This study will be conducted in 4 parts: a single-ascending dose part, a multiple-ascending dose part, an elderly part and a proof of principle part.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This single centre study will be comprised of 4 parts, Part A (SAD; up to 7 cohorts, 8 subjects per cohort and including an assessment of food effect), a multiple-dose part (up to 4 doses, 10 subjects per cohort); an elderly cohort (8 subjects per gender) and a proof of principle part.

The single ascending dose part (Part A) comprises of increasing doses of an oral solution or capsule, with an investigation of the potential for food effects.

The multiple ascending dose part (Part B, MAD; 14 days dosing) will be initiated after the PK and safety data are available from the single ascending dose part. Subjects in Part B will have ultrasound scans of the gallbladder during the study and at screening a HIDA scan will be performed. An evaluation of the PK in the elderly and any potential gender differences will also be evaluated in Part C. Subjects in Part C will have an ultrasound of the gallbladder at screening.

Part D will be a proof of principle evaluation where the effects of ONO-5788 to inhibit the GHRH and arginine-stimulated GH release will be evaluated. Octreotide acetate is a reference arm in this part of the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants with treatment emergent adverse events by severity
  - Number of participants with serious adverse events (SAEs)
  - Number of participants with clinically significant changes in vital signs
  - Number of participants with ECG abnormalities
  - Number of participants with clinical laboratory abnormalities

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: ONO-5788
  - DRUG: ONO-5788 Placebo
  - DRUG: Octreotide

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03571594
