CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04047901
Title: Effect of Physical Training in Patients With Heart Failure Caused by Chemotherapy for Cancer Treatment
Official Title: Effect of Physical Training in Patients With Heart Failure Caused by Chemotherapy for Cancer Treatment
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
New therapies for cancer increased patient survival, but led to the recognition of adverse effects associated with cancer treatment, such as the use of chemotherapy. Cardiotoxicity is the most significant adverse effect, which affect the functional capacity and quality of life and is associated with high morbidity and mortality, regardless of the oncological prognosis. One of the manifestations of cardiotoxicity is ventricular dysfunction that can lead to heart failure. Neuro humoral hyperactivation with increased sympathetic nerve activity is a typical manifestation of heart failure and is associated with worse prognosis. Studies have shown that physical training significantly reduces sympathetic nerve activity in addition to improving muscle blood flow, reversing effects on skeletal muscle and improving quality of life. The hypothesis is that physical training may reduce sympathetic nerve activity and vasoconstrictor status in patients with heart failure caused by anthracyclines, as well as improving baroreflex and chemoreflex sensibility, mechanoreflex and metaborreflex control and skeletal myopathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators included patients\> 18 years, left ventricular ejection fraction \<= 0.55, functional class (NYHA) I-III, under medical treatment for heart failure. Patients with coronary artery disease, moderate to severe valve disease, positive Chagas serology, inability to participate in an exercise program are excluded.

Primary outcome: Muscle sympathetic nerve activity Secondary outcome: arterial baroreflex sensitivity, peripheral chemorreflex sensitivity, mecanic and muscuclar metaborreflex control, ubiquitin proteasome system activity.

Patients were divided into 2 groups-trained (n = 10) and non-trained (n = 10). Patients in the trained group will complete 16 weeks of aerobic training. Evaluation of cardiac function, functional capacity, quality of life and biochemical evaluation (troponin, hs-CRP and BNP). For muscle evaluation will be performed biopsy of the vastus lateralis muscle

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measure muscular sympathetic nervous activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04047901
