CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04666415
Title: Impact of the Addition of a Specific and Personalized Body Approach by Osteopathic Treatment in the Care of Adolescents With Anorexia Nervosa.
Official Title: Monocentric Single-blind Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating the Impact of the Addition of a Specific and Personalized Body Approach by Osteopathic Treatment in the Care of Adolescents With Anorexia Nervosa
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Abstract:

Background: Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a common pathology affecting mainly women (sex ratio 1/10), which starts most often during adolescence. The prognosis of the AN remains poor (10% of deaths and high risk of chronicity). Body dissatisfaction, disturbances in recognition and identification of body sensations are some of the key symptoms of AN. There is, however, a contrast between this consensual observation of the importance of troubles in body image in AN, and the relative deficit of specifically targeted body treatments. Our proposal for a body approach specifically dedicated to AN is based on the understanding that posture, breathing, muscle tension and body perception are closely linked to our psychological and emotional state, and are therefore disturbed in patients with AN.

The purpose of this monocentric randomized controlled trial is to evaluate if a targeted osteopathic protocol treatment for AN in addition to as-usuALCARe is significantly more effective compared to as-usuALCARe.

Methods: Seventy-two female patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups : one receiving the specific osteopathic treatment targeted for AN in addition to the as-usuALCARe (group A) and the other one, the as-usuALCARe (group B). The patients of group A will receive 5 sessions of osteopathic treatment for 25 minutes. Soft specific palpatory techniques on the diaphragm, digestive system and cervical region will be realized. The as-usuALCARe is defined by the multidisciplinary approach recommended by the high authority of health. The primary outcome is the evaluation of interoceptive sensibility and secondary outcomes include clinical and psychopathology-related symptoms and assessment of somatic dysfonctions' evolution. A qualitative study will also be carried out, applying the Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis method. Patients will be included for a maximum of 14 weeks between the inclusion time and the last evaluation.

Discussion:

If the results of the study are positive (statistically significant effectiveness of this body approach in addition to as-usuALCArecompared to as-usual treatment), patients with anorexia will be benefit from the possibility of additional treatment that is effective, relatively inexpensive, non-invasive and non-pharmacological.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To evaluate the evolution of interoceptive sensitivity
  - To evaluate the evolution of interoceptive sensitivity
  - To evaluate the evolution of interoceptive sensitivity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Osteopathic treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 20 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04666415
