CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03462771
Title: Dietary Supplementation With Omega-3 Fatty Acid in Muscle Response
Official Title: Effect of Dietary Supplementation With Omega-3 Fatty Acid on the Adaptive Muscular Response to Resistance Training in Sarcopenic Elderly Women
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Both aging and other factors associated with it may contribute to the development of sarcopenia, such as lack of physical activity, inadequate food intake, hormonal changes and age-related increases in cytokine levels. What is a growing number of elderly people in Brazil and the world, it is extremely important to conduct research in order to know the mechanisms of action of new strategies to combat sarcopenia. Supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids is a promising intervention in sarcopenic rest. However, there is a practice of studies confirming the effects of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation on neuromuscular function in the elderly.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation on the muscular adaptive response in sarcopenic elderly women submitted to resistance training. A total of 30 sarcopenic elderly women, aged 65 years or older, were divided into two groups of 15 volunteers: (1) Exercise group and placebo (GEP) and (2) Exercise group and fish oil (GEOP). The two groups underwent a resisted exercise program over 12 weeks in three weekly sessions supervised by physicists and physicists at the School of Physical Education and Sports of Ribeirão Preto (EEFERP). All volunteers (both groups) are also instructed to ingest two food supplement capsules at each main meal, and the GEP group will use capsules composed of sunflower oil as a placebo. The GEOP is directed to take two capsules of fish oil at each main meal, totaling 4 capsules per day, that is, four grams of fish oil. To check the quadriceps muscle volume before and after an intervention, as volunteers from both groups are submitted to MRI. An extension power and isokinetic force of extension of the lower limb at a knee and hip extension and are measured by dynamometry (Biodex 4 Pro, Biodex, USA) and a functional solution evaluated by the application of the 6-minute walk test. In addition, will be described the biochemicals for the quantification of the following cytokines: IL1, IL6, IL8, IL10 and TNF-α, such as to allow selection of the presence of inflammation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline muscle volume after 14 weeks
  - Change from Baseline muscle strength of knee extensors after 14 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Fish oil
  - DRUG: sunflower oil

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 85 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03462771
