CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05097027
Title: Blood Flow Restriction and Recovery in Soccer Players
Official Title: Effects of Blood Flow Restriction on Post-competition Recovery on Semi-professional and Youth Soccer Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The objective is to evaluate the effects of blood flow restriction training on the post-competition recovery of professional and semi-professional soccer players. Randomized crossover clinical trial, with two intervention groups: Experimental group I will carry out a recovery training based on the use of the blood flow restriction (BFR) on day 1 post-competition. On the other hand, the Experimental II group will perform the same recovery training without the use of BFR. After 1 month the groups will cross their intervention and make the recovery with the opposite method to the initial one. The study will be carried out during the 2021-2022 season, from first regional to third division of Spanish soccer, with soccer teams from the Mallorca Island. Before the competition, the countermovement jump (CMJ) will be evaluated and repeated at 0, 24, and 72 h after the competition. The levels of muscle soreness (DOMS) will be evaluated pre-post-competition 0, 24, 48 and 72h later. The same procedure will be carried out to evaluate muscle fatigue, sleep quality, and stress through a questionnaire that athletes will fill out pre, 0, 24, 48 and 72h after the game. Sociodemographic and anthropometric data will be collected before starting the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
W-UP:

The warm-up will consist of 5 minutes running slow, 5 minutes mobility, and 5 minutes of running exercises. In addition, the warm-up will contain a familiarization with the jump test.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Countermovement Jump (CMJ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Blood flow restriction recovery
  - OTHER: Active recovery

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05097027
