CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04435080
Title: Physical Rehabilitation in ICU in ARDS Patients With COVID-19
Official Title: Physical Rehabilitation in Intensive Care Unit in Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Patients With COVID-19
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of physical rehabilitation performed in intensive care unit on the range of joint motions and muscle strength of survivors following discharge from intensive care unit in patients with COVID-19. Secondary outcome is to assess the duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in intensive care unit and in hospital, and mortality rates during intensive care unit stay and health related quality of life following discharge in survivors.

Until April 14 patients were provided all the intensive care managements except for rehabilitation and patients discharged before this time constituted the 'non-rehabilitation' group (n=17). Patients discharged after April 14 were provided rehabilitation in addition to usual intensive care unit care and constituted the study 'rehabilitation' group (n=18).

Passive range of motion exercises to each joint and neuromuscular electrical stimulation to bilateral quadriceps and tibialis anterior muscles were applied 6 days/week in the 'rehabilitation' group during intensive care unit stay.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome could develop muscle weakness associated with impairment of physical function defined as intensive care unit acquired weakness. Early rehabilitation is recommended to prevent complications including muscle weakness and joint contractures, enhance weaning from mechanical ventilation, improve outcome, quality of life.

COVID-19 is an acute infection with a high risk of enormous cytokine storm exacerbating the clinical condition in acute respiratory distress syndrome and is thought to further increase the risk of muscle weakness.

Study participants were recruited among patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit at Koc University Hospital. Standard care for these patients consisted of respiratory support, intravenous fluid therapy, medical treatment including anticoagulation and sedation, nutrition, change of position every 4 hours, and if needed, hemodynamic support. The non-rehabilitation group patients discharged before April 14, 2020, were provided with this standard care. The rehabilitation group patients that discharged after April 14, 2020, were provided rehabilitation in addition to usual standard care. The rehabilitation program consisted of a passive range of motion exercises for each joint of the extremities for 15 minutes/day, 6 days/week, and neuromuscular electrical stimulation to bilateral quadriceps and tibialis anterior muscles for 52 minutes/day, 6 days/week. The physiatrists evaluated the patients. Exercises and electrical stimulation were applied daily by physiotherapists. The physiatrist and anesthesiologist discussed the clinical status of the patients daily and the physiatrist modified the rehabilitation program, if needed. Patients were enrolled in the rehabilitation program if there is hemodynamical stability.

Information regarding demographic and clinical features, medications used, duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in the intensive care unit and hospital, and mortality were obtained from the digital patient records in both groups.

Following discharge, patients were evaluated for range of joint motion, manual muscle strength test, hand grip strength and Short form-36.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand grip strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04435080
