CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06540898
Title: Impact of Mindful Eating and Movement on University Students' Food and Physical Literacy, and Social-Emotional Competencies
Official Title: The Effects of Mindful Eating and Movement on Food Literacy, Physical Literacy and Social Emotional Competencies Among University Students in Macau
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 144
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate if the mindful eating and movement program can improve food literacy, physical literacy, and social-emotional competencies in university students aged 18-25 years. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Will the mindful eating and movement program lead to significant improvements in food literacy?
2. Will the mindful eating and movement program enhance physical literacy?
3. Will the mindful eating and movement program improve social-emotional competencies?

Researchers will compare an intervention group receiving the combined mindful practices with a control group participating in standard physical education to see if the intervention group shows greater improvements in these areas.

Participants will:

Engage in mindful eating exercises during the break of physical education classes for 10 minutes.

Participate in mindful movement exercises before each physical education class end for 10 minutes, in pairs or in groups.

Complete baseline, immediately post-intervention (8 weeks), and one month post-intervention (4 weeks after) assessments to measure changes in food literacy, physical literacy, and social-emotional competencies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Food Literacy Evaluation Questionnaire (FLEQ-Ch)
  - Mindful Eating Questionnaire (MEQ)
  - 24-Hour Dietary Intake Records
  - Perceived Physical Literacy Instrument (PPLI)
  - International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-SF)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Based Eating and Movement Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06540898
