CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06696586
Title: Comparison Between Effect of Systemic Fentanyl Infusion and Fentanyl Added as An Adjuvant to Lidocaine in Bier Block For Controlling Pain in Patients Undergoing Hand Surgeries
Official Title: Comparison Between Effect of Systemic Fentanyl Infusion and Fentanyl Added as An Adjuvant to Lidocaine in Bier Block For Controlling Pain in Patients Undergoing Hand Surgeries
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Injury and deformity of the upper extremity can result in dysfunction to nerves, tendons and bones which can lead to disability and pain.

Various techniques of regional anesthesia are frequently used for upper extremity surgery. Specifically, intravenous regional anesthesia, the Bier block, is an effective anesthetic technique. This technique, developed by Dr August Bier in 1908, provides complete anesthesia, a bloodless field, and eliminates the need for general anesthesia. However, it was not until the 1960s that this technique was reintroduced and used in upper extremity surgery due to several disadvantages and reports of major complications. Because of the dose of lidocaine and tourniquet time, there is potential for cardiac and neurological complications such as arrhythmias, seizures, and compartment syndrome the aim of this study To evaluate the effect of Systemic Fentanyl Infusion compared to addition of Fentanyl as An Adjuvant to Lidocaine in Bier Block for Controlling Pain in Patients Undergoing Hand Surgeries

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Injury and deformity of the upper extremity can result in dysfunction to nerves, tendons and bones which can lead to disability and pain.

Various techniques of regional anesthesia are frequently used for upper extremity surgery. Specifically, intravenous regional anesthesia, the Bier block, is an effective anesthetic technique. This technique, developed by Dr August Bier in 1908, provides complete anesthesia, a bloodless field, and eliminates the need for general anesthesia. However, it was not until the 1960s that this technique was reintroduced and used in upper extremity surgery due to several disadvantages and reports of major complications. Because of the dose of lidocaine and tourniquet time, there is potential for cardiac and neurological complications such as arrhythmias, seizures, and compartment syndrome

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - to compare intraoperative pain between systemic and local fentanyl using VAS score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Fentanyl infusion
  - DRUG: Fentanyl Injection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06696586
