CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04696107
Title: Effectiveness of Coping Strategies on the Control of Chronic Non-Cancer Pain and Quality of Life (CNCP_CopQol)
Official Title: Effectiveness of Coping Strategies on the Control of Musculoskeletal Chronic Non-Cancer Pain and Quality of Life: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 144
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
* Introduction and objectives: Non-pharmacological interventions in patients with musculoskeletal chronic non-cancer pain (mCNCP) are positioning themselves as an essential pillar in treatment along with pharmacological and interventional treatment. Training the patient in psycho-educational interventions focused on the neuroscience of pain and accompanying them towards a better coping of their disease can decrease the perception of pain and improve their quality of life. A previous pilot study, developed by the researchers about this type of interventions, identified as relevant data an improvement in the quality of life (QoL) of patients with mCNCP with a significant decrease in pharmacological consumption, and a high degree of satisfaction on the part of the user through the analysis of PROMs (patient-reported outcome measures). The main objective of this study is to know the effectiveness in the perception of pain through the Verbal Numerical Rating Scale (VNRS) and in the quality of life through the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) questionnaire of a psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping strategies, in patients with mCNCP in the Primary Care Centres of Public Health System of Aljarafe-Sevilla Norte Area (Spain). Secondarily, the consumption of health resources associated with mCNCP, the adherence to treatment, the influence of social, emotional, and family variables will be studied by the researchers in the two groups of patients on each telephone assessment.
* Methodology: Prospective, randomized, triple-blind (patient, investigator, and analysis) and controlled clinical trial. Participants with mCNCP in follow-up in Primary Care without clinical control with the treatment scheduled and who agree to participate in the study will be randomized by blocks permuted to receive treatments and standard care (control group) or these same care plus a psychoeducational intervention (experimental group). This intervention consists of an emotional self-regulation training program of four face-to-face sessions of 3 hours each, over a four-week period. The study will include 144 participants (72 for each arm). Patient follow-up will be telephone at the time of inclusion, at month, three, and six months. A descriptive and multivariate analysis will be done with the patients' research data associated with pain or QoL, post-intervention.
* Ethics and dissemination: The study will be carried out following the Helsinki Declaration and is approved by the Committee on Ethics of Research of Virgen Macarena- Virgen del Rocío university hospitals in Seville, Spain (code 1589-N-19). The results of the trial will be published under CONSORT regulations and SPIRIT guideline.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

   Many people with mCNCP experience stress, fear and depression. These emotions, mental states and their associated behaviours often act as aggravating factors, amplifying the perception of pain (1-3). As a result, the same stimulus produces more suffering and begins a vicious circle. In this context, the acceptance and engagement therapy (ACT) and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) can be very helpful in managing chronic pain. These practices allow the patients to focus on participating in valuable activities and finding personally relevant objectives, improving their coping in this situation.

   Based on systematic reviews the investigators can confirm that body-mind therapies, especially MBSR and pain neuroscience education show benefits in a different kind of noncancer chronic pain in the adult such as reducing the severity of pain and functional limitation, maintaining the positive effects in the long term. On the other hand, related to a growing interest in reducing the use of opioid medications, it is also important to determine if one of the results of psychological approaches is the decrease in drug use, and as a consequence, a decrease in health cost per patient. Although this is one of the benefits assumed, studies about the association between pain management or self-control interventions and dependence on painkillers are lacking. There are not enough data about the behavioral intervention effects on the use of pain medication but initially points to a reduction. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on the management of the mCNCP integrally, incorporating non-pharmacological therapies that provide the patients with skills to face the illness and, above all, empower themselves through information and training the self-care.

   Researchers propose this clinical trial to demonstrate the effectiveness of a psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping in the control of symptoms, QoL and consumption of analgesics and health resources in patients with mCNCP.
2. RESEARCH QUESTION

   The early and integratively detection and approach of mCNCP are the main tools to decrease its prevalence and negative effects on both the patient life and the Health System. Scientific evidence supports body-mind therapies and patient education in pain neuroscience that enable a positive adaptive response that appears to improve functionality and QoL in people affected by mCNCP. That is why the research question directed by this investigation is: "Can a psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping reduce the pain perception and improve the QoL of adult patients with mCNCP treated in Public Primary Health Centre of the Aljarafe-North Seville Area?"
3. OBJECTIVES:

   3.1. Main objective: Know the effectiveness in pain perception through VNRS and QoL through the EQ-5D scale of psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping strategies, in participants with mCNCP in the Public Health Cente

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Pain perception
  - Change from Baseline Quality of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychoeducative intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04696107
