CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06993064
Title: Effect of Vitamin D on Inflammatory Markers in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in Mexico.
Official Title: Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Inflammatory Markers in Mexican Population With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) is a very common disease in Mexico, and its long-term complications affect years of healthy life and a high cost in treatmenty. T2DM is a chronic disease associated to inflammation. We aim to establish if Vitamin D may help decrease this inflammation and improve the condition in adults with T2DM. Patients included in the study will have to take 1 pill/day of vitamin D for six months. The investigators will measure weight, height, waist and hip circumference, systolic and dyastolic blood pressure; obtain dietary and clinical information, as well as a 10mL blood sample from the arm, for laboratory analyses, finger-prick blood sample for glucose at the beginning and end of the study; ´plus a finger-prick blood samplo for the initial vitamin D status. The study is completely free for the participants and they may withdraw their consent at any time without any consequences. Participants will have to attend the clinic at the beginning and every two months until the end, to receive their supplement (total 4 appointments). They will receive a phone call once a week to remind you to take your pills. They will be handed your results at the end of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is the second cause of death in adults of both genders in Mexico, which presents it a as a high public interest pathology. As it is a chronic degenerative disease, it requires long-term treatments and not controlling it leads to the development of important macro and microvascular alterations and ultimately death. There is evidence indicating that the general population all over the world have vitamin D deficiency, which is known to intervene in inflammatory processes associated with most chronic degenerative disease. With respect to T2DM, prolonged low-grade chronic inflammation leads to these associated complications. We hypothesize that 6-month supplementation with 4000 IU/day during 6 months in adults with T2DM will have a positive effect on inflammatory markers, glucose metabolism and lipid profile.

Methods

* Study design Longitudinal study of 40 adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, with six-month follow-up of supplementation with 4000 IU of Vitamin D3/day, with pre and post measurements.
* Sample

A convenience sample of 40 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus from community centers in the city of Toluca will be included, according to the following:

Inclusion criteria:

1. Patients medically diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus
2. Patients controlled with diet, metformin or diet and metformin
3. Patients with less than five years of diagnosis
4. Patients with signed informed consent
5. Mexican born from Mexican parents and grandparents
6. Older than 18 years of age.

Elimination criteria:

1. Patients who do not complete the study for any reason
2. Patients that do not comply with the supplementation protocol.

   * Study description

After obtaining approval from the Ethics and Research Committee and authorization from the State of Mexico's Health Institute, subjects from two community health centers will be invited to participate. If compliance with inclusion criteria es fulfilled (18-year-old or more adults with less than five-year medically diagnosed type 2 diabetes, controlled solely with diet, metformin or diet and metformin, Mexican born and being children and grandchildren of Mexican origin), subjects will be asked to sign an informed consent letter. Patients included in the study will be given an appointment for obtaining a finger-prick sample for glucose and a 10mL venous fasting blood sample for biochemical analysis (insulin, Hb1Ac, Vitamin D, Vitamin D Binding Protein, C-reactive protein, IL-6, total and HDL cholesterol, HOMA-IR will be calculated from insulin and glucose), anthropometric measurements (weight and height for BMI), food-frequency questionnaires, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, as well as general and health information (age, sex, time of diagnosis, treatment, sun-exposure). Subjects will be then given a container with 60 capsules of 4000IU each and given the instructions to consume one daily, they will be given an appointment 60 days later to re-fill the Vitamin D container,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effect on glycemia
  - Effect on C-reactive protein
  - Effect on glycosilated hemoglobin
  - Effect on insulin
  - Effect on Interleukin 6

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: 4000 IU of Vitamin D3

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06993064
