CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06342024
Title: Pistachio Consumption on Inflammatory Markers and Lean Body Mass
Official Title: Effects of Pistachio Consumption on Inflammatory Markers and Lean Body Mass in Recreationally Active Women and Men
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 144
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Pistachio nuts (Pistacia vera L.) are a nutrient- and energy-dense food, and are a significant source of 15 different micronutrients. In addition to an excellent micronutrient profile, pistachios are a good source of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (linoleic acid, oleic acid, and plant sterols). Pistachios have the lowest amount of total fat, and the highest protein, fiber, and phytosterol content compared to other nuts. They possess a high antioxidant content. Specifically, pistachios have high amounts of lutein, zeaxanthin, and phenolic compounds (e.g., anthocyanins, flavonoids, and proanthocyanidins). These aforementioned compounds are known for their anti-inflammatory effects. Pistachios also have been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, and all-cause mortality.

The purpose of this study will be to determine the effects of consuming 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day compared to consuming no pistachios per day on inflammatory markers (creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, cortisol, Interleukin-8, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase concentrations) and lean body mass in women and men, 40 to 60 years of age, who have been recreationally active for at least six months (exercising three to five days per week). It is hypothesized that pistachio consumption will significantly lower inflammatory response and significantly increase lean body mass.

This will be a randomized study where participants will first complete a two-week baseline run-in period during which they will consume their typical diet. Following this, participants will be randomized to one of two groups for six months: consuming 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day or a control group (consuming no pistachios). Those consuming pistachios will be in addition to their usual diet.

The overall goal of this study is to evaluate the effects of pistachio consumption on inflammatory markers and lean body mass in women and men, 40 to 60 years of age, who exercise three to five days per week. This study could provide a simple, healthy way for recreationally active individuals to decrease inflammation and improve body composition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The overall goal of the study is to evaluate the effects of pistachio consumption on inflammatory markers and lean body mass in women and men, 40 to 60 years of age, who exercise three to five days per week. To determine the effects of consuming 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day compared to a control group on inflammatory markers (creatine kinase, C-reactive protein, cortisol, Interleukin-8, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase concentrations) and lean body mass in women and men, 40 to 60 years of age, who have been recreationally active for at least six months (exercising three to five days per week).

This will be a randomized study where participants will first complete a two-week baseline run-in period during which they will consume their typical diet. Following this, participants will be randomized to one of two groups for six months: consuming 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day versus a control (consuming no pistachios). The pistachios will be in addition to their usual diet.

Dietary Intervention including Dietary Evaluation The dietary intervention will be to randomly assign 144 participants to consume 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day (72 participants) or a control group (consuming no pistachios) (72 participants). That will be the only change will be implemented into the participants' diets. Because a number of researchers have shown that adding pistachios to the diet does not lead to weight gain, participants will not be asked to alter their diets in any way, except to add consumption of 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day for six months, or have no change in their diet (control group) (depending on the group to which they were randomly assigned).

Two-week Baseline Run-in Period A two-week baseline run-in period will be incorporated during which participants will consume their typical diet. Following this, participants will be randomized to one of two groups for six months: consuming 1.5 ounces of pistachios per day or a control group (consuming no pistachios). The pistachios will be in addition to their usual diet.

Why incorporate a two-week baseline run-in period? First, a run-in period is used after recruitment, but prior to randomizing participants. With a run-in period, even if there will be no treatment during the run-in period (as in our study), it allows the researchers to assess participant participation prior to randomization. If a participant is not receptive to any contact (e.g., emails, phone calls) during the run-in period, it will allow the researchers to exclude them from participating, which can increase the study's power. However, a run-in period might lead to negative effects. It could influence external validity by excluding participants from the study. A run-in period could also affect internal validity by inflating the intent-to-treat effect estimate. In addition, researchers should report why any participants were excluded during the run-in period, and describe thei

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - C-reactive protein concentrations in the blood
  - Creatine kinase concentrations in the blood
  - Cortisol concentrations in the blood
  - Interleukin-8 concentrations in the blood
  - Tumor necrosis factor-alpha concentrations in the blood

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pistachio group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06342024
