CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04845802
Title: Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Diaphragm Thickness, Respiratory Muscle Strength and Balance in Dancers.
Official Title: Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Diaphragm Thickness, Respiratory Muscle Strength and Balance in Dancers.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Dance is a performing art form consisting of sports and art intertwined and complex dynamic choreographic figures were handled aesthetically and physically of narrative. Scientific studies are insufficient on dance and health and performance of dancers in the literature although dance is the most used type of art and sport in all societies and for all age groups. It is seen that the core stabilization (central forces) of the dancers is insufficient when the current studies were examined, this insufficient stabilization causes biomechanical changes in the trunk, and indirectly affects the lower extremities. Consequently, insufficient stabilization was shown to be caused impairment of force generation and injuries. In addition, lack of core stabilization of dancers may cause impairment in balance and postural control. Therefore, dancers need a good postural control with provided by an effective core stabilization training in order to exhibit a successful and healthy performance. It is shown that inspiratory muscle training (IMT) improves diaphragm strength and diaphragm thickness. Considering the relation between diaphragm muscle forming the upper (ceiling) part of the core area, and balance, IMT may also have an impact on postural control and balance alongside the standard clinical parameters such as respiratory muscle strength and diaphragm thickness in dancers. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of inspiratory muscle training on diaphragm thickness, postural stability, balance, respiratory muscle strength in dancers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of baseline postural stability test score in Biodex Balance System after 8 weeks
  - Change of baseline athlete single leg stability score in Biodex Balance System after 8 weeks
  - Change of baseline limits of stability test score in Biodex Balance System after 8 weeks
  - Change of baseline diaphragm thickness after 8 weeks
  - Change of baseline maximum inspiratory pressure after 8 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Inspiratory muscle training(high-IMT group)
  - OTHER: Inspiratory muscle training(low-IMT group)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04845802
