CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05917353
Title: A Randomized Control Trial of Hinex Jelly on the Changes in Muscle Quality and Quantity
Official Title: A Randomized Control Trial of Hinex Jelly on the Changes in Muscle Quality and Quantity
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Taiwan is about to enter a super-aged society in 2025. The health problems of the elderly are getting more and more attention. Among these geriatric issues, sarcopenia is an important issue. Sarcopenia is the culprit of disability in old age. It is characterized by persistent and general loss of skeletal muscle mass and function throughout the body, which may lead to disability, decreased quality of life, and even inability to take care of yourself and an increased risk of death. Human skeletal muscle decreases with age. After the age of 40, muscle mass will be lost at a rate of 8% per decade; after the age of 70, it will be lost at a faster rate of 15% per decade in average. Although all elderly will lose muscle mass due to aging, the degree and speed of loss vary from person to person. In addition to aging, it may also be caused by chronic diseases.

Exercise intervention and nutritional intervention are the first choices for sarcopenia intervention. Regarding nutritional requirements, the elderly need at least 15 grams of essential amino acids per day for muscle building. Among them, leucine is the most important, which can increase protein production and reduce decomposition. Foods rich in leucine include soybeans, fish or beef. However, elderly people may not be able to get enough protein from their daily diet smoothly, often because of dysphagia, such as dental problems or chewing and swallowing problems. Therefore, oral nutritional supplements are relatively important for the improvement of muscle mass. Nutritional Supplement Hinex Jelly has 303 calories per serving, contains up to 15g of high-quality protein and a high amount of branched-chain amino acids, which is beneficial for muscle synthesis and tissue repair, plus a variety of minerals, vitamins, water-soluble dietary fiber, hydrolyzed collagen and other ingredients can strengthen nutritional supplements, maintain good health.

In summary, this study intends to explore the effect of Hinex Jelly nutritional supplemental intervention on muscle mass quality and quantity changes by means of randomized intervention and controlled trials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Appendicular skeletal muscle mass index at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline handgrip strength at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline performance on the 5-repetition sit-to-stand test at 8 weeks
  - Change from Baseline performance on 6-metre walk test at 8 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Hinex Jelly

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05917353
