CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07536893
Title: Effect of Tai Chi and Multimodal Exercise in Overweight and Obese Women
Official Title: The Effect of Tai Chi and Multimodal Exercise Programs on Balance in Overweight and Obese Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Obesity is a health problem that results from the interaction of genetic, socio-economic, and socio-cultural factors, leading to excessive accumulation of body fat that harms the body and poses a risk to health. Excess weight and obesity negatively affect the musculoskeletal system, leading to limitations associated with physical functionality. In overweight and obese individuals, the musculoskeletal system experiences increased stress on bones, joints, and soft tissues. This causes balance and gait disorders, frequently leading to injuries from falls.

Regular exercise is known to play a significant role in regulating energy balance, reducing the risk of obesity-related health problems, and decreasing the morbidity and mortality associated with these problems. However, while the literature shows numerous weight-focused studies on excess weight and obesity, intervention and comparative studies aimed at improving balance ability as a primary goal affecting an individual's physical mobility are limited. Furthermore, studies examining the effects of tai chi and multimodal exercise training on overweight and obese individuals are also limited.

In the present study, it is aimed to examine the effects of a 10-week Tai Chi and Multimodal exercise program on balance in overweight and obese women, and to compare the effectiveness of Tai Chi and Multimodal exercises.

This study shows that a 10-week Tai Chi and Multimodal exercise program significantly improves balance parameters and can be used to enhance balance ability without posing any risks.

The results of this study can guide the development of exercise programs to be used in the treatment of obesity and provide a scientific basis for creating more effective and sustainable rehabilitation strategies in the long term.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of overweight and obesity is increasing significantly, impacting public health. Obesity, which has become a global public health problem, is a chronic and progressive condition. The main reason for the increasing prevalence of obesity today is sedentary lifestyle. A sedentary lifestyle is associated with obesity, multiple complications of obesity, and an increased risk of mortality.

Exercise when performed regularly and appropriately, exerts protective effects against obesity-related diseases by reducing cardiovascular and cardiometabolic health risks and enhancing functional capacity through increases in muscle mass and strength. Falls in obese adults are a serious public health problem associated with irreversible health consequences, it is necessary to identify the best choices among evidence-based interventions to prevent fall-causing factors (reduced balance, poor postural stability). In this regard, multimodal exercise includes aerobic, strength, balance, and flexibility activities. Furthermore, obese individuals cannot sustain intense and strenuous exercise. When they do, intense and strenuous exercise can lead to serious muscle injuries. Therefore, Tai chi is used as an aerobic exercise for obese people. In this context, it is important to investigate the effectiveness of various exercise programs and which exercise program is most effective in overweight and obese individuals.

Participants were randomly assigned to three groups using computer-assisted randomization: Tai chi group (TCG), Multimodal group (MMG), and control group (CG). The control group received no intervention and participants were asked to continue their daily routines. The intervention groups (Tai chi and Multimodal exercise groups) underwent an exercise program lasting 45-60 minutes, twice a week, for 10 weeks. The Tai chi exercise program consisted of a 10-minute warm-up, Tai chi exercises, and a 10-minute cool-down period. The Multimodal exercise program consisted of a 10-minute warm-up, Multimodal exercises, and a 10-minute cool-down period.

Each participant who volunteered to be included in the study was given detailed information about the study, and written informed consent was obtained from those who met the inclusion criteria. During the evaluation process, participants' demographic and clinical data were recorded using a prepared form. Balance level was assessed using performance tests with proven validity and reliability. The participants were informed about the study and the evaluation processes were carried out by the same physiotherapist.

The aim of this study was to examine the effects of 10-week Tai Chi and Multimodal exercise programs on balance in overweight and obese women and to compare the effectiveness of Tai Chi and Multimodal exercises.

The study results showed that while there was no significant difference between the groups in the 10-week Tai Chi and Multimodal exercise programs, both interventions resulted in significant im

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Timed Up and Go (TUG) test time
  - Single-leg stance test time
  - Y-Balance Test
  - Five Times Sit to Stand Test
  - Four Square Step Test (FSST)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal Exercise
  - OTHER: Tai chi exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07536893
