CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07278440
Title: An Exercise Intervention for Improving Mental and Physical Health in Patients With Primary Brain Tumors and Their Caregivers, ET-NEURO Trial
Official Title: ET-NEURO: A Pilot Trial of the Exercise Together Program in Primary Brain Tumor Patient-Caregiver Dyads Incorporating Glymphatic MRI
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial evaluates the effects of a partnered exercise program, called Exercise Together, on participants with primary brain tumors and their caregivers. Standard treatments for primary brain tumors require extensive caregiver support, and both patients and caregivers experience high psychological distress and physical burden as a result. While exercise is known to improve outcomes in cancer patients, its impact on primary brain tumor patients and caregivers remains unstudied. Exercise Together is a supervised, group exercise program previously studied in patients with other types of cancer, though never in patients with primary brain tumors or their caregivers. Exercise Together uses functional resistance training to target muscle groups essential for everyday activities to improve daily functioning. Since exercises are done in a partnered format, Exercise Together is also designed to foster teamwork and strengthen the relationship between the patient and their caregiver. This program may be safe, feasible, and effective in improving the mental and physical health of primary brain tumor patients and their caregivers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety and feasibility of the Exercise Together program for patient-participants with a diagnosis of primary brain tumor and their caregiver-participants.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To preliminarily evaluate the impact of the Exercise Together program on enhancing patient-caregiver relationships and improving quality of life in dyads affected with primary brain tumor (PBT).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the changes in the central nervous system (CNS) glymphatic system before, during, and after the exercise program and its association with cognition.

OUTLINE:

Patients and caregivers participate in Exercise Together virtual resistance training sessions, over 75 minutes each, twice weekly for 12 weeks. Patients may undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study as part of their standard care.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up at 4 weeks and then monthly in months 1-4.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Enrollment rate (feasibility)
  - Adherence (feasibility)
  - Retention (feasibility)
  - Incidence of adverse events

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
  - PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
  - OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
  - OTHER: Resistance Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07278440
