CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06213246
Title: Sleep and Performance in Surgeons
Official Title: Effect of Surgery and Sleep Hygiene Strategies on Strength, Sleep Parameters, and Cognitive Performance in Orthopedic Surgeons
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The primary aim of this study is to assess the changes in strength expression resulting from the performance of a surgical operation among orthopedic surgeons at the IRCCS Galeazzi-Sant'Ambrogio Hospital. To achieve this goal, the assessment of strength expression will be conducted using handgrip measurements before (pre) and after (post) the surgical operation. Additionally, both pre- and post-surgery, there will also be evaluations of changes in actigraphic sleep parameters, salivary cortisol levels, cognitive performance, and subjective perception levels of effort and drowsiness.

Te second aim is to assess differences in strength expression, cognitive performance, salivary cortisol levels, perceived effort, and drowsiness levels among surgeons in response to sleep hygiene strategies (week 2 vs week 3).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Currently, there are few scientific studies that have assessed the relationship between sleep quality, strength expression, and cognitive performance among orthopedic surgeons. Furthermore, no previous study has ever evaluated the effect of a behavioral sleep hygiene strategy on actigraphic sleep parameters in orthopedic surgeons.

Therefore, the primary aim of the study is to assess the changes in strength expression resulting from the performance of a surgical operation among orthopedic surgeons at the IRCCS Galeazzi-Sant'Ambrogio Hospital. To achieve this goal, the assessment of strength expression will be conducted using handgrip measurements before (pre) and after (post) the surgical operation. Additionally, both pre- and post-surgery, there will also be evaluations of changes on lower limbs strength (maximal isometric strength of extensors of knee by digital dynamometer), salivary cortisol levels, cognitive performance (Stroop test and Bomb Risk Elicitation Task), and subjective perception levels of effort and drowsiness (Borg CR-10 and Karolinska Sleepiness Scale).

Te second aim is to assess differences in strength expression, cognitive performance, salivary cortisol levels, perceived effort, and drowsiness levels among surgeons in response to sleep hygiene strategies (control week vs Sleep hygiene strategies week).

The study involves 3 weeks of assessment (Week 1, 2, and 3), not necessarily consecutive.

Assessments within Week 1:

\- Sleep monitoring using actigraphy and a sleep diary for the entire week, along with completing the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index.

Assessments within Week 2 and Week 3:

* Sleep monitoring using actigraphy and a sleep diary for the entire week.
* Pre and post-surgical operation evaluations:

  * Measurement of strength using dynamometers.
  * Cognitive assessment using Stroop test and Bomb Risk Elicitation Task.
  * Evaluation of salivary cortisol levels using "Salivette".
  * Assessment of perceived exertion using the Borg CR10 scale.
  * Evaluation of drowsiness levels using the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale.

Note: In Week 3, sleep hygiene strategies will be implemented.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Handgrip Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sleep Hygiene Strategies

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 23 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06213246
