CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04906746
Title: Ruxolitinib for Cancer Cachexia
Official Title: Pilot Study of Ruxolitinib in the Treatment of Cancer Cachexia
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
To assess toxicity with use of Ruxolitinib in NSCLC cachexia patients; to associate levels of JAK/STAT signaling in blood, adipose, and muscle pre- and post-ruxolitinib treatment with changes in cachexia and anorexia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lung cancer patients on a whole, and a significant percentage of NSCLC patients in particular, develop cancer cachexia. In fact, approximately 30-40% of all NSCLC patients will develop cachexia in their disease course, with the highest percentages in stage IV patients. One-third of these patients will die of cachexia-related morbidity. In these groups, stage-matched NSCLC patients with cachexia will have poorer survival than those without cachexia.

The JAK 1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib has been used in many types of non-oncologic and oncologic patients with a well-established toxicity profile. Ruxolitinib was created as an oral agent with the capacity to antagonize JAK/STAT signaling across cell types. Based on the findings of the REACH2 and REACH3 trials, a starting dose of 10 mg twice daily oral administration of ruxolitinib was established for the latter patient population and is also a starting dose for the polycythemia patients. Known but manageable side effects of ruxolitinib use include thrombocytopenia, anemia, neutropenia, risk of infection, among other conditions.

Ruxolitinib has not specifically been used in 1) cancer cachexia patient populations in an evaluable trial or 2) in the setting of first line cancer therapies for solid tumors who are receiving new standards of care including immunotherapy (IO). Therefore, in this trial, investigators propose using ruxolitinib in an open-label approach to antagonize systemic and tissue-specific, tumor-directed JAK/STAT signaling as a means curtailing cachexia progression in stage IV NSCLC patients. This study will ensure an acceptable toxicity profile when ruxolitinib is used in cancer cachexia patients.The use of ruxolitinib dose escalation in the same patients with frequent tissue and serum collections will permit us to better understand how important JAK/STAT signaling is to clinical cancer cachexia development.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of non-small cell lung cancer cachexia patients with toxicity with the use of Ruxolitinib

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Identify any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) when ruxolitinib is administered to NSCLC cachexia patients.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04906746
