CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05107154
Title: iCARE 2.0: A Pilot Intervention of Dialectical Behavioural Therapy for Youth With Type 2 Diabetes.
Official Title: iCARE 2.0: A Pilot Intervention of Dialectical Behavioural Therapy for Youth With Type 2 Diabetes.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
In partnership with youth, parents, and community members the investigators have co-developed a program of research designed to address the substantial health disparities faced by First Nations children and families, and the calls to action from the Truth and Reconciliation Report. Specifically; the investigators aim to address the high rates of kidney disease in Indigenous children living with Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), by identifying and understanding the root causes for progression of kidney disease and working together to build an evidenced based, novel therapy for diabetes that focuses on mindfulness, personal strengths and incorporates traditional medicine practices that are meaningful to patients.

The investigators have planned 2 pilots in order to address the uncertainties surrounding the planning of a larger definitive trial and allow adequate engagement and building of a meaningful traditional medicine component. These pilots will inform the development of a co-designed, feasible, and embraced Dialectical Behavioural Therapy (DBT) skills training and traditional teachings intervention, which is adequately powered to examine effectiveness on outcomes such as mental wellness, medication adherence, and improved glycemic control and renal function.

Research Aims: 1. Determine the recruitment, enrollment and adherence rates to the intervention. 2. Evaluate acceptability of the intervention using traditional qualitative methods and Indigenous world view methodology 3. Determine the estimated effect size required to power a large-scale DBT randomized control trial for the outcomes quality of life (primary), glycemic control and albuminuria (secondary).

Study Hypotheses: 1. The investigators hypothesize that a DBT intervention will be feasible on a local and National Platform and will be acceptable and embraced by youth with T2D as an important component of their management plan. 2. The investigators hypothesize that the additional of traditional medicine elements will increase the acceptability and adherence to DBT for Indigenous children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will conduct a quasi-experimental trial with a small sample of adolescents and one family member to participate in group-based Dialectical Behavioural Therapy (DBT) or be randomized to a control arm. Pre-measures, post-measures, and 3-month follow up measures will be collected on DBT participants and control participants. Participants receiving DBT and parents/guardian of the DBT participants will also be asked to complete 1-on-1 qualitative interviews after the 16-week program is finished. Pilot 1 will consist of group-based DBT and Pilot 2 will consist of group-based DBT with an optional component which incorporates traditional Indigenous medicines and knowledge. Pilot 2 will be built with Indigenous scholars and elders and will be submitted as an amendment to the University of Manitoba Research Ethics Board when appropriate consultation has been completed. We are only requesting approval for Pilot 1 at this time.

Screening, Enrolment and Intervention Assignment: Research assistants will recruit participants from the Diabetes Education Resource for Children and Adolescents, located in the Community Services Building at the Health Science Center in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Participants currently enrolled in the iCARE Cohort, who have consented to be contacted about future studies and who meet eligibility requirements will also be approached to share information about this study. Interested participants will be screened utilizing a number of questionnaires and self-report measures in person (if allowable), via telephone, or on REDCap

Pilot 1 will be completed virtually through Zoom HealthCare.

The main outcome measures for the pilot trials were selected to inform the feasibility and sample size required for a larger RCT on a national scale. These include recruitment rates, retention rates, adherence to the intervention, retention for follow-up measurements, and satisfaction with the intervention. The investigators will also assess youth and parent experiences and perceptions of the intervention using inductive qualitative research upon completion of the 16-week trial.

The proposed intervention is mental health support intervention, therefore it does not include medication therapy or devices. The program is being delivered by trained clinical psychologist/psychology students.

Debriefing occurs throughout the intervention to assess for significant mental distress (including but not limited to weekly check-ins). Individual mental health concerns will be dealt with with as they arise. If at any point during the clinical research, clinicians judge the program is no longer beneficial or actively detrimental to an individual's health and wellbeing, the team has the right to end services and provide referrals and support for other treatment models.

Adverse events (AE) will be collected to document unfavorable changes in current health status of the research participant or any incident, experience or outcome that suggests that the resea

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Study Feasibility
  - Study Acceptability
  - Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dialectical Behavioural Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 22 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05107154
