CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07142538
Title: the Tone and Viscoelastic Properties of Back Muscles in Thoracic Kyphosis
Official Title: The Effect of an 8-Week Corrective Exercise Programme on the Tone and Viscoelastic Properties of Back Muscles in Thoracic Kyphosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The thoracic curvature of the spinal column occurs in the sagittal plane. While the normal thoracic kyphosis angle of the spine is 20-40°, an angle of 45-50° is referred to as postural kyphosis, increased kyphosis, or hyperkyphosis. The strength of the central and deep back muscles of the trunk controls spinal stability and intervertebral movements in dynamic situations. This ensures that thoracic curvature is maintained within normal physiological limits.

Increased kyphosis can result from poor postural habits, prolonged computer use, trunk asymmetry, and muscle weakness. Studies have reported an increase in thoracic kyphosis, postural deviations in the trunk, and changes in shoulder and head positions as a result of weakening of the back muscles. Corrective exercise programmes aimed at strengthening the back muscles are frequently used in the treatment of thoracic kyphosis. The effects of exercise programmes on muscle strength, endurance, and kyphosis angle have been investigated. However, there are few studies examining the effects of corrective exercise programmes on muscle tone and viscoelastic properties in the back muscles. In our study, we aim to investigate the effects of an 8-week corrective exercise programme on the tone and viscoelastic properties of the back muscles in individuals with thoracic kyphosis and to propose its inclusion as a contemporary approach in clinical treatment protocols.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The thoracic curvature of the spinal column occurs in the sagittal plane. While the normal thoracic kyphosis angle of the spine is 20-40°, an angle of 45-50° is referred to as postural kyphosis, increased kyphosis, or hyperkyphosis. The strength of the central and deep back muscles of the trunk controls spinal stability and intervertebral movements in dynamic situations. This ensures that thoracic curvature is maintained within normal physiological limits.

Increased kyphosis can result from poor postural habits, prolonged computer use, trunk asymmetry, and muscle weakness. Studies have reported an increase in thoracic kyphosis, postural deviations in the trunk, and changes in shoulder and head positions as a result of weakening of the back muscles. Corrective exercise programmes aimed at strengthening the back muscles are frequently used in the treatment of thoracic kyphosis. The effects of exercise programmes on muscle strength, endurance, and kyphosis angle have been investigated. However, there are few studies examining the effects of corrective exercise programmes on muscle tone and viscoelastic properties in the back muscles. In our study, we aim to investigate the effects of an 8-week corrective exercise programme on the tone and viscoelastic properties of the back muscles in individuals with thoracic kyphosis and to propose its inclusion as a contemporary approach in clinical treatment protocols.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The MyotonPro
  - Flexible Ruler:
  - Kyphosis-Specific Spine Appearance Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07142538
