CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02447445
Title: Grip Strength Routine Implementation (GRImP)
Official Title: Implementing Grip Strength Measurement Into Routine Clinical Practice; a Feasibility Study (GRImP)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Hand grip strength (GS) is a non-invasive marker of whole body skeletal muscle strength and function used in research and recommended as a simple inexpensive measure suitable for clinical use. Research has shown that low GS in hospital inpatients is associated with poor healthcare outcomes including increased postoperative complications, longer length of stay, increased functional limitations and disability. Measuring GS on admission to hospital has the potential to identify people at risk of poor healthcare outcomes allowing early intervention including focus on nutrition and mobility. Yet, GS measurement is not routinely used in clinical practice. The aim of this study is to evaluate the implementation of GS measurement into routine clinical practice in Medicine for Older People wards at UHS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This implementation research involves mixed methods combining qualitative and quantitative elements. The first preliminary part of the study will define the current baseline practice in the MOP wards in University Hospital Southampton (UHS) with regard to the identification of patients at high risk of poor healthcare outcomes, inpatients' nutritional care and management of their mobility. For this purpose, an ethnographic approach (involving interviews, focus groups, and audit of clinical records) will be followed. Understanding how the healthcare system works will enable justification and integration of GS measurement in the routine practice in an effective way. Participants and situations will be sampled on a purposive basis which means "cases/participants are sampled in a strategic way to best answer the research question". Single in-depth semi structured interviews will be conducted with different groups of healthcare staff with different levels of experiences and roles including consultants, junior doctors, ward sisters, dieticians, physiotherapists, and therapy assistants (a total of 10-15 healthcare staff members). The investigators will also conduct focus groups with nursing staff from the 5 wards, with nurses of similar seniority in each group to encourage free discussion (approximately 15-20 nurses divided into 4-5 focus groups) to gain an understanding of their shared practice.

The medical notes for the patients in the first 1-3 beds in each bay in the 5 wards will be examined (approximately 54 records). Basic information about the patient such as: age, gender, date of admission, domicile status, and reasons for admission will be first extracted. Then investigators will check the records to extract any information within the first 2-3 days of admission about risk assessment measures and what could indicate risk factors for poor healthcare outcomes. In addition, the number of and reasons for referrals weekly for the last 3 months to the dietetic team will be abstracted from the E-referral system. The number of prescribed oral nutritional supplements (ONS) will be also calculated weekly for the last 3 months from the electronic prescribing system. These figures are important for later analysis and comparison in order to assess changes in routine practice.

The second part of the research involves developing a training programme on measuring GS and creation of a care plan for older patients with low GS levels. Then, the nursing, medical and therapy staff in 5 wards in the MOP department will be trained in the measurement of grip strength and interpretation of grip strength values. There are approximately 150 nursing staff in MOP across the 5 wards, all of whom will be trained over a period of 3 months in GS measurement in groups of 5-10 each. Additional training sessions will be provided to junior doctors, consultants and therapy staff taking the opportunity to incorporate this into regular educational sessions where possible. The time a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The feasibility and acceptability of routine implementation of grip strength assessment in older patients

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Grip strength assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 80 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02447445
