CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05982067
Title: MIndfulness-based Physical Exercise Program (MIPE Program) on Sarcopenia
Official Title: The Utility of MIndfulness-based Physical Exercise Program (MIPE Program) for Community-dwelling Older People With Sarcopenia: a Pilot Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The goal of this pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and the preliminary effects of the MIndfulness-based Physical Exercise (MIPE) intervention among community-dwelling older people with sarcopenia. The main questions are: 1) is the MIPE intervention feasible and acceptable in older adults with sarcopenia? 2) is the MIPE intervention effective to improve the adherence to physical exercise intervention, alleviate the symptoms of sarcopenia and enhance the psychological well-being of older adults with sarcopenia? To answer thesEQuestions, a MIPE intervention protocol was developed by Delphi approach and end-users' evaluation. This pilot RCT will be conducted to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and the preliminary effects of the MIPE intervention. In the parallel-group, pilot RCT, 60 community-dwelling older people aged 60 years or older diagnosed with sarcopenia will be randomized into either the intervention group receiving the MIPE intervention 2 sessions weekly over 12 weeks or the control group receivinGHealth educations. Each session of the MIPE intervention will last about 70 minutes, including 20-min mindfulness-based intervention, 40-min physical exercise (10-min warm-up, 20-min RE, and 10-min cool down) and 10-20-min sharing and discussion. The feasibility, acceptability and preliminary effectiveness on sarcopenia symptoms and psychological well-being of the MIPE program will be assessed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Sarcopenia is a geriatric syndrome characterised by low muscle mass, muscle strength, and physical function. Physical exercise (PE), especially resistance exercise, has demonstrated potential effects on sarcopenia. However, low motivation for regular PE is always reported as a major barrier in this population. Based on the PRIME (Plans, Responses, Impulses, Motives, and Evaluations) theory of motivation, Plan (i.e., well-planned, and evidence-based PE protocol), Motives (anticipated pleasure, satisfaction, and relief) and self-awareness on the present moment are the key points of human motivation and the potential targets to change a behaviour (i.e., adhering to a PE intervention) in older people with sarcopenia. Limited study on sarcopenia consisted of any interventional element to emphasise motives and self-awareness on the present moment, two key points of human motivation in the PRIME theory of motivation, although older people with sarcopenia are more likely to have negative feelings (i.e., fatigue, depress, anxiety) and experiences (i.e., derailed by daily life and distracted by concerns on PE). Mindfulness-based intervention (MBI) is a psychosocial intervention which aims to increase the participants' awareness of the present moment non-judgmentally. Increased evidence has indicated that MBI can also improve the levels of PE and adherence to PE interventions. Based on the mindful coping model, the positive relationship between mindfulness and PE might be that MBI has the potential to improve motivation for PE by addressing three key points of human motivation in the PRIME theory of motivation (focusing on the present moment, evoking positive feelings, and increasing self-awareness). Thus, MBI has the potential to be integrated into PE trening to increase motivation and adherence to PE in older people with sarcopenia.

To address the above research gaps, we first conducted a SR on the home-based interventions among community-dwelling older people with sarcopenia was conducted, showing that home-based resistance exercise is feasible, suitable and has potential effects on sarcopenia, but few studies consisted of motivation-enhancing component. Then a Delphi study was conducted to develop the MIndfulness-based Physical Exercise (MIPE) intervention on this population. However, the feasibility, acceptability, and effects of the HOME intervention among community-dwelling older people with sarcopenia need to be explored.

Objective The objective of this study is to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and the preliminary effects of the MIPE intervention among community-dwelling older people with sarcopenia.

Methods A pilot randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and the preliminary effects of the HOME intervention. In the parallel-group, pilot RCT, 60 community-dwelling older people aged 60 years or older diagnosed with sarcopenia will be randomised into either the intervention g

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time spent recruiting participants
  - Eligibility rate
  - Recruitment rate
  - Attendance rate
  - Complete rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: mindfulness-based phsycial exercise intervention
  - OTHER: health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05982067
