CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04715711
Title: Physiological and Thermoregulatory Responses of Body Cooling During Cycling in a Hot Environment
Official Title: Physiological and Thermoregulatory Responses of Body Cooling During Cycling in a Hot Environment (PYTHON)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
BHSAI is developing a computational system that provides early alerts of a rise in core body temperature to help reduce the risk of heat injury in the field and during training. The goal of the body temperature alerting system is to use it during rest, exercise in the heat and during body cooling. Using this system during cooling will allow healthcare professionals and military personnel monitor core temperature to ensure cooling is effective (and prevent hypothermia). Therefore, the primary purpose of this investigation is to validate a body temperature alerting system using physiological responses that occur during rest, exercise in the heat and during body cooling. Multiple cooling modalities will be validated. This study is expanding on a previous intervention IRB#H20-0010 (BHSAI Cooling Study), but will examine body cooling during more intense exercise and while cycling. We will also examine the effectiveness of each cooling modality (passive cooling, mist-fan cooling, hand/forearm immersion, ice towel) on physiological variables after exercise in the heat.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Design

The study will be completed in the following timeline:

Visit 1: Baseline and VO2max Testing

Vist 2: Metabolic Heat Production Visit

Visit 3-6: Trial 1, 2 ,3, 4

Visit specific information is described below, however, specific data collection protocols for dependent variables and procedures are included below the description of the study design. Participants will be asked to sign a photo/video release form (Appendix H) to be used in research projects, scientific publications/conferences and for educational purposes. Participants may be videoed or photographed while exercising or resting in the environmental chamber. Participants will be assigned after medical clearance is granted.

Visit 1: Baseline and VO2max Testing

Participants who are approved to participate will be scheduled for a baseline and VO2max testing day. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) will be measured upon arrival during the baseline visit. The participant will lay supine with a ventilated hood covering their head and torso. The ventilated hood will be attached to a hose connected to a metabolic cart. The metabolic cart will continuously measure respiratory exchange ratio, oxygen consumption, and substrate utilization. The participant will remain under the hood for approximately 30 minutes. Upon completion of BMR, participants will provide a urine sample in a clean urine cup. Urine specific gravity and urine color will be assessed. Nude body mass will also be recorded. Privacy will be afforded for each participant while obtaining body mass measures by taking measurements with the participant alone in a private room behind a solid, closed door, and the research reading the scale outside of the room. Participants will only be permitted to continue to the VO2max test if the euhydrated criteria of a urine specific gravity (USG) ≤1.025 is met. If the participant arrives with a USG between 1.020 and 1.025, the subject will be asked to drink 500 mL of water to ensure proper hydration status. If USG is greater than 1.025 the subject will be rescheduled for a different day. Height will be measured with a tape measure on Visit 1. Percent body fat will be measured using Air displacement plethysmography (BodPod®; Cosmed, Software Version 4.2+, Concord, CA, USA). This will take less than \~5 minutes to complete. This information will be used to describe the subject demographics. Participants will also be asked to complete a maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) test on a treadmill and on a cycle ergometer in a thermoneutral environment with about 30 minutes to one hour between. This test will provide aerobic fitness levels of the participants which will be compared between the two exercise protocols. Participants will also be asked about their average weekly physical activity (Appendix K). This visit will take approximately 1-2 hours.

Visit 2: Metabolic Heat Production Visit

In order to prescribe appropriate exercise intensity, heat production must be controlled. Heat production will be prescr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in VO2max between Cycle ergometer and treadmill
  - Metabolic Heat Production
  - Change in Rectal Temperature
  - Change in Esophageal Temperature
  - Change in Heart Rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Forearm coolng
  - OTHER: Wet-towel cooling
  - OTHER: mist-fan
  - OTHER: passive cooling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 28 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04715711
