CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05021003
Title: Effects of Core Stabilization Training With and Without Pressure Biofeedback in Patients With Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effects of Core Stabilization Training With and Without Pressure Biofeedback in Patients With Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Mechanical low back pain is an impairment of musculoskeletal system. Lifetime prevalence of low back pain is 60-85%. Frequent micro-trauma to the structures of the spine, poor control and stabilization leads to LBP and eventually causes functional limitation. The objective of the study to find whether Core Stabilization Training with Pressure Biofeedback could reduce pain and improves functional activity in patients with mechanical low back pain. To study the effectiveness of Core Stabilization Training with Pressure Biofeedback in reducing pain and improving functional activity in subjects with mechanical low backpain between the age group of 25-40 years. To find out the effect of core stabilization training with pressure biofeedback in reducing pain and improving functional activity in subjects with mechanical low back pain between the age group of 25-40 years. The study will be conducted on 30 subjects between the age group of 25-40 years with mechanical low back pain and according to the inclusion criteria were recruited in the study. NPRS at rest and activity, Modified ODI will assess PRE and POST treatment. P value: less than 0.05 using SPSS (Statistical package for social sciences) for NPRS(pain at rest and activity) and modified ODI i.e. core stabilization training with pressure biofeedback had statistical improvement in NPRS (Pain at rest and activity) and modified ODI score. Core stabilization training with pressure biofeedback is effective inreducing pain (at rest and activity) and functional disability in subjects between the age group of 25-40 years with mechanical low back pain

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NPRS
  - oswestry disability index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: pressure biofeedback
  - OTHER: core stabilization exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05021003
