CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06219590
Title: Acetylcholine Iontophoresis As A New Challenge With Type 2 Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy: A Possible New Therapy
Official Title: Acetylcholine Iontophoresis As A New Challenge With Type 2 Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy: A Possible New Therapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The investigators initial study opened the way for randomized trials that monitor the effects of acetylcholine (Ach) iontophoresis vasodilators on endothelial nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) to develop a transdermal treatment that is effective, free from systemic adverse effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators studied endothelial-mediated microvascular blood flow in neuropathic diabetic patients to determine the association between endothelial regulation of the microcirculation and the expression of endothelial constitutive nitric oxide synthetase (NOS). As a result, the nerve fibers can become damaged. Once the nerves have been damaged they cannot repair themselves.

Material and methods:

A group of 80 patients (male and female) diagnosed as type 2 diabetes mellitus, will be included in the study their age ranged from 40-60 years. Patients randomly will be divided into two groups:

Study groups (A) 40 patients type 2 diabetes mellitus with clinically proved peripheral neuropathy. And control group (B) 40 patients with asymptomatic type 2 diabetes mellitus. They were selected from south valley university hospitals. Group (A) receive iontophoresis by acetylcholine with (15) min for three sessions per week for four weeks. Also the investigators followed up study group (A) one month of aerobic exercises in form of 15 minute walking, bicycling, or swimming, and the investigators reevaluated nitric oxide level. Group (B) received shame iontophoresis with (15) min for three sessions per week for four weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Role of acetylcholine iontophoresis in improving Nitric oxide level in diabetic peripheral neuropathy patients.
  - Electrophysiological assessment of patients with acetylcholine iontophoresis and Ach iontophoresis role in improving diabetic peripheral neuropathy
  - Numerical rating pain scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Acetylcholine Iontophoresis
  - PROCEDURE: Shame Acetylcholine Iontophoresis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06219590
