CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01739205
Title: Biobehavioral Bases & Management of Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Biobehavioral Bases & Management of Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 114
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The major objective of this project is to determine if compared to Standard Care (SC), a Community Approach to Lifestyle Modification for Diabetes (CALM-D) program including diet, exercise and coping skills training, can decrease depression, weight and HbA1c and improve medication adherence in low income, primarily Black and Latino/Hispanic, depressed, overweight, Type 2 diabetic patients seen in a large, comprehensive, community health center. Type 2 diabetes is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). Obesity, poor glycemic control, depression, low socioeconomic status (SES) and being a member of a racial/ethnic minority group all increase this risk.

The project will compare 100 CALM-D and 100 SC participants. Following 3 run-in sessions assessment sessions to determine eligibility, given to both SC and CALM-D participants, SC patients will be treated in accordance with ADA Clinical Practice Guidelines (2005) and also assessed by project staff at baseline, 6 months and 1 year. The CALM-D participants will receive 2 individual stress management and lifestyle sessions followed by 2 weekly group sessions. Then 4 bi-weekly sessions will be followed by 9 monthly sessions for a total of 17 sessions. Secondary objectives of the project are to determine if compared to SC, CALM-D can improve glucose tolerance to challenge, insulin resistance, oxidative stress, inflammation, procoagulation, lipid profile, endothelial function resting blood pressure, cardiac and vascular function, cardiac morphology, psychosocial functioning and health quality of life. As many of the participants will already have been prescribed aspirin, statins, oral hypoglycemics and other medications, an important objective of the project will be to assess the extent to which improved adherence to medications - a goal of the CALM-D program - can account for improved intervention effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This project will be conducted on type 2 diabetic patients. Patients meeting eligibility criteria will be randomized to SC or the CALM-D condition, which includes diet and exercise counseling and coping skills training that in part is intended to facilitate medication adherence. Both CALM-D and SC patients will be prescribed antidepressant as well as other medications.

Because patient retention and adherence to protocol will be a major emphasis in this project, we intend to use a 3 session "run-in" prior to randomization. Patients who appear to be medically eligible, meet study criteria for major depression, and who express willingness to participate return for a session in which the patient completes a medical history form, undergoes a brief physical exam, takes a maximum exercise stress test, is given a standardized dietary assessment, and is taught how to use a food diary and activity monitor. At the beginning of the third run-in session, the patient returns the completed food diary, and data from the activity monitor is recorded. The patient then takes a 2 hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) during which time he or she answers questions about health habits, psychosocial functioning and health quality of life. After a brief rest and snack the patient is escorted to the Ultrasound Laboratory for assessment of echocardiography, carotid artery imaging and brachial artery endothelial functioning. Patients who satisfactorily complete all three run-in sessions, meet eligibility requirements and are interested in participating, are then asked to provide informed consent and are randomized into the CALM-D or SC conditions.

Randomization will be implemented using a stratified randomized block design. Eight strata will be designated on the basis of age (\<50 vs ≥ 50 years), severity of depression (\<24 vs ≥ 24 on the HRSD), and glycemic control (\<8 vs ≥ HbA1c) at baseline. Within each stratum, random sequences will be generated in blocks of sizes 2, 4 or 6. The block size will also be randomly chosen. In this manner the resulting sequence will look purely random, but will be fairly closely balanced with respect to the critical variables of age, depression and severity of diabetes (Piantadosi, 1997). Elements in the random sequences will be paired with the subject number of participants assigned to each stratum. The number of sequences generated for each stratum will vary depending on the number of eligible participants in that stratum. These sequences will be concealed until the treatment conditions are actually assigned.

The SC patients will be treated in accordance with ADA Clinical Practice Guidelines (2005), which will include at least 2 HbA1c tests, lipid profile, test for microalbuminuria, dilated retinal eye exam, complete foot exam and influenza immunization each year plus prescribed aspirin therapy, and a screen for readiness to stop smoking if they smoke. Smokers are encouraged to stop, using ADA recommendations in the Guidelines. In a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight loss

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CALM-D Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01739205
