CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02448238
Title: Pilot Study of Oral Probiotic Bacteria Supplementation to Reduce Chronic Immune Activation in HIV-infected Malian Women
Official Title: A Pilot Study of Oral Probiotic Bacteria Supplementation to Reduce Microbial Translocation and Chronic Immune Activation in HIV-infected Malian Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The composition of the intestinal bacterial flora effects gut immunologic function and intestinal barrier integrity. HIV infection impairs gut immune and epithelial function resulting in an altered gut bacterial flora and "leakage" of gut bacterial products into the bloodstream. These bacterial products can overstimulate the immune system leading to increased inflammation and HIV disease progression. The investigators will investigate whether oral supplementation of certain beneficial "probiotic" bacteria may attenuate these processes in HIV infected women in Mali, Africa.

This is a single arm study to evaluate the effect of 12 weeks of combination oral probiotic supplementation (VSL#3, Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals - containing 9 × 1011 bacteria of 8 species: S. thermophilus, Bifidobacterium breve, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium infantis, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus paracasei, and Lactobacillus bulgaricus) on plasma biomarkers of immune cell activation, and inflammation. The study population will be 50 chronically HIV-infected but generally healthy, non-pregnant, Malian women subjects with CD4+ T-cell count ≥ 350 cells/mm3 who are not receiving antiretroviral therapy. Blood plasma/serum and fecal sampling will occur at baseline, 4, and 12 week as well as at 24 weeks. At these time points, probiotic will be dispensed, a medical history will be obtained, and adherence will be assessed. Prior to study entry, subjects will have eligibility and safety labs will be obtained and detailed baseline medical and symptom histories, demographics, weight, and stool frequency information will be recorded. A stress assessment questionnaire will be completed at baseline and week 12 to determine the effect of this intervention on stress levels.

The primary study outcome is to assess change (baseline to 12 week) in plasma soluble CD14 (a marker of monocyte response to bacterial endotoxin which has been associated with mortality) with study probiotic. Other outcomes will include assessing change (baseline to 12 week) in plasma interleukin-6, soluble CD163 (another monocyte activation marker), d-dimer (a marker of coagulopathy), intestinal fatty acid binding protein (a marker of gut epithelial cell injury) and fecal calprotectin (a marker of gut inflammation), as well as CD4+ T-cell counts, self reported stool quality (using the Bristol Stool Scale), safety and tolerability of the VSL#3 probiotic, and level of stress.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Excessive immune system stimulation, activation, and associated inflammation play a central role in the pathogenesis of HIV disease. The level of T-cell and monocyte activation predicts the rate of HIV disease progression to AIDS, the slope of CD4+ T-cell loss, and mortality \[Liu 1997, Liu 1998, Deeks 2004, Hunt 2008, Sandler 2011\]. The mechanism by which HIV disease causes persistent immune activation and inflammation is multifactorial, and includes the direct pathogenic effect of replication, other chronic viral infections, as well as indirect pathways. It is now generally accepted that bacterial translocation into the systemic circulation due to HIV associated gut changes are an important part of this pathology. Both HIV and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection result in rapid and profound depletion of the gut mucosal Th17+CD4+ T-cells, key immune cells associated with reducing bacterial translocation through the gut wall \[Brenchley 2004, Raffetellu 2008\]. In addition, both HIV and SIV cause direct damage to intestinal epithelial cells \[Li 2008, Nazli 2010\], and gene expression studies of the GI mucosa have revealed HIV-associated upregulation of genes involved in inflammatory and apoptotic pathways and downregulation of tight junction \[Sankaran 2008\]. These HIV-associated gut changes ultimately disrupt the normal synergistic co-existence between man and his/her commensal gut microbial flora, resulting in increased translocation of gut bacterial products such as endotoxin (also known as lipopolysaccharide) and bacterial 16s ribosomal DNA into the systemic circulation. Here, these bacterial products serve as potent stimuli for the sustained T-cell and monocyte activation and inflammation that drive HIV disease progression \[Hunt 2008, Brenchley 2006, Jiang 2009\]. Treating HIV with antiretroviral therapy (ART) only partially corrects this gut lesion and related inflammatory process.

One possible approach to address this problem is to replenish "ecological niches" in the gut with beneficial bacteria or "probiotics" such as Lactobacillus and Bifidobacillus species, which may be depleted in HIV infected persons and in certain other conditions. Probiotic bacteria and their biofilms have been shown to stimulate innate immunity and result in beneficial metabolic changes that improve gut epithelial barrier and Th17 T-cell functions and reduces gut inflammation and endotoxin leak \[Bassaganya-Rievra 2012, Pagnini 2009, Giamarellos-Bourboulis 2009\]. This has proven beneficial in several clinical settings including ulcerative colitis, illeal pouch inflammation, and acute diarrhea in children \[Tursi 2010, Miele 2009, Minmura 2004, Salari 2012\]. In HIV infected individuals, patients treated with ART who fail to attain the expected improvement in blood CD4+ T-cell counts seem to lack the measureable plasma 16s ribosomal DNA signature of Lactobacillus species or have lower fecal concentrations of lactobacillus \[Merlini 2011, Perez-Santi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in plasma soluble CD14 (sCD14)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: VSL#3® probiotic

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02448238
