CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06796244
Title: Effectiveness of the Croq'Santé Nutrition Education Program in Improving Food Literacy in Schoolchildren
Official Title: Effectiveness of the Croq'Santé Nutrition Education Program in Improving Food Literacy in Schoolchildren: a Controlled Before-and-after Study in France
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1205
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Background: Nutritional factors including diet, physical activity, weight status and alcohol consumption are among the most important preventable risk factors for cancer. Interventions are needed to help children make the right choices in a complex food environment. The JDB Foundation designs primary cancer prevention projects through health education targeted at young people. It has designed the "Croq'Santé" project, which aimed to reduce the risks associated with overweight and obesity by improving food literacy of children aged 8 to 11, corresponding to the 4th and 5th grades. Briefly, food literacy refers to having the knowledge, skills and attitudes to choose, prepare and enjoy healthy foods. Accompanied by their teacher, a class will create a balanced recipe (or re-adapt an existing one) through a series of stages (10 sessions in total), allowing children to explore the foods and stakeholders in the food chain, understand nutrition, cook and taste new flavors. Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate whether the intervention successfuly improves the food literacy of 8- to 11-year-olds. Secondary objectives include examining the influence of socioeconomic factors on the program's effectiveness and process evaluation. Methods: We intent to conduct a quasi-experimental before-and-after study including 60 classes (approximately 1500 children). The classes in the intervention group will receive the Croq'Santé program, while the classes in the control group will receive usual school nutrition education. The schools participating in the control group will have the possibility to receive the Croq'Santé program the following year if they wish. The primary outcome will focus on changes in food literacy, measured using a child-friendly questionnaire administered before and after the intervention. Other information will be collected at child level (e.g. gender, age, family composition) and school level (e.g. socioeconomic indicators). Expected results: Cancer remains the leading cause of death in France and the production of knowledge on the effectiveness of public health interventions is essential to guide prevention strategies. If the Croq'Santé programme actually shows its effectiveness, it could be scaled up and adapted to different contexts.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Food literacy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Croq'Santé nutrition education program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06796244
