CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07290842
Title: The Effects of Dietary Nitrate in Patients With Hypertensive Kidney Injury
Official Title: The Effects of Dietary Nitrate in Patients With Hypertensive Kidney Injury
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The study aims to study the effects of diatery nitrate in patients with hypertension and hypertensive kidney injury.

The study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover trial. 14-20 patients with hypertension and CKD I-III will be randomized to receive either nitrate or placebo delivered in the form of beetroot juice.

Effect variables will be measured before and after a 2 week treatment. After a washout period of 14 days, the subjects are crossed over to the opposite treatment.

The study is terminated by measuring effect variables after the second treatment period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
AIM: We aim to investigate the mechanisms behind the cardiovascular and renal effect of nitrates in patients with hypertension and hypertensive kidney injury.

HYPOTHESIS: Dietary nitrate decreases BP and increases renal blood flow. This is independent of renal function or enhanced during low eGFR due to reduced renal clearance of nitrate.

METHODS: The study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover trial. 14-20 patients with hypertension and CKD I-III will be randomized to receive either nitrate or placebo delivered in the form of beetroot juice.

Effect variables will be measured before and after a 2 week treatment. After each treatment period effect variables will be measured, including include 24 hour bloodpressure measurment. Technetium(Tc)99m - Diethylenetriamine pentaacetate (DTPA) clearance and water based positron emission tomography computed tomography (PET/CT) is performed only after the intervention periods.

After a washout period of 14 days, the subjects are crossed over to the opposite treatment. The study is terminated by measuring effect variables after the second treatment period.

PERSPECTIVE: The knowledge gained from these studies can lead to improved dietary counselling, which is a promising approach in the treatment of hypertension.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in 24 h systolic blood pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beetroot Juice - Active
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beetroot juice placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07290842
