CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04981132
Title: Effectiveness of Pain and Exercise trening With Telerehabilitation on Lumbar Facet Joint Arthrosis
Official Title: Investigation of the Effectiveness of Pain and Exercise trening With Telerehabilitation Method in Patients With Low Back Pain Caused by Lumbar Facet Joint Arthrosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The study investigates the effects of pain and exercise trening via telerehabilitation method on pain, pain beliefs, trunk mobility, functionality, and quality of life in individuals with low back pain caused by facet joint arthrosis. Forty - five individuals are planning to include in the study. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three groups: Group 1: Pain education + exercise trening group, Group 2: Exercise trening group, and Group 3: Control group. The same physiotherapist will make evaluations via an online conference system. Group 1 will have pain neuroscience education and progressive therapeutic exercise trening in a session for six weeks, twice a week, and Group 2 will have progressive therapeutic exercise trening in a session for six weeks, twice a week, for six weeks, in total Twelve sessions. Group 3 participants will be taken to the waiting list. Clinical and demographic data of the 45 participants in the study will be taken pre and post interventions. The primary outcomes are; the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). Secondary outcomes are the Active Straight Leg Raise Test (A- SLR), The Pain Belief Questionnaire (PBQ), and the Short Form Quality of Life Form (SF-12). Statistical analysis will be run through the SPSS 20.0 package program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
'Pain Neuroscience Education (PNE) is one of the cognitive approaches among conservative treatments, and has been one of the most inquisitive approaches. The content of the education includes the physiology of pain, types of pain, the areas in which it is represented in the brain, its effect on body image, and psychosocial dimensions. Education aims to break the patient's misinformation and perception about pain and teach how to manage pain. It aims to inform patients about the neurophysiological and neurobiological processes related to the pain experience and help change their misinformation about pain conditions. Improved pain knowledge changes attitudes and beliefs about pain, reduces destructive thoughts, and fear of pain, and improves physical performance. It is known to reduce pain and disability according to short-term results in patients with chronic pain with central sensitization. According to systematic reviews, PNE is moderately effective in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain. In addition, it is stated that the use of educational approaches based on the neurophysiology of pain offers clinical benefits not only in physical terms but also in psychosocial terms. Since maladaptive psychosocial factors (for example, negative emotions, poor self-efficacy, and maladaptive beliefs) are associated with pain behaviors, it is thought that increasing pain knowledge will have an impact on pain perception. In a study conducted on patients with musculoskeletal pain who experience different types of pain, an inverse relationship between pain intensity and knowledge level was shown.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the interest in the telerehabilitation method has increased, and it has become reachable easier with more evidence value on this subject. However, physiotherapists are healthcare professionals who work face-to-face with patients; depending on the pandemic curfews, the World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended not to continue face-to-face practices, except in emergencies, to protect patients' and physiotherapists' health. While digital options such as sensors, wearable technologies, virtual reality, and artificial intelligence are considered a solution, Tele-Rehabilitation (TR) can be the most practical, reachable, and cheaper solution to existing problems.

Systematic research and meta-analyses examining the effect of the telerehabilitation method and comparing it with traditional rehabilitation have revealed similar gains in outcome measures such as pain intensity and quality of life. It has been reported that simultaneous TR has comparable and effective results with face-to-face rehabilitation on pain and function in musculoskeletal problems. The telerehabilitation method is effective and cost-effective, especially in low back pain. Revealing the effects with more specific patient groups is the common recommendation of the studies.

In line with this information, the study's primary purpose is to determine the effects of PNE a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Numerical Rating Scale
  - The Numerical Rating Scale
  - The Oswestry Disability Index
  - The Oswestry Disability Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pain Neuroscience education + Progressive therapeutic exercise trening
  - BEHAVIORAL: Progressive therapeutic exercise trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04981132
