CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04447001
Title: Improving Balance for Older Adults: Disseminating Tai Chi Fundamentals Through Community Organizations
Official Title: Improving Balance for Older Adults: Disseminating Tai Chi Fundamentals Through Community Organizations
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 197
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will evaluate how best to disseminate and implement Tai Chi Fundamentals® (TCF) in community settings for older adults with balance problems. TCF is a program designed for older adults with pain and physical limitations to enhance balance, coordination, strength and endurance. Investigator will evaluate program implementation including Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) uptake, reach, feasibility, teaching fidelity, and exercise adherence and also collect outcomes including leg strength, balance, walking ability and executive function before and after the 6-week session. The final product of this study will be recommendations to address key barriers and facilitators for implementation of TCF by community organizations serving older adults.

The primary aim for this study is to evaluate the program implementation. This is not an efficacy study. Within the limits of a Dissemination and Implementation grant budget, Investigators do take advantage of a natural experiment even if it is not the primary aim of this study. By doing so investigators plan to establish the feasibility of this multi-site data collection plan for future studies. Based on the study settings, study team will get a chance to explore the effect of TCF in real world settings since two sessions can be held in a fall season and a spring season. In addition to the pre-post tests of TCF sessions to explore TCF effectiveness, pre-test scores for session 2 are compared to post-test scores of session 1 participants since both are collected at nearly the same time. The larger sample will be for the within group pre-post comparison analyses. This will be a valuable opportunity to test data collection procedures for future trials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of participants retention
  - Number of days participants practiced Tai-chi at home

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Tai-chi prime (TCP)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04447001
