CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00001305
Title: Growth Hormone Therapy in Osteogenesis Imperfecta
Official Title: Studies of Growth Deficiency and Growth Hormone Treatment in Children With Osteogenesis Imperfecta Types III and IV
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Growth deficiency is a key feature of severe Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) and a frequent feature of mild to moderate forms of the disease. The reason that children with OI are short is not fully understood. We do know that details such as the number of fractures suffered or the type of OI do not fully explain the short stature of OI. Growth patterns have been defined for children with OI Types I, III, and IV. At about 12 months of age, children with Types III and IV OI demonstrate a predictable plateau of their linear growth rate. Type IV OI children begin to resume a normal growth rate at about age four to five years, but they will not "catch up" to a normal height, as they have "lost" a significant period of growth. The plateau usually continues for children with Type III OI. The reason for this growth plateau is unknown. There have been no studies which evaluate the growth of OI children in this age range. Our previous studies of growth in OI children have begun at age 5 years.

We have studied growth in OI children for the past 10 years. Different medications have been tried to both stimulate growth and improve bone density. Some children have responded to growth hormone (their growth rate increased by at least 50%) and some did not. The majority of children who did respond were Type IV. However, we need to carefully treat and study more children to try to determine which children will benefit from growth hormone medication.

The Goals of this Study Are:

1. We want to try to find a cause for the growth plateau common in types III and IV OI. Long-term, our goal is to develop a treatment to eliminate this plateau.
2. We want to see how long and how well OI bone will respond to growth stimulation.
3. We hope to find a "predictor" for who will respond to growth hormone and who will not, by measuring your child's endocrine and growth hormone function before receiving any growth hormone treatment.
4. We want to measure the effects of growth stimulation on bone density, and the quality of OI bone.
5. We want to see if there are long term benefits resulting from this treatment in the form of final adult height, trunk height, and possibly improved function of the respiratory system.

Median Subject Age (on p. 1 of webpage): 1-15 years (replaces 0-20)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Growth deficiency is a cardinal feature of severe Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) and a frequent feature of mild to moderate forms of this disease. Despite the prevalence of short stature among people with OI, few studies have examined treatment options for this feature of OI. Recombinant human growth hormone (rGH) is a treatment for growth deficiency which we have investigated. In our initial studies we have found that many OI children are responsive to rGH especially those with type IV OI. The purpose of this protocol is to examine the effect of growth hormone treatment on linear growth of children with types III and IV OI and correlate growth responsiveness with growth hormone-somatomedin axis and histomorphometry parameters of OI bone.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of Subjects Who Met Criteria of Increase in Growth Rate Since Baseline.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Humatrope

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00001305
