CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01971723
Title: Multi-ingredient Supplement for Strength and Power
Official Title: The Impact of T+ Supplementation on Anabolic Hormone Profile and Performance in Power Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: beta alanine

SUMMARY:
It has been suggested that high amounts of total serum testosterone levels correlate with higher lean body mass, lowered fat mass, greater muscle strength, and faster recovery. These suggestions drive athletes and body builders to find ways to raise their testosterone levels. Many athletes and bodybuilders look to alternative methods to anabolic steroids in order increase their testosterone levels without legal repercussions or physiological side effects. Herbs and other plant extracts have been introduced as a possible source to naturally boost testosterone levels. Research supporting the use of herbs and plant extracts has been shown to be equivocal. However, evidence in studies with hypogonadal men suggests that longjack root may naturally boost testosterone levels.

Onnit Labs, LLC has packaged this supplement (T+) which claims it can naturally boost testosterone and lower estrogen levels and subsequently improve performance. This product is a powder (11g) that is mixed with 16 oz of water and consumed 20 minutes prior to anaerobic workouts, such as high intensity weight training.

T+ is a multi-ingredient supplement that consists of vitamins B5 and B6, magnesium aspartic acid, mucuna pruriens, longjack root, nettle root, red clover luteolin, resveratrol, beta- alanine, branch chain amino acids, L- glutamine, Bioperine, and Fibersol 2.

The active ingredients purported to boost plasma testosterone levels are mucuna pruriens, longjack root, and magnesium aspartic acid. The active ingredients claimed to lower plasma estrogen concentrations are red clover, luteolin, resveratrol and nettle root. All other ingredients (Branch Chain Amino Acids and Beta-Alanine) have been documented to improve exercise performance.

It is hypothesized that there will not be any physiological changes after supplementation of T+. It is also hypothesized that performance will not be affected by the supplementation of T+.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to examine the physiological and performance effects of T+ on power athletes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Strength Performance Outcomes
  - Insulin Outcomes
  - Blood Lipid Outcomes
  - Total Testosterone Outcomes
  - Estrogen Outcomes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: T+ Supplement
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01971723
