CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04122898
Title: Pelvic Floor Muscle Training in Gymnasts With Stress Urinary Incontinence
Official Title: Effect of Pelvic Floor Muscles Training on Symptoms, Bother and Amount of Stress Urinary Incontinence in Female Gymnasts, Team Gymnasts and Cheerleaders. An Assessor Blinded Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
There is a high prevalence of urinary incontinence (UI) among female athletes participating in high impact sports, such as artistic gymnastics, trampoline jumping and ball games. UI is defined as "the complaint of involuntary loss of urine". Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is the most common type of UI and is defined as "the complaint of involuntary loss of urine on effort or physical exertion (e.g. sporting activities), or or sneezing or coughing". Urinary leakage during sport activities may affect the athletes' performance, cause bother, frustration and embarrassment and furthermore lead to avoidance and cessation of sport activities. Pelvic floor muscle (PFM) training is highly effective in treating SUI in the general female population. However, evidence of the effect of PFM training in elite athletes in high impact sports is sparse.

The purpose of this assessor-blinded randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to assess the effect of PFM training on symptoms, bother and amount of SUI in female artistic gymnasts, team gymnasts and cheerleaders.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND:

Physical activity and exercise have well-known beneficial effects on several physical and psychological health outcomes. However, it has been proposed that regular participation in physical activity and exercise may lead to greater risk of developing pelvic floor dysfunctions (PFD) in women. The pelvic floor consists of muscles, fascia and ligaments and forms a hammock-like support at the base of the abdomino-pelvic cavity. The function of the pelvic floor is to provide support to the pelvic organs (the bladder, urethra, vagina, uterus and rectum) and to counteract all increases in intra-abdominal pressure and ground reactions forces during daily activities. Additionally, the pelvic floor facilitates intercourse, vaginal birth, storage of stool and urine and voluntary defecation and urination. A dysfunctional pelvic floor can lead to urinary and anal incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, sexual problems and chronic pain syndromes. UI is the most common PFD, defined as "the complaint of involuntary loss of urine". SUI, urgency urinary incontinence (UUI) and mixed urinary incontinence (MUI) are common subtypes of UI. In women, SUI accounts for approximately half of all incontinence types and is defined as "the complaint of involuntary loss of urine on effort or physical exertion (e.g. sporting activities), or on sneezing or coughing". UUI is defined as the "complaint of involuntary loss of urine associated with urgency" and MUI as "complaints of both stress and urgency urinary incontinence".

High prevalence rates of UI among both parous and nulliparous female athletes and exercisers have been reported in several cross-sectional studies. The prevalence rates varies between 0-80% with the highest prevalence found in high impact sports such as trampoline jumping, gymnastics and ball games. Leakage during sport activities may affect the athletes' performance and cause bother, frustration and embarrassment. Some athletes have reported that UI issues have also led to avoidance or cessation of sport or exercise.

To date, there is level 1 evidence and grade A recommendation for PFM training alone to be first line treatment for SUI, MUI and pelvic organ prolapse in the general female population. In addition, PFM training is highly effective as primary prevention; pregnant continent women who exercise the PFM are at 62% less risk of UI in late pregnancy and 29% less risk of UI 3-6 months postpartum. Evidence of the effect of PFM training in athletes or strenuous exercisers is sparse.

In one study on female soldiers and two small case series in female athletes and exercisers, PFM training led to reduced symptoms of UI. However, none of these studies included a non-treated control group and the internal validity is therefore low. To our knowledge, only one RCT has assessed effects of PFM training on SUI in athletes. Female volleyball players (n=16) who followed a PFM training program had significant improvements of SUI compared to a control grou

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pad-weight Stress Test for Stress Urinary Incontinence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pelvic Floor Muscle Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04122898
