CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06155578
Title: Safety and Efficacy of Topical Sodium Metabisulfite for the Treatment of Calcinosis in Patients With Systemic Sclerosis
Official Title: Randomized Placebo-controlled Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of Topical Sodium Metabisulfite for the Treatment of Calcinosis in Patients With Systemic Sclerosis.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This prospective placebo-controlled trial will enroll 20 patients with SSc and at least one calcinotic lesion of the hands that is palpable on physical examination and measurable on hand radiographs. Each subject will undergo a screening evaluation 1 month before treatment with the study drug is initiated. Each subject will be instructed to blindly self-apply either topical 25% sodium metabisulfite or placebo cream twice daily. In-person follow-up evaluations will be performed after 4-months, with monthly telehealth follow-up visits to ensure adherence and arrange study drug refill deliveries.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Background:

   Calcinosis cutis is the deposition of calcium in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. It is a common and debilitating manifestation of systemic sclerosis (SSc), affecting 1 in 4 of these patients over the course of their disease. Calcinosis in SSc occurs most frequently in the hands, particularly the fingers, and within the fingers, most commonly in the thumbs or index of the dominant hand. Calcinosis in SSc can cause pain, soft tissue swelling around the calcium deposits, ulcers with superimposed infection, or deformities, leading to significant impact on quality of life.

   Treatment for calcinosis cutis is often difficult and unsuccessful and remains an unmet need in patients with SSc. Evidence mainly comes from small retrospective studies, case series, and case reports, since no large, prospective randomized controlled trials have been conducted. The response to various agents, such as topical or oral aluminum hydroxide, topical or intralesional sodium thiosulfate, intralesional corticosteroids, calcium-channel blockers, minocycline, bisphosphonates, and surgical excision has remained largely unsatisfactory.

   Topical, intralesional and intravenous (IV) sodium thiosulfate have been studied as treatments for disorders of cutaneous calcium deposition. The mechanism of sodium thiosulfate in the treatment of calcium-related disorders is thought to be multifactorial. It is believed to act by transforming calcium into calcium thiosulfate salts, thus increasing calcium solubility. In addition, it may increase the production of hydrogen sulfide, which has vasodilatory, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and may cause direct inhibition of vascular calcifications.

   Sodium metabisulfite (SM) is an inorganic compound used as a disinfectant, antioxidant and preserving agent that, when reacting with oxygen, becomes sodium sulfate, a metabolite of sodium thiosulfate that has a similar ability to inhibit calcium oxalate agglomeration and calcium stone formation. In 2016, topical 25% SM was used for the first time in four patients with dystrophic calcinosis cutis (one with SSc, two with dermatomyositis and one with radio-dermatitis after breast cancer), showing signiﬁcant decrease in size, erythema, and pain. The authors hypothesized that topical SM may dissolve calcium deposits and promote local vasodilation and wound healing. Since then, topical sodium metabisulﬁte use has been reported as an inexpensive, safe and promising new agent for the treatment of calcinosis cutis.

   On behalf of the Scleroderma Clinical Trial Consortium (SCTC) Calcinosis Working Group, we developed and validated a novel radiographic scoring system to assess the severity of calcinosis affecting the hands of patients with SSc that accounts for area coverage, density, and anatomic location. This scoring system is feasible and was found to have excellent intra- and inter-rater reliability with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) of .93 (.89-.97

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To assess the safety and tolerability of using topical 25% SM applied twice daily in SSc patients with calcinosis affecting the hands
  - To assess the efficacy of topical 25% SM versus placebo in stabilizing the calcinosis burden or reducing the radiographic progression of calcinosis over four months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Topical 25% sodium metabisulfite (SM) in pediatric cold cream
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06155578
