CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06428812
Title: The Effect of Perineal Protective Package Application on Pelvic Floor in Labor
Official Title: Phd Student Msc Midwife
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of perineal protection package application on labor outcomes, perineal integrity, postpartum urinary incontinence and pelvic floor muscle strength.In this study, a package including practices that have been proven to protect the perineum in labor was created and it was aimed to examine the effect of this perineal protection package; as a whole. The;perineal protective package; applications created by the researchers consisted of positioning on the gynecologic table (the back of the table was erected, the legs were removed from the hooks and placed on the sides of the table), open glottis pushing instead of closed glottis pushing, hot compress protection of the perineum instead of dry compress protection of the perineum, instead of lithotomy position in the second stage, which reduces the tension of the perineum and allows it to be observed and protected manually.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The pelvic floor plays a critical and important role in maintaining healthy functions of the urinary, genital and gastrointestinal systems. When tissues in a region of the pelvic floor are damaged for any reason, pelvic floor dysfunction develops.

Pregnancy and childbirth are important risk factors for pelvic floor dysfunction. Hormonal and mechanical changes during pregnancy predispose to impaired pelvic floor function. During pregnancy, weight gain and increase in uterine weight increase intra-abdominal pressure. Therefore, ligaments and pelvic floor muscles are overstretched. He states that the main factor in pelvic floor dysfunction is vaginal delivery and that the passage of a particularly large fetal head through the birth canal is the trigger. During the passage and descent of the fetal head through the vaginal canal, the pelvic floor muscles can be overstretched, torn or damaged. Obstetric factors that cause pelvic floor damage include early or late age at first birth, high body mass index, large baby, length of the second stage of trauma (labor), forceps, vacuum, episiotomy and fundal compression.

Damage to the pelvic floor during labor has many short- and long-term effects on a woman\&#39;s quality of life. These can be summarized as chronic perineal pain, pelvic organ prolapse, urinary and anal incontinence, fistula, sexual dysfunction, labor dissatisfaction, physical and psychological morbidities, and decreased quality of life. In addition, breastfeeding and mother-infant attachment problems may also occur due to perineal pain in the early postpartum period. Therefore, it is important to prevent pelvic floor damage in childbirth, which negatively affects physical, social and psychological well-being and leads to many short and long-term morbidities. The World Health Organization recommends the use of techniques such as hot compresses to reduce perineal damage and facilitate spontaneous delivery.

In the literature, there are many studies examining interventions to protect the pelvic floor in labor. Studies show that perineal massage, perineal warm application, birth positions, hand maneuvers, pushing techniques, and limited episiotomy reduce the incidence of perineal injury.

However, studies on these techniques and practices are generally studies investigating the effectiveness of a single method. In a recent qualitative study, midwives were asked to evaluate the effect of some protective practices called; perineal package; as a whole. However, in this study, midwives; own practices and opinions were evaluated, and their effects on the pelvic floor or labor were not examined. International organizations recommend the application of evidence-based, perineal, and pelvic floor supportive and protective methods to pregnant women in labor. However, the relationship between these practices and postpartum pelvic floor muscle strength and the presence of incontinence, which are indicators of pelvic floor damage, is unclear and studies to e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Perineal muscle strengt
  - Perineal Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental: perineal package application group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06428812
