CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03308903
Title: Use of the Sit-To-Stand Task as a Screening Tool for Sarcopenia The
Official Title: Can the Sit-to-Stand Test be Used as a Screening Tool to Detect Sarcopenia in Community-dwelling Older People?
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
A common condition associated with ageing is sarcopenia, which is a progressive decrease in muscle mass. Sarcopenia is associated with adverse outcomes including increased mortality, and places a major burden on healthcare spending, with the annual cost of sarcopenia in the United States exceeding that of osteoporosis and hip fracture. In the UK, the prevalence of sarcopenia in community-dwelling older people has been estimated at 5% for men and 8% for women. Current guidelines for sarcopenia diagnosis require muscle mass to be measured using costly devices such as Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Previous research has found strong relationships between the sit-to-stand (STS) test and both muscle mass and muscle strength. This pilot study aims to examine this relationship in community-dwelling older people to develop predictive equations for initial screening of sarcopenia.

Forty subjects will be tested using the diagnostic criteria developed by the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP). Muscle mass will be measured using the DXA and diagnostic ultrasound. Muscle strength will be measured using isokinetic dynamometer, handgrip dynamometry, and hand-held dynamometry. Functional performance will be measured using the Timed-up-and-Go and gait velocity, and the STS. Subjects will perform two variants of the STS; the five times STS (5STS), which requires subjects to perform five consecutive STS movements as quick as possible, and the 30-second STS (30STS), which requires subjects to perform as many STS movements as possible in 30 seconds. All testing will be completed in a single session lasting 90 minutes for each subject. Testing will be performed at the University of Bedfordshire Polhill Campus. Subject recruitment will be recruited using advertisement posters and word of mouth.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Loss of function and mobility becomes an increasing concern as we age. Life expectancy is continuing to increase, which in turn leads to age-related diseases and syndromes becoming more common, complex and costly. Sarcopenia is the deficiency of muscle and this refers to the gradual loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength that occurs with advancing age This age-related disease is now understood as a major clinical problem for the elderly and it is becoming a public health issue in today's society.

The European Working Group on Sarcopenia in Older People (EWGSOP) has developed a clinical and practical definition and a diagnostic criterion for age-related sarcopenia. They define sarcopenia as "a syndrome characterised by progressive and generalised loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength with a risk of adverse outcomes". The EWGSOP further develop their definition of sarcopenia into two different categories and three different stages. The two categories are known as primary sarcopenia and secondary sarcopenia. Primary or age-related sarcopenia is when there is no other cause evident except ageing. Whereas secondary sarcopenia is when there are one or more other causes, such as activity-related, disease-related or nutrition-related. The three stages of sarcopenia reflect the severity of the condition; these are known as presarcopenia, sarcopenia and severe sarcopenia. The presarcopenia stage is described as having low muscle mass, without influencing muscle strength or physical performance. The sarcopenia stage is indicated by again having low muscle mass plus either having low muscle strength or poor physical performance. The severe sarcopenia stage is characterised by meeting all three criteria of the definition; low muscle mass, low muscle strength and poor physical performance. The EWGSOP specify that the measurable variables of sarcopenia are muscle mass, muscle strength and physical performance. The challenge they raised is the difficulty determining which methods are best to accurately measure these variables.

The EWGSOP indicate that muscle mass is best measured using body imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computer-tomography (CT). Both MRI and CT scans are known as the gold standards for measuring muscle mass within research. However, they are costly procedures that are not always freely available. Muscle mass can also be measured through dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), for determining the presence of and formulating a diagnosis of sarcopenia. DEXA is based on the measurement of X-ray transmission crossing human tissues. The radiation energies produced by the DEXA are variably attenuated, either scattered or absorbed, by the anatomical structures within the body, dependent on the intensity of the energy and the density and thickness of the human tissues. DEXA enables measurements of fat mass (FM), lean mass (LM) and bone mineral content (BMC) and can assess body masses and bone mineral density (BM

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle mass measurement using dual X-ray absorptiometry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: DEXA scan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03308903
