CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03721991
Title: GABA Treatment in Subjects With Type 1 Diabetes
Official Title: A Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, Parallel Group, Single-centre Trial of GABA Treatment in Subjects With Type 1 Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
test if a food supplementation with GABA can improve insulin production capacity in type 1 diabetes patients by turning alfa cells into beta cells in accordance with mice and cell studies.randomised parallel study with placebo as control

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
our results indicate that alfa-cells can be regenerated and used to regenerate functional beta-like cells in vivo in type 1 diabetes models. Aiming to eventually apply these findings to type 1 diabetic patients, we initiated multiple screens seeking for compounds inducing alfa-to-beta-cell conversion. Using the mouse as a model, we thereby found that GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) could promote a cycle of conversion of alfa-cells into functional beta-like cells,GABA being considered as a non-harmful food supplement, one could envision a trial in type 1 diabetic patients. Indeed, a putative cure for type 1 diabetes may include halting the autoimmune insult to the pancreatic beta-cells and restoring insulin secretion by expanding beta-cell mass by beta-cell-regeneration and/or preventing beta-cell apoptosis induced by cytokines. Immunosuppression initiated at the onset of type 1 diabetes has been shown to preserve beta-cell function, but is associated with significant toxicities. Other studies using nicotinamide and parenteral insulin have failed to prevent development of type 1 diabetes.

Objectives Primary objective: To investigate the effect and safety of the dietary supplement GABA provided at a dose of 6 g daily compared to placebo for 12 weeks on change in beta-cell function in patients with C-peptide negative type 1 diabetes as an adjunctive therapy to insulin treatment.

Population A total of 30 patients with C-peptide negative type 1 diabetes, randomised 2:1 GABA: Placebo.

Intervention After randomisation patients are treated with the dietary supplement GABA or matching placebo, titrated to 3 x 2g, or maximum tolerated dose, for 12 weeks. The insulin dose is reduced if needed according to Self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG) and hypoglycaemic episodes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - insulin production

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Gama amino butyric acid (GABA)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03721991
