CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06988306
Title: Lifestyle Interventions to Prevent Diabetes in U.S. Home Visiting Programs
Official Title: Randomized Controlled Trial of Lifestyle Interventions for the Prevention of Diabetes in US Home Visiting Programs
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 978
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The study is examining the health effects of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) intervention and medically tailored meals within home visiting. A large study is proposed that will include nearly a thousand pregnant or recently pregnant adults with recent GDM and who are from different regions and backgrounds. Two treatment approaches arecompared, and both are in home visiting. One treatment group is receiving enhanced lifestyle support for GDM along with meals, and the other is receiving just the enhanced lifestyle support. The study will examine whether these interventions help reduce diabetes and pre-diabetes through 12 months postpartum, as well as other health factors like weight and blood pressure.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is rapidly rising in prevalence and has been linked with several short and long-term adverse maternal health outcomes, including type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and cardiovascular disease. The postpartum year is a time of heightened risk, and 32-46% of people with GDM develop type 2 diabetes (T2DM) or Pre-Diabetes (PreDM) during the postpartum year. To prevent maternal diabetes, US guidelines recommend behavioral counseling to promote healthy eating, activity, and weight, but dissemination channels have been lacking. Evidence-based home visiting programs, with their well-established infrastructure in every state and focus on maternal and child health, are a promising platform through which the recommended behavioral interventions could reach people with GDM and reduce health disparities. Effective GDM intervention within home visiting needs to be potent, build on existing content, and remain brief, so as not to displace other evidence-based content. Integrating referral to medically tailored meals (MtMs) is a Food is Medicine strategy that may prevent and mitigate maternal diabetes in home visiting. Access to MtMs has been expanding rapidly in the US, with 10 states currently having and 5 states pending Medicaid Service waivers that offer coverage for MtMs. Systematic reviews have found that providing MtMs allows patients to experience significantly better glucose and weight management, improved food insecurity and dietary quality, and greater treatment satisfaction. MtMs also benefit health systems, insurers, and governments through reduced costs and fewer hospitalizations and emergency department visits. However, national calls and systematic reviews have identified a major evidence gap and the need for adequately powered effectiveness trials to determine whether MtMs are effective in treating and preventing maternal diabetes. For MtMs to continue as a treatment approach for GDM, compelling evidence is needed that they work and for whom and in what context. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the 12-month incidence T2DM/PreDM in people with GDM who receive GDM Enhanced + Meals vs. GDM Enhanced Only within home visiting. A robust implementation process evaluation will inform ensure successful sustainment and reach for diverse pregnant and postpartum people with GDM. A Hybrid Type 1 effectiveness-implementation trial is proposed. The study will recruit 978 perinatal, English or Spanish-speaking adults nationwide from three clinical centers serving the West, Midwest/South, and East regions. Home visiting clients (35% Black; 40% Hispanic) with recent GDM diagnosis and will be randomized within site and home visiting agency to one of two treatment arms: GDM enhanced lifestyle intervention plus MtMs (GDM Enhanced + Meals) or GDM Enhanced Only. The primary study aim is to evaluate the 12-month incidence of T2DM/PreDM. Secondary aims will examine treatment group differences in health factors (weight, blood pressure) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Diabetes/Pre-Diabetes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: GDM Enhanced
  - BEHAVIORAL: Meals

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06988306
