CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04705376
Title: Cryotherapy Following Rotator Cuff Repair Surgery
Official Title: Cryotherapy Following Rotator Cuff Repair Surgery
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this prospective crossover study is to determine if noninferiority exists in the use of the Thermazone cryotherapy machine when compared to Breg Polarcare, the current standard-of-care cryotherapy machine, for control of pain and reduction in postoperative narcotic medication consumption following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair surgery. Specifically, the investigators propose to test the hypothesis that in adults having arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, the Thermazone device is non-inferior to Breg Polarcare on postoperative pain and opioid use over the initial 8 postoperative days.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cryotherapy has traditionally been used for the acute treatment of musculoskeletal injuries and following operative procedures. Cryotherapy currently represents the standard of care following common orthopaedic procedures to the knee and shoulder. In addition to relieving pain and swelling during the acute inflammatory period following surgery, cryotherapy has also been shown to reduce muscle spasms, promoting quicker functional recovery, accelerating post-operative rehabilitation and return to regular activities. Multiple investigations have demonstrated the benefit of cryotherapy following both shoulder and knee surgeries when compared to ice alone or no cryotherapy, however conflicting data prevents consensual agreement regarding the success of cryotherapy when compared to other post-operative pain control modalities.

The use of cryotherapy has been extensively studied in the shoulder following operative procedures. Kraeutler et al. compared compressive cryotherapy versus ice alone, reporting no reduction in pain between the two modalities following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair or subacromial decompression. Singh et al. reported in their randomized controlled trial that patients undergoing arthroscopic procedures to the shoulder reported lower pain intensity on Days 1, 14 and 21 with the use of cryotherapy compared to patients in the non-cryotherapy group. Meanwhile, Speer et al. found in their prospective study that use of cryotherapy in the post-operative period was associated with reduced pain and swelling, decreased opioid use and better sleep quality following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.

Similar results have been reported in patients treated with cryotherapy following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Seacrist et al. performed a systematic review, identifying 10 randomized controlled trials investigating the effects of cryotherapy/compression on pain management following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Cryotherapy was found to improve analgesia compared to patients treated without cryotherapy in 4 trials, while in 4 trials ice water and water at room temperature provided equivalent analgesic effects. Raynor et al. found in their meta-analysis that cryotherapy following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction significantly improved post-operative pain control, while no improvements in postoperative range of motion or drainage were appreciated. Meanwhile, a combined cryotherapy-compression device was found to result in a significantly higher percentage of patients discontinuing narcotics 6 weeks post-operatively with a significantly greater decrease in VAS scores from pre-operative levels at 2 and 6 weeks post-operatively when compared to ice packs alone.

Adverse reactions to cryotherapy including frostbite, cutaneous necrosis and neuropathy are rare, but have been reported, necessitating the need for appropriate use guidelines, recognition and prevention.

As such, despite multiple studies examining the p

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Visual Analog Scale
  - Pain Visual Analog Scale
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) Score
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) Score
  - Simple Shoulder Test (SST)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Breg Polarcare
  - DEVICE: Thermazone

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 89 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04705376
