CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06043492
Title: Recovery Following Acute Endurance Training
Official Title: Recovery Following Different Endurance Training Protocols in Middle- and Long-Distance Runners
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Aerobic capacity is critical for many athletes, especially for endurance athletes. Althgough several training methods are implemented by coaches to improve endurance performance, recovery following acute endurance training is not adequately studied. However, such information is crucial for coaches to effectively design the most favorable training program, to avoid muscle injuries and overtraining, and ultimately to improve performance of their athletes. This study aims to examine the acute effect of different continuous and HIIT training protocols on indices of metabolism, EIMD, neuromuscular fatigue and performance in middle- and long-distance runners.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aerobic capacity is critical for many athletes, especially for endurance athletes. Endurance training leads to cardiopulmonary and musculoskeletal adaptations, which in turn lead to improvement of endurance performance. Several training methods have been established for the improvement of aerobic capacity and performance, including long distance and low speed training, and high intensity interval training (HIIT). Training methods are used depending on the kind of endurance that aim to improve, and the specific characteristics and energy demands of the event. Especially regarding middle- and long-distance runners, the energy comes mainly from the oxidative system, however, the contribution of the glycolytic pathway is equally important. Thus, improvement mainly of the low-intensity endurance, but also high-intensity endurance is important for these athletes. Additionally, both continuous endurance and HIIT are effective training methods for improving cardiorespiratory and metabolic function, and athletic performance, while evidence also exists in favor of HIIT being more effective. Thus both training methods are used by coaches to improve aerobic capacity and performance of their athletes.

Coaches should be careful regarding the frequency of HIIT training during a microcycle, to provide adequate recovery between training sessions to avoid muscle injuries and overtraining. Existing evidence suggests that endurance exercise (continuous or HIIT) may result in exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD), inflammatory responses, oxidative stress, and performance deterioration, yet, the timeframe of recovery of physiological and biochemical indices following different endurance training protocols has not been adequately studied. However, such information is crucial for coaches to effectively design the most favorable training program for their athletes.

This study aims to examine the acute effect of different continuous and HIIT training protocols on indices of metabolism, EIMD, neuromuscular fatigue and performance in middle- and long-distance runners.

According to a preliminary power analysis (a probability error of 0.05, and a statistical power of 80%), a sample size of 8 subjects per group was considered appropriate in order to detect statistically meaningful changes between groups. Thus, 10 men and female middle- and long-distance runners, will participate in the study.

The study will be performed in a randomized, cross over, repeated measures design. During their first 1st and 2nd visit, all participants will sign an informed consent form after they will be informed about all the benefits and risks of the study and they will fill in and sign a medical history questionnaire. Fasting blood samples will be collected in order to estimate muscle damage concentration markers. Participants will be instructed by a dietitian how to record a 7-days diet recalls to ensure that they do not consume to greater extent nutrients that may affect EIMD and fatigue (e.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Creatine kinase (CK)
  - Changes in DOMS
  - Changes in blood lactate
  - Changes in squat jump height
  - Changes in mean jump height during a 30 sec Bosco test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval Training
  - OTHER: Coninuous Running
  - OTHER: Control Trial

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06043492
