CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06845046
Title: A Study to Improve Skeletal Muscle in Veterans With HIV
Official Title: A Randomized Trial to Optimize Skeletal Muscle While Reducing Adiposity in Veterans With HIV
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The Department of Veterans Affairs is the largest single provider of medical care to people with HIV in the United States. The condition of excess lipid within and around muscle, termed myosteatosis, predisposes Veterans to physical function decline, frailty, disability, and cardiometabolic diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. In the investigators current Merit supported cohort, the investigators found that 36% of Veterans with treated HIV and obesity have "myosteatotic type obesity". Based on the investigators findings, the investigators have designed a multipronged integrated intervention that combines: 1) dietary replacement of saturated with unsaturated fats; 2) administration of L-carnitine and omega-3 fatty acid supplementation; and 3) targeted resistance exercise training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Department of Veterans Affairs is the largest single provider of medical care to people with HIV in the United States. With the advances achieved in antiretroviral therapy (ART), Veterans with HIV now survive decades. However, this success is tempered by the rising burden of obesity now affecting 78% of Veterans. Defects in adipose tissue lipid storage and regulation are hallmarks of both treated HIV and obesity, which leads to a high degree of ectopic fat infiltrating organs and tissues such as skeletal muscle. The condition of excess lipid within and around muscle, termed myosteatosis, predisposes Veterans to physical function decline, frailty, disability, and cardiometabolic diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. In the investigators current Merit supported cohort, the investigators found that 36% of Veterans with treated HIV and obesity have "myosteatotic type obesity". Further, the investigators found that high ectopic fat accumulation in muscle (quantified by CT imaging of skeletal muscle density) is associated with reduced mitochondrial oxidative capacity, greater inflammation, and impaired muscle glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Hence the quality of muscle is just as important as the quantity of muscle. However, this important phenomenon has received little attention, especially in Veterans with HIV. Indeed, the need to target mobilizing and metabolizing skeletal muscle ectopic fat while preserving/increasing the total amount of skeletal muscle is most often overlooked and represents a major research gap and unmet clinical need. From the investigators current Merit Award funded study, the investigators have an established collaboration of experienced VA researchers with expertise in HIV and immunology, human nutrition and metabolism, endocrinology, radiology and imaging science, and muscle physiology. Based on the investigators findings, the investigators have designed a multipronged integrated intervention that combines: 1) dietary replacement of saturated with unsaturated fats; 2) administration of L-carnitine and omega-3 fatty acid supplementation; and 3) targeted resistance exercise training. This evidence-based intervention is designed to: a) increase lipid flux by facilitating the transfer of long-chain fatty acids into muscle mitochondria for -oxidation; b) decrease muscle proteolysis; and c) lessen insulin resistance and inflammation. Using a mixed 2x4 factorial design trial design in a cohort of 60 Veterans who have HIV and obesity, this study will determine the main and interaction effects of the multi-pronged intervention on: skeletal muscle density, mitochondrial oxidative capacity, and fatty acid oxidation (Aim 1); glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and inflammation (Aim 2); and cardiopulmonary exercise tolerance and physical function (Aim 3). Obesity in Veterans with treated HIV is a heterogeneous condition. The investigators current Merit research shows myosteatotic obesity is a distinct co

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Myosteatosis
  - MixedMeal GTT
  - Physical Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: w-3 fatty acid
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: L-carnitine
  - OTHER: Control Diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06845046
