CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02715661
Title: Cerebrovascular Outcomes in Ischemic Heart Disease
Official Title: Cerebrovascular Outcomes in Ischemic Heart Disease Patients Undergoing Cardiac Rehabilitation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This project will examine the association between (cardio)vascular disease, blood supply to the brain, and cerebrovascular endothelial activation. Also, we will investigate the impact of exercise rehabilitation on brain vascularization, cerebrovascular endothelial function and blood flow control.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a randomized control trial, with randomization nested within rationally-formed groups. Three major groups will be assessed: 1) Coronary artery disease (CAD) patients, 2) Metabolic Syndrome (MetS), and 3) healthy Control (CTL) participants. Allocation into the Healthy CTL versus MeTS groups will be confirmed at the pre-study screening visit based on medical questionnaires, blood sample outcomes, and ultrasound imaging (see below). All CTL and MeTS participants will be allocated by random assignment to a six-month exercise training group, or a 6-month "wait-list" training group followed by a 6-month exercise training period. The exercise training will be in accordance with American College of Sports Medicine and Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology guidelines supporting 3 days/week in the laboratory with target heart rate-based aerobic activity (\~30 minutes/day) and two days of at-home activity. Based on target heart rate, levels of exercise intensity and/or duration will be adjusted every two weeks to sustain the training stimulus. CAD patients are defined here as those with a diagnosis of coronary artery disease having been hospitalized for a cardiac event. Within the recruited CAD participants, Group 1 (CADcr) will volunteer to receive a structured cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program. Group 2 (CADuc) will receive the recommendation for cardiac rehabilitation and choose not to participate (due to various reasons including distance to cardiac rehabilitation site), yet volunteer to the testing procedures at baseline and following a six month period. While random assignment is preferred, it is not feasible in CAD patients because, in our experience, geographical constraints or other personal barriers restrict access to CR and because CR is often considered the normal standard of care (they won't volunteer to avoid CR if they want CR). Instead, a naturalistic control approach will be used whereby patients who do not participate in CR may still participate by undergoing the testing before and following a six month period of time. Use of recall surveys will establish activity patterns in the non-exercise training groups or wait periods. Both groups will receive the same in-hospital education, referral to a CR program, personal prescription (referral), encouragement and follow-up. All subjects will complete a series of tests before and following the six-month interval of exercise or time control. Exercise training and the majority of testing will occur in the Laboratory for Brain and Heart Health (Labatt Health Sciences Building, Rm 402). Protocols: Cardio-respiratory Fitness: Fitness will be determined using a self-paced six-minute walk test (6MWT) that will be administered as per American Thoracic Society (ATS) guidelines whereby a physician's presence is not required. Blood Sample: After resting quietly for up to 30 min, a fasting (\>3 hours) venous blood sample will be taken from the antecubital vein for analysis of blood glucose, lipid

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - cerebrovascular properties

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02715661
