CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05009394
Title: Surgical Treatments for Postamputation Pain
Official Title: Surgical Treatments for Postamputation Pain
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 110
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
This is a double-blind randomised controlled trial (RCT) which compares the effectiveness of three surgical techniques for alleviating residual limb pain (RLP), neuroma pain and phantom limb pain (PLP). The three surgical treatments are Targeted Muscles Reinnervation (TMR), Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface (RPNI), and an active control (neuroma excision and muscle burying). Patients will be follow-up for 4 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Residual limb pain (RLP), neuroma pain, and phantom limb pain (PLP) can develop after the loss of a body part and fall within the umbrella term postamputation pain. However, the underlaying causes to postamputation pain are diverse and must be addressed accordingly. Surgical treatments for RLP have become a popular approach and have shown great potential for successful outcomes. The two surgical interventions, Targeted Muscle Reinnervation (TMR) and Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface (RPNI), are globally used in pain management therapies.

This is a multi-centre, double-blind, superiority RCT which takes place at 9 hospitals in 7 countries:the Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg, Sweden; the Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute in Bologna, Italy; the University of Alberta Hospital in Edmonton, Canada; Worker Hospital in Santiago, Chile; the NHS Lothian, NHS Clyde \& Greater Glasgow, and NHS Grampian, UK; Dandenong Hospital, Monash Health in Melbourne, Australia; the Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago, USA; the University of Michigan Health System in Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA; and within the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, USA. One hundred ten participants will be recruited and randomly assigned to one of three surgical treatments (TMR, RPNI, or control) in an equal allocation ratio (n = 37 per group). Each participant will be followed up short term (1, 3, 6, and 12 months post-surgery) and long term (2 and 4 years post-surgery). After the 12-month follow-up, the study will be unblinded for the evaluator and the participants. If the participants are unsatisfied with the outcome of the treatment, they may request one of the other treatments. In such a case, a medical evaluation and further treatment options will be discussed in consultation with the clinical investigator at the site.

The study design is chosen to be able to follow RLP, neuroma pain and PLP intensity before and after surgical treatment as well as to investigate how pain develops up to four years post-surgery. The evaluation methods in the study are based on previously used methods in the literature for RLP-, neuroma- and PLP-related pain research. The questionnaires are previously used in clinical settings.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Residual limb pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Targeted Muscle Reinnervation (TMR)
  - PROCEDURE: Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface (RPNI)
  - PROCEDURE: Standard neuroma treatment, neuroma excision, and muscle burying

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05009394
