CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05606731
Title: Family Intervention to Prevent Childhood Obesity
Official Title: A Hybrid Mobile Phone Family Intervention to Prevent Childhood Obesity
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 182
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Consumption of sweetened beverages, media-viewing, and physical activity patterns are often established during early childhood, and family-based obesity interventions show effectiveness in shaping healthy behaviors and weight outcomes for young children, including Latino children. Missing from these interventions, however, are methods to increase accessibility and dissemination to multiple family caregivers. The proposed work will use a randomized study design to evaluate the impact a family-based early childhood obesity intervention for Latino families that incorporates evidence-based strategies of in-person childhood obesity interventions, mobile phones, and leverages important determinants of Latino health (e.g. familism, language) in order to decrease ethnic disparities in childhood obesity and cardiovascular risk.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Design The proposed research design is a prospective randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of a family-based childhood obesity intervention that uses a "hybrid" approach of in-person and mobile phone components compared to usual WIC care. Approximately, 260 families (130 in each of the groups and oversampled for a 30% attrition rate) will be recruited from WIC centers in Los Angeles County in the neighborhoods of East Los Angeles, where \>95% of clients are of Mexican descent, and from MacArthur Park ("Little Central America") near downtown Los Angeles, where \> 80% of clients are of Central American descent. These WIC centers which serve over 5,000 individuals per month (4,000 Latino children) will ensure a sufficient number of Latino participants and ethnic diversity within the Latino population.

Recruitment Eligibility to participate will be open to adult caregivers of a young child who meet study inclusion and exclusion criteria. Eligible caregivers will be randomly assigned to the intervention or usual care arm. To enroll and retain study subjects in both arms, each caregiver will receive $25 gift cards per data collection point, and a higher amount at 12-months ($35) to minimize attrition. All recruitment, enrollment, and incentive strategies will be vetted by IRB.

Study Randomization Study randomization will occur after baseline data collection. A computer-generated permuted block randomization scheme with a block size of 4 will be used to ensure balanced treatment allocation within strata based on child overweight and obesity status, and caregiver structure. These caregiver structure groups will be: (1) two caregivers in same household; (2) two caregivers in different households; and (3) single parent without a second caregiver to participate (although anticipate a very small percentage in this group as neighborhood demographic data indicate \>70% two-caregiver households). Single parents will be reminded that former spouses, extended family, friends, and other caregivers are eligible and encouraged to participate.

Intervention Group The intervention will include in-person and mobile phone components focusing on Latino caregivers of young children, to support evidence-based and age appropriate dietary, media-viewing, and physical activity practices among 2- to 5-year old children, in order to decrease ethnic disparities in childhood obesity. The intervention is 4-week in-person sessions plus mobile phone component, followed by 2-motnsh of mobile phone "booster" messages to reinforce content.

Usual Care Control Group After enrollment into the study and completion of baseline data, caregivers will be randomly assigned into the intervention or control arm of the study. Both groups of caregivers will continue to receive ongoing usual care through WIC. WIC "usual care" for caregivers of 2- to-5-year-olds includes: (1) monthly vouchers for nutritious food; (2) individual nutrition counseling at least twice per y

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Child BMI
  - Child BMI
  - Child BMI
  - Child BMI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family-Based Childhood Obesity Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05606731
