CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02778009
Title: Fit Physicians: Use of Activity Monitors and Activity Integration Program in First Year Medical Students
Official Title: Fit Physicians: A Novel Physical Activity Integration Program to Improve Fitness and Activity in Medical Students: A Randomized Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 124
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Using FitBit activity monitors, physical activity levels will be monitored in first year medical students. Body Composition will be measured as well.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Using fitness trackers and exercise testing, it will determine if participating in a novel program that incorporates wellness into the academic term will improve fitness.

An estimate, 120 students will enroll in this study. Men and women aged 18-55 years of age that are just entering medical school. Students who are currently pregnant will not be allowed to participate in this study.

Participation will involve 2 visits at the start of the academic school year, and two visits at the end of the academic school year.

These visits will entail you undergoing a body composition scan measured by an duel energy x-ray absorptiometry (iDEXA) machine. The scan takes approximately 15 minutes. Subjects may be asked to perform an exercise stress test on a treadmill. The exercise test is approximately 40 minutes. Subjects may be asked to participate in a fitness program 2x a week, and may be asked to wear a Fitbit Flex™ activity tracker on the wrist for the duration of the school year. Investigators will be accessing academic grades to use for statistical purposes only. Subject names will never be given to any other party other than the investigators involved.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Steps per day measured daily by FitBit Flex

INTERVENTIONS:
  - RADIATION: iDEXA Scan
  - OTHER: Wellness Lectures
  - OTHER: Exercise intervention
  - OTHER: Activity monitor

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02778009
