CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05977088
Title: Prediction of Effectiveness of rTMS Application in Alzheimer's Patients
Official Title: Prediction of Cognitive, Neurotrophic, Anti-Inflammatory, and Antioxidant Effectiveness of rTMS Application in Alzheimer's Patients
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Since pharmacological methods are insufficient in the treatment processes of Alzheimer's disease, non-pharmacological methods such as Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) have started to be tried as a treatment option as in other neurological and psychiatric diseases. Repeated (rTMS) offers a potential treatment pathway for neurological and psychiatric illnesses. rTMS benefit rate may vary depending on many factors such as the region where it is applied, the progression and the disease degree. The possible effects of TMS on Alzheimer's pathophysiology and modification of disease process (neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant) will also be revealed through blood samples taken from patients before and after treatment. These approaches also constitute the original value of our study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Since pharmacological methods are insufficient in the treatment processes of Alzheimer's disease, non-pharmacological methods such as Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) have started to be tried as a treatment option as in other neurological and psychiatric diseases. Repeated (rTMS) offers a potential treatment pathway for neurological and psychiatric illnesses. rTMS benefit rate may vary depending on many factors such as the region where it is applied, the progression and the disease degree. This study aim is to predict the benefit rate to be obtained from the treatment by using various evaluation parameters before starting rTMS treatment. The possible effects of TMS on Alzheimer's pathophysiology and modification of disease process (neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant) will also be revealed through blood samples taken from patients before and after treatment. These approaches also constitute the original value of our study.

In our project, 20 people will be included in the study and control groups and electroencephalography (EEG) and TMS will be used together in the study. Before rTMS treatment, resting EEG data will be taken for 5 minutes, eyes open and closed. At the end of all these procedures, rTMS treatment will be started, which will take 5 days. The treatment will consist of two sessions per day with a 20 Hz stimulating protocol, 1500 beats to right-left DLPFC, and totaly 3000 beats. EEG recordings will be taken again from all patients one week after the treatment.

Changes in the cognitive functions of Alzheimer's patients will be made through the neuropsychometric test battery taken before and after rTMS. With the analysis of neuropsychometric data, the study group will be divided into two subgroups that benefit from TMS and those who do not. In addition, EEG data obtained before and after-TMS will be compared with power spectrum, coherence, functional connectivity and graph methods in both the study and control groups, and information about the electrophysiological effects of TMS will be obtained.

Blood samples of the patients before and after rTMS will be taken and the changes in the metabolites given below will be compared: Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor, Glial Based Neurotrophic Factor, Total Oxidant Level, Total Antioxidant Level, Oxidative Stress Index, Total Thiol, Native Thiol, Disulfide, Exosome, Inflammation Biomarkers (interleukin 1 Beta, interleukin 6, Tumor Necrosis Alpha, Interferon gamma, Nuclear factor kappa ß), Albumin Globulin ratio, Omega 6 and Omega 3. Thus, rTMS has possible neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, consequently modifying the disease process. Additional information will be obtained about.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Mini Mental State Examination
  - Neuropsychiatric Inventory
  - Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale
  - ADSL
  - Geriatric Depression Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Repetetive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05977088
