CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05708885
Title: Striated Esophageal Motor Function Modulation in Health and Disease
Official Title: Characterization of the Striated Esophagus (St.Eso) Deglutitive Motor Function and Its Modulation by Pharyngeal Phase Swallow Biomechanics
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 557
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The investigators hypothesize that striated esophagus deglutitive motor function is modulated by pharyngeal phase swallowing biomechanics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To achieve the specific aim, the investigators will use state-of the-art available techniques and recording modalities alone or in combination/concurrently, as well as a novel device with proven ability to non-invasively manipulate the pharyngeal biomechanics both in a positive as well as negative way. This device and technique have been described earlier in the innovation section.

High Resolution Manometry (HRM)/Impedance recording: Pharyngeal and proximal esophageal pressure phenomena will be recorded and analyzed using a high-resolution manometric catheter (36 sensors 1 cm spacing), positioned trans-nasally to traverse the pharynx, UES, and proximal esophagus passing the transition zone) and computerized recording and analysis system. Also, manometric data will be imported to a supplementary programming environment when computational tools provided in the conventional software do not meet our analytical needs. Also configured on the high-resolution manometric probe are 18 impedance sites spaced every 2 cm to monitor bolus position. Similar to the manometric data, impedance data is also displayed by the previously described recording and analysis systems.

Concurrent high-resolution impedance manometry and digital video-fluoroscopic recording: To obtain objective quantifiable measures of peristalsis, swallow biomechanics and bolus kinematics, the investigators use high resolution impedance manometry concurrent with 30 frame/sec digital videofluoroscopy. Since our catheter also has impedance recording it will provide opportunity for additional analysis in concert with fluoroscopic recordings.

Digital video-fluoroscopy: The investigators will use digital video fluoroscopy at 30 frame/s in the sagittal or frontal view to record and subsequently analyze the deglutitive laryngeal and hyoid excursions as well as UES opening and closure data and bolus trajectory and kinematics. Video-fluoroscopic recordings will be obtained at 90 kiloelectron volt, using a 9-in. image intensifier and appropriate collimation. Based on our preliminary studies, the investigators will record 5-ml and 10-ml liquid barium swallows. Fluoroscopic sagittal images will be targeted to clearly visualize the entire pharynx, larynx, hyoid bone, upper esophageal sphincter (UES) and the proximal esophagus. A pregnancy testing will be completed prior to fluoroscopy exposure.

Technique for reducing laryngeal and striated esophagus (St.Eso) excursion: the investigators will use the swallowing resistance exercise device (sRED) to experimentally reduce the laryngeal and St.Eso excursion and UES opening.

Technique for increasing the laryngeal and St.Eso excursion. The investigators will deploy the strength training exercise protocol using the s-RED device published previously which has shown to result in significant increase in laryngeal excursion and UES opening.

In healthy and patient volunteers, the investigators will determine and characterize the non-peristaltic and peristaltic c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - peak deglutitive pharyngeal peristaltic wave pressure
  - peak deglutitive pharyngeal peristaltic wave pressure
  - hypopharyngeal intra-bolus
  - hypopharyngeal intra-bolus
  - upper esophageal sphincter (UES) nadir pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Concurrent manometry/impedance and fluoroscopy with and without laryngeal restriction
  - DEVICE: Concurrent manometry/impedance and fluoroscopy before and after six weeks of using swallow muscle exercising device

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05708885
