CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03705325
Title: Evaluating Asthma Exacerbation-induced Changes in Lung Function With a Home-based Spirometer
Official Title: Evaluating Asthma Exacerbation-induced Changes in Lung Function With a Home-based Spirometer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The investigators will study the use of a home-based spirometer (Spirobank Smart spirometer) that connects to a smartphone app (VitalFlo) in teenagers with persistent asthma to determine if clinically significant changes in lung function detected by the spirometer are associated with patient-reported asthma symptoms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Asthma is a common chronic illness and significant expense to our healthcare system. Asthma affects nearly 25 million Americans, including 10% of U.S. adolescents. Teenagers are one of the most difficult groups to engage in self-management of chronic health problems like asthma and are at greater risk of poorly controlled asthma compared to younger children. Up to 80% of children with asthma are non-adherent to their controller medications, often due to lack of parent or child-perceived need or beneficial effects of these medications. Adolescents may have a higher threshold for initiating rescue treatment due to the perceived normalcy of asthma symptoms and frequently under-report symptoms to parents and healthcare providers.

Poor perception of asthma symptoms leads to overestimation of asthma control. Defining well controlled versus poorly controlled asthma is highly dependent on self-reported asthma symptoms. Up to half of patients with severe asthma symptoms report well controlled asthma. Many have low expectations of asthma control and have adapted to the disease so much so that they no longer perceive their limitations. Inaccurate self-reported data can be problematic in studies evaluating the impact of environmental factors or the efficacy of asthma treatments. An objective measure of asthma impairment is pulmonary function testing performed by spirometry. Ready access to a conventional spirometer is not always realistic in clinical care or research settings. The investigators propose integrating technology-based tools that leverage on the high rates of smartphone use among youth to identify early signs of deteriorating asthma control.

The Spirobank smart spirometer is a compact, portable, home-based spirometer approximately the size of an inhaler that pairs with a smartphone app called VitalFlo. The device uses an energy conserving turbine. Exhaled air flow causes the turbine to rotate, generating a voltage analogous to the rate of air flow across the turbine. The spirometer measures Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), or the volume of air that is exhaled in the first second. The device prompts the user to perform a minimum of three expiratory maneuvers in and records the best of the three maneuvers. The information generated is collected on a microprocessor and then transmitted by a low power Bluetooth radio to the VitalFlo App (password protected) on the user's iPhone. The user is alerted, by the App, if their expiratory effort is inadequate (such as early termination of exhalation) and is provided coaching for proper technique. The data is then transmitted to a HIPAA-compliant cloud database. Participants will receive a survey after each time they measure lung function to gather information about any asthma symptoms they are experiencing. Investigators will ask that they use the spirometer prior to using albuterol for symptoms if possible. VitalFlo will also track, via cloud databases, outdoor temperature, humidity, air quali

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in FEV1 from baseline during "yellow zone" events

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Spirobank Smart spirometer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 21 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03705325
