CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07065591
Title: Anti-Diabetic Drug, Exercise and Healthy Diet for Knee Osteoarthritis With Overweight/Obesity
Official Title: Anti-Diabetic Drug, Exercise and Healthy Diet for Knee Osteoarthritis With Overweight/Obesity, a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Obesity is associated with increased pain with knee osteoarthritis and increase progression of knee osteoarthritis while weight loss intervention has been shown to reduce pain and requirement of total knee replacement. In this study, the investigators will assess using diet modification with exercise, and metformin, a common, safe, diabetes mellitus medication that has been in use for 70 years to achieve better weight control to reduce knee pain. This helps the investigators to understand whether the combined treatment can reduce joint pain, reduce body weight and improve symptoms and requirement of total knee replacement.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Unhealthy diet (high fat, sugar) and physical inactivity result in overweight/obesity, which is the major cause of knee osteoarthritis (KOA). KOA further leads to increased intake of comfort food (unhealthy diet) and reduced exercise due to knee pain, forming a vicious cycle. Overweight and obesity are the main risk factors for the major non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like diabetes, etc. which are additional exacerbating factors for KOA. Compared to other NCDs, KOA is more painful and disabling and therefore it commonly leads to early medical consultation for an obese individual. This provides a unique therapeutic opportunity to conduct weight control intervention and lifestyle modification when they are referred for management and waiting for total knee replacement (TKR). Achieving weight control can reduce their subsequent risk of development of other NCDs which lead to increased mortality, and potentially improve their osteoarthritic symptoms, and potentially avoid TKR.

Overweight and Obesity is defined as body mass index (BMI) exceeding 23 and 25 kg/m2 in Hong Kong respectively. Principal applicant (PA) reviewed the BMI of all KOA patients that subsequently had TKR in our hospitals and found the average BMI were 27.72 (2005-2009), 27.78 (2010-2015), and 28.07 (2016-2021) with the number of obese patients increased more than 6 times in 2016-2021 compared to 2005-2009. 73.74% of them were in obese class I and II in 2016- 2021, compared to just 33% of the whole Hong Kong population (same age group) were in these two classes (Based on Department of Health Population Health Survey). Obesity is disproportionally prevalent among KOA patients in Hong Kong with a worsening trend.

Studies and our pilot have found obese KOA patients have more medical comorbidities, with higher prevalence of metabolic syndrome, with more hypertension, dyslipidemia and impaired fasting glucose/diabetes. They are also associated with higher risks of cardiovascular disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke. Obesity is associated with greater pain while waiting for surgery but also with higher chances of developing various perioperative problems, such as surgical site infections, acute kidney injury, increased narcotics consumption, etc. compared to non-obese patients. Therefore, weight loss interventions for KOA are being explored recently to reduce the requirement of TKR, improve the health of KOA subjects, and improve the outcome if TKRs are eventually performed.

Diet modification to achieve weight loss with exercise therapy have been reported reducing KOA pain and improving physical function like walking distance and stair-climb time, compared to control in RCT (ADAPT trial). And it has been showed combining dietary weight loss and exercise can achieve better pain relief and joint loading than either dietary weight loss or exercise alone (Intensive Diet and Exercise for Arthritis (IDEA) trial). Despite these encouraging results, follow-up study at 3.5 years after i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain by visual analogue scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Metformin
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07065591
