CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04812236
Title: Clinical Study on Wuling Powder in Treating Metabolic Syndrome of Spleen Deficiency and Dampness
Official Title: A Randomized, Partially Double-blind, Controlled, Multi-center Clinical Study of Wulingsan Single Decoction Granules Combined With Conventional Therapy in the Treatment of Metabolic Syndrome of Spleen Deficiency, Dampness and Sleepiness
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
In this study, a randomized, partially double-blind, controlled, multi-center clinical research method was used. A total of 4 groups were designed, namely, single decoction group, co-decoction group, powder group and simulation group. The four groups of patients all received basic health education, diet control and increased exercise guidance. All the patients in the group have taken western medicine according to their own conditions and followed the doctor's instructions for hypoglycemic, blood pressure, and lipid-lowering treatments. After joining the group, they continue to take the medicine at the original dose, and the patients are advised not to change the medicine during the observation period. Take 12 weeks as a course of treatment, and set the observation period to 12 weeks. Follow up every 4 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The research purpose of this project is to observe the effectiveness and safety of Wulingsan single decoction granules compared with traditional powder, co-decoction granules and analogues in the treatment of metabolic syndrome in combination with conventional therapies. ; Compared with Wulingsan traditional powder and co-decoction granule group, observe the effectiveness and safety of traditional powder combined with conventional therapy in the treatment of metabolic syndrome. The trial adopts a randomized, partially double-blind, controlled, multi-center clinical research method. A total of 320 cases were included in 4 groups, namely, single decoction group, co-decoction group, powder group, and simulated agent group. The four groups of patients all received basic health education, diet control and increased exercise guidance. All the patients in the group have taken western medicine according to their own conditions and followed the doctor's instructions for hypoglycemic, blood pressure, and lipid-lowering treatments. After joining the group, they continue to take the medicine at the original dose, and the patients are advised not to change the medicine during the observation period. Take 12 weeks as a course of treatment, and the observation period is set to 12 weeks. Follow up every 4 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Analysis of changes in waist-to-hip ratio at 12 weeks
  - Analysis of body mass index changes in 12 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Wulingsan single decoction granules
  - DRUG: Wulingsan co-decoction granules
  - DRUG: Wuling Powder
  - DRUG: Wulingsan granule simulant

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04812236
