CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05074108
Title: Mitigating and Preventing Disordered Eating in Transitioning Service Members
Official Title: Adapted Total Force Kitchen Pilot Intervention to Mitigate and Prevent Disordered Eating in Transitioning Service Members
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Despite documented evidence of disordered eating (DE) among Active Duty (AD) Service Members (SM) and Veterans, DE has not been assessed in SM undergoing the transition from AD to Veterans status (AD-VS). The objective of the current study is to explore gender differences and associations between nutrition knowledge, DE attitudes and behaviors, mental health, and military-specific experiences in women and men undergoing the AD-VS transition, and then use this information along with qualitative feedback from focus groups to inform adaptations of an existing nutrition education program for pilot testing in AD-VS women and men.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Despite documented evidence of disordered eating (DE) among Active Duty (AD) Service Members (SM) and Veterans, DE has not been assessed in SM undergoing the transition from AD to Veterans status (AD-VS). DE describes psychologically-driven, subclinical, maladaptive eating behaviors that do not meet diagnostic criteria for eating disorders (ED), which are serious psychiatric conditions that require intensive medical intervention and treatment. DE, while less clinically severe than ED, likely affects a much larger proportion of individuals and often goes unreported and/or underdiagnosed, thereby paving the way for chronic DE and development of deleterious outcomes. Mental health is intimately connected with eating behaviors and associations between DE/ED and other mental comorbidities have been described in AD and Veteran populations. By addressing DE during the AD-VS transition time, it may be possible to mitigate the long term clinical consequences that result from chronic DE. The AD-VS time frame is an especially opportune time to intervene with health-focused interventions given the evidence of weight gain and reductions in physical activity that occurs following separation from AD service. The contribution of DE behaviors to weight gain during and immediately following the AD-VS transition has not been explored and could be one factor to target in order to improve healthy lifestyle behaviors during this critical juncture. Interventions that provide SM with resources and strategies to prevent or minimize DE behaviors and improve mental health early in the AD-VS transition process may help to prevent adverse outcomes for Veterans. Based on the available evidence linking DE and mental health in Veterans, interventions that are able to address these issues holistically and prevent downstream clinical outcomes are worthy of investigation in AD-VS women and men. Thus, the objective of the current study is to explore gender differences and associations between nutrition knowledge, DE attitudes and behaviors, mental health, and military-specific experiences in women and men undergoing the AD-VS transition, and then use this information along with qualitative feedback from focus groups to inform adaptations of an existing nutrition education program for pilot testing in AD-VS women and men. Ultimately, this study is the first step in determining a strategy to attenuate the deleterious mental and physical health impacts of poor nutrition and DE in Veterans.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Nutrition knowledge
  - Eating attitudes / behaviors
  - Eating attitudes / behaviors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pilot study

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05074108
