CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03280329
Title: Generalized Versus Personalized Music Therapy in the ICU to Reduce Sedation
Official Title: Music Therapy in the ICU as a Tool to Reduce Neuroactive Drugs: Generalized Versus Personalized Intervention
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 153
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Admission to an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is one of the major causes of stress and both physical and emotional difficulties for critically ill patients, both because of the illness that caused the admission and of the ICU nevironment itself. Despite the use of protocols and tools to evaluate sedation, many patients continue to have high levels of anxiety. An inadequate treatment of this condition is associated with increased sympathetic activity which causes dyspnea and an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption. Sedative drugs, on the other side, may have significant side effects.

In view of this, there is clear need to find new strategies and instruments allowing for the maximization of critical patients' comfort, by promoting pain, anxiety, stress and agitation relief and minimising the need of sedative therapy.

The main hypothesis of this study is that the use of music therapy for critically ill patients can lead to a significant increase of the days free from neuroactive therapy (analgesics, sedatives, antianxiety meds, antipsychotics) in the first 28 days following Intensive Care Unit admission. To this purpose, data obtained from 3 groups of patients will be compared - a group with individual treatment administered by a music therapist and delivered by headphones, a group with a generalised treatment, through the creation of a weekly musical program continuously broadcasted in the hospital room, and a control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction The Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is one of the major causes of stress and both physical and emotional difficulties for patients and their families.

Studies have been conducted in the investigators' and other Intensive Care Units and they set out to investigate main causes of stress in critical patients; among the most significant factors were shown to be life saving treatment such as mechanical ventilation, invasive procedures, restriction of movement, pain and inability to verbally express it, environment characterized by constant light and sound stimulation, loss of interaction with loved ones and the staff, and sleep deprivation.

Despite the use of protocols and tools to evaluate sedation, many patients continue to have high levels of anxiety. An inadequate treatment of this condition is associated with increased sympathetic activity which causes dyspnea and an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption.

In view of it, there is clear need to find new strategies and instruments allowing for the maximization of critical patients' comfort, by promoting pain, anxiety, stress and agitation relief and minimising the need of sedative therapy.

Among non pharmacological treatment, hypnosis and relaxation techniques, implementation of communication with patient, music therapy and physical support are shown to be effective (7).

The use of music as a therapeutic complement has been described in literature for a long time, using a rational selection in musical composition. Music application to obtain health benefit is defined music therapy.

The main research question which this study aims to answers is music therapy's effectiveness in reducing analgesics and sedatives need, as well as reducing anxiety and loneliness, and in re- establishing normal sleep patterns. It should be noted that music brings significant benefits as there is absence of contraindications and it is immediately usable by everybody. Italian experiences in the music therapy field in the Intensive Care Unit are low.

With this music therapy project, the investigators intend to build a multifactorial intervention to reduce stress risk factors of patients and their families, still not applied in our country.

Rationale

Many factors influence the effectiveness by music therapy: age, gender, cognitive abilities, stress levels, anxiety, pain, music education, familiarity with a determinate type of music, individual preferences, and culture are all elements which can modify the effect of certain music selection on the subject (19, 20). From this, there is the need of individual choice and careful monitoring of effects that music has on each individual.

Music therapy in the treatment of stress in the Intensive Care Unit

A recent meta analysis (21) reveals that listening to music can cause a reduction of anxiety levels in mechanically ventilated patients; some studies show, moreover, a reduction of analgesic and sedative need in response to the application of a music therapy tre

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Neuroactive drug free days

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Generalized Music therapy
  - OTHER: Personalized Music therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03280329
