CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05830708
Title: The Efficacy of Probiotics for the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder Among Adult Males
Official Title: The Efficacy of Probiotics for the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder Among Adult Males: A Comparison With Placebo and Acceptance and Commitment Therapy in a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This three-armed, parallel-group, single-blind, multi-center randomized control trial (RCT) aims to evaluate the efficacy of probiotic supplement compared with that of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) in ameliorating alcohol craving and severity of alcohol use disorder (AUD) in patients diagnosed with AUD after 2 weeks of in-patient detoxification. In addition, this study also compares the efficacy of probiotic supplement and ACT to mitigate common comorbid of AUD (such as depression and anxiety symptoms); changes in event-related potential (ERP) on electroencephalogram (EEG) monitoring which indicate reduce alcohol craving; and depreciate the serum level of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) indicating lowering of systemic inflammation.

In phase I of the study, 120 patients diagnosed with AUD (using Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders 5th Edition or DSM-5) and 120 healthy controls will be recruited. The measured outcomes to be compared between patients with AUD and healthy non-AUD controls include ERP on EEG monitoring, serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), and the fecal microbiota content. Then, in phase II of the study, 120 AUD patients will be randomized into three groups of intervention in a 1:1:1 ratio (Lactobacillus sp. probiotic, ACT and placebo group; n = 40 per group). The participants in probiotic and placebo groups will then consumed the Lactobacillus sp. Probiotic and placebo 1 sachet once a day of probiotic and placebo, respectively for 12 weeks. While participants in ACT group will undergo training for ACT one session per week for 8 weeks. Outcome assessments will be performed across four time points, such as t0 = before intervention began, t1 = 8 weeks after intervention began, t2 = 12 weeks after intervention began, and T3 = 24 weeks after intervention began. The primary outcomes to be measured are the degree of alcohol craving, alcohol withdrawal, and severity of alcohol use disorder. While the secondary outcomes to be assessed are severity of comorbid depression and anxiety symptoms, serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), changes in ERP on EEG monitoring, and fecal microbiota content.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be conducted in the Second Affiliated Hospital of Xinxiang Medical University (Henan Mental Hospital), Xinxiang, Henan, China and Psychiatric Outpatient Clinic in Advanced Medical and Dental Institute, Universiti Sains Malaysia.

The approval of the study was obtained from the Human Research Ethics Committee of Xinxiang Medical University (code: XYEFYLL-(research)-2022-28) and from the Human Research Ethics Committee of Universiti Sains Malaysia (code: USM/JEPeM/22080546). Prior to participation in the trial, participants will be informed of their right to withdraw from the trial at any time and the data collected will be discarded immediately and will not be used for the study. Participants will be reminded that all personal identifiable information will not be used and only group data will be analyzed and published. They will be assured of their anonymity for participating in the trial. The participants will be assured that the data collected will only be used for research purposes and the findings will not be recorded in their case files. All participants will be assigned a research number for identification purposes, for example "PROB 001". All the data collected from the participants will be stored in the research file which will be locked in a file cabinet, whereby the key will be kept by the principal investigator. Data collected may also be stored in thumb drive and lap top which is only accessible by the research team and the principal investigator.

In order to monitor adverse effect (AE) during the trial, all participants will be given a trial card which contains the name, contact number and email of the members of the research team. They are encouraged to contact the research team member in charge if there is any occurrence of AE. The occurrence of AE will then be reported to the "adverse effect" section of the trial's case report form. The AE which may lead to withdrawal of participants from the trial are: (1) adverse reaction which is not related to the study intervention but cause discomfort to the participants, (2) adverse reaction which is related to the study intervention (probiotic, ACT and/or placebo), and (3) any changes in behavior, temperament, personality, psychotic symptoms, and suicidal tendency that occurred after the study intervention began (probiotic, ACT and/or placebo). All AE should be reported to the Human Research Ethics Committee of Xinxiang Medical University and Universiti Sains Malaysia and investigation should be carried out.

The principal investigator will lead the trial center and will coordinate closely with the research and site coordinators in a day-to-day basis involving in the conduct of the clinical trial, subject recruitment, and data collection. A trial monitoring unit will also be set up which will be chaired by the principal investigator, whereby weekly meeting will be held to discuss on the conduct of the trial, auditing of the trial, and prepare report to be submitted to the Hu

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test score across four time points
  - Change in Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol-Revised score across four time points
  - Change in Penn Alcohol Craving Scale score across four time points

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Lactobacillus sp. probiotic
  - BEHAVIORAL: Acceptance and commitment therapy
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05830708
