CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07005609
Title: Effects of Snakehead Fish on IUGR and LBW Among Second and Third Trimester Women
Official Title: Effects of Snakehead Fish as an Alternative High-Protein Food Source on Intrauterine Growth Restriction and Low Birth Weight Among Pregnant Women in Their Second and Third Trimesters Within Yogyakarta Province
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study uses a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) design, conducted on pregnant women in Yogyakarta Province, Indonesia. This study aims to observe the effects of snakehead fish prepared-meal intervention on fetal growth measurement and birth outcomes. The subjects were randomly divided into two groups (random allocation), the treatment and control groups. Subjects in the treatment group will be given supplementation of snakehead fish prepared-meal for lunch for 3 months daily, while subjects in the control group will not receive the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Subjects in this study were divided into two groups; treatment group, who were given snakehead fish prepared-meal for lunch everyday, and control group who were not given any supplementation.All participants have already agreed to join this study by signing the informed consent at the beginning of the study.

Snakehead fish meal contained carbohydrate, protein (from snakehead fish), vegetables and fruit. The daily intake of snakehead fish meal were noted in the food record form independently by the subjects in the treatment group and would be reported periodically to the researcher. Snakehead fish meal were given for about 3 months or until the mother deliver the baby.

All participants in both group were examined once a month using 2D ultrasonography to measured fetal growth. After the baby was born, baby's birth weigth and birth length data were obtained through the mother and baby's health book.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Snakehead fish intake
  - Estimated Fetal Weight (EFW)
  - Femur length (FL)
  - Biparietal diameter (BPD)
  - Head circumference (HC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Snakehead fish meal

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 28 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07005609
