CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03075189
Title: Increased Focus on Protein Intake Among Geriatric Patients
Official Title: Increased Focus on Protein Intake Among Geriatric Patients During Hospitalization: Serving and Acceptance of Protein Enriched Meals in the Morning and Before Bedtime, as Well as Nutritional Guidance by a Clinical Dietician.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Up to approximately 38 (unknown drop-out rate) geriatric patients (at least 65 years old) are recruited from a Geriatric ward at Slagelse Sygehus. After inclusion and baseline measurements, each individual will be randomized into either an intervention or control group arranged in blocks of 8 The intervention group (n≤19) will receive protein enriched snacks/dishes in the morning and late evening, before bedtime. Moreover, upon discharge the intervention group will receive individual dietary counseling focusing on choosing protein-rich foods and on protein rich meals. The control group (n≤19) will receive normal hospital food without enrichment and no dietary counseling at discharge. In both groups the following data will be obtained: recorded protein intake, anthropometric measurements (weight, height, body composition estimated with bioimpedance), functional ability (De Morton Mobility Index (DEMMI) and Barthels ADL-index), hand grip strength, sarkopenic status (SARC-F), quality of life (EQ-5D-3L), length of stay (LOS) and readmissions (within 30 days after discharge). During hospitalization food intake will be registered, as well as 24 hour recall interviews and food frequency questionnaires will be done at follow-up visits.

Assessments will be performed at baseline, on the day of discharge and 4 weeks after discharge (follow up).

The primary outcome is change in protein intake from Baseline to 4 weeks after discharge.

The hypothesis is that serving of individually selected protein enriched snack/dish in the morning and before bedtime during hospitalization results in higher protein intake during hospitalization and that this experience combined with dietary counseling at discharge, results in a higher protein intake at 28 days after discharge. Further, we hypothesize that the increased protein intake will affect functional level, hand grip strength, sarcopenic status and quality of life in geriatric patients and will lead to shorter LOS and fewer readmission frequency.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Protein intake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03075189
