CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06332417
Title: Combined Effects of Ba-Duan-Jin Based Deep Breathing Exercises and Forced Expiratory Technique
Official Title: Combined Effects of Ba-Duan-Jin Based Deep Breathing Exercises and Forced Expiratory Technique in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 68
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be a randomized control trial. A total of 68 patients will be recruited and randomly assign to the experimental group or the control group in a 1:1 ratio. Participants in the experimental group will receive a 8-week Ba-duan jin exercise training intervention along with Forced Expiratory Technique at least 3 days a week and 30 minutes a day, while participants in the control group will be only given Forced Expiratory intervention and will be told to maintain their original lifestyle for 8 weeks along with standard COPD treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a randomized control trial. A total of 68 patients will be recruited and randomly assign to the experimental group or the control group in a 1:1 ratio. Participants must have a documented diagnosis of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) based on established clinical criteria (such as GOLD guidelines). Participants should be between 40 and 55 years old. Participants should be in a stable condition, free from exacerbations or respiratory infections for at least four weeks prior to the study enrollment. Participants in the experimental group will receive a 8-week Ba-duan jin exercise training intervention along with Forced Expiratory Technique at least 3 days a week and 30 minutes a day, while participants in the control group will be only given Forced Expiratory intervention and will be told to maintain their original lifestyle for 8 weeks along with standard COPD treatment. All participants will continue with their prescribed medication. During this study time participants will be given instructions on how to perform the prescribed pulmonary exercises. After each exercise session the FEV1 and exercise capacity of the patients will be checked.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36)
  - FEV1/FVC ratio
  - Exercise Tolerance : 6 minute walk test
  - Forced vital capacity (FVC)
  - Forced expiratory volume (FEV1)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ba-Duan-Jin Based Deep Breathing Exercises
  - OTHER: FET (Forced Expiratory Technique)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06332417
