CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04275011
Title: Bone Response to Exercise in Women on Antiresorptive Medications
Official Title: Bone Response to Resistance and Impact Exercise (BRRIE) in Women on Antiresorptive Medications: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Performing resistance training and impact exercise at a moderate to high intensity may help prevent bone loss. However, medications used to treat bone diseases such as osteoporosis reduce the activity of bone cells. The investigators are unsure whether bone cells will still respond to exercise in people on osteoporosis medications. Therefore, investigators have designed a study to compare bone response to moderate-high intensity exercise that involves resistance training and impact exercise versus posture and low intensity balance exercises. Women taking osteoporosis medication will be equally and randomly assigned to one of the exercise groups. There will be 23 participants per group and both exercise programs will be performed over a span of 6 months, twice weekly, for approximately 30-45 minutes per session. Investigators will measure sclerostin, a bone-related protein found in the blood, to see if there are any changes after 3 months of training. Higher levels of sclerostin may result in greater bone breakdown. It is expected that the moderate-high intensity exercise program will decrease sclerostin levels more than low intensity training. Further, changes in sclerostin levels during the 6-month exercise intervention will be explored. The effects of the exercise program on other bone markers in the blood, physical ability, and quality of life will be reported. The willingness of the participants to perform the exercise program and the safety of the exercises provided will also be assessed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pharmacological and exercise interventions aimed to treat osteoporosis are typically examined separately. A common pharmacological treatment for osteoporosis involves antiresorptive medications, which has been previously shown to blunt the bone response to exercise. Many studies have shown that moderate-high intensity progressive resistance training (PRT) and impact exercise is required to stimulate bone. There are only two RCT studies that examined the effect of progressive resistance training or impact exercise on bone response in participants taking antiresorptive medications. One study showed that the combination of antiresorptive medications and resistance training did not increase bone mineral density (BMD) to a greater extent than medications alone in postmenopausal women. Another study demonstrated no additive effect of antiresorptive medications and progressive impact exercise on reducing bone turn over markers (BTMs) in postmenopausal women. However, there are currently no available studies that examine the effect of both progressive resistance training along with impact exercise on the bone response in women taking antiresorptive medications. Most exercise studies exclude people taking medications that affect bone, or are heterogeneous with respect to antiresorptive medication use. Further, there is little data on the safety of moderate-high intensity PRT and impact exercise in individuals at moderate or high risk for fracture.

The bone response to medications and exercise can be measured via the assessment of bone biomarkers present in the blood. For instance, sclerostin is a protein secreted by osteocytes and it can influence the bone remodeling process by inhibiting bone formation. Human genetic disorders deficient in sclerostin, such as sclerosteosis and Van Buchem's disease, have been associated with significant increases in bone mass. Therefore, decreasing sclerostin levels may be a potential treatment for people with low bone mass conditions. A case-control study demonstrated that postmenopausal women who adequately responded to bisphosphonates (e.g., did not experience a fracture while on treatment) had significantly lower serum sclerostin concentrations than those who experienced a fracture while taking bisphosphonates. There is also a link between sclerostin and exercise as a previous cross-sectional study reported an association between low serum sclerostin levels and increased physical activity duration. In addition, PRT and high impact exercise interventions have been shown to decrease sclerostin levels in healthy pre-menopausal women and thus may eventually increase bone mass or prevent bone loss. Therefore, changes in serum sclerostin levels can be used to provide insight regarding the bone response to antiresorptive medications as well as exercise.

Investigators plan to conduct a single-blinded parallel-group randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 1:1 allocation ratio to determine whether participants with low bone ma

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline Serum Sclerostin at 3 months and 6 months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Progressive Resistance and Impact Exercise
  - OTHER: Static Balance and Postural Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04275011
