CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00798265
Title: A Phase I Study of Quadrivalent Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine in HIV-Infected and HIV-Negative Pre-Adolescents, Adolescents, and Young Adults
Official Title: A Phase I Study of Quadrivalent Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine in HIV-Infected and HIV-Negative Pre-Adolescents, Adolescents and Young Adults
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Background:

* Human papilloma virus (HPV) is a common sexually transmitted disease. There are more than 100 different HPV types, and both males and females can get HPV infection. Most people do not have any symptoms when they become infected and are able to get rid of the infection on their own. However, they can still become re-infected with the same or a different HPV type, and in some people HPV infection persists.
* Persistent HPV infection is associated with the development of precancerous lesions and cancer. HPV types are classified as either high risk or low risk based on whether their persistence will lead to cancer.
* Patients who have suppressed immune systems are at a higher risk for HPV-related complications. They are more likely to contract multiple HPV types and have more persistent infection that can lead to precancerous lesions or cancer, which are then difficult to treat and often recur.
* A recently approved vaccine for HPV induces immunity to HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18. It was shown to be highly effective in preventing infection with these HPV types, and is approved for use in females 9 to 26 years of age. However, much less is known about the vaccines ability to induce immunity in males or individuals with suppressed immune systems.

Objectives:

\- To investigate whether the HPV vaccine is safe to give and able to induce immunity in both female and male adolescents and young adults with HIV infection compared to healthy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative persons of the same age.

Eligibility:

\- Males and females, 12 to 26 years of age, divided into three groups: (1) Healthy and HIV-negative, (2) HIV-positive and on antiretroviral therapy, and (3) HIV-positive and not on antiretroviral therapy.

Design:

* Before beginning vaccination, participants will have a complete physical examination and blood drawn for routine blood tests, special tests of the immune system, antibody tests, and an HIV test.
* HPV vaccine will be given by injection into the muscle at 0, 2, and 6 months, according to the standard vaccination schedule.
* Patients with HIV infection will be monitored for a week following the first injection to test the level of HIV in the blood 3 days and 5 days after the first injection.
* Participants will also be asked to fill out a 10- to 15-minute Web-based survey about awareness, health behaviors, and personal choices related to risk factors for HIV, HPV, and other sexually transmitted diseases. Participants are not required to fill out the survey to receive the vaccine.
* The total duration of the study is 4 years. During the first year of the study, participants will return for six additional 1-day visits at months 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 12. Participants will return for 1-day visits every 6 months for the remaining 3 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Human papilloma virus (HPV) is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases and a significant cause of cutaneous genital warts and anogenital cancer.

Infection with high-risk, oncogenic HPV types, most commonly types 16 and 18, is associated with low and high-grade cervical cellular abnormalities that are precursors to invasive cervical cancer, as well as vulvar and anal cancer, while HPV types 6 and 11 are associated with genital warts.

Persistence of HPV infection is more common in individuals with or at risk for chronic immunosuppression and HIV-infected individuals have a higher prevalence of HPV infection and HPV-associated anogenital disease compared to age-matched human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative controls.

Study Objectives:

To assess the safety and immunogenicity of quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine in HIV-infected preadolescents, adolescents and young adults 12-26 years of age.

To determine whether there are differences in HPV vaccine immunogenicity between HIV-infected and HIV negative age-matched controls.

To determine whether there are differences in HPV vaccine immunogenicity between HIV-infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and those not receiving HAART with similar cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) and viral load parameters at entry.

To determine whether HPV vaccination alters human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) ribonucleic acid (RNA) levels.

To investigate the impact of CD4 count and HIV-1 RNA levels on HPV vaccine immunogenicity.

To characterize HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) positivity in the study cohort populations through oral/buccal and anogenital sampling at baseline.

To characterize HPV and HIV knowledge and risk and sexual behaviors in the study cohort populations.

Eligibility:

Individual Cohorts

Cohort 1: HIV-positive, CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 350 cells/mm\^3, HIV-1 RNA level by reverse transcription (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) less than or equal to 20,000 copies/ml, on stable HAART regimen for greater than or equal to 6 months.

Cohort 2: HIV-infected, CD4 cell count greater than or equal to 500 cells/mm\^3, HIV-1 RNA level by RT PCR less than or equal to 20,000 copies/ml, on no antiretroviral treatment.

Cohort 3: healthy, HIV-negative controls All Cohorts

Females and males age 12 to 26 years

Patients must have a hemoglobin greater than or equal to 10.0 gm/dL, neutrophil count (ANC) greater than or equal to 1500/mm\^3, platelet count greater than or equal to 75,000/mm\^3 and prothrombin time (PT) or partial thromboplastin time (PTT) less than or equal to 1.5x upper limit of normal (ULN) (with the exception of patients with known clotting disorders or lupus anticoagulant); serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (SGPT)/Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) \< 2/5x ULN, total bilirubin less than or equal to 1.5x ULN unless attributable to protease inhibitor ther

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Immunogenicity of the Quadrivalent Human Papillomavirus (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Recombinant Vaccine in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-Infected Preadolescents, Adolescents and Young Adults 12-26 Years of Age

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: Gardasil
  - BEHAVIORAL: Survey

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 26 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00798265
