CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05711043
Title: The GATE Trial: Endoscopic Sutured Gastroplasty in Type 2 Diabetic, Obese Patients Using the Endomina Device
Official Title: The GATE Trial: Endoscopic Sutured Gastroplasty in Type 2 Diabetic, Obese Patients Using the Endomina Device - a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Rationale: Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease that is often associated with long-term macrovascular and microvascular complications and decreased life expectancy. Approximately 70% of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) are overweight or obese. Weight loss benefits several aspects of DM2, such as improved glycemic control, increased insulin sensitivity and reduced fasting insulin. Interventions for weight loss in patients with DM2 include diet, exercise, but also pharmacotherapy and bariatric surgery.

Bariatric surgery is indicated at a body mass index (BMI) \> 35 kg/m², in combination with other comorbidities. It is associated with better glycemic control and more weight reduction, compared to intensive medical treatment alone. For patients with not adequately controlled DM2 who are not eligible for surgery (i.e., BMI of \< 35 kg/m²), there is a therapeutic gap, which could be filled by one of the currently available endoscopic therapies aiming to reduce weight. One of these therapies is endoscopic sutured gastroplasty (ESG), performed with the endomina device (EndoTools Therapeutics S.A.). There is however a paucity of data showing the effect of ESG on metabolic comorbidities including DM2. We hypothesize that ESG with the endomina device will improve glycemic control in patients with DM2 and obesity.

Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of ESG with the endomina device on glycemic control, in obese insulin treated type 2 diabetic patients.

Study design: This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial. Study population: 58 subjects (29 in each group) with a BMI between 30 and 40 kg/m² and DM2, treated with insulin therapy.

Intervention (if applicable): The intervention group will receive ESG performed with the endomina device. The control group will receive standard diabetic care.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients with a clinically relevant reduction of insulin dose. Secondary endpoints include among others reduction in HbA1c, remission of diabetes, weight loss, quality of life and (serious) adverse events.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: An ESG with the endomina device is known to have only minor adverse events (transient abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting), and a serious adverse event rate of \<1% (no surgical intervention needed, no mortality).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of subjects with a clinically relevant reduction of insulin dose after 12 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Endoscopic sutured gastroplasty with endomina

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05711043
