CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06256744
Title: Resistance Exercise-induced Anabolism in Youths and Adults
Official Title: Resistance Exercise-induced Anabolism in Youths and Adults
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Resistance exercise training (RET) in children and adolescents has become a popular area of research, with a growing body of evidence supporting its use. Position and consensus statements about RET for children indicate that it is safe and effective at increasing muscular strength, improving sport performance, and mitigating injury risk. Neural and muscular mechanisms can improve muscle strength following RET. Neural factors include improved recruitment and firing of an individual's motor units, and muscular factors primarily include an increase in the size of the muscle (hypertrophy).

In children, little is known about how these mechanisms relate to muscle strength. There is very little evidence of morphological changes following RET in children. Therefore, conventional wisdom is that children rely only on neural factors to improve strength following RET. Nevertheless, some studies have suggested RET-induced muscle hypertrophy in children and adolescents, indicating that with certain training protocols, children may achieve muscle growth.

Hypertrophy of muscle fibres occurs when the rate of muscle protein synthesis (MPS) is greater than the rate of protein breakdown, and is enhanced with the ingestion of dietary amino acids. Due to ethical concerns with obtaining muscle samples (i.e., from muscle biopsies) in pediatric populations, MPS rates have not been previously assessed following RET in children. Recent advancements in stable-isotope methodology (specifically, leucine) allow for the estimation of MPS in a non-invasive breath test.

The objective of the proposed research is to examine the effects of an acute bout of RET on leucine retention (a proxy for MPS) in children, adolescents, and adults using a non-invasive breath test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Resistance exercise training (RET) in children and adolescents has become a popular area of research, with a growing body of evidence supporting its use. Position and consensus statements about RET for children indicate that it is safe and effective at increasing muscular strength, improving sport performance, and mitigating injury risk. Neural and muscular mechanisms can improve muscle strength following RET. Neural factors include improved recruitment and firing of an individual's motor units, and muscular factors primarily include an increase in the size of the muscle (hypertrophy).

In children, little is known about how these mechanisms relate to muscle strength. There is very little evidence of morphological changes following RET in children. Therefore, conventional wisdom is that children rely only on neural factors to improve strength following RET, possibly due to their lower levels of circulating androgens. Nevertheless, some studies have suggested RET-induced muscle hypertrophy in children and adolescents, indicating that with certain training protocols, children may achieve muscle growth.

Hypertrophy of muscle fibres occurs when the rate of muscle protein synthesis (MPS) is greater than the rate of protein breakdown, and is enhanced with the ingestion of dietary amino acids. Due to ethical concerns with obtaining muscle samples (i.e., from muscle biopsies) in pediatric populations, MPS rates have not been previously assessed following RET in children. Recent advancements in stable-isotope methodology allow for the estimation of MPS in a non-invasive breath test, which is based on the retention of an essential amino acid (i.e., leucine) that is preferentially metabolized within skeletal muscle. Given that amino acids can only be 'stored' in functional body proteins with any excess being converted to energy (i.e., oxidized), this non-invasive technique is ideal to safely estimate the anabolic (i.e., growth) potential of RET in children. Indeed, similar techniques using ingested stable isotopes have been safely and successfully used in children and adolescents.

The objective of the proposed research is to examine the effects of an acute bout of RET on leucine retention (a proxy for MPS) in children, adolescents, and adults using a non-invasive breath test. It is hypothesized that following a bout of RET, protein retention will be augmented in all groups compared to a non-exercised condition. However, due to a greater basal rate of leucine retention (i.e., for growth processes), the RET-induced increase will be relatively lower in the children and adolescents.

Design: The proposed study will use a cross-sectional design that will compare leucine retention at rest, as well as following a bout of resistance exercise in children, adolescents, and adults.

Procedures: Participants will be required to make three visits to the Applied Physiology Laboratory at Brock University for the completion of all procedures.

During visit 1, the partici

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Leucine retention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06256744
