CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06854731
Title: Preventing Falls in Older Adults With Cognitive Frailty
Official Title: ACTIVE: Adding Life to Years in Cognitive Frailty by Preventing Falls
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 328
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The Problem: The proposed trial will address the problem of how to effectively prevent subsequent falls in community-dwelling cognitively frail older adults with a history of falls.

Primary Question: In community-dwelling older adults with cognitive frailty and a history of falls, can a home-based exercise program with behavioural change techniques significantly reduce falls vs. health education (i.e., control; CON)?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Falls are a significant cause of functional decline and often a sentinel event. Older adults with cognitive frailty - those with concurrent physical frailty and mild cognitive impairment - are at particular risk for falls. Notably, falls can cause a sudden and severe change in their health state from one of independence to one of dependence. Thus, effective falls prevention strategies need to be identified for older adults with cognitive frailty.

The Otago Exercise Program (OEP) - a physical therapist (PT) delivered home-based exercise program - is an evidence-based falls prevention program for community-dwelling older adults. Our pilot data show the OEP vs. usually care significantly reduced subsequent falls in 192 community-dwelling older adults with cognitive frailty and a history of falls; the incident rate ratio was 0.64 (95% CI, 0.43-0.98; P = .042). These preliminary findings need to be confirmed in a rigorously designed RCT powered for falls in older adults with cognitive frailty; none exist to date.

We also observed lower OEP adherence among older adults with cognitive frailty vs. those without cognitive frailty. Thus, strategies to support adherence must be considered in RCTs of exercise to prevent falls in this high-risk population. Evidence-based strategies include health coaching.

Thus, we propose a 12-month multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) in older adults with cognitive frailty and a history of falls to assess the efficacy of the OEP combined with health coaching (i.e., OEP+) to prevent falls.

Primary Question: In community-dwelling older adults with cognitive frailty and a history of falls, can the OEP+ significantly reduce falls vs. health education (i.e., control; CON)?

Secondary Questions: 1) What are additional benefits of the OEP+ vs. CON? 2) Do the benefits of OEP+ persist 6 months post cessation? 3) Can the OEP+ reduce falls or improve quality of life at similar or lower costs vs. CON?

Methods: A 12-month assessor-blinded, multi-site RCT, with a 6-month follow-up, in older adults, with cognitive frailty - defined by a Short Physical Performance Battery score \< 9/12 and a Montreal Cognitive Assessment score between 18-25/30 - and a history of falls. Participants will be randomized to either: a) OEP+ or b) CON. The OEP+ intervention will include Brief Action Planning-based health coaching. The CON group will include monthly interactive education sessions via Zoom. Measurement will occur at baseline, 6, 12, and 18 months, with falls tracked daily.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Falls

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Balance and Strength Training Exercises with Health Coaching
  - OTHER: Education Session

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 89 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06854731
