CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06533735
Title: Parent Web - Support for Families With Young People
Official Title: Parent Web - Support for Families With Young People
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
To test an online parent training program. Relative to a randomized wait-list control group, those in the Parent Web (PW) will show benefits on well-being, parenting, stress, youth mental health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Parent-Web (PW) is internet delivered parent education that is created and developed by researchers at Karolinska Institute's Department of Clinical Neuroscience, namely Kajsa Lönn-Rhodin, Martin Forster, and Pia Enebrink. An effectiveness trial of the universal edition of the Parent Web is made possible through a research collaboration with Pia Enebrink. PW is derived from social learning and coercion theory. PW aims to support parenting practices and parent-child interactions encourage prosocial behaviour and emotion regulation, reduce coercive parenting, improve communication, problem solving, and warmth within families. PW has a universal and selective edition. Universal PW has 5 basic modules (1 module per week, 6-8 weeks) and bonus modules. Basic modules contain information, exercises, and videos of actors showing parenting practices. A family guide supports PW participants through PW modules. This study will test the effects of universal PW with a general population derived sample of parents living in Region Stockholm. All PW trial participants are parents to at least one adolescent child who is aged 11-13 years old.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in parent rating of child's emotional problems, conduct problems, hyperactivity, peer problems and prosocial behavior
  - Change from baseline in parent rated view of their child's behavioral problems/defiant behavior
  - Change from baseline in parent rated family warmth and conflict

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Parent Web

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06533735
