CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03350204
Title: Biomechanical Osteoarthritis Outcomes in Meniscectomy Patients
Official Title: Biomechanical Outcomes Associated With Osteoarthritis Progression in Meniscectomy Patients During Athletic and Functional Tasks (BOOM Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The key aim of this study is to examine biomechanical measures associated with osteoarthritis (OA) progression in patients who have lateral and medial menisci injuries during various tasks. The likelihood is that individuals who have a meniscal injury often develop knee osteoarthritis. Therefore understanding biomechanical changes from the injury, specifically undertaking both functional and sporting activities, may provide a conservative approach to delaying or minimising the development of OA. Three-dimensional kinetic and kinematic measures will be assessed during seven tasks (walking, running, side cuts, single leg landing, small knee bend squat and isokinetic leg strength), prior to and following treatment. In addition, Strength and balance will be assessed to indicate if there is more work in the rehabilitation program that is needed for functional movement.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Injuries to the meniscus are common in sport, often as a result of a traumatic event (Englund et al., 2016; Stanley et al., 2016; Yeh et al., 2012). Mitchell et al. (2016) reported 5.1 meniscal injuries per 100 000 athletic exposures, with a greater proportion reported during competition (11.9 injuries per 100 000 athletic exposures), compared to practice (2.7 injuries per 100 000 athletic exposures). Rotation around a planted/ inverted foot has been cited as a common mechanism for meniscal injuries, followed by landing and jumping movements. The meniscus aids in stabilising the knee, acting as a shock absorber and transmitting load, with the lateral meniscus taking as much as 70% of the load in the lateral compartment and the medial meniscus carrying approximately 50% of the medial load (Fox et al., 2015; Kurosawa et al., 1980). The lateral meniscus is of particular importance in young active people, especially in athletes and sportsmen. The geometries of the medial and lateral compartments differ significantly (McDermott, 2011).

Damage to the meniscus is suggest to lead to altered knee mechanics leading to the initiation or acceleration of osteoarthritis (OA) development (Badlani et al., 2013; Englund et al., 2016). Prior meniscal tears are commonly reported in OA patients (Bhattacharyya et al., 2003), in addition, reports suggest 4 to 14 times increased risk of developing OA following a meniscal injury (Gelber et al., 2000; Kujala et al., 1995).

Altered knee mechanics have been reported following a meniscal injury, which have been associated with increased likelihood of developing OA, the exact affects differ however depending on which compartment of the meniscus has been operated (Hulet et al., 2014). These changes include reduced contact area within the joint and increased contact pressure, resulting in reduced ability to transmit load (Badlani et al., 2013). Indirect measures of knee loading, such as external knee adductor moments and knee adduction angular impulses (KAAI), have been associated with increased risk of developing OA (Chang et al., 2014). Knee joint loading is also determined by the coordination of muscle activity (Schmitt \& Rudolph, 2008). Greater and longer co-contractions of the medial muscles at the knee have demonstrated faster development of OA in individuals diagnosed with medial knee OA (Hodges et al., 2016).

Meniscectomies are widely used to manage the symptoms associated with meniscus injuries (McDermott, 2011). Whilst, non-operative therapies have demonstrated improvements in knee pain three years post intervention (Rimington et al., 2009). However, following these interventions, alter mechanics of the knee have been observed (Badlani et al., 2013; Edd et al., 2015; Willy et al., 2016). For instance, following a medial meniscectomy, increases in contact area and pressure at the knee have been observed and suggested to increase the likelihood of developing OA (Bae et al., 2012). As many athletic individuals with 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Biomechanics

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Meniscectomy
  - OTHER: Helathy control comparison

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03350204
