CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06364254
Title: Effects of CBD on 2 Mile Run Time Trial Performance
Official Title: The Effects of CBD on 2 Mile Run Time Trial Performance, GI Distress, and Anxiety in Moderately Active Females
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Individuals who engage in endurance events tend to experience higher levels of stress within the body, mind, and gut, that often lead to impairment of performance. Based on previous studies, CBD has the potential relieve gut distress, and reduce pre-race anxiety thus resulting in an improvement in sport performance. Given the current research on the use of CBD in active individuals, the aim of this pilot study is to explore the effects of CBD compared to a placebo on anxiety, GI distress and a 2-mile running performance in a moderately active population identifying as female.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will recruit moderately active, healthy individuals (N=30) who identify as female between the ages of 18-40 years who have some running experience and are running at least 2 miles, 2 times per week. This will be a cross over study, so each participant will be their own control, receiving either the placebo and CBD on two separate occasions. The females recruited will report to the Exercise Physiology lab in Gunter Hall on the University of Northern Colorado's campus for testing a total of two times.

The first visit will include initial paperwork such as the informed consent, physical activity readiness questionnaire (PARQ), Menstrual Cycle Questionnaire and a screening to determine current activity levels, uses CBD, THC and any other legal drugs/medications. This first interaction allows study staff to ensure that qualify to take part in the study.

After informed consent is obtained, the participant will be given either the placebo or CBD capsule with a controlled higher fat food (88 Acres protein bar) 2 hours before the testing protocol along. Once the CBD capsule or placebo is taken, participants will complete caffeine consumption, exercise and running questionnaires which will be administered on a tablet with study staff after 1.5 hours or waiting.

During the first visit, individuals will stay for a standardized period (2 hours) before doing a urine analysis to determine hydration status and taking v lactate, and heart rate variability. Current anxiety symptoms will also be evaluated

Once baseline measurements obtained, individuals will then be instructed to run 2 miles a treadmill as fast as possible. Lactate will be monitored three times during the test (.50 mile mark, halfway point (1 mile) and just before finishing the time trial run at the 1.98 mile mark). All participants will be taken through a 30-minute cool down period walking 2.5 mph on the treadmill while having lactate measured every 5, 10, 15, and 30 minutes post finishing. Finish time, GI distress questionnaire, and overall feelings will be recorded post finish of the 2 mile time trial.

Participants will be given a 25-30 day time between visits 1 and 2 to ensure exercise during the same menstrual cycle phase (hormone cycle) for those that are cycling. During the second and final visit, participants will undergo the same procedure, however, will be given the opposite oral administration from the first visit (either placebo or CBD).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in Time Trial Times
  - Difference in Anxiety Measured with the State Trait Anxiety Inventory
  - Difference in Blood Lactate Concentrations
  - Difference in Gastrointestinal Distress
  - Different in Heart Rate Variability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cannabidiol Capsules

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06364254
