CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06509711
Title: Comparative Effects Of Mud Based Plyometric Jump Training on Volleyball Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects Of Mud Based Plyometric Jump Training With And Without High Intensity Interval Training on Speed, Power and Calf Girth of Volleyball Players
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Volleyball is a high-intensity, anaerobic sport that alternates between brief rest intervals and explosive movements in both vertical and horizontal planes. Therefore, it is believed that essential components of successful athletic performance are explosive strength, speed and power which are defined as the neuro- muscular system of an individual's ability to manifests training the shortest amount of time. The complex movement of a vertical jump necessitates the coordination of multiple muscles in the arms, legs, and trunk. Being aware that a five-set volleyball match requires more than 250 jumps from each player. Eight weeks of plyometric jump training on mud and other unstable surfaces caused some changes in the biomechanical variables and physical fitness related to volley ball performance in volley ball players. Thus, by adding more high-intensity training, elite volleyball players can maximize their physical performance level during the competitive season.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was randomized clinical trial and was conducted in Pakistan Sports Board in duration of 10 months. Non-probability convenient sampling technique was used. Sample size was 30 calculated by G-power using 50-m sprint as variable. Participants were recruited into 2 equal groups by the process of randomization according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. One group performed mud based plyometric jump training with high intensity interval training which included alternate jump lunge, split squat jump and pop squat jump 4 repetitions, 3 sets and other performed mud based plyometric jump training without high intensity interval training which included plate pogo and broad jump 4 REPS, 3 SETS. Data was analyzed by SPSS version 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - speed
  - calf girth
  - power

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PLYOMETRICS jump training with HIIT (4 weeks,3 sessions per week)
  - OTHER: PLYOMETRICS JUMP TRAINING WITHOUT HIIT (4weeks, 3sessions Per week)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06509711
