CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04936737
Title: The Influence of Exercise on Tissue Beta-alanine Uptake and Carnosine Synthesis Rates
Official Title: The Influence of Exercise on Tissue Beta-alanine Uptake and Carnosine Synthesis Rates
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
B-alanine supplementation is highly efficient in increasing intramuscular carnosine content, leading to improved physical performance, especially in high-intensity exercises (HIIE). It seems that exercise per se can modulate carnosine content; however, it remains uncertain whether physical training or training status can influence B-alanine supplementation responses. Thus, this work aims to assess whether HIIE can increase B-alanine uptake by peripheral tissues and, more specifically, skeletal muscle and increase intramuscular carnosine synthesis. The volunteers will be evaluated in two conditions: intake of B-alanine + exercise (B-EX) and B-alanine intake only (B-Ala). This process will be divided into two blocks of six days (Thursday to Thursday - without the weekend) with a 4-6 weeks washout. In the B-EX block, a 20-minute HIIE session will be held. In the B-Ala block, the same procedures will be adopted for the B-EX block, with the replacement of the HIIE for 20 minutes of rest sitting on the cycle ergometer. We will evaluate the determination of muscle B-alanine, plasma, and urine, the gene expression of carnosine-related enzymes and transporters, the enzymes Carnosine Synthase 1 (CARNS1), carnosine dipeptidase 2 (CN2), taurine transporter (TauT), PAT1, and phosphorylated Na + / K + / ATPase. The hypotheses are: 1) acute physical exercise increases the uptake of B-alanine by the skeletal muscle; 2) this effect is mediated by the increased activity of the Na + / K + / ATPase pump; 3) this effect, when repeated over five training sessions, results in observable increases in β-alanine → carnosine conversion in skeletal muscle.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
B-alanine is a non-essential, non-proteinogenic amino acid found in deficient skeletal muscle concentrations. This deficiency makes B-alanine a rate-limiting factor for carnosine synthesis. B-alanine supplementation is highly efficient in increasing intramuscular carnosine content, leading to improved physical performance, especially in high-intensity exercises (HIIE). It seems that exercise per se can modulate carnosine content; however, it remains uncertain whether physical training or training status can influence B-alanine supplementation responses. Thus, this work aims to assess whether HIIE can increase B-alanine uptake by peripheral tissues and, more specifically, skeletal muscle and increase intramuscular carnosine synthesis. A crossover counterbalanced study will be conducted. The volunteers will be evaluated in two conditions: intake of B-alanine + exercise (B-EX) and B-alanine intake only (B-Ala). The dosage will be 20 mg · kg-1 (powder diluted in water). This process will be divided into two blocks of six days (Thursday to Thursday - without the weekend) with a 4-6 weeks washout. In the B-EX block, a 20-minute HIIE session will be held. Next, B-alanine supplementation will be administered. Immediately after exercise, in a 150-minute rest, collections of venous blood samples will be performed, and the muscle biopsy and urine collection will be collected pre-test and post-test. In the next three days (Thursday to Wednesday), this same protocol will be repeated without blood, muscle, or urine collections. On these days, the B-alanine supplementation will be administrated before and after the protocol (B-EX and B-Ala), in the same dosage of 20mg.kg-1. On the 6th day (Thursday), the complete protocol will be carried out, including the collection of biological materials. In the B-Ala block, the same procedures will be adopted for the B-EX block, with the replacement of the HIIE for 20 minutes of rest sitting on the cycle ergometer. The nutritional parameters will be evaluated during the two blocks by dietary diaries in software (Dietbox) that includes images and the description of all the volunteer food in the day. It will be determined that during the blocks (B-EX and B-ala), the Beta-alanine intake by food is limited to 300mg per day. The analysis of the determination of muscle B-alanine, plasma, and urine, muscle carnosine will be performed by HPLC-ESI + -MS / MS. The gene expression of carnosine-related enzymes and transporters will be analyzed using the real-time PCR technique. The enzymes CARNS1, CN2, TauT, PAT1, and phosphorylated Na + / K + / ATPase will be analyzed using the Western Blot technique. Carnosine synthase activity will be carried out by incorporating \[3H\] B-alanine acid in the corresponding dipeptide. The analysis of paresthesia's presence and intensity will be through a scale adapted from LINGJÆRDE et al., 1987. The statistical analysis will be performed in the RStudio software and SAS software, using the mixed model

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Muscle Carnosine after B-alanina supplementation
  - Change from Baseline Plasma Beta-alanine after B-alanina supplementation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Beta-alanine supplementation
  - OTHER: High intensity interval exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04936737
