CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01552642
Title: An Interactive Web-based Intervention to Achieve Healthy Weight in Young Children
Official Title: An Interactive Web-based Intervention to Achieve Healthy Weight in Young Children
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 77
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The overall purpose of this study is to develop and implement an effective intervention program designed to prevent and treat obesity in young children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study procedures and interventions:

Pre-intervention: a full-day training will occur with a physician and nurse from each clinic site to be trained as "champions" in counseling.

Intervention:

A letter of introduction will be mailed to potential subjects whose child was seen in the last 6 months for a well-child exam whose BMI is greater than or equal to the 85th percentile. After informed consent is obtained, the subjects will be randomized to the intervention or control group. One parent may join the study.

Groups of 10 to 12 parents of overweight and obese 3 to 6 year olds will meet once weekly for 6 weeks at 5:30 to 6:30 pm with the "nurse champion" in the primary care office. Topics to be presented and discussed include authoritative parenting, using the food plan "Go, Slow, and Whoa", increasing physical activity, and behavior change strategies. Sessions will be audiotaped and independently audited to confirm program fidelity. Parenting skills will be discussed at every session.

The intervention group will have access to a website. This site will include information services (instant library with health topics related to nutrition and physical activity and answers to frequently asked questions), web links to other pre-screened sources of information on nutrition and physical activity, local resources for current activities for children and families, personal stories (emphasizing authoritative parenting), interactive discussion group and Ask the Expert (questions will be answered within 48 hours and usually sooner).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility
  - Efficacy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: face-to-face meetings and access to a website

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01552642
