CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02112760
Title: Specific Stabilization Exercise With Ultrasound Feedback For Patient With Recurrent Low Back Pain
Official Title: Specific Stabilization Exercise With Ultrasound Feedback For Patient With Recurrent Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
1. Specific aim 1:Identify factors that influence muscle performance by use of ultrasound imaging.

   Hypothesis: Gender, age, and BMI affect the muscle performance of deep trunk muscles.
2. Specific aim 2. To compare the performance of trunk deep muscles (trensversus abdominis and multifidus) and the sensation and pain thresholds of patients with recurrent low back pain with asymptomatic subjects.

   Hypothesis: patients with recurrent low back pain have:

   (A) less activation of the trensversus abdominis and multifidus, (B) peripheral and central sensitization, with decreased sensation and pain thresholds in the lumbar and foot areas.
3. Specific aim 3. To determine the performance of the trensversus abdominis and multifidus, and the sensation and pain thresholds by use of ultrasound feedback trening in asymptomatic adults, and to compare these results with the traditional trening protocols for trunk stabilization.

   Hypothesis: Specific stabilization exercise using ultrasound feedback trening is more effective in activating deep trunk muscles and increasing sensation and pain thresholds than the traditional stabilization trening protocol in asymptomatic adults.
4. Specific aim 4. To determine the performance of the trensversus abdominis and multifidus, and the sensation and pain thresholds by using the ultrasound feedback trening in adults with low back pain, and to compare these results with the traditional trening protocols for trunk stabilization.

Hypothesis: Specific stabilization exercise using ultrasound feedback trening is more effective in activating deep trunk muscles and increasing sensation and pain thresholds than the traditional stabilization trening protocol in adults with low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Increased change of sliding of trensversus abdominis muscle and change of thickness on multifidus muscle in asymptomatic and low back pain group

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: specific stabilization exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02112760
