CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06191575
Title: 7 Tesla MRI Neuroimaging in Testicular Cancer Patients With Hypogonadism and on Androgen Replacement Therapy
Official Title: A Pilot Study of 7 Tesla MRI Neuroimaging in Testicular Cancer Patients With Hypogonadism and Androgen Replacement Therapy
Status: SUSPENDED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates 7 Tesla (T) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in observing changes in the brain (neuroimaging) in testicular cancer patients who have decreased testosterone (hypogonadism) and are on testosterone (androgen) replacement therapy. Symptoms of hypogonadism can include fatigue, weakness, loss of libido, depression, poor concentration and erectile dysfunction. Some patients experience mental changes after diagnosis and treatment. There is some evidence that hypogonadism produces structural changes in the brain. The 7T MRI uses radio waves and a very powerful magnet linked to a computer to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This study may help researchers learn if 7T MRI can produce better images to assess the changes in the brain structure of testicular patients with hypogonadism and on androgen replacement therapy (ART).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess longitudinal structural changes in brain architecture using MRI in hypogonadal men with testis cancer being treated with androgen replacement therapy.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients undergo 7T MRI over 1-2 hours at baseline and at 12 months after baseline. Patients also undergo a proctored cognitive assessment over approximately 1 hour prior to each MRI. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection at screening and at 12 months after baseline MRI.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brain structural connectivity
  - Brain functional connectivity
  - Brain metabolic profiles
  - Brain perfusion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: 7 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging
  - PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
  - PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06191575
