CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00853697
Title: Exogenous Testosterone Plus Dutasteride for the Treatment of Castrate Metastatic Prostate Cancer
Official Title: Phase II Trial of Exogenous Testosterone Plus Dutasteride for the Treatment of Castrate Metastatic Prostate Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Usually, the male hormone testosterone makes prostate cancer cells grow. Lowering testosterone usually stops the growth of prostate cancer. However, after a period of time without testosterone, prostate cancer cells learn to grow again.

You are able to join this trial because your prostate cancer is growing even though you have very low levels of testosterone. Studies have shown that high doses of testosterone, in this situation, can cause prostate cancer cells to stop growing.

The investigators did a study several years ago in which the investigators gave high doses of testosterone to patients such as yourself. The investigators showed that giving testosterone in this situation was safe. The investigators also showed that the investigators could, in some cases, make the PSA go down using high-dose testosterone.

The investigators believe that they can improve this type of treatment by combining testosterone with another drug called dutasteride. Dutasteride is another type of hormone. It should make testosterone levels rise. The investigators believe that combination of dutasteride and testosterone will be more a more powerful regimen against your cancer than testosterone alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - determine anti-tumor effects of the combination of testosterone + dutasteride in pts with castration-resistant prostate ca, as indicated by the proportion of pts remaining alive & progression free

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: testosterone (AndroGel®) with the 5α-reductase inhibitor dutasteride

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00853697
