CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04034199
Title: Treating Idiopathic Inflammatory Myopathies Related Reduced Bone Mineral Density With Denosumab or Zoledronic Acid
Official Title: Efficacy of Denosumab and Zoledronic Acid in the Treatment of Idiopathic Inflammatory Myopathies Related Reduced Bone Mineral Density: a Prospective Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) patients are at high risk of development of reduced bone mineral density due to impairment of functional status due to the disease and a relatively high dose of glucocorticoid use for the treatment. Reduced bone mineral density is prevalent in local IIMs patients. Denosumab and zoledronic acid are established treatments for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. However, the role of these treatments in reduced bone mineral density including osteoporosis and osteopenia related to IIMs are lacking. There is also no evidence on comparing the efficacy of the two agents. Therefore, the investigators conducted this prospective randomized controlled study to compare the efficacies of denosumab and zoledronic acid in treating reduced bone mineral density in IIMs patients. The hypothesis in this study is that treatment by denosumab or zoledronic acid would improve bone mineral density in IIMs patients with reduced bone mineral density.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

With recent advances in diagnoses and classification of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM), an increasing number of newly diagnosed cases of IIM is expected. These patients are vulnerable to the development of Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) due to impaired mobility related to musculoskeletal involvement and the relatively high doses of glucocorticoid (GC) required for disease control. Reduced bone mineral density is prevalent among IIM patients shown in the previous local study: osteoporosis and osteopenia are seen in 23.7% and 47.4% of IIM patients respectively. 10% of patients on long term GC treatment sustain a fracture and up to 30-40% of patients are found to have radiological vertebral fractures. Compared to GIOP, the treatment for patients with osteopenia is less well addressed in current guidelines for the management of GIOP. Treatment is usually indicated in patients with a previous history of prior low energy fracture and high fracture risks determined by FRAX score. However, IIMs remain a rare disease entity and IIMs patients are at particularly high risk for osteoporosis and its complications due to a relatively high dose of steroid use and functional impairment from the disease. Therefore, traditional fracture risks assessment tool might not be able to fully assess the fracture risks in this subgroup of patients.

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody against receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL) and its use is associated with a reduced risk of vertebral, non-vertebral and hip fracture in post-menopausal women. A recent randomized controlled trial has shown that denosumab is more efficacious than risedronate in the improvement of BMD in GIOP patients. Denosumab has been confirmed efficacious in GIOP patients but its efficacy in high-risk osteopenia patients are not well studied. On the other hand, zoledronic acid is licensed for the treatment of GIOP and trials found zoledronic acid improve bone mineral density at the lumbar spine or femoral neck at 12 months of treatment. Current evidence comparing the efficacy between denosumab and zoledronic acid is lacking.

In this prospective study, the investigators aimed to assess the efficacy of denosumab and zoledronic acid in the treatment of IIMs patients with reduced bone mineral density.

Study methods This is a prospective open-label controlled trial. All IIMs patients followed up in Kwong Wah Hospital are invited to participate in this study. Eligibility, inclusion, and exclusion criteria are described in details in subsequent sessions. All included patients will have dual-energy X-Ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan performed at baseline. All participants will continue calcium (1000mg daily) and vitamin D supplementation (at least 800 international unit daily). Patients with osteopenia or osteoporosis in a baseline DEXA scan will be randomized by computer-generated blocks in 1:1 ratio into receiving denosumab (treatment group) or zol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in bone mineral density at 12 months in denosumab and zoledronic acid group

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Denosumab
  - DRUG: Zoledronic Acid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04034199
