CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05380830
Title: Metabolism of Obese Women Under Exercise and Recovery Hypoxia
Official Title: Metabolic Alterations in Obese Women UndergoinGHigh-intensity Physical Exercise Associated With Intermittent Recovery Hypoxia.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Obesity is characterized as a low-grade systemic inflammatory disease, which changes several pro-and anti-inflammatory cytokines. The practice of physical activity is a non-pharmacological method that results in the reduction of the systemic inflammatory state and, when associated with hypoxia exposure, may substantially improve this state. Deep-water running is highly indicated to obese for guarantee less joint impact and lower fatigue levels. In this way, the high-intensity exercise associated with intermittent recovery hypoxia in obese women will be investigated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is characterized as a low-grade systemic inflammatory disease. With the increase in adipose tissue, several cytokines show alterations in synthesis and secretion, resulting in endocrine imbalances. The cytokines that most influence this process are adiponectin, which is anti-inflammatory and reduces its concentration during obesity. At the same time, the pro-inflammatory cytokines are tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), which show a significant increase in the face of obesity. The practice of physical activity is a non-pharmacological method that results in the reduction of the systemic inflammatory state, altering the lipid profile and levels of both anti- and pro-inflammatory cytokines and the improvement of the individual's physical capacity. Due to the high joint overload and muscle stress, water exercises are recommended for obese individuals as it maintains motor stimulation with a low risk of injury. The trening tied to running in a deep pool, also known as Deep Water Running (DWR), will promote advantages similar to running on the ground, such as improving aerobic capacity, avoiding impact and enabling the performance of exercise at high intensities lower levels of fatigue. The high-intensity exercise performance reduces the availability of oxygen to muscle cells, inducing the hypoxic environment, which causes stabilization of the hypoxia inductive factor 1 (HIF-1), promoting gene trenscriptions related to erythropoiesis and angiogenesis. Thus, the present study aims to investigate the effects of high-intensity physical exercise associated with recovery hypoxia, observing both the inflammatory and lipid profile and the physical capacity of obese women grade I. For this, 45 women with obesity will participate in the study, divided into 3 groups: hypoxia, normoxia and control. All will perform body composition, food intake, hematological and lipid profile tests, plus the serum quantification of cytokines before and after the 8 weeks of physical trening. Deep-water tied running (DWR) trening will be periodized, high-intensity interval, with recovery in hypoxia or normoxia. Intermittent recovery hypoxia is expected to act as an additive effect on the use of oxygen by the muscle, resulting in an improvement in the hematological and lipid profile, aerobic capacity and changes in the inflammatory profile in obese women.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body weight changes (Anthropometry)
  - Height assessment (Anthropometry)
  - Body mass index changes (Anthropometry)
  - Body composition changes (Anthropometry)
  - Erythrogram (Hematological profile)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tied deep-Water Running

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05380830
