CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05504759
Title: Efficacy of Dry Needling in the Treatment of Lateral Epicondylitis
Official Title: Evaluation of the Efficacy of Dry Needling Treatment of Wrist Extensor Muscles in the Treatment of Lateral Epicondylitis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
In this study, investigators aimed to investigate the effects of rest, steroid injection and dry needling treatments, which are frequently used in the treatment of patients diagnosed with lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow), on the pain and functional status of the patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lateral epicondylitis is one of the most common painful conditions of the arm, characterized by pain in the lateral epicondyle where the wrist extensors muscles originate and on the extensor muscle surface of the forearm, and is also called tennis elbow. The incidence of lateral epicondylitis has been reported as 1-3%. The age of onset is between 35 and 50, and it is more common in men. Mostly the dominant arm is affected, rarely bilateral. It may occur as a result of repetitive and difficult wrist extension. Tenderness in the lateral epicondyle, pain that can be revealed with resistant wrist extension and middle finger extension, decrease in grip strength and significant limitation in daily living activities are the main findings. The repetition of the movement is more important than the force required to perform the movement in the development of the symptoms. Extensor muscles are under extreme stress in those who work in jobs that require continuous rotation of the wrist, such as grasping, supination, and pronation, or in these types of sports. As a result of forcing, soft tissues such as muscles, ligaments and tendons in the forearm cannot meet the load they are exposed to, and thus symptoms occur. Although it originates from the muscle extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB), where pathological changes are primarily seen; It can also be seen at the origin of the extensor carpi radialis longus (ECRL) and extensor digitorum communis (EDK) muscles. Myofascial trigger points formed in the forearm extensor group muscles are frequently detected during examination.

The basic principles of treatment in lateral epicondylitis are to relieve pain, accelerate the healing process, reduce overloads on the arm, and enable the patient to return to daily life activities. Conservative treatment options are rest, splint, ice application, electrotherapy, massage, manipulation, mobilization, exercise and medical therapy.

When investigators examine the literature, although there are many studies on conservative methods and steroid injection in the treatment of lateral epicondylitis; investigatorsfound several studies on the effectiveness of dry needling in lateral epicondylitis. In the current study, the efficacy of dry needling was compared with the conservative method, which is only the first-line treatment. In addition, in these studies, dry needling was applied to the musculeutendinous junction. Investigators observed that lateral epicondylitis is a disease that is activated by tendinopathy and can cause multiple painful tender points and tight bands in the forearm muscles. In this context, investigators think that more studies are needed on the effectiveness of dry needling in lateral epicondylitis. In this study, investigators aimed to investigate the effects of rest, steroid injection and dry needling treatments, which are frequently used in the treatment of patients diagnosed with lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow), on the pain and functional status of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in elbow pain after treatment as assessed by vas

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: splint
  - OTHER: steroid
  - OTHER: dry needling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05504759
