CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04243096
Title: Wearable Sensors in Knee OA
Official Title: Wearable Sensor-based Outcomes Following Physical Therapy in Knee Osteoarthritis: A Feasibility Study (WESENS-OA)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This is a single-arm clinical trial to investigate the outcome of exercise-based physical therapy in people with knee osteoarthritis through the use of wearable sensors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a longitudinal, single arm, 19-week study to investigate the utility of digital assessments to measure the efficacy of exercise-based physical therapy (PT) for reducing pain and improving function in people with knee osteoarthritis (OA).

A total of 60 participants will be included. Participants will receive a supervised exercise-based PT for 12 weeks and will undergo multiple assessments of strength, balance, gait and joint movement while being monitored with a motion capture system and wrist and lumbar wearable sensors. Additionally, participants' activities will be monitored in the real world with the same wrist and lumbar wearable sensors. After completion of the PT program, participants will be monitored for an additional 6-week period to measure persistence of treatment effect. During that time, they will continue to follow an exercise program at home.

The primary objective will be to measure the effect of exercise-based PT on functional performance and pain reduction using both patient reported outcomes questionnaires (PROs) and digital metrics obtained from the laboratory assessments and wearable sensors worn in the real world. Pain phenotyping questionnaires and quantitative sensory testing assessments will also be used to evaluate the effect of specific pain phenotypes in treatment response.

A substudy will be undertaken to assess reproducibility of sensor-based measures during physical performance testing across at-home and in-lab implementation, as well as, reproducibility of these measures over repeated at-home implementation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sensor Derived Cadence
  - Sensor Derived Stride Duration
  - Sensor Derived Step Duration
  - Sensor Derived Stance Time
  - Sensor Derived Total Double Support Time

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise-based Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04243096
