CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06477250
Title: Investigating the Effects of a Dyad Intervention on Teacher Resilience, Mental Health, and Social Emotions and Behavior
Official Title: Investigating the Effects of an Online Empathy-Compassion Dyad Intervention on Teacher Resilience, Mental Health, Social Emotions, Social Communication, and Interactions
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The COVID-19 pandemic increased psychological burdens in Germany, especially among teachers who have reported higher levels of emotional exhaustion and burnout compared to the general population. Even before the pandemic, teachers found their work highly stressful. Mindfulness- and compassion-based interventions, as well as socio-emotional learning interventions, show promise in combating burnout among educators. Despite increased research, partner-based Dyads have not been explored in schools. Recent studies suggest these social practice formats are more effective than solo mindfulness techniques in reducing loneliness, and social stress, and enhancing social connections and resilience. Additionally, the impact of these interventions on student, classroom, collegium, and system levels remains under-researched.

This study extends the CovSocial project and the ReSource project, which showed the effectiveness of partner-based dyadic mental training on stress reduction, resilience, and social cohesion. The first goal is to test a 10-week online empathy-compassion (EmCo) Dyad training program, inspired by the Affect Dyad from the ReSource project and the online coaching Dyad from the CovSocial project, incorporating empathic and compassionate listening.

The second goal is to evaluate the Dyad intervention's effects in an educational context, focusing on teachers' mental health, social capacities, social networks, and classroom climate, measured across: 1) mental health and resilience, 2) social emotions, 3) social interaction, 4) communication and listening skills, and 5) classroom climate. The third aim is to develop and validate the Teacher Autonomic Voice Assessment (TAVA) and the Egocentric Social Network Analysis Paradigm (e-SNAP), using autonomic measures and voice recordings to assess teachers' emotional states. The final aim is to investigate the cognitive and affective mechanisms driving changes in teachers' mental health, resilience, and social-emotional competencies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The COVID-19 pandemic led to a dramatic rise in psychological burden and strain within Germany. German teachers, specifically, have reported increased emotional exhaustion and professional burnout, at levels exceeding those of the general population. The rise in teacher burnout is particularly alarming given that teachers already perceived their work as stressful and reported high rates of burnout prior to the pandemic. Mindfulness- and compassion-based interventions as well as socio-emotional learning interventions offer a promising approach to combating burnout among education professionals. Despite an increase in research efforts to alleviate burnout through such mental training intervention programs, partner-based Dyads have never been investigated in the school context. Yet, recent research suggests that these social practice formats are more efficient than classic mindfulness techniques practiced alone when it comes to reducing loneliness and social stress, boosting social connections and cohesion as well as resilience. Interestingly, the underlying mechanisms of these different types of interventions seem to be also rather different ones. Finally, the extent to which these interventions promote desired outcomes at the student, classroom, collegium, and system levels remains poorly known in the empirical literature.

This study is an extension of the CovSocial project and the preceding ReSource project, which provided evidence of the effectiveness of partner-based dyadic mental training interventions on stress reduction, psychological resilience, and social cohesion across multiple traits and state-level indicators of biopsychosocial health.

The first main goal of the proposed study is to test the efficacy of an adapted 10-week online empathy-compassion (EmCo) Dyad training program which both the original Affect Dyad inspired developed originally in the ReSource project and the 10-weeks online coaching Dyad program later developed in the context of the CovSocial project, and now includes an important differentiation between empathic and compassionate listening based on previous research in the lab.

A second main goal is to test the effects of such Dyad intervention in the educational context with a focus on boosting teachers' mental health and social capacities as well as their social networks and the classroom climate. The intervention effects will be measured in several families of outcomes which we will call domains: 1) mental health and resilience, 2) social emotions, 3) social interaction, 4) communication and listening skills, and 5) classroom climate. The third aim is to develop and validate two novel tasks, the Teacher Autonomic Voice Assessment (TAVA) and the Egocentric Social Network Analysis Paradigm (e-SNAP). In exploring the use of both autonomic measures as well as voice recordings as indicators of the emotional states of the teachers in the classroom, we hope to provide more objective markers of training-induced changes in 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline Depression Anxiety Stress Scale - 21 (DASS-21) scores at 5 and 10 weeks
  - Change from baseline Maslach Burnout Inventory-Educators Survey (MBI-ES) scores at 5 and 10 weeks
  - Change from baseline Connor Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) score at 5 and 10 weeks
  - Change from baseline Sussex-Oxford Compassion Scale for Self and Others (SOCS) scores at 10 weeks
  - Change from baseline Active Listening Attitude Scale (ALAS) scores at 5 and 10 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Empathy-based socio-emotional mental training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06477250
