CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02923167
Title: Robotic-assisted Therapy to Improve Manual Dexterity in Children With Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: Robotic-assisted Therapy to Improve Manual Dexterity in Children With Cerebral Palsy: a Pilot Study on Clinical Outcomes and Muscle Synergies as a Possible Predictor of Response
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This is an intervention study including a baseline data collection, 6 weeks of robot-assisted training targeting hand dexterity, and a post-intervention data collection. The study will be conducted in the Motion Analysis Laboratory at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, Boston, MA. This study aims to assess the effectiveness of a robot-assisted training on hand dexterity and quality of life in children with cerebral palsy. Additionally, the investigators will study the relationship between muscle synergies and the outcomes of robot-assisted training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be assessed 2 times - before and after training with the robot. All the testing and training will be done at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital and will include:

Clinical tests:

* A physical examination during which the investigators will measure range of motion and muscular strength at the shoulder, elbow, forearm, wrist, and fingers.
* A test to assess spasticity at the shoulder, elbow, forearm, and wrist.
* A test to evaluate upper extremity function.
* A test to assess unilateral gross manual dexterity.
* A test to assess quality of life (social wellbeing and acceptance, feelings about functioning, participation and physical health, emotional wellbeing and self-esteem, access to service, pain and impact of disability, and family health).

Muscle activity tests:

• A test to get detailed measures of how well participant can perform movements. The measures collected will include the movements of fingers, hands, and arms while picking up different objects. Movements will be tracked by attaching small reflective markers to the fingers, hands, and arms of the participant. Special cameras will be used to collect data. Special sensors (called electromyographic - EMG - sensors) will be attached to the hands and arms to tell the investigators when and how muscles are recruited to generate the movements.

Training with the Robot:

Study participants will undergo robot-assisted training for 18 times - up to 4 times per week during a period of approximately 7 weeks. The training sessions will be carried out by trained study staff. The robot will assist study participants to perform the movements while they attempt to move their fingers to control computer games. The assistance provided by the robot will be adjusted to the ability of each participant to move their hand. Each training session will last about 1 hour. This will include about 20 minutes of stretching exercises, setup time, and warm-up exercises. Study participants will be encouraged to ask for rest breaks whenever needed. The investigators will closely monitor study participants during all study sessions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Quality of Upper Extremity Skills Test (QUEST) Score - Section on Dissociated Movements
  - Change in Quality of Upper Extremity Skills Test (QUEST) Score - Section on Grasp

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Robotic-assisted training of the hand

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02923167
