CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03325257
Title: Post-ATU Study of Nivolumab
Official Title: Two-years Follow-up of Melanoma Patients Treated by Nivolumab During the French ATU Program
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 350
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Nivolumab obtained European Marketing authorization in June 2015. Before this date, a Temporary Authorization for Use (ATU) Program in France for nivolumab was set up between September 2014 and August 2015. This program enrolled approximately 600 melanoma patients (unresectable or metastatic).

It appears relevant to conduct a study on patients treated during the ATU to assess thoroughly patient characteristics, efficacy, safety, and patterns of use of nivolumab in real-life conditions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In order to reach goals of this study, collaboration had been established between BMS and the RIC-Mel network (network for Research and Clinical Investigational Research on Melanoma) (NCT03315468).

The RIC-Mel network has set up a national database in order to reference the active file of melanoma patients in France. The RIC-Mel database, supported by Nantes University Hospital, had been approved by French authorities (CCTIRS and CNIL). The RIC-Mel network is coordinated by Pr B. DRENO (Nantes University Hospital) and Pr C. LEBBE (Saint-Louis Hospital, AP-HP, Paris). Nowadays, 49 centres located all over the country are participating, with more than 19,000 melanoma patients included in the database. The RIC-Mel database is referred as one of the privileged access to any research program on melanoma by the Cancerology Group (GCC) of the French Society of Dermatology .

Based on this, BMS and the RIC-Mel network had established a partnership to set up a study in order to estimate the overall survival of melanoma patients treated by Nivolumab during the French ATU program.

Data are collected in the RIC-Mel database by participating centres. Information of centres, follow-up of activity, data reviewing and extractions are realized by the RIC-Mel network. Data analysis is performed by BMS following a developed statistical protocol.

Patients included in the study were patients with unresectable or advanced metastatic melanoma, which received at least one of Nivolumab, dispensed during the French ATU program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Overall Survival of patients included in the study thanks to subgroups of interest

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Routine care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03325257
