CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06974526
Title: Subdermal Implant-bioabsorbable Oxandrolone Pellet For Rehabilitation Following Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Surgical Reconstruction
Official Title: Randomized, Multicenter, Double-blind, Parallel, Placebo-controlled Study to Investigate the Safety and Exploratory Efficacy of the Absorbable Oxandrolone Implant as an Adjuvant Treatment in Rehabilitation Following Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Surgical Reconstruction (IMOX Study)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Rehabilitation of knee stability and function after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is slow and costly. The use of anabolic steroids, such as oxandrolone, may aid in the recovery of muscle mass and strength, as well as functional capacity. Oxandrolone, derived from dihydrotestosterone, has high anabolic activity and low androgenic activity (a 13:1 ratio), making it more effective in promoting weight gain with fewer side effects compared to other steroids. Registered by the FDA and previously by ANVISA (National Health Surveillance Agency (Brazil), it is indicated for cases of post-trauma or post-surgery weight loss. The subdermal use of oxandrolone implants is proposed to release the drug directly into the bloodstream, improving efficacy and reducing issues related to oral administration. This study evaluates the safety and tolerability of the absorbable subdermal oxandrolone implant for 24 weeks versus placebo implant in both men and women as an adjuvant treatment during rehabilitation following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) surgical reconstruction. The serum and pharmacokinetic profile of the oxandrolone implant will be monitored.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical study designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability profile of the absorbable oxandrolone implant as an adjuvant treatment in rehabilitation following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery. The primary safety outcome will be the incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs) collected through spontaneous reports and/or clinical findings over 24 weeks after randomization (subdermal insertion of the absorbable oxandrolone implant). The exploratory evaluation of the efficacy of the absorbable oxandrolone implant will compare the use of oxandrolone implant with a placebo pellet in the rehabilitation of patients after ACL reconstruction surgery will be based on its effects on muscle mass recovery, muscle strength, and functional capacity.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Combination of serious adverse events (SAEs) accumulated within 24 weeks of oxandrolone or placebo pellet insertion and collected through spontaneous reporting and/or clinical findings

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Oxandrolone
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06974526
