CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05447624
Title: The Effect of Radiofrequency Ablation on the Results of the Genicular Nerve Number in the Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The Effect of Radiofrequency Ablation on the Results of the Genicular Nerve Number in the Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Knee osteoarthritis is a disease that increases in frequency with age and decreases the quality of life and physical activity by leading to a decrease in pain and joint range of motion. Basically, the articular cartilage is affected and clinically pain, joint stiffness, crepitation and effusion are seen. In imaging techniques applied with weight-bearing, varying degrees of joint narrowing are observed, although it is more common in the medial. Treatment options include conservative approaches such as weight loss, physical therapy, analgesics, or invasive approaches such as intra-articular injections, peripheral nerve blocks, joint-sparing surgery or total knee replacement. Surgical operation should be considered in the treatment when conservative treatments are insufficient. However, the advanced age of this patient group and the large number of comorbidities reduce the possibility of surgical operation. Although treatment cannot be cured in knee osteoarthritis, the aim of the treatment is to decrease the pain, increase the patient's quality of life and physical capacity, and slow down the progression of the disease.

Although the radiofrequency ablation (RFA) technique has been used since the 1970s, the first application area was trigeminal neuralgia. Later, its use in neck and back pain became widespread, but the first randomized controlled study on its use in knee osteoarthritis was Choi et al. Made by in 2011. The purpose of radiofrequency ablation applied to the genicular nerves that receive the sensation of the knee joint capsule is to prevent sensory transmission and reduce the sensation of pain by creating axonal damage to these nerves. Since the use of RFA in knee osteoarthritis is relatively new, studies on the development of the technique continue. Fluoroscopy device or ultrasonography can be used as imaging method to show target nerves or to place the RFA electrode in the correct localization.

The investigators hypothesis; based on the more prominent medial involvement in knee osteoarthritis, the conventional RFA procedure applied to the 3 genicular nerves (SMGN, IMGN, SLGN) is not superior to the RFA procedure applied to the medial SMGN and IMGN branches.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Rating Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency ablation of genicular nerves

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05447624
