CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01766557
Title: Assessment of Cod Protein as an Insulin-sensitizing Agent in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.
Official Title: Assessment of Cod Protein as an Insulin-sensitizing Agent in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of our study is to determine the effects of fish protein on insulin sensitivity in PCOS women with insulin resistance, and its mechanism of action on glucose and endocrine metabolism. Our working hypothesis is that dietary fish protein improves insulin sensitivity, glucose tolerance, and related plasma endocrine and lipid abnormalities in PCOS women by restoring secretory β-cell function and insulin signaling to the PI 3-kinase activity/Akt pathway. We further hypothesize that fish protein will improve cycle regularity and ovarian function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Women with polycystic ovary syndrome are at high risk of developing diabetes. Apart from a primary ovarian defect, up to 10% and 40-50% of those women develop diabetes and insulin resistance (IR) respectively. IR and associated hyperinsulinemia are recognized as important pathogenic factors in determining diabetes in the majority of PCOS women, particularly when obesity is present. Treating IR might reduce the risk of diabetes and improve ovulation and fertility in PCOS women. We recently found that obese, IR men and women consuming a cod protein diet showed a 30% improvement in insulin sensitivity compared with other animal proteins, and also a 24% decrease in high-sensitive C-reactive protein plasma concentration. Therefore, dietary fish protein could represent a natural, safe and practical means to improve insulin sensitivity in PCOS women with IR, and a new non-pharmaceutical approach for the treatment of the multiple endocrine and metabolic abnormalities of PCOS women (see outcome measures for a more extensive description).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in sex hormones, during intervention and from baseline to the end of each intervention period.
  - Change in cycle regularity during intervention period.
  - Change in ovarian function during intervention period.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Semi-controlled nutritional intervention with fish protein diet
  - OTHER: Semi-controlled intervention with other animal proteins

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01766557
