CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03260140
Title: DVD Lifestyle Intervention
Official Title: DVD Lifestyle Intervention (D-ELITE)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 511
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Most Veterans who receive VA healthcare have obesity (41%) or are classified as overweight (37%), putting them at higher risk for multiple serious chronic health conditions. Providing evidence-based behavioral weight management programs to Veterans with obesity is a priority for the VA National Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (NCP). While the VA NCP's MOVE! program-primarily delivered with in-person group visits-helps Veterans with obesity lose weight, its reach has been limited because of various barriers to care. Some Veterans may do better with a program they can complete from home at their own pace. In this trial, study investigators are examining the effectiveness among Veterans of a previously proven self-directed lifestyle intervention (called DVD Lifestyle Intervention (D-ELITE)) that targets modest, clinically meaningful weight loss over the course of a year using recorded video lessons (DVD or online streaming), written self-study aids, and optional lifestyle coaching. The study will compare participants randomly assigned to receive D-ELITE to those continuing in usual care on weight and self-reported general physical health status, one year after enrollment. Secondary outcomes include weight and general physical health status two years after enrollment; and obesity-related biometric measures (blood pressure and HbA1c) and self-report psychological and behavioral factors such as physical activity and sleep quality, at one- and two-years following enrollment.

Veterans with obesity living in the western US were identified using the VA Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW), recruited to participate via mail and telephone, and randomly assigned to receive the study intervention or usual care alone. The study uses CDW to assess weight change and biometric outcomes. To assess self-report outcomes, participants completed questionnaires, by mail or telephone, at baseline and 12 months after randomization, and are currently completing 24-month follow-up questionnaires. The D-ELITE intervention focuses on gradual lifestyle behavior change aimed at improving eating habits and increasing physical activity. It encourages participants to gradually achieve and maintain a 5-10% loss of baseline body weight and at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity, such as brisk walking, each week. The D-ELITE intervention program consists of watching one video, completing corresponding written self-guided learning materials, and tracking food intake and physical activity each week for the first 12 weeks, then working through 10 additional written handouts and continued food and activity tracking for the next nine months. Intervention participants have access to a lifestyle coach, as desired, for the full 12-month intervention period. In addition to patient outcomes, this study will examine the cost of delivering the intervention, information relevant to decision-makers and potential future dissemination. Evidence-based programs like this, which can be delivered remotely and with likely minimal resources required from the VA healthcare system, are greatly needed, especially now as the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has required VA to rapidly transition to providing more remotely-delivered care.

Impact: The DELITE trial has potential to provide the evidence needed for deciding whether a low-cost, low-technology, self-directed program can be used to expand the treatment of obesity to a population-based level by improving access to obesity treatment regardless of Veteran place of residence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Weight
  - Short Form (SF)-12 PCS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: behavioral lifestyle intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03260140
