CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05009498
Title: Vitamin D3 Supplementation for Vitamin D Deficiency in Rotator Cuff Repair Surgery
Official Title: Vitamin D3 Supplementation vs Placebo for Vitamin D Deficient/Insufficient Patients Undergoing Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: a Quadruple-blinded Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Rotator cuff injuries are the most common cause of shoulder disability and is increasingly more prevalent in the aging population. Rotator cuff repair has long been the mainstay of treatment for symptomatic full-thickness tears and medium to large partial thickness tears that do no improve with nonoperative therapies.

Approximately 32% of the US population is Vitamin D deficient. This is important for many health reasons, but specifically, Vitamin D has been found to play a critical role in bone mineralization and fracture healing/prevention. There is emerging data to support Vitamin D's role in regulating the inflammatory response throughout the body, which includes soft tissue (i.e. tendons) healing. The role of Vitamin D in tendon to bone healing has yet to be fully investigated, yet it is reasonable to conclude that normal blood levels of Vitamin D would optimize the setting for healing in rotator cuff repair.

The investigators hypothesize that Vitamin D deficient patients undergoing shoulder rotator cuff repair will experience more positive outcomes and decreased complications when supplemented with Vitamin D3, compared to Vitamin D deficient patients who do not receive supplementation. The objective of this study is to demonstrate the positive effect of Vitamin D3 in rotator cuff repair healing and patient reported outcomes in patients who are Vitamin D deficient

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rotator cuff pathology is the most common cause of shoulder disability and is increasingly more prevalent in the aging population. Incidence increases in a direct relationship to age. It is reported that over the age of 60, 28% of patients had full-thickness tears and 26% had partial thickness tears. Increasing age, history of trauma and hand dominance are associated risk factors for rotator cuff tearing. Rotator cuff tears (RCT) can occur from a degenerative process that increases with age, but also associated with micro- or macrotrauma. Rotator cuff repair (RCR) has long been the mainstay treatment for symptomatic full-thickness tears and medium to large partial thickness tears that have failed conservative measures. Long term clinical results for rotator cuff repair exceed 90% good to excellent results at 10 years.

According to the National Center for Health Statistics, approximately 32% of the US population is Vitamin D deficient. It has been widely accepted and studied that Vitamin D (25OHD) plays an important role in bone mineralization and fracture healing/prevention. Also, numerous studies have discovered the association of Vitamin D insufficiency with non-skeletal conditions such as Type 2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, chronic pulmonary disease, tuberculosis, and upper respiratory conditions. There is an emerging focus on the role of Vitamin D and soft tissue healing and function.

Vitamin D decreases inflammation in the body by downregulating TNF alpha, which in turn decreases the amount of MMP-9 secreted. Increased MMPs have been associated with poor healing in rotator cuff muscles. Vitamin D levels have also been shown to affect the expression of BMPs, TGF-beta, and RANK.

Vitamin D receptors have been discovered on important soft tissue structures including tendons. It has been posited that Vitamin D's effect on regulating the inflammatory response is associated with tendon healing and overall function.

Traditional oral dosing for Vitamin D is in the Vitamin D3 form. Dosing quantities range from 400 IU to 5000 IU/day. In significantly deficient patients, it is not uncommon to see 50,000 IU/week for several weeks to achieve normal serum Vitamin D levels.

Studies have shown that the human body will generate up to 10,000-25,000 IU/day from sun exposure. This finding, among others, has called into question the arbitrary values set by IOM/ES to quantify serum levels for Vitamin D sufficient, insufficiency, or deficiency. Also, the daily recommended dosing quantities.

Vitamin D repletion therapy has been shown to be effective but often over protracted courses with no distinct linear relationship with the current recommendations set by the IOM/ES. Kerns et al 2014 performed the most comprehensive meta-analysis review of single, high-dose vitamin D supplementation and subsequent efficacy and safety. Their conclusion was that single vitamin D dosing of \> 200,000 IU was able to sustain mean 25(OH)D concentrations \> 30 ng/mL 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - University of California-Los Angeles Shoulder score
  - Constant-Murray Shoulder Score
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon score
  - SF-12 (12-item Short Form Survey)
  - University of California-Los Angeles Shoulder score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D3 supplementation
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05009498
