CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05927051
Title: Effects of Exercise in Lumbal Disc Herniation
Official Title: Comparison of Different Exercise Types in Patients With Lumbal Disc Herniation
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Lumbar disc herniation, which causes 5% of all low back pain, is the rupture of the annulus fibrosis in the intervertebral disc in the lumbar region and the protrusion of the nucleus pulposus at various degrees, and as a result, the spinal cord or the nerves arising from it are compressed.Aerobic exercise is one of the most important elements in low back pain rehabilitation.Many studies have shown that individuals with low back pain have low muscle strength of the back extensors and flexors when compared to individuals who do not show symptoms, and that these muscles are strong and their aerobic fitness is high, minimizing trauma-related musculoskeletal damage.The aim of this study is to examine the effect of core stabilization exercises on functionality and core muscles in patients with LDH.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
n general, low back pain is defined as pain that negatively affects comfort in the lower back and/or legs. Low back pain lasting less than 6 weeks is defined as acute, 6-12 weeks as subacute, and lasting longer than 12 weeks as chronic low back pain. Depending on the low back pain of the people, the activity level decreases and therefore aerobic fitness is negatively affected. As a result of this negative impact, chronic conditions pose a risk in terms of cardiovascular disease and lead to a decrease in work capacity. Therefore, aerobic exercise is one of the most important elements in low back pain rehabilitation. In our country, training on regular exercise habits and waist protection methods is very low. Most patients do not apply to health institutions unless symptoms become severe.Many studies have shown that individuals with low back pain have low muscle strength of the back extensors and flexors when compared to individuals who do not show symptoms, and that these muscles are strong and their aerobic fitness is high, minimizing trauma-related musculoskeletal damage.

Core stabilization and strengthening has been the subject of research in the 1980s. The purpose of these exercises is to increase trunk stability and aerobic capacity. It is used to find and maintain the neutral position, to reduce ligament, tendon and joint tension, to reduce the load on discs and facet joints, to increase functional stability in low back pain, disc herniation and post-operative rehabilitation of patients.The researchers' studies have shown that ultrasound imaging is reliable in measuring TrA thickness in both healthy subjects and low back patients.

The aim of this study is to examine the effect of core stabilization exercises on functionality and core muscles in patients with LDH.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core muscle thickness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Stabilization exercises
  - OTHER: McKenzie exercises
  - OTHER: Home exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05927051
