CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03667664
Title: PREPA PREvention of Loss of Autonomy
Official Title: Prevention Study on Loss of Autonomy and Physical Dependence, Based on Physical Exercises and Nutrition Counseling Applied to Old People.
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 530
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
According to several reports, the proportion of people aged 80yrs or older will be doubled within the next 25y, reaching 10% of the global population. Furthermore, the health life expectancy at 65y is 10.4y which remains much lower than the general life expectancy. As a result, there is a constant need of developing preventive strategies through multimodal programs.

Among the predictive factors of mobility disability with age, muscular weakness and decreased physical function are major components. These two factors are known of being responsible for falls and fractures that lead to decrease the quality of life and an increase in mortality.

Exercise and nutrition are the only components that have proven their efficacy to struggle mobility disability risk. It is important to integrate these two components in a sustained intervention within a multidimensional prevention program. However, there is a lack of implementation of these programs in primary care.

Indeed, neither the screening of older adults at risk of mobility disability, nor the preventive actions are usually implemented for this population. The implementation of a prevention care pathway, with personalized intervention and a sustained follow-up, along with supervised exercise training combined with nutritional counselling, is the public health imperatives.

Based on prevention care pathway that designed for community-dwelling older adults screened at risk of mobility disability. The purpose of this open cohort study was to highlight the efficacy and the feasibility of a multimodal program implemented on real-life setting specifically on the physical function and risk of mobility loss, along with their maintenance at 6-months and 1-year follow-up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional status

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Multidimensional assessments
  - OTHER: Multicomponent group-based and supervised exercise program
  - OTHER: Follow-up at T3 + 6 months and T3 + 12 months

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03667664
