CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00815672
Title: Exercise for Prostate Cancer Patients
Official Title: The Influence of Home-based Aerobic and Resistance Exercise on Cancer-Related Fatigue, Strength, and Muscle Mass in Prostate Patients.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for cancer-related fatigue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Numerous studies have shown that the vast majority of patients experience cancer-related fatigue (CRF) during cancer treatments. Research by our group showed that 71% percent of 84 prostate cancer patients reported CRF during radiation. Unlike fatigue caused by overexertion, CRF is a pervasive, whole-body experience that is not alleviated by rest or sleep and often lingers long after completing standard treatments like radiation therapy. It has a detrimental effect on patients' quality of life and can interfere with completion of prescribed treatment regimens. In addition, lasting fatigue for many patients impedes the resumption of normal life following treatments. Unfortunately, effective, well-accepted treatments for CRF are lacking. Although some research suggests that exercise may be a promising intervention for reducing CRF, physicians are still hesitant to prescribe exercise for fatigued patients, and, in fact, often encourage them to rest and conserve energy, which may be in exact opposition to what is needed.

One probable peripheral physiological mechanism that may affect the influence CRF is a loss of skeletal muscle mass, which, ultimately, effects weakness and strength. This muscle loss can result from deconditioning effects stemming from reduced physical activity resulting from cancer and its treatment. It is plausible that patients may enter radiation therapy with a certain degree of muscle loss, reduced strength and substantially decreased levels of physical activity as a result of their cancer diagnosis and the associated stress, surgical and systemic treatments, and/or the subsequent symptomology. Additionally, their physical activity may decline even further during radiation and escalate the loss of muscle and decreased strength. Recently, researchers have proposed that these deconditioning responses, as well as generalized inflammatory responses resulting from the cancer and/or its treatment result in skeletal muscle loss and strength deficits, which may play a significant role in the etiology of CRF. Although mild exercise can counteract deconditioning, current research has shown that cancer patients decrease the amount of physical activity they engage in after diagnosis as well as during and after treatment. Additionally, a substantial number of patients never return to prediagnosis levels of physical exercise and do not meet the minimal ACSM or CDC guidelines for achieving the health-related benefits (e.g., increased muscle mass, strength, and cardiorespiratory fitness) thought to be etiologically involved in CRF, suggesting the need for formal intervention.

We propose to test an individually tailored physical exercise intervention, including both aerobic and resistance exercise, for reducing CRF in prostate cancer patients receiving radiation therapy. The proposed research will provide detailed information on the efficacy and acceptance of a home-based aerobic and resistance exercise program for CRF among prostate cancer p

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cancer-related fatigue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00815672
