CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07326098
Title: Efficacy of Ultrasound-Guided Genicular Nerve Block in Patients With Gonarthrosis: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blind Study
Official Title: Efficacy of Ultrasound-Guided Genicular Nerve Block in Patients With Gonarthrosis: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blind Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This study planned to enroll a minimum of 30 patients aged 50 years and older, with a diagnosis of gonarthrosis classified as stage 2 or higher according to the Kellgren-Lawrence grading system, and who report complaints of knee pain and walking difficulties. Patients will be randomized into two groups, and they will be blinded to the group to which they are assigned.

In the first group, ultrasound-guided genicular nerve block will be performed using a combination of lidocaine and triamcinolone hexacetonide injection (4 mL Priloc 2% + 1 mL Artropan 20 mg). In the second group, a placebo injection (5 mL saline solution) will be administered. Both groups will be instructed to follow an appropriate exercise program after the treatment.

Patients will undergo a detailed physical examination, 6-minute walk test, VAS pain score, WOMAC questionnaire, and 3D kinematic gait analysis with pressure parameters evaluated by a blinded researcher. Evaluations will take place before treatment, 1 hour after treatment, and 1 month post-treatment.

The collected data will be analyzed for differences between the two groups and changes over time. The potential positive effects of the treatment will be measured and compared with the placebo group to assess the therapeutic efficacy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In addition to the fact that genicular nerve block is highlighted in the literature as a potential alternative to surgery, it is also crucial to consider the reality that the pain symptoms in these patients have a more significant negative impact on walking than initially expected, potentially creating a comorbidity of its own. Given this, this study aims to contribute to the medical literature by observing the improvement in walking parameters secondary to the reduction of pain symptoms in patients with gonarthrosis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effect on gait kinematics
  - 1. 6 minute walk test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: genicular nerve block
  - PROCEDURE: Placebo injection (normal saline)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07326098
