CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05488223
Title: Supplementation With PUFA´s in Obese Children
Official Title: Effect of Two Omega 3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid Schemes on insulin Resistance and the Inflammatory and Lipid Profile in Obese Children
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 133
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Introduction. insulin resistance (IR) accompanies practically half of children with obesity. This alteration is the border between what can be reversible or permanent. Among the comorbidities associated with IR are T2D and cardio and cerebrovascular diseases, which are the leading causes of death in Mexico. It has been said that the prevention of obesity rather than its treatment is the way to contain this problem. It has been proposed to supplement obese children with IR with ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) or ω-9 monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) to determine their ability to reverse these alterations.

Objetive. To evaluate the effect of supplementing PUFA ω-3, PUFA ω-9 or both, on the change in anthropometric and metabolic parameters in obese children with IR.

Methods. Clinical trial, randomized triple-blind, in which obese children with IR participated. Intervention. Three groups were integrated that received one of the following treatments for three months: Group 1: PUFA ω-3 1.8 g/day; Group 2: PUFA ω-3 0.9 g/day + PUFA ω-9 0.9 g/day (avocado oil). Group 3: MUFA ω-9 1.8 g/day. Tracing. For 2 more months he continued his clinical surveillance. Anthropometric and metabolic profile measurements were made at baseline, 3 and 5 months. Throughout the study, all three child groups received nutritional counseling, but no calorie-restricted diets or exercise programs were used.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific objectives

1. To compare between the study groups, the concentrations of glucose, insulin and HOMA-IR Index, at baseline, at the end of supplementation with PUFA ω-3 and PUFA ω-9 (3 months) and 2 months after supplementation. the supplementation.
2. To compare between the study groups, the concentrations of total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and TG at baseline, at the end of supplementation and 2 months after supplementation.
3. To compare between the study groups the change in the percentile values of body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC), between the study groups, at baseline, at the end of supplementation (3 months) and 2 months after supplementation.

Methods. A randomized, controlled, triple-blind clinical trial was conducted, which included 133 children with obesity (BMI ≥95th percentile) and with IR (HOMA-IR ≥ 3.0).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in insulin resistance
  - Change in insulin resistance
  - Change in BMI percentile
  - Change in BMI percentile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: AGPI ω-3 (Triple Strength Fish Oil®)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: AGPI ω-3 + MUFA (avocado oil)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: MUFA (avocado oil) (1.8g)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 13 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05488223
