CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04301609
Title: Clinical Trial to Assess the Improvement of Fatigue, Sleep Problems, Anxiety / Depression, Neurovegetatives Alterations and Quality of Life After the Administration of ImmunoVita® in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Patients
Official Title: Randomized, Comparative, Double-blind, and Placebo-controlled Clinical Trial to Assess the Improvement of Fatigue, Sleep, Anxiety / Depression, Neurovegetatives Alterations and Quality of Life After the Administration of ImmunoVita® in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 67
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, also known as Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (CFS / MS) is a medical entity characterized mainly by debilitating and prolonged fatigue lasting more than 6 months, post-exertion fatigue (physical and / or mental), non-sleep restorative, cognitive impairment and orthostatic intolerance with prolonged recovery that is not relieved by rest. Currently, the etiopathogenic mechanisms of the disease are not known, although mitochondrial dysfunction with bioenergetic immuno-metabolism alterations, oxidative stress, and immuno-inflammatory response stands out. At present, there is no diagnostic test, nor effective treatment in the disease. ImmunoVita, is a food supplement composed of the latest yeast beta-glucans, in addition to vitamin D3, vitamin B6 and zinc, which could contribute to the normal functioning of the immune system and the inflammatory response.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In patients with CFS / ME, neuroimmune, gastrointestinal, autonomic and cardiovascular alterations have been observed, among others. CFS / ME is characterized by disabling chronic fatigue, non-restorative sleep, severe intolerance to physical exercise, neurocognitive dysfunction with changes in concentration and immediate memory and neurovegetative symptoms in the form of dizziness, syncopes and alterations in bowel and bladder rhythm . Within the etiopathogenic hypotheses of the disease, they are involved if patients treated with ImmunoVita® could significantly reduce the scores on the scale of the impact of fatigue, sleep problems, neurovegetative dysfunction, anxiety / depression, and improve thEQuality of life compared to the placebo group.

Based on the different etiopathogenic hypotheses of the syndrome, various mechanisms would be involved, which could modulate them, the ImmunoVita food complex.

1. Do patients with CFS / ME have high scores on the fatigue impact scale, hospital anxiety-depression scale and Pittsburg sleep quality questionnaire?
2. Do patients with CFS / ME have high scores in the autonomic dysfunction symptomatology scale?
3. Do patients with CFS / ME have low scores in the SF-36 quality of lifEQuestionnaire?
4. Do CFS / MS patients treated with ImmunoVita significantly reduce the scores on the scales of fatigue, anxiety / depression and autonomic dysfunction?
5. Will patients with CFS / ME treated with ImmunoVita significantly increase the scores on the SF-36 quality of lifEQuestionnaire?

GOALS

Main goal

The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of active ImmunoVita® in patients with CFS / MS vs. placebo in the perception of fatigue, evaluated through the scale of perception of fatigue (FIS-40).

Secondary goals:

1. Evaluate the efficacy of active ImmunoVita® in patients with CFS / MS vs. placebo in the improvement of sleep dysfunction, through the Pittsburg questionnaire.
2. Analyze the efficacy of active ImmunoVita®, in patients with CFS / ME vs. placebo in the improvement of anxiety-depressive symptomatology, through the hospital anxiety-depression scale (HAD).
3. Evaluate the efficacy of active ImmunoVita®, in patients with CFS / ME vs. placebo in the improvement of thEQuality of life, through the SF-36 questionnaire.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Perception of fatigue (FIS-40).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Active
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04301609
