CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00260143
Title: Testosterone and Physical Function in HIV+ Men
Official Title: Testosterone and Physical Function in HIV Associate Weight Loss
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 61
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Men infected with the HIV virus (the virus that causes AIDS) often lose weight even though they may try to eat more food to gain weight. The reasons for this weight loss are not clear. Many men with HIV have low levels of testosterone in their blood. Testosterone is a hormone that is naturally produced in the bodies of both men and women and has important effects on building muscle and bone mass. The purpose of this study is to find out if providing additional testosterone to HIV infected men who have low testosterone can help them gain weight, increase their muscle mass, and feel better. The study will also help see if testosterone improves the efficiency with which your body produces and uses energy including fat. The dose of testosterone being used in this study will raise testosterone levels in the blood to higher than normal levels (2-3 times normal level).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose. Although the prevalence of weight loss in HIV-infected individuals has decreased in the developed world with the availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy, it continues to be a significant problem worldwide, and in the USA. The pathophysiology of weight loss in HIV-infected individuals is undoubtedly complex; decreased energy intake, metabolic dysregulation, intercurrent opportunistic infections, gastrointestinal infections and malabsorption, and hormonal abnormalities all contribute to the multifactorial origin of weight loss. Although patients with HIV-infection may lose both fat and lean tissue, the loss of lean body mass is an important aspect of the weight loss associated with wasting. Weight loss in HIV-infected patients is a good predictor of survival, risk of hospitalization, and opportunistic infections. The magnitude of depletion of nonfat tissues is an important determinant of the time of death in AIDS. One correctable factor in the complex pathophysiology of sarcopenia in HIV-infection is androgen deficiency. There is a high prevalence of low testosterone levels in HIV-infected men. Spontaneous and experimentally-induced androgen-deficiency in young men is associated with decreased muscle mass and strength. Testosterone replacement increases lean body mass, muscle strength, and muscle protein synthesis in androgen-deficient, young men. The studies supported by this grant in the previous budget period and others have demonstrated that testosterone replacement of HIV-infected men with weight loss and low testosterone levels is associated with an increase in fat-free mass and maximal voluntary muscle strength. Similarly, testosterone replacement of older men with low testosterone levels is associated with gains in fat-free mass and grip strength. However, it remains unknown whether testosterone-induced increases in fat-free mass and maximal voluntary strength are associated with clinically meaningful improvements in physical function and perceptions of physical function. Therefore, the primary objective of this competing renewal application is to determine if testosterone replacement of HIV-infected men with weight loss and low testosterone levels will improve objective measures of physical function, perceptions of physical function and body image. Our previous study demonstrated that testosterone replacement in HIV-infected men with low testosterone levels is associated with an increase in maximal muscle strength. However, testosterone effects on other important measures of muscle performance, such as power and fatigability that are important determinants of physical function, are not known. A second objective is to determine if testosterone replacement improves lower extremity power and fatigability.

The mechanisms by which testosterone increases muscle mass also remain unknown. Therefore, a third objective is to elucidate the mechanisms by which testosterone increases muscle mass and to determine its effects on en

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stair climb
  - Walking speed
  - Load carry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone enanthate
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00260143
