CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05318482
Title: Motivational Program on Physical Activity in Cardio-respiratory Patients: an RCT Study
Official Title: Effects of Physical Activity of an In-hospital Motivational Program in Cardio-respiratory Patients: a Randomized Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
According to actual scientific evidence, the interventions on the general population aiming at regular physical activity are one of the most efficient strategies for health improvement. Regardless of this evidence, there is a large part of the elderly population does not adhere to the recommendations of the international guidelines on daily physical activity.

This is even more evident in patients with chronic respiratory and cardiological disease because exercise exacerbates existing symptoms of breathlessness.

This study aims to evaluate the impact of an in-hospital motivational program dedicated to increasing physical activity. With the data of an electronic wristwatch that keeps records of movement, the health professionals incentive an increase in physical activity leading to long term behavioural changes (evaluated by the number of steps per day) in hospitalized patients with COPD and HF, which already perform a standard rehabilitation program (14 sessions).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There are studies in the literature that have reported, in comparison with healthy subjects, a lower level of physical activity in COPD patients; other studies associate less physical activity with increased risk of hospitalization and mortality, which is even more evident considering patients with chronic respiratory diseases. In the same way, patients with Heart Failure (HF) reduce their activity and exercise capacity increasing hospitalization and mortality.

With more fatigue and dyspnoea, a vicious circle is created, with a consequent further reduction of levels of physical activity and worsening of symptoms.

Therefore, it is necessary to provide augmented physical activity in rehabilitation hospital environments.

Rehabilitation is a way to encourage and support patients to achieve their best physical condition. At present, COPD and HF patients admitted in rehabilitative cardio-respiratory wards dedicate a limited amount of time to physical activity, when referred to the entire day of hospitalization, whereas the rest of their time is spent in a sedentary condition. Thus, it is difficult to imagine that an actual change in the patients' lifestyle can be obtained by such a cardio-respiratory rehabilitation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Delta change in number of steps per day

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Motivational group
  - OTHER: Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05318482
