CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02966665
Title: : Vascular Function in Health and Disease
Official Title: Vascular Function in Health & Disease: Rehabilitation for Hypertension; Exercise and Skeletal Muscle Afferent Feedback
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 420
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Many control mechanisms exist which successfully match the supply of blood with the metabolic demand of various tissues under wide-ranging conditions. One primary regulator of vasomotion and thus perfusion to the muscle tissue is the host of chemical factors originating from the vascular endothelium and the muscle tissue, which collectively sets the level of vascular tone. With advancing age and in many disease states, deleterious adaptations in the production and sensitivity of these vasodilator and vasoconstrictor substances may be observed, leading to a reduction in skeletal muscle blood flow and compromised perfusion to the muscle tissue. Adequate perfusion is particularly important during exercise to meet the increased metabolic demand of the exercising tissue, and thus any condition that reduces tissue perfusion may limit the capacity for physical activity. As it is now well established that regular physical activity is a key component in maintaining cardiovascular health with advancing age, there is a clear need for further studies in populations where vascular dysfunction is compromised, with the goal of identifying the mechanisms responsible for the dysfunction and exploring whether these maladaptations may be remediable. Thus, to better understand the etiology of these vascular adaptations in health and disease, the current proposal is designed to study changes in vascular function with advancing age, and also examine peripheral vascular changes in patients suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Sepsis, Pulmonary Hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. While there are clearly a host of vasoactive substances which collectively act to govern vasoconstriction both at rest and during exercise, four specific pathways that may be implicated have been identified in these populations: Angiotensin-II (ANG-II), Endothelin-1 (ET-1), Nitric Oxide (NO), and oxidative stress.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Angiotensin-II (ANG-II) is the end-product of the renin-angiotensin cascade, and acts as a potent endogenous vasoconstrictor through binding to the angiotensin receptor (AT1) on arteriolar vascular smooth muscle. With advancing age, there is a notable decline in plasma renin activity accompanied by decrements in circulating ANG-II and an increase in AT1 receptor density. However, the functional consequence of this age-related adaptation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) on the peripheral circulation is not well understood. Likewise, in recent years it has become apparent that cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity in COPD, which may be related to vascular dysfunction and associated adoption of a sedentary lifestyle. In these patients, changes in RAS activity have been linked to peripheral vascular dysfunction, with compelling evidence for improvements in peripheral oxygen use following angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. Like the aging population, systematic studies evaluating AT1 receptor sensitivity and the efficacy of AT1 receptor blockade on peripheral hemodynamics have not been undertaken.

The ubiquitous substance nitric oxide (NO) is now recognized as a key pathway for endothelium-dependent vasodilation, with the bioavailability of NO serving as an indicator for overall vascular health. Cardiac risk factors have been shown to cause impairment in endothelial vasodilator function in both the peripheral and coronary arteries. Coronary vascular dysfunction is an important phase in atherogenesis and is associated with myocardial ischemia. Furthermore, peripheral vascular function has been linked to coronary vascular dysfunction which could have important clinical implications in terms of health screening. Impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation has been associated with the elderly, patients with COPD, and most cardiovascular diseases including pulmonary hypertension, and heart failure (HF), though the functional consequence of this adaptation on peripheral blood flow regulation remains unclear. Thus, we propose the use of a compound which inhibits the enzyme responsible for NO production in endothelial cells, N-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), to temporarily block production of NO and thus determine the importance of this pathway at rest and during physical activity. Additionally, we propose the use of acetylcholine (Ach) to determine endothelial-dependent vasodilation and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and nitroglycerin (NTG) to determine the endothelial-independent vasodilation in the coronary arteries and the periphery. Oxidative stress associated with aging has been shown to reduce vascular function and antioxidant supplementation restores vascular function to levels that are indistinguishable from healthy young adults. The manner by which this improvement in vascular function occurs is not known by may be acting through a NO dependent mechanism.

Histamine has been reported to mediate sustained post-exercise va

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Limb Blood Flow

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Maximum Exercise Tests
  - DRUG: BH4, L-NMMA, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, α-Lipoic Acid and L-Ascorbate
  - DRUG: BQ-123
  - DRUG: Fexofenadine, Ranitidine
  - OTHER: Angiotensin-II, Valsartan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02966665
