CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02062567
Title: Ultrasonographic Guided Treatment of Acute Achilles Tendon Rupture. Evaluation of Two Novel Ultrasonographic Measurements
Official Title: 
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 130
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
With this project the investigators wish to:

1. Test the reproducibility of Amlang's ultrasound classification by examining the intra- and inter-rater reliability.
2. Investigate whether Amlang's ultrasound classification is able to predict which patients are likely to develop complications when treated non-operatively.
3. Investigate whether Barfod's length measurement is able to predict which patients are likely to develop complications when treated non-operatively.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study objectives

To validate Amlang's ultrasound classification and investigate whether the treatment of acute Achilles tendon ruptures (ATR) can be guided by:

1. Amlang's ultrasound classification of ATR
2. Barfod's ultrasound measurement to determine the elongation of the Achilles tendon following a rupture Backgrund A larger group of patients end up with a poor outcome after treatment for ATR. ATR is a frequent and potentially debilitating injury that typically affects young active adults (11 to 37 per 100,000)1 2 3. Consequently, there are great socioeconomic benefits in optimizing treatment and shortening time of recovery.

There is currently no consensus regarding the best treatment of ATR. Traditionally the operative treatment has been considered superior, however recent studies show that non-operative treatment is a safe treatment which leads to good results 4 5 6. For this reason a transition towards greater use of non-operative treatment is seen in many orthopedic departments 7.

Patients who end up with a poor result after treatment for ATR typically suffer from rerupture of the tendon or an elongation of the tendon. There is a 5-10 percent risk of rerupture 4 5 6. It is unknown how many patients heal with an elongation of the Achilles tendon. Correct length of the Achilles tendon is essential for the subsequent function of the tendon.

In order to shorten time of recovery and optimize the treatment-outcome, it is desirable to identify patients at risk of re-rupture or elongation as early as possible as early surgery might help these patients.

Amlang et al. have developed an ultrasonographic classification system to be used in the acute phase of rupture 8. The aim is to predict whether the patient will benefit from operative or non-operative treatment. The classification system appears well considered; however, the classification needs validation and to be correlated to outcome.

Barfod et al. have developed a method for measuring the prolongation of the Achilles tendon in the acute phase following a rupture. The length measurement has been validated using healthy subjects. Data are analyzed and publication is expected autumn 2013. It has not been tested whether the measurement works on torn Achilles tendons and whether there is a correlation between the measurement and outcome.

With this project the investigators wish to:

1. Teste the reproducibility of Amlang's ultrasound classification by examining the intra- and inter-rater reliability.
2. Investigate whether Amlang's ultrasound classification is able to predict which patients are likely to develop complications when treated non-operatively.
3. Investigate whether Barfod's length measurement is able to predict which patients are likely to develop complications when treated non-operatively.

Study Design Type of study The study is carried out as a prospective cohort study. Time schedule The recruitment of patients will begin 1 of November 2013. It is expected that the study wil

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Corelation between Amlangs ultrasound classification or Barfods length meassure and ATRS

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02062567
