CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04736069
Title: Which Physical Therapy Program is Cost-effective in Knee Osteoarthritis?
Official Title: The Cost-effectiveness of Inpatient and Outpatient Physical Therapy Programs in Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease with significant levels of socioeconomic burden to the society. P The non-pharmacologic interventions in knee OA include weight loss, exercise, and physical therapy. In this study, we aimed to to compare the cost-effectiveness of inpatient and outpatient physical therapy programs in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a major problem for society with a heavy economic burden. Especially in the elderly population, integrated rehabilitation programs are frequently used to improve patients' symptoms and quality of life. To estimate the costs and utility of the rehabilitation programs may help clinicians decide optimal treatment strategy with proper usage of resources. Therefore, we aimed to to compare the cost-effectiveness of inpatient and outpatient physical therapy programs in patients with knee osteoarthritis.The study included 52 patients with the diagnose of knee osteoarthritis. Patients were divided into two groups. Group 1 (n=30) received 21 sessions of inpatient physical therapy program including electrotherapy, superficial- deep heat applications and basic knee exercise program. Group 2 (n=22) received the same physical therapy program at outpatient clinic.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain; Visual Analog Scale (VAS)
  - Physical Function; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (WOMAC) Index
  - Fall Risk Assessment; Hendrich II Fall Risk Scale
  - Quality of Life; Short-Form 36-General Health
  - Median Total Cost Per Participant for Health Care

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical therapy program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04736069
