CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05175378
Title: Adherence to Mediterranean Diet and Cardiovascular Health in Multiple Sclerosis Female Patients: a Case Control Study
Official Title: Adherence to Mediterranean Diet and Cardiovascular Health in Multiple Sclerosis Female Patients: a Case Control Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic immune-mediated neurodegenerative disease that affects the central nervous system (CNS). The exact pathophysiology of MS remains unclear; it is suggested that the inflammatory state persists under a genetic-energetic-environmental complex causing a variety of clinical symptoms depending on the neuroanatomical location of MS lesions. The age of MS onset ranges between 20 and 40 years. MS is usually initiated as a relapsing-remitting disease, which may last several years to decades affecting females twice as often as males. Dietary factors may have an important impact on MS. Data from human and animal studies indicate that saturated fatty acids (SFA), the major fat type of animal foods in the "Western" diet, increase MS susceptibility. The Mediterranean dietary (MedDiet) pattern is hypothesized to be beneficial to MS patients protecting against the development cardiovascular diseases. However, little is known about the cardiovascular effects of the MedDiet on MS patients. Consequently, the aim of the present randomized, case control study was to investigate the effects of MedDiet on cardiovascular factors in women with relapsing-remitting MS after a 3-month intervention period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
* Adult women with MS, who were outpatients of Iaso Hospital (Athens, Greece), were enrolled in the present study. Detailed information was provided using a leaflet, in which aims and methodology were described before recruitment. All participants fulfilled informed consent and kept a signed copy. Before the start of the trial, the Ethics Committee of Iaso Hospital (Athens, Greece) assessed and approved the protocol of the study (Approval Code #E31052019). The study was performed according to principles of the Helsinki Declaration (1964) and terms of Good Clinical Practice.
* The study took place during the winter season. All patients were recruited at the first week of December 2020 and the intervention lasted 3 months.
* Study design: 3-month randomized, single center case control study; maintenance of the blind-to-treatment allocation was performed in order to avoid bias; in the intervention group, MS women received a personalized daily eating plan generated by a Clinical Decision Support System (CDSS) together with nutritional consultation on the Meditteranean dietary pattern, as well as physical activity guidelines; patients of the control group received general dietary advice and physical activity recommendation that was in accordance with the "National Dietary Guidelines for Greek adults";
* Screening: medical history; nutritional history (food frequency questionnaire, MedDietScore, 24-hr recalls); anthropometrics; depression and anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale); blood biomarkers (glucose, lipids, C-reactive protein).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MedDietScore

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Lifestyle intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05175378
