CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07422662
Title: Arthroscopic Treatment of Acetabular Labral Lesions: Intrarticular Injection of Bone Marrow vs Hip Arthroscopy Alone
Official Title: Single-blind Randomized Study on the Arthroscopic Treatment of Acetabular Labral Lesions: Intrarticular Injection of Bone Marrow vs Hip Arthroscopy Alone
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The BoneMarrowHip study is a single-blind, randomized, single-center trial. Through this study, the clinical results of patients treated during hip arthroscopy surgery with autologous bone marrow infiltration taken from the ipsilateral iliac crest will be evaluated and compared, comparing the outcomes with a group of patients undergoing the same surgical treatment but without intra-articular infiltration. All selected patients have acetabular labral tears diagnosed by MRI imaging. In addition, the study will evaluate the safety of the treatment by documenting any adverse events.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients with acetabular labral tears will be included in a randomized, single-blind controlled study in which the clinical results of treatment of the tear using arthroscopic surgery with the addition of intra-articular bone marrow infiltration will be evaluated and compared with treatment using arthroscopic surgery alone.

The The investigating physicians who will clinically evaluate the patients at follow-up visits will be blinded (i.e., unaware of the treatment received by the patient). To this end, the medical staff performing the follow-up visits will be different from those performing the surgical and infiltration procedures. Eighty patients will be included in the study. The selected patient will undergo hip arthroscopy to repair the acetabular labral tear. At the same time, half of the patients, based on randomization, will receive an intra-articular injection of autologous bone marrow concentrate. Following the surgical procedure, follow-up visits will be scheduled at 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after treatment.

At the 1-month follow-up, an X-ray will be performed to assess the possible formation of heterotopic ossification; at the 12-month follow-up, an MRI will be performed to assess the healing of the acetabular labrum. Both imaging tests will be performed according to normal clinical practice. Questionnaires will be administered and clinical assessments will be performed before treatment and during the aforementioned follow-up visits.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Hip arthroscopy + BMAC injection
  - PROCEDURE: Hip arthroscopy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07422662
