CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02366975
Title: TRT on BPH Hypoganadal MetS Patients. Florence-PROTEST
Official Title: Effectiveness of Testosterone Replacement Therapy (TRT) on Prostatic Gland in Hypogonadal Patients Affected by Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) and Metabolic Syndrome (MetS). Florence-PROTEST
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 143
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
There are many evidences in the literature showing that the metabolic syndrome (MetS) is associated with BPH / LUTS. There are also numerous evidence that hypogonadism is associated with both conditions, thus being one of the most probable pathogenetic factor underlying the association between MetS \& BPH / LUTS.

Preliminary evidences from observational clinical studies have shown that treatment with testosterone replacement in hypogonadal patients with MetS reduces the symptoms of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) associated with BPH. Preclinical studies performed by the investigators research group show in an experimental model of metabolic syndrome the occurrence of marked inflammation and tissue remodeling of the prostate gland, which is prevented by treatment with testosterone replacement (Vignozzi et al., 2012). There is therefore a need for a clinical trial to demonstrate the effect of treatment with testosterone replacement in reducing the inflammation of the prostate and its effectiveness in improving the symptoms related to inflammation in patients with prostatic BPH associated with metabolic syndrome and testosterone deficiency .

The aims of the present study is to evaluate the effectiveness of testosterone replacement therapy compared to placebo in reducing signs and symptoms of inflammation of the prostate and LUTS symptoms in hypogonadal patients with metabolic syndrome and BPH who are candidates for radical prostatectomy simple.

For this purpose both clinical (assessment of specific symptoms of prostatitis assessed by questionnaire National Institutes of Health Chronic Prostatitis Symptom Index, NIH-CPSI and assessment of the symptoms of LUTS and questionnaires International Prostate Symptom Score, IPSS), ultrasound (transrectal ultrasound evaluation of markers of prostatic inflammation: macrocalcifications, inhomogeneity etc.), biochemical (evaluation of inflammatory cytokines in the semen), urodynamic and histology (histomorphometric and immunohistochemical analysis of samples prostate derived from patients enrolled in the study or not treated with testosterone) scores will be performed. Along with the symptoms and clinical signs of prostate inflammation and LUTS, the effect of testosterone therapy or placebo on penile erection will be also evaluated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - NIH-CPSI
  - IPSS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone gel 2%
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02366975
