CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05546203
Title: Trigger Point Treatment in Chronic Pelvic Pain
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Trigger Point Treatment in Chronic Pelvic Pain; A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trail
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Objective: To investigate the effectiveness of ischemic compression and low-level laser therapy methods combined with exercise on the myofascial trigger points in women with Chronic Pelvic Pain and to determine which method is more effective.

Methods: It was a parallel designed, single-blind pilot randomized clinical trial. Patients were enrolled in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology (at Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa). The patients were diagnosed by a gynecologist (F.G.U and C. Y.), referred to the clinical laboratory of physiotherapy and rehabilitation to participate (by physiotherapists K.S. and E.K.M.) in the trial from September 2017 to June 2019. Twenty-eight women patients with Chronic Pelvic Pain were included into the trial. Patients were randomized into two groups. Group 1 received ischemic compression and Group 2 received low-level laser therapy twice a week for 6 weeks. Both groups received the same standard exercise program. Pain, range of motion, pelvic floor symptom severity, quality of life, satisfaction, anxiety, and depression were assessed after 6 weeks and 1-year follow up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) is chronic or persistent pain perceived in structures related to the pelvic region. CPP prevalence range between 5.7 % and 26.6 % in women. CPP is associated with symptoms suggestive of the lower urinary tract, sexual, bowel, pelvic floor, or gynecological dysfunction. It is often associated with negative emotional consequences and impaired quality of life (QoL) Analgesics, hormone therapy, physiotherapy, psychological treatment, and surgical methods are widely used in the treatment of CPP. Medications provide pain and visceral management, surgery provides correction of structure, but physiotherapy approachs provides functional restoration. Musculoskeletal pelvic pain is commonly originated myofascial, musculoskeletal, neuromuscular structures. CPP patients have myofascial trigger points (MTrPs) located in the lower back, abdominal wall, and pelvic girdle, which may be the primary source of pain. These MTrPs are usually located in levator ani, obturator internus, piriformis, gluteal muscles, quadratus lumborum and abdominal wall muscles. The MTrPs are hyperirritable spots within a taut band, activated by repeated or chronic muscular overload.

Ischemic compression (IC), in the other words trigger point compression, is an effective method in the treatment of MTrPs in many musculoskeletal problems. IC changes the circulatory perfusion of skin and is especially valuable in muscles that are not suitable for stretch. It is less common to use pelvic floor rehabilitation, urological CPP, interstitial cystitis and painful bladder syndrome and CPP yet. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) reduces pain in MTrPs lead to musculoskeletal system disorders. LLLT increases oxygen supply to hypoxic cells in MTrPs areas by regulating microcirculation as well as it has analgesic, biostimulation, and wound healing effects . In the literature, it is seen that IC and LLLT are effective on MTrPs, and IC is used in pelvic pain in a few studies. But the use of LLLT in pelvic pain has not been found. It is a known fact that exercise is the basis for these MTrPs treatments. In light of this knowledge, investigetors hypothesized that both IC and LLLT combined with exercise would be an effective methods in the management of CPP.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual analog scale (VAS)
  - Pressure Pain Threshold (PPT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ischemic compression
  - DEVICE: Low-level laser therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standardized exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05546203
