CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05878106
Title: Creatine Supplementation and Resistance Training in Patients With Breast Cancer
Official Title: Creatine Supplementation and Resistance Training in Patients With Breast Cancer (CaRTiC Study)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Background: Creatine supplementation is an effective ergogenic nutrient for athletes, as well as people for people starting a health or fitness program. Resistance training previously been identified as an important method of increasing muscle mass and strength among people, specially in people with cancer to avoid sarcopenia. The potential of creatine supplementation for adaptations produced by strength training in cancer patients are still unknown.

Objective: the primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a 16-week supervised resistance training program intervention with and without creatine supplementation in patients with breast cancer.

Methods: A multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the effects of creatine supplementation in addition to resistance training in breast cancer patients. Patients will be randomly assigned to 3 groups: a control group (CG) and two experimental groups. The first resistance training group (RG) will perform resistance training, while the second resistance-creatine experimental group (RCG) will perform the same resistance training as the RG and will also receive a 5 g/day supplementation of creatine for the duration of the exercise the 16-week intervention. RG participants will follow the same daily dosing protocol, but in their case, with dextrose/maltodextrin. Resistance training will be a 16-week supervised workout that will consist of a series of resistance exercises (leg press, knee extension, knee bends, chest press, sit-ups, back extensions, pull-ups, and shoulder press) that involved the largest muscle groups of the body and will be performed three times a week on non-consecutive days. Both the RG and the RCG will receive a supplement of soluble protein powder (20-30 g) daily.

Discussion: The results of this intervention will help to better understand the potential of non-pharmacological treatment for improving strength and wellbeing values in breast cancer patients with and without creatine supplementation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in maximal resistance (upper and lower body)
  - Genetic study
  - Change in Micro RNA (mRNA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Creatine supplementation
  - OTHER: Resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05878106
