CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04617392
Title: Bariatric-metabolic Surgery - the Effect of Postoperative Exercising on Sarcopenia
Official Title: Research of Sarcopenia in Patients After Bariatric-metabolic Surgery - the Effect of Programmed Aerobic and Power Exercising on the Functionality, Volume and Morphology of Muscle Tissue
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The investigators' study published in 2020 (Pekar, M. et al.: The risk of sarcopenia 24 months after bariatric surgery - assessment by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA): a prospective study; Videosurgery Miniinv 2020; https://doi.org/10.5114/wiitm.2020.93463) shows that patients are at risk of sar-copenia after bariatric-metabolic (BM) surgery. BM surgery leads to significant changes in body composition. Significant fat loss is followed by unwanted muscle loss. The study shows that the lack of physical activity is typical for these patients. To the algorithm of postoperative care the investigators plan to include controlled exercise programs for these patients. The investigators do not know what the complexity and time required to keep patients in good condition and reduce the risk of sarcopenia is. The investigators want to find the adequate amount of physical activity while maintaining long-term compliance of these patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is an important medical problem. The number of obese individuals is increasing continuously in response to various environmental and genetic factors. For some morbidly obese patients, surgery is the only effective type of therapy. Despite bariatric surgery having good outcomes in terms of weight loss, it is associated with some adverse effects: several studies have reported subsequent alterations in bone and muscle metabolism, patients are getting in risk of sarcopenia. Of the surgical techniques available (laparoscopic gastric banding, Roux-en-Y bypass, biliopancreatic diversion), laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) is currently the technique of choice. This type of surgery leads to significant changes in body composition. Significant fat loss is followed by unwanted muscle loss. To the algorithm of postoperative care the investigators plan to include controlled exercise programs for these patients. The investigators do not know what the complexity and time required to keep patients in good condition and reduce the risk of sarcopenia is. The investigators want to find the adequate amount of physical activity while maintaining long-term compliance of these patients.

The study has been designed as a prospective randomized study, which is in conformity with the principles and guidelines of the Helsinki Declaration, good clinical practice and will be approved by the Ethical Committee of the Hospital AGEL Ostrava-Vitkovice, Czech Republic.

Potential study participants will undergo an initial examination at the clinical department of the surgical department specializing in obesity. In addition to professional surgical and internal examination, the potential patient will be examined by a clinical psychologist for the ability to participate in this type of study for a long time. Informed consent will be provided to selected study participants.

50 patients who undergo surgery will be randomized in two cohorts:

* Cohort 1: obese patients with LSG: 25 patients with controlled aerobic / anaerobic activity
* Cohort 2: obese LSG patients 25 patients without controlled physical activity

The patients enrolled in the study are followed for the period of 24 months. Individual will be evaluated before the bariatric procedure and 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the procedure.

Primary goal of the study is to evaluate the Hypothesis 0 : there is no difference between muscle function, volume and morphology between patients after BM operations who are no longer controlled by physical activity and between patients who undergo controlled regular exercise programs under professional supervision.

Secondary objectives: Monitoring of knee cartilage during weight reduction after bariatric surgery and monitoring of gait biomechanics during weight reduction after bariatric surgery

Patients undergo the following examinations:

Weight: body weight will be measured on a calibrated scale. The measurement itself will be performed in underwear, without shoes.

Wais

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - changes of lean mass by DXA measures (in kg/m2)
  - fat infiltration of muscles by MRI (in %)
  - muscle strength by handgrip dynamometer (in kg)
  - muscle strength by walk test (in m)
  - muscle strength by Timed Up and Go test (in s)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
  - OTHER: Strength endurance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04617392
