CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06127511
Title: Peanut Consumption on Cognitive, Weight, and Inflammation
Official Title: Peanut Consumption on Cognitive Performance, Weight Management, and Inflammation in Young Adolescents
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
A multi-school, two-arm parallel cluster-randomized controlled trial will be conducted in 200 healthy young adolescents from Barcelona (Spain) to evaluate the effect of peanut consumption on cognitive performance, weight management and inflammation. Schools willing to participate will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or the control group. After the recruitment, the participants will follow a peanut-free diet for two weeks. Both arms will receive a multidimensional educational intervention designed by the Gasol Foundation to promote healthy dietary habits based on Mediterranean diet recommendations, along with exercise performance, healthy sleeping habits and emotional knowledge. Half of the participants (intervention group) will consume 25 g of whole skin roasted peanuts as a daily snack to be incorporated into their diet for six months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Regular nut consumption has been associated with reduced inflammation, oxidative damage, and improved vascular function, which may benefit cognitive function. Their content in phenolic acids, mainly p-coumaric and isoferulic acids may help prevent and cure diseases including Alzheimer's, diabetes, cancer, hypertension, and atherosclerosis that are associated with oxidative stress suggesting it could be used as a potential new neuroprotective tactic. Polyphenols have been shown to influence gut microbiota composition and activity, and their metabolites, including short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), may modulate brain biochemistry by acting as neurotransmitters in the central nervous system, potentially leading to effects against depression and neurodegenerative disease.

Childhood is an important period for brain development, and nutrients aid the formation of new synaptic connections and support learning processes at school and in home environments. Adolescence is also a period where brain connectivity and complex behaviours are further refined. While a positive association has been observed between the consumption of healthy foods (fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish, nuts, dietary fiber) and cognitive function, research on the association between nut consumption and cognitive health during adolescence is scarce.

In addition, evidence shows that incorporating peanut and peanut-based products into the diet does not lead to weight gain or higher body weight and may even promote long-term weight maintenance and increase linear growth due to their arginine content.

Due to the potential benefits of schools in preventing overweight and obesity, and the lack of research on the relationship between nut consumption and cognitive health during childhood and adolescence, the investigators plan to conduct an intervention study to investigate the association between peanut consumption and cognitive ability, weight management and inflammation in Spanish children aged 10-12 years. As the nutritional composition of peanuts can vary depending on their form, this study will examine the impact of the regular consumption of 25g of whole-skin roasted peanuts on cognitive function, mood, and school performance in healthy young adolescents.

Study design:

A multi-school, two-arm parallel cluster-randomized controlled trial will be conducted in 200 healthy young adolescents from Barcelona (Spain) to evaluate the effect of peanut consumption on cognitive performance, weight management and inflammation. Schools willing to participate will be randomly assigned to either the intervention or the control group. After the recruitment, the participants will follow a peanut-free diet for two weeks. Both arms will receive a multidimensional educational intervention designed by the Gasol Foundation to promote healthy dietary habits based on Mediterranean diet recommendations, along with exercise performance, healthy sleeping habits and emotional knowledge. Half of

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in the depression score in healthy young adolescents after a daily intake of peanuts.
  - Changes in the ability to concentrate, selective attention and processing speed in healthy young adolescents after a daily intake of peanuts.
  - Changes in assessment of interference and cognitive control in healthy young adolescents after a daily intake of peanuts.
  - Changes in processing speed, attention span and working memory in healthy young adolescents after a daily intake of peanuts.
  - Changes in attention and inductive reasoning in healthy young adolescents after a daily intake of peanuts.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Food (peanut)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06127511
