CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04453735
Title: MUscle Side-Effects of Atorvastatin in Coronary Patients (MUSE) -Follow-up Study
Official Title: MUscle Side-Effects of Atorvastatin in Coronary Patients (MUSE) -Follow-up Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Statins are cornerstone treatment in secondary cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention. Today, statin non-adherence (patients not taking their prescribed drug) remains a major public health concern, leading to adverse outcomes in terms of morbidity, mortality and healthcare costs. The principal reason for statin non-adherence and discontinuation is statin-associated muscle symptoms (SAMS). Objective SAMS diagnostics do not exist. We aim to unravel the pathophysiology of SAMS and develop diagnostic tools to differentiate real SAMS from muscle symptoms not related to the statin, among coronary patients with self-perceived SAMS. In this follow-up study we aims to determine the effect of 7 weeks open treatment with atorvastatin 40 mg/day, followed by 7 weeks open treatment with no lipid lowering treatment, on muscle symptom intensity in patients classified with confirmed statin-associated muscle symptoms (SAMS) (i.e. statin-dependent muscle side-effects) and non-SAMS in the MUscle Side-Effects of atorvastatin in coronary patients (MUSE) randomized double blinded cross-over trial.

We have developed novel methods that will be used to measure atorvastatin metabolites and drug effect biomarkers directly in skeletal muscle and blood . The diagnostic accuracy of these biomarkers to differentiate real SAMS from non-SAMS will be evaluated. A new diagnostic tool may potentially be implemented to assess SAMS in the individual patient and enable personalized follow-up. It may also represent an important tool in the communication with patients misattributing their muscle symptoms to statins. The long-term results may be better quality of life and reduced morbidity, mortality and healthcare costs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Individual mean difference in muscular symptom intensity measured with a 0 (no symptoms) to 10 (worst imaginable symptoms) Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score between treatment periods with statin and "no statin treatment"

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Atorvastatin mylan 40 Mg Oral Tablet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04453735
