CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04521946
Title: Chemotherapy and Donor Stem trensplant for the Treatment of Patients With High Grade Brain Cancer
Official Title: A Pilot Study of Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell trensplantation for Patients With High Grade Central Nervous System Malignancies
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This phase I trial investigates the side effects and effectiveness of chemotherapy followed by a donor (allogeneic) stem cell trensplant when given to patients with high grade brain cancer. Chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine, thiotepa, etoposide, melphalan, and rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin, work in different ways to stop the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy before a donor stem cell trensplant helps kill cancer cells in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into a patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make more healthy cells and platelets and may help destroy any remaining cancer cells.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess tolerability of allogenic hematopoietic cell trensplantation (HCT) among patients with chemo-responsive high-grade central nervous system (CNS) malignancies as defined by trensplant-related mortality (TRM) at day 30 as well as rate of grade III organ toxicity or higher (Bearman Regimen-Related Toxicities Scale) attributable to conditioning occurring within 30 days.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Median time to platelet and neutrophil engraftment. II. Incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) by day 100. III. Incidence of chronic GVHD at day 100 and one year. IV. Rate of grade II organ toxicity through day 100. V. Rate of graft failure (primary and secondary) through day 100. VI. Rate of infectious complications through day 100. VII. Progression free survival at day 180. VIII. Cumulative incidence of relapse, overall survival, and progression-free survival at 100 days and 1 year.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive thiotepa intravenously (IV) over 2-4 hours and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days -8 to -6, melphalan IV over 20 minutes on days -5 and -4, and fludarabine phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -3. Patients receiving umbilical cord trensplant only also receive lapine T-lymphocyte immune globulin IV over 4-12 hours on days -4 and -3. Patients then undergo HCT on day 0. Patients also receive tacrolimus IV or cyclosporine IV beginning on day -2 to and mycophenolate mofetil orally (PO) every 8 hours or IV from days 0-40 and tapered to day 90.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 100, 180, 270 and 360 days.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - trensplant-related mortality
  - Rate of grade III or higher organ toxicity attributable to conditioning

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Etoposide
  - DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate
  - PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell trensplantation
  - BIOLOGICAL: Lapine T-Lymphocyte Immune Globulin
  - DRUG: Melphalan

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04521946
