CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05781763
Title: High-intensity Training in Patients With Spondyloarthritis: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: High-intensity Exercise Based on Self-management With Digital Coaching in Patients With Spondyloarthritis: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Project summary

Background: For people diagnosed with a spondyloarthritis (SpA) e.g. ankylosing spondylitis or undifferentiated spondyloarthritis, physical activity and exercise are important components in the self-management. Exercise, in addition to physical and mental symptoms related to the disease can easily feel overwhelming to exercise, and low adherence may result. By studying the effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) in comparison with training as usual on physiological, inflammatory, and self-reported disease parameters in patients with SpA, we intend to further investigate the short-term and longitudinal training effects, and refine the knowledge to tailor, coach, and stimulate to self-performed HIIT.

Objective: The purpose of this study is to investigate the short- and long-term effects of high- intensity interval training (HIIT) on physiological, inflammatory, and self-reported health parameters in patients with SpA. The aim is also to study the adherence to physical activity and exercise recommendations.

Design: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. Participants: One hundred adults with a confirmed axial SpA from rheumatology clinics in southern Sweden will be recruited and randomized into two groups, the intervention group and the control group.

Intervention: Three high-intensity training sessions per week for three months, of which two interval sessions, with coaching both from a clinical physiotherapist and digital devices (watch and app) followed by nine months with sporadic coaching. The control group will go on with exercise as usual.

Primary outcome: Self-reported disease activity, inflammatory biomarkers (acute phase proteins).

Secondary outcomes: Physical fitness (aerobic capacity (VO2max), blood pressure, grep strength), body composition and self-reported physical function, health status, well-being, pain, fatigue, adherence to physical activity and exercise recommendations, and confidence in one's own ability to manage pain, symptoms and high-intensity exercise, and additional serum biomarkers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction SpA is an umbrella term for a group of inflammatory diseases with a prevalence that varies between 0.2% - 1.6% globally. SpA can be divided into two forms; axial SpA characterized by inflammation in the spine and pelvic joints, and in peripheral SpA characterized by inflammation in peripheral joints, entesites and dactylites. Recommended treatment consists of a combination of pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions. The non-pharmacological treatment includes physiotherapy with disease counselling and specific training. There is an increased risk of comorbidity such as cardiovascular disease, obesity, depression and osteoporosis in patients with axSpA. The risk of several of the comorbidities that occur is considered to be reduced through an increased degree of physical activity. The increased cardiovascular risk is considered multifactorial but is partly explained by the chronic systemic inflammation and a low level of physical activity.

The effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) with respect to inflammatory biomarkers are poorly studied in individuals with rheumatic diseases. Also, proteins secreted by muscle cells during physical activity, myokines, and their suggested effect to counteract the inflammatory process, need to be further studied. HIIT is believed to be able to affect both the disease outcome and the increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity, but more studies are needed to obtain sufficient evidence along with new biomarkers recently found to affect inflammation that can be implemented in a general maintenance of the individuals' systemic inflammatory status. In the general population, the greatest positive effect is seen on cardiovascular disease and its risk factors during cardio training at a higher intensity. Studies show that individuals with SpA can exercise at a higher intensity level without exacerbating disease activity and that HIIT can reduce inflammation and reduce the cardiovascular risk factors for individuals with SpA.

Despite the overwhelming evidence that exercise will help in the disease management, individuals with the disease still find it difficult to make exercise a sustainable routine in their lives. Previous studies have shown that when a coach-led intervention ends, it is common with a large drop-out rate and that compliance decreases. Changing a behavior should take place gradually and over a long period of time to have the best conditions to become permanent. A person-centered approach with the opportunity to choose activity, and be able to vary activity and training sessions have proven to be important factors that increase compliance with HIIT. Active coaching, registration of heart rate level during training and estimation of perceived effort have all been shown to be important to achieve the right training intensity. Telehealth, in which health coaching is provided via telecommunications and other virtual communication devises outside traditional health care, i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Self-reported disease activity BASDAI
  - Self-reported disease activity BASDAI
  - Self-reported disease activity ASDAS-CRP
  - Self-reported disease activity ASDAS-CRP
  - Biomarker C-reaktivt protein (CRP)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High intensity interval training (HIIT)
  - OTHER: Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 67 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05781763
