CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03809975
Title: Collaborative Model of Care Between Orthopaedics and Allied Healthcare Professionals Trial (CONnACT)
Official Title: Collaborative Model of Care Between Orthopaedics and Allied Healthcare Professionals Trial (CONnACT)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 114
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis knee is the leading cause of chronic disability among older adults. Our current model of care is doctor-centric and inefficient leading to suboptimal use of allied health intervention for effective lifestyle and behaviour changes resulting in potentially, unnecessary surgery.

The study is designed using an effectiveness-implementation hybrid study design utilizing a mixed methods approach. The hybrid study has dual aims. The primary aim is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness (pain, function and quality of life) of a 12-week multidisciplinary (Orthopaedics, Physiotherapy, Dietetics, Psychology) personalized, community-based program for patients with knee osteoarthritis through a randomized-controlled trial. The secondary aim is to obtain data that will inform the context for implementation and guide future wider scale application. The investigators hypothesize that this multidisciplinary program is clinically more effective in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis at 12 months compared to standard care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND With a rapidly aging population, osteoarthritis is expected to become the 4th leading cause of global disability by 2020. Established guidelines for knee osteoarthritis strongly advocate lifestyle changes, such with exercises and weight loss as first line of treatment, whilst reserving surgery as the last resort. Our current model of care is doctor-centric and inefficient leading to suboptimal use of allied health intervention for effective lifestyle and behaviour changes resulting in potentially, unnecessary surgery. Redesigning the model of care by moving away from costly surgical treatment through the optimization and synergizing of proven non-surgical treatments is key to deliver value-based care.

AIMS AND HYPOTHESIS Primary Aim and Hypothesis. Evaluate the clinical effectiveness (pain, function and quality of life) at 12 months of a personalized, community based 3-month multidisciplinary program (Orthopaedics, Physiotherapist, Dietitian and Psychologist) as compared with usuALCARe for patients with knee osteoarthritis. The investigators hypothesize that patients with knee osteoarthritis who undergo a personalized, community based 3-month multidisciplinary program will have better pain, function and quality of life scores at 12 months post initiation of program compared to patients who undergo usuALCARe.

Secondary Aim. Evaluate the cost effectiveness of a personalized, community based 3-month multidisciplinary program (Orthopaedic, Physiotherapist, Dietitian and Psychologist) for patients with knee osteoarthritis. Qualitative assessment of the acceptability, feasibility and scalability of such a program

METHODOLOGY The study will be conducted as aromasingle centre, single-blinded, gender stratified, block permutated randomized controlled trial using a mixed method approach (quantitative and qualitative), comparing a proposed new multidisciplinary personalized community-based model of care and the current model of care.

Patients with suspected knee osteoarthritis who are referred from the Polyclinics in the primary healthcare setting to the Tan Tock SenGHospital Orthopaedic Specialist Outpatient Clinic. Patients will then be evaluated based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria and subsequently invited to join the study if eligible. Consent for participation into the study will be obtained prior to randomization. Randomization will be done via gender stratified permutated block randomization.

ECONOMIC EVALUATION An economic evaluation from a societal perspective will be undertaken to determine the cost effectiveness of the intervention. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio of this multidisciplinary non-surgical community-based program for knee osteoarthritis compared to routine care will be determined. Cost data will be collected via questionnaires and hospital databases to estimate both the direct medical, direct non-medical and indirect cost. Indirect cost of health-related productivity loss due to knee osteoarthritis w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score (KOOS4)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multidisciplinary Community Program
  - OTHER: Current model of care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03809975
