CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00629707
Title: Cerebral Edema in Pediatric Diabetic Ketoacidosis
Official Title: Cerebral Edema in Pediatric Diabetic Ketoacidosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this trial is to compare two different rates of fluid administration during diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) treatment in children to determine which fluid administration rate is more beneficial for brain metabolism and for preventing or decreasing brain swelling during DKA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral edema (swelling of the brain) is the most frequent serious complication of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in children. The cause of cerebral edema during DKA is not well understood. Recent studies suggest that it may result from lack of adequate blood flow to the brain during DKA, before treatment starts. Brain injury, resulting in edema, may occur before treatment because of lack of adequate blood flow to the brain and additional injury may occur when adequate blood flow is re-established during treatment (called reperfusion injury). Because additional injury may occur during treatment, it is important to understand whether the rate of administration of intravenous fluids, and, therefore, the speed of reperfusion of the brain, is related to the degree of brain swelling and injury. Most current treatment protocols indicate that intravenous fluids should be administered slowly, but it may be possible that brain injury and swelling might be lessened if adequate blood flow is established more quickly.

In this study, researchers will use magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to compare two different rates of fluid administration during DKA treatment in children. The investigators will use MR imaging to measure brain swelling and metabolism at three time points-twice during treatment and once after recovery from DKA-and will compare these measurements to determine which fluid administration rate has more beneficial effects on brain metabolism and brain swelling.

The study's researchers hypothesize that more rapid re-establishment of blood flow to the brain (via more rapid administration of intravenous fluids) will result in less brain swelling and injury than slower rehydration with delayed re-establishment of adequate brain blood flow will.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cerebral Edema Measured by MR Imaging (Apparent Diffusion Coefficient)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: intravenous fluid treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00629707
