CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06516874
Title: A Pilot Study of Trauma-Focused Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Treatment of Post-traumatic Stress in Adults.
Official Title: A Pilot Study of Feasibility and Acceptability of Videoconference-Delivered Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Treatment of PTSD and C-PTSD in Adults of Community and Hospitals Mental Health Services
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health condition that's triggered by the experience of potentially traumatic events. Complex PTSD (CPTSD) includes additional symptoms that account for a disturbance of the organization of the self. Randomized controlled trials have shown that trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy (TF-CBT) is effective in reducing PTSD symptoms; however, there is insufficient evidence to support the effectiveness of this intervention for CPTSD.

The present study aims to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of TF-CBT therapy for complex presentation (TF-CBT-CP) in a videoconference modality in adults diagnosed with PTSD or CPTSD who are treated at community mental health care services (CMHCS, COSAM in Spanish) and the Hospital of the Maule Region, Chile.

This pilot study will use a mixed design. The quantitative component will consist of a one-group pre-post-follow-up design, which will include 13 adults diagnosed with PTSD or CPTSD referred to care at CMHCS or hospitals of the Maule Region, Chile. Telephone interviews will collect qualitative data relevant to the study's acceptability.

Participants will receive TF-CBT-CP therapy. It consists of 16 weekly 60-minute sessions of trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy for complex presentations.

To determine the feasibility of TF-CBT-CP therapy, eligibility, recruitment, participation, activity completion, retention, exit, and dropout rates will be considered. To establish the acceptability of the protocol, participant satisfaction with the recruitment, assessment, and treatment process and reporting of reasons for non-participation or dropout will be assessed. Furthermore, secondary outcomes consider the reduction of PTSD and CPTSD symptomatology, depression, and anxiety and the improvement of indicators of emotional regulation and psychological well-being.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health condition that's triggered by the experience of potentially traumatic events. It is a disabling psychopathology with high comorbidity, associated with problems of emotional regulation and low psychological well-being. In addition, the World Health Organization (WHO) has recently proposed the diagnosis of complex PTSD (CPTSD) to account for a type of PTSD that includes both traditional and additional symptoms that account for a disturbance of self-organization of the self.

Randomized controlled trials (RCT) have shown that trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy (TF-CBT) is effective in reducing PTSD symptoms. However, additional clinical studies are necessary to fully assess the effectiveness of TF-CBT for complex presentations (TF-CBT-CP). Additionally, adapting PTSD therapy to a new population requires prior knowledge of information that may affect the effects of the intervention, e.g., history of traumatic events, variety and intensity of PTSD symptoms, and comorbidities. Given the lack of knowledge of these characteristics in Chile and for the purpose of subsequently implementing a large-scale randomized clinical trial in the Chilean population, the CONSORT guidelines recommend developing a pilot RCT.

The present study aims to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of TF-CBT-CP therapy in a videoconference modality in adults diagnosed with PTSD or CPTSD who are treated at community mental health care services (CMHCS) or hospitals in the Maule Region, Chile. This pilot study will use a mixed design. The quantitative component will consist of a one-group pre-post-follow-up design, which will include 13 adults diagnosed with PTSD or CPTSD referred to care at CMHCS or hospitals of the Maule Region, Chile. Participants will receive-by videoconference-TF-CBT-CP therapy, which consists of 16 weekly 60-minute sessions of trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy for complex presentations.

The treatment includes a) conducting clinical assessment sessions; b) providing psychoeducation on PTSD and CPTSD; c) facilitating the development of coping strategies to manage distressing experiences; d) implementing behavioral activation techniques to reintegrate into daily activities; e) fostering the acquisition of emotional regulation strategies and interpersonal relationship skills; f) utilizing in-vivo (live) and imaginal exposure methods to confront the traumatic memory; g) engaging in cognitive interventions to address distorted thoughts; and h) implementing relapse prevention strategies. Clinical psychologists, trained by the research team, will implement the treatment. To ensure the fidelity of the TF-CBT-CP treatment, the project team will conduct weekly supervisions and review compliance with the activities of each session using a checklist based on the therapy protocol. The project team will provide supervision.

Professionals designated by CMHCS or hospitals will present the study 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Eligibility rate as a feasibility indicator
  - Recruitment rate as a feasibility indicator.
  - Participation rate in the evaluation protocol as a feasibility indicator.
  - Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for complex presentation (TF-CBT-CP) activities completion rate.
  - Participants retention rate as a feasibility indicator.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for complex presentation (TF-CBT-CP)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06516874
