CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05485259
Title: Effect of Alpha-lipoic Acid on Regression of Low-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (LSIL)
Official Title: Effect of Alpha-lipoic Acid Supplementation on Regression of Low-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (LSIL)-Double Blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL) are premalignant changes on the cervix that can lead to malignant changes, i. e. cervical cancer. Alpha-lipoic acid is a fatty acid that is naturally found in food, and due to its proven antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, it is increasingly used as a dietary supplement, most often to alleviate the symptoms of various neuropathic conditions.

The purpose of this study was to demonstrate efficiency, safety, and clinical benefit of alpha lipoic acid (ALA) in inducing regression of LSIL. The hypothesis is based on the proven role of oxidative stress and inflammation in formation of LSIL and anti-inflammatory and antioxidative efficiency of ALA.

The study was designed as randomized, double-blind, two-arm, placebo-control trial recruiting 100 female patients with diagnosed LSIL. Patients received 600 mg/day of ALA or placebo for 3 months. Progression/regression of LSIL has been defined as primary outcome of the study; inflammation markers and oxidative stress parameters have been defined as secondary outcomes of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) is premalignant change on the cervix that can lead to malignant changes, i.e., cervical cancer. Today, this term has been replaced by the more recent term squamous intraepithelial lesion (SIL). With the introduction of the term SIL into use (as proposed by Bethesda system), two grades are used to classify premalignant changes of the cervix: SIL of low grade (LSIL) which includes condylomas and mild dysplasia (CIN I), and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) that includes changes in terms of medium and high-grade dysplasia (CIN II and CIN III). The main etiological factor that leads to the formation of cervical neoplasia is the human papilloma virus (HPV). Other etiological factors such as smoking, oral therapy contraceptives, sexual habits, chemicals, immunosuppressive therapy, immunodeficiency diseases, socioeconomic living conditions and nutritional status of patients also play a role in the progression of the disease. In addition to the above, inflammation and oxidative stress are also important etiological factors in the development of SIL. Namely, malignant changes on the cervix do not appear on a completely healthy cervix but are always associated with chronic cervicitis.

Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a non-essential fatty acid with numerous metabolic roles and its therapeutic potential is being investigated in many pathophysiological conditions. In addition to acting as a cofactor of numerous signalling pathways in the cell, ALA also has a standard redox potential of -0.32 V, which gives it the ability to regenerate the most important physiological antioxidants in vivo (e.g. vitamin C and E) and makes it one of the most potent natural antioxidants. Given that it is implicated as a modulator of various inflammatory signalling pathways, its anti-inflammatory properties have been investigated by a large number of clinical studies. T This impressive array of cellular and molecular functions has led to significant interest in the research and use of ALA as a dietary supplement. ALA has been proven to improve insulin resistance, relieve symptoms of diabetic neuropathy, combine with phototherapy in the treatment of vitiligo, improve wound healing and increase the effectiveness of reduction diets. Its use as a dietary supplement is currently being investigated in dementia, burning mouth syndrome, carpal syndrome, glaucoma, cataracts, hypertension, and peripheral arterial disease. For therapeutic purposes, ALA is administered orally in doses of 300-1800 mg/day, and for some indications its topical and parenteral administration has been investigated. The safety of oral administration in the mentioned doses has been investigated in many clinical studies lasting from 4 months to 4 years. The effectiveness of ALA in premalignant changes of the cervix has not been investigated to date. Considering the proven effectiveness of oral supplementation with other antioxidants (such as green tea polyphenols or

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Regression of Low-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (LSIL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: DL-alpha lipoic acid
  - OTHER: placebo (rice starch)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05485259
