CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03880461
Title: A Mobile Health Intervention to Achieve Appropriate Gestational Weight Gain in Overweight/Obese Women
Official Title: Cluster Randomized Trial of a Mobile Health Intervention to Achieve Appropriate Gestational Weight Gain in Overweight/Obese Women
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1335
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The aim of this trial is to investigate the effectiveness of a mobile health (mhealth) intervention to help overweight and obese women achieve appropriate gestational weight gain (GWG) for their pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI). The goal of the intervention is to help women achieve GWG within the range recommended by the Institute of Medicine. The investigators propose an adaptive intervention that begins with an effective, yet low resource-intensive treatment and then provides incremental support and resources only to patients who need them. The intervention includes: 1) an mHealth tool allowing data to be automatically transmitted to a mobile website; 2) personalized text messages; and 3) personalized 1:1 telephone coaching sessions. The latter more intensive components are reserved for patients whose GWG is not within the IOM guidelines. The lifestyle intervention will be delivered through 1 telephone counseling session with a study dietician trained in motivational interviewing techniques, as well as through technology-based tools, automated text messages and weekly e-mails of core lifestyle intervention sessions. Personalized text messages and 1:1 telephone coaching sessions will be given to those who are not meeting the GWG guidelines. The lifestyle intervention will be compared to usual medical care. Maternal outcomes will be assessed shortly before delivery and at 6 weeks postpartum. Infant birthweight and weight at one year will also be assessed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total Gestational Weight Gain (GWG)
  - Rate of Total GWG
  - Proportion of Women Meeting the Institute of Medicine's GWG Recommendation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03880461
