CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03927339
Title: Do Obese Patients With Primary Knee Osteoarthritis Benefit From a Single Bout of Moderate Intensity Aerobic Exercise?
Official Title: Aerobic Exercise and Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Obesity and degenerative joint disease are typically concomitant . Each are in the course of aerobic focus and excited inflammatory response. Exercise is taken into account a considerable treatment in rehabilitation of each conditions. nevertheless most of literature reported the good thing about regular exercise, whereas there's dearth regarding the consequence of base hit low to centrist usage session .

Objective:Hence, this report aimed to analyze the attainable effects of a single bout of moderate excercise in obese patients with KOA.

Methods:Thirty four rotund OA untrained semantic role and thirty age and sex matched healthy controls were registered during this sketch . OA patients were allotted to single session of low to moderate exercise on treadmill whereas controls remained unexercised. Perceived pain, GR activity, IL-6 , CRP, fasting blood glucose and lipid profile were assessed at baseline , once exercise and 24h after. Meanwhile, WOMAC score determined at baseline and once 24h.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study population:

This is an observational study a cohort of sedentary Egyptian patients included thirty four obese patients role diagnosed with primary human knee joint OA according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR)( 8).were selected from those attending the outpatient clinics of Rheumatology and Rehabilitation Department , Mansoura University (28 females and 6 males; mean age, 46.94 ± 10.84 years; trunk mass index, 40.91 ± 10.09 kg/m2). In addition, 30 healthy volunteers with no clinical and radiological evidence of OA(22 females and8 males; mean age,50.7 ±10.5 ; BMI 24.3±1.3)participated in the discipline .

Inclusion criteria: knee OA with obesity; sedentary with no previous education ; ability to understand and follow commands; and ability to walk independently.

Exclusion criteria: Medical conditions contraindicating moderate aerobic exercising (as determined through prescreening questions, i.e., cardiac or coronary artery disease as ischemic cardiomyopathy , chronic lung disease, asthma, uncontrolled hypertension), inability to exercise via treadmill(i.e. no neuromuscular or lower extremity conditions or any other medical contraindication that could prevent them from floor walking as upset affecting movement of the pelvic arch or pace , story of previous hip or knee operating room ,periarticular fractures, or lower limb injuries).History of recent reefer transmission or acute joint lighting .History of recent joint injection (steroid, hyaluronic acid , etc.) within 6 calendar week of study. Ingestion of antioxidant supplementation and the use of psychotropic agents.

Participants underwent bilateral AP standing x ray to verify the presence and degree of human knee OA. X-rays were marked exploitation the Kellgren and Lawrence (K/L) scale for knee OA severity(9).Subjects with picture taking knee OA of KL grade ≥2 in a minimum of one knee were listed. The grading of the worst affected knee in every patient was used for knowledge analysis.

Physical examinations including age and body mass index (BMI) were obtained at the same visits at which radiographs were obtained. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) scores of the OA patients were collected (10).

Treadmill Training Protocol

Each eligible participant in the patients group was then prospectively assigned to undergo exercise session of full-body-free weight treadmill training. Once the participants were prepped, they performed stretching for 5 min and slow walking for 3 min as a warm-up exercise before starting the training. Stretch was carried out similarly to all the subjects to quadriceps femoris and the hamstring. In the warm-up time period , it was enforced for 3 min at the speed of1 km/h. Then patients began the walking trials and walked at 1 to 1.34 m/s on an electric car treadmill (JACO fitness: JACO-212C).

Exercise intensity

For the purpose of this study, Metabolic Equivalents (METs) and Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE) w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in degree of pain from base line
  - CHange in function from base line

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: pre and post excercise group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03927339
