CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06189430
Title: Effect of Vinyasa Yoga on Frailty and Anthropometric Measurements in Elderly Individuals
Official Title: Effect of Vinyasa Yoga on Frailty and Anthropometric Measurements in Elderly Individuals
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
During the aging process, concrete changes such as loss of function in organs and systems resulting from biological, physiological and psychological negativities and difficulty in participating in daily life activities occur. Frailty, one of the geriatric syndromes, is a complex condition that increases vulnerability to stressors and causes a decrease in the physiological reserve necessary to maintain homeostasis in most organs. When examined pathophysiologically, it is thought that frailty is not only evaluated as physical, but psychological and social fragility may also contribute to this situation.

It is thought that physical activity that includes strength training to maintain or improve muscle mass throughout aging may reduce muscle loss, an important risk factor for frailty. To treat physical frailty, supervised exercise is recommended as an effective strategy. Yoga; It is a holistic practice that encourages healing through breathing, movement, strength, flexibility and achieving integrity of spirit, body and mind. Being a meditative practice distinguishes yoga from other typical forms of physical exercise, despite having similar metabolic intensity. Regular yoga has the potential to improve flexibility, balance and muscle strength in older individuals. It is also known that yoga improves cognitive function in the elderly, helps manage chronic conditions, reduces pain due to osteoarthritis, improves sleep, increases subjective well-being and health-related quality of life.

During the healthy aging process, people may need to be guided according to their individual and health characteristics. By supporting this situation with appropriate nursing care, losses can be reduced and optimum health can be maintained. One of the biggest advantages of yoga applied within the scope of nursing care is that the individual's progress is ensured in a controlled manner by preparing a flow in line with appropriate asana selections, taking into account the individual's health condition. Nursing, by its nature, requires a holistic approach to people. Similarly, the practice of yoga is considered a practice that integrates not only physical health but also the mind, body and soul.

This study was planned as a randomized controlled, double-blind and experimental study to evaluate the effect of vinyasa yoga on frailty and anthropometric measurements in elderly individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Epidemiological studies and evidence-based practices conducted with the increasing elderly population in the world suggest that active and healthy aging can be achieved by preventing age-related inadequacies and limitations due to changes in negative factors that occur with aging. Active aging is the process of enabling the individual to perform all his/her functions independently and maintaining and protecting his/her health in a physically, psychologically and socially safe environment. In addition, during this period, the person has the opportunity to improve himself while increasing his subjective well-being levels and related quality of life by focusing on his strengths rather than the losses he experiences due to old age.

To date, exercise remains the interventional modality that most consistently provides benefit in the treatment of frailty and its core components. Exercise has physiological effects on almost all organ systems, especially the musculoskeletal, endocrine and immune systems. It is known that supervised exercise programs in healthy and pre-frail elderly individuals have positive effects on their participation in daily life activities while reducing physical fragility. Among frail older adults, exercise and maintaining self-autonomy are particularly important to reduce fall risk and reduce hospitalizations. It is thought that physical activity that includes strength training to maintain or improve muscle mass throughout aging may reduce muscle loss, an important risk factor for frailty. Supervised exercise is recommended as an effective strategy to treat physical frailty. If physical health is not protected, the quality of life of elderly individuals may decrease along with fragility. It has been observed that people who regularly participate in physical activity in older ages have higher levels of life satisfaction and subjective well-being than those who participate irregularly or intermittently. Yoga is a holistic practice that promotes healing through breathing, movement, strength, flexibility and achieving integrity of spirit, body and mind. Being a meditative practice distinguishes yoga from other typical forms of physical exercise, despite having similar metabolic intensity. Since Yoga aims to create the highest possible state of physical, mental and spiritual health, called Samadhi, many therapeutic processes that balance health occur in the process of achieving this goal. Yoga performed regularly has the potential to improve flexibility, balance and muscle strength in older individuals. It is also known that yoga improves cognitive function in the elderly, helps manage chronic conditions, reduces pain due to osteoarthritis, improves sleep, increases subjective well-being and health-related quality of life. It has been observed that yoga-based practices in the elderly also help maintain breathing and pulse rate, reduce high blood pressure and cortisol levels, and this helps repair stress-related autonomic regulatory re

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Groningen Frailty Index
  - Skeletal muscle and appendicular muscle mass measurement from anthropometric (physiological parameter) measurements with Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis
  - Hand Grip Test
  - 4-Meter Walk Gait Speed Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Yoga
  - OTHER: Standard exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06189430
