CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07341711
Title: Long-term Adaptations of Skeletal Muscle After Hybrid Training.
Official Title: Long-term Adaptations of Skeletal Muscle in Overweight and Obese Individuals After Hybrid Training.
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Obesity is a major challenge for public health and renders it imperative to reduce its prevalence. High intensity interval training (HIIT) is a form of exercise training that can efficiently induce weight loss in adults with overweight or obesity, even in the absence of dietary intake manipulation. Hybrid type training represents a form of HIIT, that incorporates both cardiorespiratory and musculoskeletal stimuli, by combining multiple types of exercise into a circuit-type, interval style workout. Recent evidence suggests that long-term participation in hybrid HIIT results in significant health-related benefits. However, the molecular mechanisms driving the chronic effects of hybrid HIIT on cardiometabolic and musculoskeletal health remains to be elucidated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total number of 30 adults (both males and females) aged 30-50, meeting the inclusion criteria, will be enrolled in this study. Participants will be randomly assigned to either (i) a Control group or (ii) an Intervention group. The Intervention group will participate in three hybrid-type HIIT sessions per week over a 6-month period while receiving a balanced diet. The Control group will receive a balanced diet over the 6-month period but will not participate in exercise training. At baseline and 6 months, both groups will undergo assessment of their anthropometric profile, body composition, resting metabolic rate, muscle strength and cardiorespiratory capacity and provide resting blood and skeletal muscle samples.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in mitochondrial size
  - Change in mitochondrial density
  - Change in mitochondrial count
  - Change in mitochondrial distribution
  - Change in maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training
  - OTHER: Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07341711
