CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07466628
Title: Effects of Caffeine Ingestion on Morning Cognitive and Muscle Strength Measures in Males
Official Title: Effects of Caffeine Ingestion on Morning Cognitive and Muscle Strength Measures in Males, Where a Standardized Approach Has Been Employed
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Tournament scheduling and environmental factors often require athletes to compete in the morning. Equally due to time constraints, athletes may choose to train in the morning. However, muscle power output and force production, are higher in the mid-afternoon or early evening whatever the method used, the muscle groups tested or the mode and speed of contraction. Cognitive performance is another essential determinant for many athletes that has been shown to be time-of-day and variable dependent. Considered as multifactorial, it includes many different components related to attention, accuracy, consistency, reaction time, vigilance, decision making and executive functions. Executive functions notably include the ability to plan and coordinate considered action while updating it with inhibition processes of distractions to focus attention on the relevant information. Subjective negative mood states (fatigue) and motivation levels, which are essential elements for tasks requiring higher cognitive function are poorer in the morning than the evening.

Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is amongst the most extensively researched ergogenic supplements within the field of sport, aimed at enhancing alertness, concentration, cognitive and physical performance. Caffeine's primary mechanism of action in the brain is the blockage of adenosine receptors, which play a central role in the regulation of sleep-wake-cycle by increasing sleep pressure throughout the activity phase. It is thought that by blocking these receptors, caffeine counteracts natural tiredness, improving attention, focus and improving overall cognitive performance. One of the few studies to investigate caffeine effects on morning cognitive performance report-ed an improvement in a simple search task 2.5 % in undergraduate students, when 4 mg.kg-1 body mass of caffeine was consumed 1-h before a 07:00 h experimental session versus Placebo. Unlike the sparce research investigating cognitive effects of morning caffeine ingestion, its effects on muscle performance have been demonstrated elsewhere. Caffeine (3 mg.kg-1 body mass) ingested 60-min before exercise increased dynamic strength and power output of upper and lower muscle groups in the morning (10:00 h) in resistance-trained men, with 4.6-5.3% improvement compared to placebo. Similarly, caffeine (3 mg.kg-1 body mass) ingested 60-min before exercise at 09:00 h improved muscular strength/power at moderate-to-high loads (75-90% 1RM) and endurance performance (65% 1RM) in the back squat while counteracting morning declines at light-load (25% 1RM) for both back squat and bench press without altering electrical activity. These benefits are likely due to increased neural activation, enhanced calcium release in muscles, and a reduction in the perception of effort during exercise, making it easier to exert maximal effort.

The observation of caffeine's ability to improve morning cognitive and physical performance, may be obscured by lack of rigor and standardization in the method employed (such as timing of the ingestion and dose chosen). Many studies do not report any control condition that consider a placebo effect (no pill, familiarization of the tests to be conducted, recruit sample size based on a power calculation and no standardization of participants habitual caffeine use (low, medium or high caffeine daily users). In addition, studies have often failed to control important factors such as chronotype, time-of year, or time-of-day and participants' quality of sleep. Which specifically relates to investigations of chronobiological nature and other considerations.

Objectives:

To assess the effect of 300 mg caffeine (CAFF) vs placebo (PLAC) vs no-pill (NoPill) on morning

a) strength and power output measured via the Biodex Isometric MVC as well as the Muscle Lab force-velocity linear encoder \[such as peak force (PF), % muscle activation, average power (AP), average velocity (AV), peak velocity (PV), mean propulsive velocity (MPV), rate of development of velocity (RDV), displacement (D) and time-to-peak velocity (tPV)\]

and b) cognitive performance (including tasks of attention, memory and executive function).

A population of low daily users \< 150 mg was chosen, to reduce effects of caffeine withdrawal symptoms on the non-caffeine condition on performance. As well as maximize caffeine effects at the 300 mg dose administered.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants Fourteen male adults of biological sex and gender who were classified as "recreationally active". All participants were recruited from the University Sport Science department student population. Inclusion criteria were healthy adults (18-30 years), injury-free, with previous weight/strength training experience (≥ 2 years). The project also opened participation to females, but no females volunteered. Participants habitually retired to bed between 22:00-23:30 h and rose at 06:00-07:30 h and for the study purposes agreed to retire at 22:30 and rise at 06:30 h. None of the participants were receiving any pharmacological treatment (including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, NSAIDs) throughout the study period. Habitual caffeine consumption was assessed using the caffeine consumption questionnaire (CCQ) and those with \>150 mg per day were excluded. Further, all participants expressed no preference to training regarding time-of-day by a weekly self-reported 2-week training diary. Recruiting participants with this specific type of exercise history meant that the known neuromuscular facilitative responses, which are typically associated with acute increases in muscular strength amongst untrained individuals due to neural adaptations and responses were reduced. Exclusion criteria included depressed mood (from the Beck depression inventory), poor sleep quality (a Pittsburgh sleep quality index global score \>5, recent shiftwork or travel across multiple time-zones and 'extreme' chronotype (assessed via the Compo-site Morningness Questionnaire) and risk factors and/or symptoms of cardiovascular disease. Through interviews, it was established that the volunteers had minimal knowledge of the effects of time-of-day or time-since-sleep on human performance. Verbal explanation of the experimental procedure was provided to everyone; this included the aims of the study; the possible risks associated with participation and the experimental procedures to be utilized. Any questions were answered. Individuals then provided written, informed consent before participating in the study. The experimental procedures were approved by the Human Ethics Committee at Liverpool John Moores University (ETHICS CODE: 08/SPS/030). The study was conducted in accordance with the ethical standards of the journal and complied with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.

Research design All participants were required to visit the physiological laboratory (Liverpool, UK) on seven occasions (dry temperature of 19-21°C, 29-41% humidity, barometric pressure of 962-1010 mmHg and ambient light of 750 lux). Participants completed (i) one maximum repetition (1RM) for bench press and back squat, ii) two familiarization sessions of cognitive and strength performance tests one week prior to the experimental protocol. During familiarizations participants completed a 7-day food diary that was analyzed using Nutritics® analysis software by a SENr registered Sports and Exercis

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Morning peak force production (N) measured via the Biodex Isometric MVC, with and without percutaneous stimulation.
  - Muscle Lab force-velocity linear encoder morning average power (AP, W), for bench press and back squat at 40, 60 and 80% 1RM (maximum repetition).
  - Morning average velocity (AV, m/s), for bench press and back squat at 40, 60 and 80% 1RM (maximum repetition).
  - Morning peak velocity (PV, m/s), for bench press and back squat at 40, 60 and 80% 1RM (maximum repetition).
  - Morning mean propulsive velocity (MPV, m/s), for bench press and back squat at 40, 60 and 80% 1RM (maximum repetition).

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: 300mg of of caffeine anhydrous in 3 capsules similar to PLACEBO in size and weight
  - OTHER: Placebo
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: No Pill

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07466628
