CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04398082
Title: TRANslating Sleep Health Into QUaLity of Recovery (TRANQUiL) Study
Official Title: TRANslating Sleep Health Into QUaLity of Recovery (TRANQUiL) Study: A Multi-center Prospective Cohort Study of Sleep Health and Activity Measures Predicting Meaningful and Patient-centric Outcomes Following Non-cardiac Surgeries.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 174
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This is a novel observational study with the overarching aim of evaluating the association between poor sleep health and poor quality of recovery in a surgical setting. It hopes to assess and optimize the perioperative sleep health of patients so significant improvements in their quality of recovery and health outcomes may be achieved.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Surgery and pain may cause sleep disturbances that affect both physical and mental well-being of patients. Sleep disturbance can cause an increased risk of confusion after surgery, increased pain needing some or more medication, untoward events (heart and breathing problems), delayed recovery and increased lengths of hospital stay.

Hospitalization interferes with sleep patterns, causing poor quality sleep due to noise, light, pain, medication administration and nursing checks. The circadian rhythm, which is the "body clock" is a 24-hour cycle that tells our bodies when to sleep and rise. This in turn helps in regulating many physiological processes in the body. Sleep disruption affects the body clock, thereby changing hormone levels that may be responsible for poor wound healing. This study aims to evaluate sleep problems before disruption post-operatively and also evaluate the relation between poor sleep health and quality of recovery utilizing sleep health measurements such as sleep quality, sleep timing, and sleep efficiency.

Objectives of the study:

1. To examine the associations between specific pre-operative sleep-health parameters, predicting poor sleep health, and patient-centered outcomes such as pain control, delirium, sleep-related quality of life, and quality of recovery scores in the peri-operative period.
2. To estimate the association between presence of intrinsic sleep disorders and patient centric outcomes such as pain control, delirium, sleep-related quality of life and quality of recovery scores in the post-operative period.
3. To validate a set of subjective and objective measures of various sleep health domains in the post-operative period.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quality of recovery-15 score at 48 hrs postoperatively
  - The diagnostic accuracy of each of the actigraphy derived measures

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04398082
