CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03776162
Title: A Comparison of ACL Repair With BEAR Device vs. Autograft Patellar Tendon ACL Reconstruction
Official Title: BEAR - MOON: A Two Arm Non-Inferiority Randomized Clinical Trial Comparing ACL Repair With BEAR Device vs. Autograft Patellar Tendon ACL Reconstruction
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to evaluate bridge-enhanced ACL restoration (BEAR), a new surgical technique for repairing knees injured by a tear of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) that promotes reattachment and healing of the ACL using a blood-enriched implant. BEAR will be compared to bone to patellar tendon to bone autograft (BPTB) reconstruction, a standard ACL surgical reconstruction technique that replaces a torn portion of the ACL with trensplanted patellar tendon tissue, and thus requires additional invasive patellar tendon removal and reuse as a portion of the ACL surgery, in a two group randomized clinical trial (RCT) in which participants will have equal chance of receiving BEAR or BPTB reconstruction. The BEAR technique is FDA approved and involves surgically placing a sponge (the BEAR implant) between the torn ends of the ACL, providing an absorbable implant for the ligament ends to grow into. The investigators hypothesize that the ACL repair with BEAR technology will achieve results not appreciably worse than BPTB reconstruction, with a reduced burden of invasive surgery, when assessed over the first two post-operative years. Animal studies suggest BEAR may also ameliorate longer-term premature osteoarthritis of the knee, a common consequence of ACL reconstruction surgery. However, no human data yet support that, and this trial will conclude before such a benefit can be observed. All patients 18-55 years of age who are candidates for ACL surgery within 50 days of the ACL injury and who present to surgeons participating in the study will be offered participation in the trial. Patients will be randomized and will undergo specified rehabilitation protocols post-operatively with primary assessments of knee laxity and patient reported measures at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study population will include active and otherwise healthy patients of both genders, all races, and between 18-55 years old at any of six locations, who elect to undergo primary surgery for a torn ACL within 50 days of injury. Approximately 100 patients will receive each of the experimental BEAR surgery and the comparative control BPTB reconstruction surgery, with each group distributed similarly across the six medical centers where the trial is being conducted: Cleveland Clinic, Vanderbilt University, Ohio State University, Rhode Island Hospital/University Orthopedics, and University of Colorado . The study intervention uses a BEAR implant, which is placed between the torn ends of the ruptured ACL. The BEAR implant is resorbed over 4 to 8 weeks, during which period it promotes repair of the ACL tissue in the gap between the torn ends. The device provides a stable provisional sponge to facilitate intra-articular repair of the torn ACL ligament, where without the implant device, healing does not occur. The results of this BEAR procedure will be compared against ACL reconstruction using a BPTB autograft. This technique consists of removing the torn ACL tissue, harvesting patellar tendon, and grafting that tendon within tunnels in the bone to reconstruct or replace the torn ACL. The study duration is five years. Surgery will occur at most 50 days after the patient's ACL is torn, with two year follow-up and a three month window for the final follow-up examination, for a maximum enrollment period for each patient of approximately 2 years and five months (29 months). Randomization will occur during the surgery, and patients will be informed of their treatments at conclusion of their participation. The two research time points are 1 and 2 years, when assessments will be conducted by an independent examiner masked to the type of surgery the patient received. With the exception of the RCT consenting process, use of the BEAR implant, and the blinded assessment process, clinicALCARe will be standard practice following surgical treatment for a torn ACL.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - KT-1000
  - IKDC (International Knee Documentation Committee) Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: ACL Reconstruction (Bone Patellar Tendon Bone Graft)
  - DEVICE: Bridge Enhanced ACL Restoration (BEAR)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03776162
