CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06229834
Title: Chiropractic Care for Episodic Migraine
Official Title: Chiropractic Care for Episodic Migraine
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Migraine, a chronic intermittent headache disorder, ranks in the top five causes of years lived with disability. One promising non-pharmacologic and integrative treatment for migraine may be chiropractic care due to the co-occurrence of migraine and musculoskeletal complaints. The goal of this application is to perform a pilot study of chiropractic care for episodic migraine to help inform the design of a future, full-scale pragmatic effectiveness trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Migraine, a chronic intermittent headache disorder, ranks in the top five causes for years lived with disability. Due to the high disability burden associated with migraine, individuals who experience migraine often seek treatments to reduce the frequency and severity of their attacks and often express interest in nonpharmacologic and integrative approaches. One promising treatment may be chiropractic care due to the comorbidity of migraine and musculoskeletal complaints.

Our long-term goal is to conduct a multi-site large-scale, fully powered trial evaluating the effectiveness of a validated multimodal chiropractic care intervention to reduce migraine frequency, severity, and disability.

To help inform the design of a large-scale trial with both pragmatic and explanatory features, we propose to conduct a two-arm pilot randomized attention-controlled trial at two sites which are representative of sites to be included in the future large-scale trial. We will recruit and randomize 60 individuals (30 per site) to either 1) 14 visits of chiropractic care (CC) (6 visits of CC over 3-5 weeks followed by 8 visits of CC over 12 weeks); or 2) 14 sessions of headache health education (15-minute 1:1 virtual sessions focused on pre-defined migraine specific topics) - both added to usual medical care. This study will allow us to address the following aims: 1) To train a team of chiropractors from established clinics within two academic medical centers with existing partnerships with headache programs, refine our intervention, and assess the fidelity of intervention protocols; 2) To optimize data collection, data management, and reporting procedures across sites and establish the infrastructure needed for a large-scale trial; 3) To assess the feasibility of recruitment, retention, and adherence across multiple study sites; 4) To assess participant expectations and treatment experience.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recruitment feasibility (average number of participants per month)
  - Retention feasibility (proportion of participants not lost to follow-up)
  - Intervention adherence feasibility

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Chiropractic Care
  - BEHAVIORAL: Headache Health Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06229834
