CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06304012
Title: Effect of Oral Enteral Nutrition on Severe Traumatic Brain Injury
Official Title: Oral Versus Nasal Enteral Nutrition on Severe Traumatic Brain Injury Patients With Tracheostomy: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 104
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
This was a multicenter randomized controlled study of 98 severe Traumatic Brain Injury patients with tracheostomy. Patients enrolled were divided randomly into the observation group with Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding (n=50) or the control group with Nasogastric tube feeding (n=48) for enteral nutrition support, respectively. Nutritional status, complications, decannulation of tracheostomy tubes and level of consciousness on day 1 and day 28 were recorded and compared.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The safe and effective nutrition support for severe traumatic brain injury patients with tracheostomy continues to be a challenge. Nasogastric tube feeding has been the mainstream choice in China but with the risk of complications. Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding is an established modality of enteral nutrition support that can be used with routine treatment. This study reports the clinical outcomes of Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding vs. nasogastric tube feeding, in patients receiving routine treatment. This was a multicenter randomized controlled study of 98 severe traumatic brain injury patients with tracheostomy. Patients enrolled were divided randomly into the observation group with Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding (n=50) or the control group with Nasogastric tube feeding (n=48) for enteral nutrition support, respectively. Nutritional status, complications, decannulation of tracheostomy tubes and level of consciousness on day 1 and day 28 were recorded and compared.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of hemoglobin
  - Concentration of albumin
  - Concentration of prealbumin
  - Nutritional status-body mass index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Nasogastric tube feeding
  - DEVICE: Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding
  - BEHAVIORAL: Rehabilitation therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06304012
