CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03615625
Title: Post-exercise Hypotension After a Power Training Session in Older Adults With Hypertension
Official Title: Effect of a Power Training Session on Ambulatory Blood Pressure in Older Adults With Hypertension: a Randomized Crossover Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The main purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a power training session on office and 24h ambulatory blood pressure in older adults with hypertension. As secondary outcomes, the investigators compared post-exercise hypotension, BP variability, and endothelial function between older men and women with hypertension.

The working hypothesis was that a single bout of power exercise would decrease both office and 24 h BP in comparison to a non-exercising control session and men and women would respond differently after a power training session.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants randomly performed two experimental sessions: power exercise training (PT) and non-exercising control at seated rest (Con). They maintained their current antihypertensive medications throughout the trial. Each session was composed of 20 min of rest in the supine position, 40 min of PT or Con protocols, and 60 min of rest in supine position after protocols. The PT was composed of 3 sets of 8-10 repetitions of 5 exercises performed in the following order: leg press, bench press, knee extension, upright row, and knee flexion, using an intensity corresponding to 50 % of 1-RM and two-minute intervals between sets and exercises. The concentric phase of exercises during each repetition was performed "as fast as possible" while the eccentric phase lasted 1-2 seconds. During the Con, the participants remained seated rest on the same exercise machines, but without any exercise. Standardized office BP was performed before and during the first hour (in intervals of 15 min) after exercise and control sessions. Together with the office BP evaluation in the pre and post sessions, the endothelium-dependent brachial vascular function was evaluated using Flow-mediated dilation. Afterwards, participants underwent 24h ambulatory BP monitoring..

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Power Training Session

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03615625
