CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06127823
Title: Effect of Intensive Nutrition Training, Education, and Support in Gestational Diabetes - The INTENSE-GDM TRIAL
Official Title: Effect of Intensive Nutrition Training, Education, and Support Versus Standard Care in Reducing the Need for Insulin Therapy in Gestational Diabetes (INTENSE-GDM): A Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 214
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The treatment of gestational diabetes (GDM) primarily revolves around consuming an optimal diet that does not cause blood glucose levels to become excessively high and provides an adequate supply of micro- and macronutrients without resulting in excessive weight gain during pregnancy. In some cases, it may become necessary to supplement with insulin during pregnancy. However, insulin treatment is associated with personal, health-related, and healthcare cost-related implications. The rationale for this study is the lack of knowledge regarding whether the extent of support and guidance from a dietitian during pregnancy has an impact on the treatment outcomes for both the mother and the child in cases of GDM. The overall objective is to investigate differences in clinical, cost-related, and patient-reported outcomes between women with GDM randomised to either intensive dietary therapy or standard dietary care (control). The primary endpoint is the effect of intensive dietary therapy on the likelihood of remaining treated with diet only vs. needing insulin therapy. The study design is a randomised controlled parallel group open-label effectiveness trial including 214 women with GDM.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gestational diabetes (GDM) is defined as glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy. The disease is characterized by hyperglycaemia and a marked insulin resistance secondary to placental hormonal release. Risk factors for developing GDM in pregnancy include obesity, excessive gestational weight gain, previous GDM, glucosuria, family history of diabetes, ethnicity, and hypertension. Hyperglycaemia is associated with serious short- and long-term complications for mother and child including delivering large-for-gestational-age (LGA) babies, macrosomia, preterm birth, caesarean section, preeclampsia, birth injury, respiratory distress syndrome, neonatal hypoglycaemia, jaundice, and increased admission to neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). First-line treatment in GDM after diagnosis is dietary therapy including a systematic and detailed dietary assessment to identify relevant areas for adjusting the diet and overall lifestyle. The overall goals with dietary therapy are 1) To provide adequate calories and micro- and macronutrients to meet the needs of pregnancy consistent with maintaining normoglycaemia, 1) To improve glycaemic control; and 3) To secure appropriate gestational weight gain and avoid excessive weekly gestational weight gain. Currently, no evidence exists for specific recommendations concerning the optimal frequency, intensity, or duration of visits with a dietitian for improving maternal, foetal, or neonatal outcomes. National clinical guidelines for treatment of GDM recommends up to three visits with a dietitian depending on the time of diagnosis. However, in the latest national clinical guidelines under review this has been changed to only one visit.

In most cases dietary improvements are sufficient to achieve glycaemic goals but around one third of all women with GDM will need insulin therapy at some point during pregnancy. Decision about additional insulin therapy is based on a combination of ultrasound findings and dietary glycemic control as indicated by the blood glucose protocol as assessed by an obstetrician. Insulin therapy can improve glycaemic control and has been shown to be effective in reducing the rate of macrosomia in GDM. But use of insulin during pregnancy is also associated with several clinical implications, increased hospital and medical costs as well as higher costs in relation to delivery, and neonatal care, and personal burden affecting women with GDM.

In summary, the most optimal way to deliver dietary therapy to women with GDM is not known. The possibility that intensive dietary therapy may reduce the need for initiating insulin treatment without increasing hospital service costs for these women in comparison with women receiving standard dietary care needs to be explored.

The overall objective is to investigate the effectiveness and hospital service costs of implementing an intervention with intensive dietary counselling and support during pregnancy in women with GDM.

The INTENS

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of insulin-treated

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06127823
