CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04563598
Title: The Effects of an Intensive Lifestyle Intervention on Employment, Earnings, and Retirement
Official Title: The Effects of an Intensive Lifestyle Intervention for Type 2 Diabetes on Employment, Earnings, and Retirement
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 3091
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Starting in 2001, the Look AHEAD study randomized patients with type 2 diabetes to an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) focused on weight loss versus a control group receiving diabetes education ("Diabetes Support and Education," or DSE). The ILI successfully reduced weight, improved diabetes control, and functional status, among other outcomes. In this study, the investigators will compare employment, earnings, and retirement between the ILI and the control group during and after the intervention period (2001-2018).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Starting in 2001, the Look AHEAD study randomized 5145 patients with type 2 diabetes to an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) focused on weight loss versus a control group receiving diabetes education ("Diabetes Support and Education," or DSE).The Look AHEAD study tested whether participants with type 2 diabetes assigned to an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) for weight loss exhibited reductions in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, relative to a control group receiving usual care and diabetes support and education. During the 12-year intervention period, the ILI led to persistent reductions in weight, waist circumference, and hemoglobin A1c and improvements in physical fitness, among other clinical benefits. After the conclusion of the intervention in 2012, participants were consented to be linked with administrative data. The investigators attempted to link 3188 consenting participants with Social Security Administration databases. Of these, the investigators were able to successfully link 3093 participants. In this study, the investigators will compare employment, earnings, and retirement between the ILI and the control group during and after the intervention period (2001-2018). The investigators will determine ILI-versus-control differences in employment, earnings, and retirement in each year after randomization, relative to a pre-randomization assessment period. The investigators will also investigate ILI-versus-control differences in cumulative years of employment and earnings after randomization which occurred between 2001-2004. The investigators will use multivariate regressions controlling for baseline participant characteristics and clinic site and also survival analyses that estimate whether the time until retirement differs between the ILI and control groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Employed (any earnings from employment or self-employment) by study year (all study participants)
  - Total earnings from employment and/or self-employment by study year (all study participants)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diabetes support and education (DSE)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04563598
