CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03921853
Title: Resistance Training in Patients With Morbid Obesity
Official Title: Preventing Metabolic Syndrome in Patients With Morbid Obesity by Resistance Training: Reporting Non-responder Prevalence
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The researchers will conduct a study for avoiding the metabolic syndrome in morbid obese patients. Thus, the aim of the present will be determine the effects of a resistance training programme (RT) in preventing or attenuating metabolic syndrome (MetS) in patients with morbid obesity. A second aim will be report the prevalence of non-responders in terms of improvements in MetS markers and other co-variables considered.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) and cardiovascular disease is expected to rise along with the global obesity epidemic. MetS is a cluster of clinical risk factors, including abdominal (visceral) obesity, hypertension, elevated serum triglycerides, low serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and hyperglycaemia.The MetS for example, significantly decreases the life expectancy of individuals with morbid obesity and increases the disease burden and economic costs associated with healthcare. In this sense, more recently, there was reported that body mass index (BMI) and fat distribution showed higher associations with inflammation, fat indices, and more prevalence of MetS in morbidly obese subjects, claiming for an early prevention of the MetS in the morbid obese state.

Exercise training has proven to be effective in inducing a clinically significant weight loss and reducing cardiovascular risk. Exercise have reported to be associated with increased muscle mass, decreased body fat, and improved metabolic profile (i.e., improved glucose control and lipid levels). In addition, supervised RT improved muscle strength and functional capacity in patients with obesity undergoing bariatric surgery. However, although RT has been widely studied in obesity, there is little information in the morbid obesity. On the other hand, there is poor knowledge similarly, about the interindividual variability to exercise training in terms of responders and non-responders (NR). Thus, considering the poor knowledge about the MetS prevention in morbid obese patients, as well as the little information about Responders and Non-Responders for improving MetS outcomes, the aim of this study will be determine the effects of a RT program on cardio-metabolic outcomes of MetS in patients with morbid obesity. A second aim will be report the prevalence of non-responders in terms of the effects of resistance training on MetS markers and other health-related variables.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fasting glucose
  - High density lipoprotein
  - Systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure
  - Waist circumference
  - Triglycerides

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Behavioral

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03921853
