CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05562401
Title: Effect of Coconut Water on Hydration Status in Pediatric Population
Official Title: Effect of Coconut Water Compared to Oral Electrolytes on Hydration Status in Adolescents Who Perform Physical Exercise: Randomized Clinical Trial, Double-blind
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Introduction: The dehydration is a very common problem that is often not identified. The pediatric population is more susceptible to dehydration due to its physiological characteristics. Proper hydration is crucial for health since any degree of dehydration causes a reduction in physical and mental work capacity, hence the importance of preventing it by considering the type of drink. There are multiple beverage options, including industrial oral electrolytes (OE), on the other hand, coconut water (CW) has been studied as a natural alternative beverage with characteristics that can help maintain a state of euhydration. Objective: To determine if AC has a greater effect on hydration status than OE in adolescents who perform physical exercise. Material and methods: RCT, double blind. 34 subjects aged 13.02 ± 1.08 years were selected, assigned to treatment with either OE (Electrolit®) or CW. They received a weekly physical exercise session (4 weeks). Hydration was personalized (ml x kilograms of weight) and hydration was evaluated by Urine Specific Gravity (USG), Total Body Water (TBW) by bioimpedance and changes in body mass. Results:

Sesion 1 CW: Euhydrated (12) Dehydrated (5); OE: Euhydrated (8) Dehydrated (9); p value=0,16

Sesion 2 CW: Euhydrated (12) Dehydrated (5); OE: Euhydrated (7) Dehydrated (10); p value=0,08

Sesion 3 CW: Euhydrated (13) Dehydrated (4); OE: Euhydrated (13) Dehydrated (4); p value=1,00

Sesion 4 CW: Euhydrated (16) Dehydrated (1); OE: Euhydrated (8) Dehydrated (9); p value=0,007\*

Conclusion: AC and OE have the same effect on hydration levels in adolescents who perform physical exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. For current epidemiological reasons of Covid-19, an increase of 30% of losses has been considered already established in the sample size, giving a total of 22 participants per group (44 in total). For the same reason, two groups of 22 participants (11 experimental and 11 controls) will be divided in order to reduce the population and the risk of contagion, following the health protocols established by the institution mentioned in Annex 2. The type of randomization to be used in the study will be based on the assigned treatment (A / B) by the balanced block method. This method consists of assembling a series of blocks, made up of a certain number of cells, in which the different types of treatment are included. The number of blocks will be determined by the number of participants to be included and the number of cells that it has been decided to include in each block, so in the present study 12 blocks with four treatment cells will be placed, giving a total of 44 treatments to the same as the number of study subjects. Each block will contain in each cell one of the treatment alternatives and within each block there must be a balanced number of possible treatments. Treatments A and B will be written in blocks (22 with treatment A and 22 with treatment B). The randomization will be carried out by a person external to the study and the same person will be the one who will randomly assign the treatments in the blocks and the numbering of each block. They will be summoned to 12:00 noon on Monday or Tuesday only according to the group assigned to start with the collection of personal data (Annex 3) and a mental test called Psychological Characteristics related to Sports Performance (CPRD) (Annex 4) which will be applied by an expert in the area of psychology, in addition, if training is required for the application of the test, the main researcher will be trained to be able to perform it properly.
2. After taking personal data, hydrating drinks will be administered immediately before training (7 ml x kg of weight) 4 hours before. At 2:00 p.m., your corresponding hydrating drink (4 ml x kg of weight) will be administered again. Each participant will have a 600 ml graduated glass that will be granted by the researcher to keep track of the drink administered at the different times of each session.
3. Immediately afterwards, the anthropometry and urine sample will be taken. To record body mass, the protocol developed by the International Society for the Advancement of Kinanthropometry (ISAK) will be followed. The study subjects will be weighed in sports shorts and barefoot before starting physical exercise, having been told that, in the case of urinating or defecating, they should do so before the initial weigh-in. Simultaneously with taking the body mass, the% ACT will be determined by electrical bioimpedance. To record body mass and% of ACT water, the Tanita BC-533 bioimpedance scale will be used with a reliability of 97%, precision of 0.1kg and with a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To Determine the Effect of AC vs EO on Hydration Status in Adolescents Who Perform Physical Exercise of Aerobic Competition.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Coconut Water
  - DRUG: Oral Electrolytes

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05562401
