CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05686213
Title: ExeNTrO: Exercise During Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation Treatment to Improve Rectal and Esophageal Cancer Outcome - Pilot Trial
Official Title: ExeNTrO: Exercise During Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation Treatment to Improve Rectal and
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The goals of this study is to 1) evaluate feasibility and fidelity of a three-arm RCT containing a twice-weekly exercise intervention supervised by a first-line (oncology) physiotherapist and a 5-day weekly in-hospital exercise intervention versus usual care in patients with rectal cancer or esophageal cancer receiving NCRT, and 2) generate preliminary data on the variability in exercise responses on immune function, immune infiltration, and vascularisation of the tumour.

Participants will be randomized in one of three study arms: 1) AE + RE - group; combined moderate-to-high intensity aerobic exercise (AE) and resistance exercise (RE) twice a week supervised by a specially trained first-line physiotherapist, and a home-based moderate intensity aerobic exercise session once a week; 2) ExPR - group; in-hospital exercise intervention consisting of 30 min moderate intensity aerobic exercise within one hour prior to every radiotherapy session (five times a week); and 3) UC - group; a control group that receives usual care.

The main study parameters will be the feasibility in terms of trial participation rate and attendance, and intervention fidelity (e.g. extend of and reasons for adaptations to the exercise intervention). The secondary study parameters are the average effect sizes and measures of variability on immune function, infiltration and vascularisation. Measurements will take place at baseline, directly after finishing NCRT, and within a week before surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Strong evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCT) showed that physical exercise during chemotherapy or radiotherapy benefits physical fitness, muscle mass, muscle strength, fatigue, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Additionally, exercise may counteract treatment-related side effects and help prevent treatment modifications, which might improve survival. To date, the majority of RCTs examining the effects of exercise during cancer treatment have been conducted in patients with breast cancer or prostate cancer who were treated with curative intent. Due to differences in treatment trajectories and side effects, generalisability of these findings to patients with other types of cancer is limited. Additionally, widespread implementation of exercise in clinical cancer care is hampered by the lack of knowledge of the exercise effects on clinical outcome, e.g. tumour recurrence, progression and cancer-specific survival. Also, the causality and underlying physiological and biological mechanisms linking exercise to clinical outcome are largely unknown. This knowledge is essential to understand the potential and limitations of exercise as integral part of cancer care and to further optimize exercise interventions. Pre-clinical studies have shown that exercise can directly impact tumour growth and function as sensitizer for anticancer treatment. However, it is unclear whether these results can be translated to patients.

Standard treatment for patients with esophageal cancer and for a part of the patients with rectal cancer includes neoadjuvant chemoradiation treatment (NCRT), followed by a 6 - 12 weeks or 8 - 10 weeks waiting period prior to surgical resection, respectively. NCRT might reduce tumour size and even induce a pathological complete response. However, pathological complete response rate after NCRT is relatively low for these patient populations: 15-20% for rectal cancer and 30% for esophageal cancer. A part of patients with rectal cancer are treated with radiotherapy (50 Gray in 25 fractions of 2 Gray) for five weeks combined with the oral chemotherapy capecitabine. NCRT for patients with esophageal cancer includes radiotherapy (41.4 Gray in 23 fractions for 5 days a week) combined with the intravenous chemotherapies paclitaxel and carboplatin once a week for 5 weeks. Besides the curative value of NCRT it may cause severe treatment-related side effects including diarrhoea, fatigue, haematological toxicity, and neuropathy. Exercise training may counteract side effects such as fatigue, neutropenia, neuropathy, and gastrointestinal problems (e.g. nausea) while simultaneously improving physical fitness and HRQoL. Exercise frequency, intensity, timing and type may impact the effects of the intervention. For example, aerobic exercise at higher intensities may provide larger cardiovascular benefits, but may result in more gastrointestinal side effects. Therefore, it is important to study whether exercise is feasible during neoadjuvant c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participation rate
  - Exercise intervention attendance
  - Intervention fidelity in terms of compliance
  - Exercise relative dose intensity (ExRDI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: combined aerobic exercise + resistance exercise intervention (AE + RE)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic exercise prior to daily radiotherapy sessions (ExPR)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05686213
