CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06173271
Title: The Effect of a Multi-intervention Program and Protein Food Sources on Preventing and Mitigating Sarcopenia
Official Title: The Effect of a Multi-intervention Program and Protein Food Sources on Preventing and Mitigating Sarcopenia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 86
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia is characterized by loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength with advancing age. It is linked to an increased risk of falls, disability, length of hospitalization, poor quality of life, and burden of health care. Nutrition and physical activity are the major modifiable factors to prevent and mitigate sarcopenia. However, most studies focused on the explore the effects of physical activity or single nutrient supplementation. Whether a multi-intervention program combining protein-rich food intake, nutrition education, and exercise can more effectively reduce the risk of sarcopenia still needs to be explored at the community level. This study aimed to investigate the effects of a multi-intervention program (protein-rich food supplement, nutrition education, and exercise) on reducing the risk of sarcopenia. The primary outcome is to evaluate the effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention only. The second outcome is to assess the impact of animal and plant source protein on muscle mass and physical performance. Investigators will recruit the study participants over the age of 60 from the free-living community. All participants were randomized into five groups: animal protein, plant protein, exercise and nutrition education, exercise alone, and control. For 8 weeks, except for control group, all four groups receive resistance training 3 times/week. However, the animal and plant protein groups provide milk 240 mL and soy milk 230 mL (7-8 g protein/serving) after exercise, respectively, and receive personal nutritional counseling and education to adhere to dietary recommendations. Dual-energy X-Ray using to evaluate the body composition and measure the grip strength, five-time chair stand test, and gait speed to assess physical performance pre- and post-intervention. The results of this study can be used to prevent muscle mass loss and frailty for older adults in the community.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention on muscle mass
  - The effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention on calf circumference
  - The effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention on grip strength
  - The effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention on walking speed
  - The effect of a multi-intervention program and exercise intervention on sit-to-stand speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: multi-intervention program and protein foods supplementation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06173271
