CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05828355
Title: The Knee Care @Home Programme Following Anterior Ligament Reconstruction
Official Title: Effectiveness of the KC@H Programme Compared With Clinic-based Rehabilitation in Patients Recovering From Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction: Study Protocol for a Single-centre, Randomised Controlled Superiority Trial.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Patients who are unable to fully comply with conventional clinic-based rehabilitation sessions after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction may find additional internet-based sessions beneficial. These remote sessions include therapeutic exercises that can be done at home, potentially extending the reach of rehabilitation services to underserved areas, prolonging the duration of care, and providing improved supervision.

Objective: To determine if the Knee Care at Home programme is more effective than conventional clinic-based rehabilitation alone in improving patient-reported, clinician-reported, and physical functional performance outcome measures after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Additionally, the trial pursues to assess the significance of changes in outcome measures for clinical practice.

Methods/design: This protocol outlines a randomised controlled trial for postoperative recovery following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Adult participants of both sexes who meet specific criteria will be randomly assigned to either the Clinic-based Rehabilitation group or the Knee Care at Home group. Only the latter group will receive internet-based sessions of therapeutic exercises at home, in addition to clinic-based rehabilitation sessions. A follow-up evaluation will be conducted for both groups 12 weeks after the intervention ends.

Expected Results: The Knee Care at Home programme is superior to conventional clinic-based rehabilitation alone for patients recovering from anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction across multiple outcome measures. Also, the programme has the potential to promote superior recovery and extend the reach and duration of care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Standing height
  - Weight
  - Knee pain during the last 24 hours
  - Knee pain during the last week
  - Knee symptoms and stiffness during the last week

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Knee Care@Home Programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05828355
