CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01882985
Title: Docetaxel Plus Lycopene in Castration Resistant, Chemotherapy-Naïve Prostate Cancer Patients
Official Title: A Phase II Study to Evaluate the Effects of Docetaxel Plus Lycopene in Castration Resistant, Chemotherapy-Naïve Prostate Cancer Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This phase II trial evaluated the impact of giving docetaxel together with lycopene supplements in treating patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer not previously treated with chemotherapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs, such as lycopene, to keep cancer from forming. Giving docetaxel together with lycopene may be an effective treatment for prostate cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate according to the criteria of Bubley, et al. (\>50% reduction from baseline) in subjects treated with a combination of docetaxel and lycopene.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To determine the objective response rate (ORR) according to modified RECIST criteria in patients with measurable disease, following treatment with docetaxel and lycopene.

II. To define the time to PSA progression, according to the response criteria of Scher, et al., in subjects treated with docetaxel and lycopene.

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of lycopene in combination with docetaxel.

IV. To determine the effects of docetaxel + lycopene therapy on the functioning of the IGFR-I, selected biomarkers, and docetaxel blood levels in plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (correlative studies).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 75 mg/m2 docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour q 21 days and lycopene 30 mg capsules orally (PO) once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proporation of Subjects Achieving Partial Response, Stable Disease or Progressive Disease Based on PSA Response Rates

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Docetaxel
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Lycopene

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01882985
