CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04184076
Title: Randomized Controlled Trial of Time-Restricted Feeding (TRF) in Acute Ischemic Stroke Patients
Official Title: Randomized Controlled Trial of Time-Restricted Feeding (TRF) in Acute Ischemic Stroke Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Many preclinical studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of intermittent fasting (IF) in a wide range of neurological and cardiovascular diseases. This pilot study aims to investigate the safety and compliance as well as efficacy of one specific IF intervention called time-restricted feeding (TRF; 16 hours fasting daily) in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Specific Aims This project is to conduct a pilot, phase II randomized clinical trial which aims to investigate the safety and compliance as well as efficacy of one specific IF intervention called time-restricted feeding (TRF; 16 hours fasting daily) in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) The primary endpoint is the safety and compliance of 4 weeks of TRF in AIS patients.

The secondary endpoints are the efficacy of 4 weeks of TRF compared to normal eating (NE) on plasma and imaging biomarkers and functional outcome at 3 months post-stroke.

This study will determine whether compared to NE control:

1. TRF (16 hours fasting daily) is safe and well-tolerated in patients with AIS.
2. TRF improves functional outcome compared to NE in AIS patients. (3) TRF decreases plasma pro-inflammatory cytokines including metallopeptidase (MMP)-9, interleukin (IL)-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) in plasma compared to baseline and NE in AIS patients.

(4) TRF improves diffusion tensor imaging on MRI at 3 months post stroke compared to baseline and NE in AIS patients.

(5) TRF changes plasma exosome components, metabolomics and lipidomics compared to baseline and NE in AIS patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The events of stroke in-evolution, stroke recurrence and hypoglycemia in acute ischemic stroke patients with time restricted fasting (TRF) or normal eating (NE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Time-restricted feeding (TRF) with dietary counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04184076
