CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04159233
Title: Sleep Bootcamp: A Pilot Tele-Sleep Program for Former National Football League (NFL) Players
Official Title: Pilot Study: Developing A Scalable Sleep Health Intervention to Improve Pain, Quality of Life, and Health in Former NFL Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
This pilot study is focused on estimating the impact of a tele-sleep intervention on patient-centered outcomes relevant to former football players, including a) sleep duration, quality, and daytime impairment; b) pain, pain catastrophizing, physical and emotional functioning; c) mood; d) quality of life, with the longer-term goal to evaluate the impact on cardiovascular health risk. The evidence-based 'Brief Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia' (BBTI) will be utilized and tailored it to meet the needs of former football players.

This pilot work will serve as the foundation for a larger, future clinical trial that utilizes a durable approach for improving sleep health with potential influence pain and quality of life as well as future studies to evaluate the implementation and scalability of BBTI in novel populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will plan to enroll 40 participants. Players will be recruited from the Harvard Football Players Health Study cohort from across the US via email and telephone invitations. Following screening, if the participant is eligible and interested, they may consent to enroll in the study. Participants will receive evidence-based 'Brief Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia' (BBTI), tailored to meet the needs of former football players. BBTi is a brief, efficacious treatment that focuses on modifying behaviors, rather than cognitive domains. The treatment emphasizes education, motivational tools, and specific behavioral recommendations (e.g., restricting time in bed). BBTI has been previously delivered remotely and this intervention will be delivered by phone by sleep interventionists including trened social workers, psychologists, and nurse practitioners. Participants will complete an intake session with their interventionist followed by a 'treatment session' a week later wherein the interventionist will provide education about sleep regulation and create an individualized schedule of sleep/wake times for the participant. This will be followed by 3 brief weekly check-in calls to review progress, address questions and concerns, and adjust the behavioral treatment plan as the participant progresses. The participant will complete a daily sleep diary throughout the intervention to inform the treatment. Participants will also complete baseline, endpoint and follow-up questionnaires to assess outcomes and intervention acceptability and feasibility. Participants will receive compensation for their participation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Sleep Disturbance, 8b Endpoint

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brief Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (BBTI)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04159233
