CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03179657
Title: Guangzhou Nutrition and Health Study (GNHS)
Official Title: Guangzhou Nutrition and Health Study (GNHS): A Multiomics-based Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 5118
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Purpose: The Guangzhou Nutrition and Health Study (GNHS) project aims to assess the determinants of metabolic disease in nutritional aspects, as well as other environmental and genetic factors, and explore possible mechanisms with multi-omics integration.

Study design: GNHS is a community-based prospective cohort study. Participants: In this cohort, the original GNHS and another cohort study (the controls of a case-control study of hip fractures, CCFH) have been integrated into the one GNHS project. After completing the baseline examination, a total of 5118 participants were recruited during 2008-2015 in the GNHS project.

Visits and Data Collection: Participants were/will be visited every three years by invited to the School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University. At each visit, face-to-face interviews, specimen collection, anthropometric measurements, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanning, ultrasonography evaluation, vascular endothelial function evaluation, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 14-d real-time continuous glucose monitoring tests, laboratory tests, and multi-omics data were/will be conducted. Up to December 2022, 3442 and 2895 subjects completed the 2nd and 3rd visits.

Key variables:

1. Questionnaire interviews.
2. Physical examinations: Anthropometric measurements, blood pressure tests, handgrip strength, muscle function and bracelet motion monitoring.
3. DXA scanning: To determine bone density, bone mineral content, bone geometry information, fat mass, and muscle mass.
4. Ultrasonography evaluations: To determine carotid artery intima-media thickness and plaque, and fatty liver.
5. Vascular endothelial function evaluation.
6. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing: Lung function.
7. MRI: Brain and upper-abdomen MRI.
8. 14-d Real-time continuous glucose monitoring tests.
9. Specimen collections: Overnight fasting blood, early morning first-void urine, faces, and saliva samples.
10. Laboratory tests: Metabolic syndrome-related indices; Diabetes-related indices; Uric acid; Nutritional indices; Inflammatory cytokines; Index of oxidative stress; Adipocytes; Sexual hormones; Liver and renal function-related markers; Routine blood test.
11. Multi-omics data: Genotyping data; Gut microbiota; Untargeted serum and fecal proteomics; Targeted serum and fecal metabolomics.
12. Morbidity and mortality: Relevant data were/will be also retrieved via local multiple health information systems.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose: The Guangzhou Nutrition and Health Study (GNHS) aims to assess the determinants of risk of metabolic diseases and changes in their relevant indices (e.g., osteoporosis, atherosclerosis, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, cardiovascular diseases, chronic kidney disease, body composition, lung function, cognition function, etc.) in nutritional aspects, as well as other environmental and genetic factors.

Study design: GNHS is a community-based prospective cohort study. Participants: In this cohort, the original GNHS and another cohort study (the controls of a case-control study of hip fractures, CCFH) have been integrated into the one GNHS project. About 4048 apparently healthy residents (aged 40-80 years) in the original GNHS were recruited between 2008 and 2013, and 1070 participants in the CCFH baseline (52-83 years old) were recruited from 2009 to 2015, all living in Guangzhou city (South China) for \>5 years. After completing the baseline examination, a total of 5118 participants were recruited during 2008-2015 in the GNHS project.

Visits and Data Collection: Participants were/will be visited every three years by invited to the School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University. At each visit, face-to-face interviews, specimen collection, anthropometric measurements, DXA scanning, ultrasonography evaluation, vascular endothelial function evaluation, cardiopulmonary exercise testing, MRI, 14-d real-time continuous glucose monitoring tests, laboratory tests, and multi-omics data were/will be conducted. Up to December 2022, 3442 and 2895 subjects completed the 2nd and 3rd visits. The 4th visit began in 2017 and has been ongoing, and 2243 participants have been revisited so far. About 1500 participants responded in 2020-now at the 5th visit. It is planned to follow up the participant in person for at least 15 years.

Key variables:

1. Questionnaire interviews: Structured questionnaires were/will be used to collect the participants' socio-demographic characteristics (e.g., age, sex and household income), lifestyle factors (smoking, passive smoking, alcohol drinking, tea drinking, physical activity), menstruation and reproductive history (women only), sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI), family history, psychological health (Self-Rating Anxiety Scale, SAS), Simplified Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), social support and participation, cognitive function (Mini-Mental State Examinations (MMSE), and Addenbrooke's cognitive examination (ACE)), habitual dietary intake (a validated 79-item quantitative food frequency questionnaire), use of supplements and history of chronic diseases.
2. Physical examinations: Anthropometric measurements (weight, height, waist, hip and neck circumference, etc.), blood pressure tests, handgrip strength, muscle function and bracelet motion monitoring.
3. DXA scanning: A dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA, Discovery W; Hologic Inc.) was/will be use

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cardiovascular diseases (change in carotid artery intima-media thickness, and occurrence of cardiovascular diseases)
  - Bone health (change of bone mineral density, and occurrence of osteoporosis and fractures)
  - Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 83 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03179657
