CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06568276
Title: The Benefit of Repairing the Deltoid Ligament in Unstable Ankle Fractures
Official Title: The Benefit of Repairing the Deltoid Ligament in Unstable Ankle Fractures: Patient-reported Functional Outcome and Radiological Stability Measurements
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Ankle fractures occur in 1 out of 800 persons a year and is a common injury. The deltoid ligament is necessary for the stability of the joint and guides choice of treatment. Cadaveric studies have shown that deltoid ligament repair gives more stability than the osteosynthesis of the lateral malleolus itself. The investigators want to show if suture of the deltoid ligament in unstable ankle fractures contribute to a better functional result and/or prevent long term osteoarthritis for our participants. Patients sustaining severe ankle fractures have shown a considerable loss of function that might affect their long term activities of daily living (ADL) function. Improving outcome for this group may preserve some patients' ability to work and reduce community expenses.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
During the last two decades less severe ankle fractures have been shown not to need operative treatment in general. The total number of ankle fracture surgeries has gone down. Therefore, surgically treated ankle fractures nowadays are on average more complex. The understanding of these injuries implies a recognition of the role of the deep deltoid ligament as a main stabilizer of the ankle joint. Deltoid ligament repair is documented to be a good option to regain ankle joint anatomy from smaller studies. This repair also compensates for syndesmotic injury to some extent. The effect of deep deltoid ligament repair in Weber B ankle fractures and its effect on long term function and arthritis is not yet known from clinical studies.

The investigators aim to show whether deltoid ligament suture gives a clinically significant superior result than solely osteosynthesis of the lateral malleolus in unstable ankle fractures. This will be performed as a multicentre randomized controlled study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient-reported functional outcome 1 year after injury
  - Differences in radiological stability parameters with or without ligament suture at group level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Additional deep deltoid ligament suture

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06568276
