CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04400747
Title: Oral Colecalciferol Treatment in Spinal Cord Lesion
Official Title: The Effects of Single High-dose or Daily Low Dosage Oral Colecalciferol Treatment on Muscle Strength, Muscle Thickness and Independence in Spinal Cord Lesion
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Low vitamin D is frequently seen in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) in acute and chronic periods. Among its causes are insufficient sun exposure, limited oral intake, obesity, the effect of the drugs used on the absorption of vitamin D, kidney and liver diseases. If we consider patients with spinal cord injuries in Turkey, it is difficult to get involved in the society, low exposure to the sun, lack of necessary health controls and immobility brings extra risk factors for the low vitamin D compared to the general population. Despite Turkey Endocrinology and Metabolism Endocrine Society and the International Endocrine Association clinical practice guidelines do not provide specific recommendations about vitamin D, for individuals with spinal cord injuries. Individuals with SCI are at high risk for low vitamin D. Vitamin D levels need to be checked and replaced. Vitamin D doses, application methods and dose intervals used in Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation clinics are different. The aim of our study is to perform the necessary vitamin D replacement for individuals with SCI who have vitamin D deficiency in different dose intervals and to compare the effects of muscle strength, muscle thickness and functional independence with the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Paraplegic patients who admitt to our Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Clinic, will be included in the rehabilitation program. Sixty spinal cord injured patients with serum 25 (OH) D3 levels less than 20 ng / ml will be included in the study. One of the treatment groups will receive 6,000 IU of vitamin D daily, and the other group 50,000 IU of vitamin D per week for eight weeks. Patients with high calcium (Ca) values in blood tests, patients with kidney stones and urinary stones in urinary ultrasonography (USG) to be performed routinely, as well as patients who refuse to use vitamin D supplements will include in the control group. Spinal cord independence measure (SCIM version 3) will be filled in at the beginning and at the end of 8 weeks to all participants. Jamar Dynamometer will be measured for upper extremity muscle strength, and biceps brachii and triceps muscle thicknesses will be measured by ultrasonography.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hand grip strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin D3

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04400747
