CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06359327
Title: Effect of Consumption of Pep19 on Quality of Life
Official Title: Effect of Consumption of Pep19 on Quality of Life
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Pep19 is a naturally occurring peptide (protein) that triggers loss of body fat. It has been certified Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) at up to 3.8 grams per day and may be included in various foods. Pep19 has no effect on the brain, heart, pancreas or skeletal muscle. It is highly purified, not allergenic or mutagenic, and free of microbes, metals and other contaminants. Preliminary, open-label, uncontrolled studies have shown that Pep19 is well tolerated in rodents, dogs, and humans. This placebo-controlled study will evaluate the effects of two doses of Pep19™ -- 2 mg and 5 mg - on quality of life and sleep quality in obese subjects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pep19 is a naturally occurring peptide (protein) that triggers loss of body fat. Obesity is a complex, multifactorial disease that develops from the interaction of genetic, metabolic, social, behavioral, and cultural factors. Numerous studies have demonstrated that obese persons experience significant impairments in quality of life as a result of their obesity, with greater impairments associated with greater degrees of obesity. Weight loss has been shown to improvEQuality of life in obese persons undergoing a variety of treatments.

Quality of life (QoL) is a concept which aims to capture the well-being. For example, common facets of QoL include personal health (physical, mental, and spiritual), relationships, education status, work environment, social status, wealth, a sense of security and safety, freedom, autonomy in decision-making, social-belonging and their physical surroundings. The World Health Organization explains QoL as a subjective evaluation of one's perception of their reality relative to their goals as observed through the lens of their culture and value system. Therefore, if the individual is feeling that its clothes are fitting better and that he is more motivate to lose weight, it could be considered an improvement of QoL.

In this study we will access QoL in two different ways. Using the S-12 questionnaire to assess physical and mental health, in an indirect way, as this is the view that the subject has of himself. And we will also use biomarkers (weight loss, glucose and insulin levels and so on) to obtain subject-independent data on the physiological changes that could be a reason why the subject is feeling better because of Pep19 supplementation. It has been shown that in obese subjects the improvement of QoL is linked with weight loss, which is directly linked to physical health improvement (weight loss, improvement in plasma biomarkers such as glucose and insulin levels and so on).

Another aspect of this study is the influence of Pep19 on sleep quality in obese subjects. There are a lot of studies suggesting an association between obesity and sleep disturbances. The most well study sleep disturbance associated to obesity is sleep apnea, but the increased visceral adipose tissue might be responsible for the secretion of inflammatory cytokines that could contribute to alter the sleep-wake rhythm, which impairs sleep quality. Animal data showed that Pep19 treatment of rats submitted a sugar supplementation (a model of insulin resistance) decrease visceral adipose tissue. Based on the animal data the investigators would like to study if Pep19 could change the sleep quality and if this change is correlated to the changes on body composition and metabolic parameters.

Pep19 has been certified Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS) at up to 3.8 grams per day and may be included in various foods. Pep19 has no effect on the brain, heart, pancreas or skeletal muscle. It is highly purified, not allergenic or mutagenic, and free of mi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Improvement on QoL
  - Improvement on Sleep quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Pep19 2 mg
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Pep19 5 mg

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06359327
