CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06365385
Title: Postprandial Metabolic and Appetite Responses to Different Food Intake Sequences in Athletes
Official Title: Postprandial Metabolic and Appetite Responses to Different Food Intake Sequences in Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Emerging evidence suggests that following a 'carbohydrate-last meal pattern', wherein foods rich in protein, fat, fiber, and/or polyphenols are consumed before sources of simple carbohydrate (CHO) in a meal, results in reduced postprandial glycaemic responses than the reverse food order or a co-ingestion pattern. This effect has been observed across the spectrum of glucose tolerance, from patients with diabetes to individuals with normal glucose tolerance (Kuwata et al., 2016; Nishino et al., 2018; Lu et al., 2019; Sun et al., 2020). Furthermore, reduced glucose excursions have been linked to decreased subsequent hunger and energy intake (Lu et al., 2019; Wyatt et al., 2021).

However, to date, no studies on food intake sequence have targeted athletes, despite their increased CHO demands (Thomas et al., 2016) which could expose them to repeated episodes of hyperglycaemia and high glycaemic variability, known to increase the risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes and all-cause mortality (Loader et al., 2015; Cavero-Redondo et al., 2017; Faerch et al., 2018). Additionally, athletes often face pressure to meet body composition standards and may benefit from strategies that enhance satiety and craving control. Finally, there is reason to believe that better glycaemic control could lead to improved performance, given that enhancements in endurance activities have been observed with a low-glycemic-index diet compared to a high-glycemic-index diet (Heung-Sang Wong et al., 2017).

Therefore, this randomised crossover trial is part of a wider project which seeks to explore the impact of food intake sequence on metabolic health and performance in athletes. Specifically, this trial aims to investigate the acute, postprandial metabolic and appetite responses to consuming an identical meal in two intake sequences (CHO-last versus CHO-first) in athletes, while in the resting state.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be required to visit the research facilities at Cidade do Futebol (Portugal Football School's headquarters) on three separate occasions, following a 10-12-hour overnight fast and abstaining from alcohol consumption and strenuous physical activity the day before (e.g. no exercise causing sweating or heavy breathing). Visits will be separated by a wash-out period of 7 days to ensure participants experience similar dietary and physical activity patterns in the 24 hours preceding the trials. Each visit is expected to last approximately 4 hours.

In the screening and familiarisation visit, athletes will be asked to provide written informed consent to participate in the study and answer a series of questions to confirm their eligibility and safety for enrolment. Subsequently, an anthropometric assessment, blood pressure measurement, fasted blood collection and 2-hour 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed to establish participants' baseline characteristics and analyse biochemical markers of the glucose and lipid metabolism to identify any further exclusion criteria (i.e., glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c); glucose; insulin; triglycerides; total, high-density lipoprotein and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; haemogram and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein). To familiarise participants with the cannulation procedure ahead of the experimental trials, a trened and experienced nurse will insert a cannula (a small plastic tube) into a vein on the participants' arm, from which fasting and 2-h OGTT blood samples will be drawn (15 ml in total).

Eligible participants will be instructed to monitor their diet and physical activity for 24 hours before their first experimental visit and replicate these patterns before the second experimental visit.

In both experimental visits, participants will arrive at the research facilities between 8:00-9:00 and rest comfortably for 10 minutes. Body mass and blood pressure will be remeasured. Then, cannulation will be performed, and 18.5 ml venous blood samples will be drawn immediately before and at 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 minutes after the meal challenge to assess postprandial changes in insulin, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP), ghrelin, peptide YY (PYY), triglycerides, and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) concentrations. At similar timepoints, as well as at 15 and 45 minutes, capillary blood glucose will be measured using a finger prick glucometer, and appetite ratings will be marked by the athletes on 100-mm visual analogue scales.

Upon completing the research assessments, participants will be asked to photograph and record the timing, type, and amounts of foods, drinks, and/or supplements consumed for an additional 3 hours to evaluate their prospective, ad libitum intake.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postprandial blood glucose concentrations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Carbohydrate-last meal pattern
  - OTHER: Carbohydrate-first meal pattern

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06365385
