CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03720301
Title: The Use of Osteopathic Medical Manipulation to Decrease the Incidence and Severity of Post-Operative Sore Throat
Official Title: A Double Blinded, Randomized Controlled Trial of the Use of Osteopathic Medical Manipulation to Decrease the Incidence and Severity of Post-Operative Sore Throat
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 168
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Post-operative sore throat (POST) ranks as the 8th most undesirable effect in the post-operative period and is noted by up to 90% of patients receiving an endotracheal tube. \[1-3\] This study aims to show that a simple 5 minute preoperative and intraoperative osteopathic medical manipulation protocol can decrease the severity and or the incidence of post-operative sore throat thereby decreasing morbidity and increasing patient satisfaction and return to daily life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Subjects are selected in the pre-operative area, based on inclusion criteria the night prior from the operating room list, and given 5 minutes of OMT within 1 hour of intubation and then given a less than 5 minute pre-extubation treatment in the operating room no earlier than 1 hour and no later than 15 minutes prior to expected extubation. The patient will be given a survey to be answered at 1 hour, 6 hours, and 24 hours post operatively. Surveys will be filled out in the hospital by the investigating team electronically or by the subject online after they have departed the hospital (See data collection section for more detail on this procedure). In this manner, the subjects' bias and placebo effect will have limited impact on the study outcomes. There will be randomization tables for men and for women to ensure equal representation of women in both arms of the trial since they bear an independent risk factor by their gender. The intubating anesthesiologist will not know which arm the subject is placed in and will be not be present when the pre-operative treatment is taking place to prevent recognition of sham vs. protocol treatment and possible bias. To accomplish this, treatment will be completed behind a closed curtain. Furthermore, it is unlikely that providers will be able to tell the difference between the sham and protocol treatments if they should see treatment being accomplished. In order to ensure patients meet the 1 hour treatment to intubation criteria patients will be selected from the list of first starts or if they are not on the first start list, treatment will be performed when that patients OR room is in turnover as turnover times average 30+ minutes at this hospital. By performing treatments in this manor there is less risk of OR delays which may prolong treatment to intubation time.

The conduct of the anesthetic is entirely at the discretion of the anesthesia provider but in order to avoid confounding variables there are several requests that will be made concerning the conduct of the anesthetic. If these requests are ignored for the benefit of the patient the subject will be removed from the study as described in this section.

Medications for the induction of anesthesia will be at the provider's discretion, but should include a paralytic and avoid ketamine whenever possible. Use of airway adjuncts such as lidocaine laryngo-tracheal atomizers, lidocaine lollypops, ETT lubrication, etc should be avoided and will result in subject exclusion from this study if used. The exclusion of airway adjuncts is for obvious reasons and the paralytic requirement is to control for subject gag reflex differences that may cause excess trauma to the throat in those with sensitive gag reflexes. Ketamine should be avoided due to the risk of excessive secretions that may result in subject coughing or increased instrumentation with a suction device, and to control for the high analgesia that ketamine might impart to subjects that could skew the d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Post Severity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Osteopathic Manipulation Treatment
  - PROCEDURE: Sham

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03720301
