CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01410409
Title: Structured Treatment of Osteoarthritis of the Knee With or Without Total Knee Replacement
Official Title: Structured Treatment of Osteoarthritis of the Knee With or Without Total Knee Replacement. A Randomized Controlled Trial of Pain, Physical Function and Quality of Life With 12months Follow-up
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to test whether surgical insertion of total knee replacement provides further improvement in quality of life, pain and function in addition to an algorithm for systematic non-surgical treatment consisting of corrective insoles, neuromuscular training, weight loss, patient education and pharmacological treatment with paracetamol, NSAIDs and Pantoprazol in patients with knee OA, collectively called the MEDIC-treatment(Medicine Exercise Diet Insoles Cognitive).

The H1-hypothesis is that surgery with insertion of TKR in addition to the MEDIC-treatment results in a greater increase in quality of life and functional capacity and greater reduction in pain than the MEDIC- treatment alone at the primary endpoint, which is follow-up 12months after the start of the treatment.

See statistical analysis plan available under "Links" for further description of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is the degenerative joint disease that most often requires treatment and at the same time the one associated with the greatest social costs. In addition, the disease has many personal costs and is greatly contributing to reduced functionality and autonomy of older adults.

It is recommended both nationally and internationally that the treatment of knee OA should include multiple treatment modalities. Clinical guidelines recommend that exercise, weight loss and patient education is the first step in treatment and that insoles and pharmacological treatment can be included as a supplement. If this non-surgical treatment is ineffective surgical treatment, especially surgery with insertion of total knee replacement (TKR), may be indicated. There are effects of both non-surgical treatment and TKR, but no studies exist, which examine the effect of surgery with insertion of TKR in addition to the recommended non-surgical treatment of knee OA.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in KOOS4 From Baseline (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Neuromuscular training (NEMEX-TJR)
  - DRUG: Paracetamol
  - DRUG: Burana
  - DRUG: Pantoprazol
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01410409
