CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05904249
Title: Telerehabilitation in Individuals With Rotator Cuff Tear
Official Title: Investigation of the Effectiveness of Telerehabilitation in Individuals With Rotator Cuff Tear
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The majority of patients presenting with shoulder pain are those with rotator cuff problems. Although telerehabilitation is a promising field in many areas, there is still limited high-quality research with strong evidence of its effectiveness for musculoskeletal problems. In this study, online rehabilitation and face-to-face rehabilitation will be compared in people with partial rotator cuff tears.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of shoulder pain increases with age and is mostly associated with inadequate treatment of symptoms. A large part of the patients who apply to the clinic with the complaint of shoulder pain are individuals with rotator cuff problems. Partial rotator cuff (RM) tear is defined as tears that can be seen on the superior, inferior, or both sides of the cuff. It is stated that the most critical risk factors for RM tear are age, dominant arm, and trauma. The degenerative process is generally considered normal in age-related tears and is seen in 20% of individuals over the age of 65.

The Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), is still the most important global concern. People with chronic diseases have been known to delay getting healthcare services due to fear of the risk of infection following the COVID-19 pandemic. This could lead to increased morbidity and mortality due to delay and disruption in access to treatment applications needed for patient populations other than COVID-19. At this stage, one of the applications that can be effective for disturbed patient healing processes is the Telerehabilitation application, which has proven its effectiveness in previous epidemics (EBOLA, SARS, etc.), when patients are treated remotely after and after treatment. Especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been an increase in the need for Internet-based remote treatment approaches, as it allows both patients and physiotherapists to advance the treatment process without the risk of infection. In the next decade, telerehabilitation options are expected to diversify and become widespread in assessing and treating many diseases with emerging technologies.

Studies have shown that despite the growing number of applications of telerehabilitation worldwide, evidence for clinical effectiveness is still limited. In addition, the effectiveness of telerehabilitation for musculoskeletal problems has not been fully demonstrated due to the lack of a specific standard for telerehabilitation and the variability of the approaches used. In conclusion, although telerehabilitation is a promising field in many areas, there is still a limited amount of good-quality research with strong evidence.

Therefore, this study aimed to compare the effects of internet-based telerehabilitation and face-to-face rehabilitation practices on pain, range of motion, functionality, and quality of life in patients with partial rotator cuff injury.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale
  - Range of Motion Assessment
  - Muscle Activation Assessment
  - The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire
  - American Standardized Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon Assessment Form

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Internet Based Synchronized Telerehabilitation
  - OTHER: Face-to-Face Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05904249
