CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06304142
Title: Effect of Lidocaine Block on Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Study to Explore Clinical Effect of Lidocaine Block on Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to explore Clinical Effect of Stellate Ganglion Block on Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease. The main question it aims to answer is:

• Can stellate ganglion block improve gastroesophageal reflux symptoms better on the basis of rehabilitation training? Participants will be randomly allocated into the control group or the experimental group, all under rehabilitation treatment, the experimental group will be given Stellate Ganglion Block once a day additionally. The study lasts 10 days for each participant. Researchers will compare the Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Questionnaire, Pressure pain threshold, Self-Evaluation Questionnaire for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease, to see if the Stellate Ganglion Block can help improve the symptom.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gastroesophageal reflux is a common digestive disorder characterized by the backflow of stomach contents and fluids into the esophagus.

The goal of this clinical trial is to explore Clinical Effect of Stellate Ganglion Block on Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease. The main question it aims to answer is:

• Can stellate ganglion block improve gastroesophageal reflux symptoms better on the basis of rehabilitation training? Participants will be randomly allocated into the control group or the experimental group, all under rehabilitation treatment, the experimental group will be given Stellate Ganglion Block once a day additionally. The study lasts 10 days for each participant. Researchers will compare the Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Questionnaire, Pressure pain threshold, Self-Evaluation Questionnaire for Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease, to see if the Stellate Ganglion Block can help improve the symptom.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Rehabilitation therapy
  - PROCEDURE: Injection
  - DRUG: Lidocaine hydrochloride

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06304142
