CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03406013
Title: Internet-Based Exercise and Diet Support in Prostate Cancer Survivors
Official Title: True NTH Community of Wellness Internet-Based Exercise and Diet Support for Prostate Cancer Survivors
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 206
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This pilot clinical trial studies how well the True NTH Community of Wellness internet-based exercise and diet support works in improving diet and exercise habits in prostate cancer survivors. Internet-based exercise and diet support may help better control treatment-related side effects and symptoms, better overall quality of life, and lower risk factors associated with cancer progression.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility and acceptability of the Community of Wellness web portal among prostate cancer survivors by conducting a randomized controlled study comparing four levels of web-based content and interaction with participants.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare efficacy of four levels of web-based content in the Community of Wellness web portal in a pilot randomized controlled trial on exercise and dietary habits, self-efficacy for behavior change, motivation for exercise, and changes in treatment-related side effects.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive "Written Information" which includes access to the TrueNTH open access portal that provides basic written information about exercise and diet.

GROUP II: Patients receive access to "Written Information + Prescription", including written information plus additional an exercise prescription and tailored diet recommendations.

GROUP III: Patients receive access to "Written Information + Prescription + Technology", including written information, exercise prescription + diet recommendation and additional technology components. Patients complete diet and exercise behavior logs and receive educational and motivational text messages about healthy diet and exercise habits.

GROUP IV: Patients receive access to "Written Information + Prescription + Technology + Coaching" and receive written information, exercise prescription + diet recommendation, technology support and a 30-minute (each) diet and exercise consultation plus the ability to receive ongoing advice from coaches via the web portal.

After completion of intervention, patients are followed up at 3 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Accrual success
  - Retention
  - Adherence to the study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Written Information
  - BEHAVIORAL: Prescription
  - BEHAVIORAL: Technology
  - BEHAVIORAL: Coaching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03406013
