CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05348044
Title: Enhancing Resilience in Young Stroke Survivors With Res-ET
Official Title: Feasibility Study to Increase Resilience Through an At-home Virtual Exercise Training (Res-ET) Intervention Using Inspiratory Muscle Strength Training (IMST)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The proposed pilot study will explore the feasibility and preliminary impacts of a 6-week at-home group delivered inspiratory muscle strength training (IMST) exercise intervention on resilience in young stroke survivors. Resilience Exercise Training (Res-ET) intervention on young stroke survivors will assess feasibility of Res-ET and preliminary changes in resilience on young stroke survivors using a quasi-experimental one-group pretest-posttest design within the RE-AIM framework. The connection between resilience and exercise has not been clearly identified in literature, and there is no literature supporting IMST on resilience in young stroke survivors. The Res-ET intervention in young stroke survivors may serve as a pragmatic and novel approach to increase resilience while also increasing physiological and psychosocial well-being of young stroke survivors.

Aim 1. Test the feasibility (recruitment, retention, participation, and acceptability) of Res-ET intervention in a sample of young stroke survivors having had a stroke between the age of 18 - 50, AND who experienced a stroke within the last 6 months to 55 years of age AND have been cleared by a physician to participate in IMST exercise.

Aim 2. Assess the efficacy potential of Res-ET intervention on resilience, and preliminary direction and magnitude of psychosocial and physiological outcomes in young stroke survivors pre/post Res-ET intervention. Psychosocial outcome measures consist of; positive affect, self-efficacy, meaning/purpose, physical function, fatigue, and social satisfaction. Physiological outcome measures consist of, pulmonary function, physical activity, biometrics, and daily movement.

Aim 3. Collect qualitative data to assess acceptability and usability of Res-ET. Data will be collected through interviews and questionnaires about Res-ET feasibility, perceived utility, and satisfaction of the intervention. Perceived changes to resilience, functional capacity/movement (ADL's), and well-being will be recorded, transcribed, and thematically coded

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Strokes impact a growing number of younger individuals; it has been reported that approximately 10 to15% of all strokes occur in individuals 18 to 50 years of age with hospitalization rates almost doubling from 1995 to 2012. Disability or the onset of a chronic condition like stroke is often life-altering and this might be exaggerated in persons who have a stroke at a younger age at the height of managing family and work responsibilities. The FUTURE study reports after a 13.9 year follow up that 44.7% of young stroke patients have poor functional outcomes. Young stroke survivors may encounter lifelong challenges impacting physical, emotional, visual, and cognitive capabilities. Edwards and colleagues (2019) reported young stroke survivors with no early recurrence showed a 7-fold increased hazard ratio of long-term risk of adverse outcomes when compared to young healthy controls. Post-stroke depression affects approximately one third of all stroke survivors and young stroke survivors are nearly three times more likely to have anxiety and depression. Current focus in rehabilitation is on acute physical and neurological function and integration, but this focus may not necessarily lead to positive long-term outcomes for young stroke survivors.

Resilience is the inherent and acquired ability to recover and sustain a new way of thriving after a life altering event or situation. Resilience has been shown to be dependent on inherent and acquired factors that have both modifiable and non-modifiable components. Understanding the relationship between resilience and disability is still new but it appears increased resilience may mitigate secondary symptoms such as pain or fatigue, may predict physical functioning, is positively associated to self-efficacy, optimism, and improved quality of life. According to Terrill et al.'s (2019) Resilience and Disability model, resilience is dependent on intrapersonal, social-environmental, and interpersonal factors that dynamically influence an individual's capacity to achieve and maintain quality of life and well-being. Interactional aspects of intrapersonal and environmental factors influence relationships, systems of support, and combine to create an ecosystem for resilience and well-being. Increasing/modifying psychosocial components related to intrapersonal, intrapersonal, and environmental factors have been shown to increase resilience such as; self-efficacy, positive affect, positive psychological well-being, meaning and purpose, and engagement with social environment.

Exercise may be a potential mechanism for enhancing resilience. For example, Childs and Wit (2014) found that regular exercise is associated with psychosocial factors like emotional resilience to acute stress in healthy adults and Deuster and Silverman (2013) proposed a conceptual model where increased levels of fitness link to increased resilience. Evidence also suggests that exercise need not be intensely physically demanding to enhance mental a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility of Res-ET intervention recruitment and retention
  - Feasibility of Res-ET intervention acceptability and adherence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Res-ET intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05348044
