CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01463579
Title: Exercise After Intensive Care Unit: a Randomised Controlled Trial
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Programme of Exercise on Physical Function in Survivors of Critical Illness Following Discharge From the Intensive Care Unit (ICU): a Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to test if a 6-week programme of exercise improves physical function and health related quality of life in patients following intensive care who are discharged from hospital. In this study the investigators will compare the physical function and health related quality of life of patients who attend the programme with patients who do not. The 6 week exercise programme will be run by physiotherapy staff, and will mostly take place in a hospital gym. The investigators will measure patients' physical function, exercise capacity, level of breathlessness and their quality of life before and after the 6-week programme, and 6 months later. The investigators will also interview patients to ask their views about the acceptability, enjoyment and satisfaction with the exercise programme. If this study shows that the physical function and health related quality of life are improved in those who took part in the exercise programme, then it will provide useful information which will help the development of services for patients after critical illness. The results will also provide information which will help us design future clinical trials for this patient population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Most critically ill adult patients require ventilatory support during their intensive care unit stay. Following discharge home patients often still suffer from reduced physical function, exercise capacity, health related quality of life and social functioning for at least 2 years. There is usually no support to address these longer term problems specific to critical illness for patients after hospital discharge. Little research has been carried out into interventions which could improve physical function and quality of life, or enhance speed of recovery in these patients. While there is evidence to support the rehabilitation of critically ill patients within intensive care units, there is a paucity of literature to support rehabilitation following discharge from intensive care and hospital. Therefore, there is a clear and urgent need to investigate interventions which could improve the recovery of patients discharged home after intensive care. This is emerging as a prominent therapeutic objective for the future for this population.

This study will investigate whether a programme of exercise following discharge from hospital will improve outcome in patients following critical illness compared to standard care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Functioning subscale of the SF-36

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise Programme
  - OTHER: Standard Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01463579
