CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02807090
Title: Effect of Lumbar Stabilization Exercises and Circular Dances in Chronic Non Specific Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effect of Lumbar Stabilization Exercises and Circular Dances in Chronic Non Specific Low Back Pain in Middle-aged Women: Single-blind Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Supervised exercises are the first line therapy for patients with chronic low back pain. The lumbar segmental stabilization (LSE) is a specific training for the muscles of the lumbar spine, which aims to improve neuromuscular control, strength and endurance of the muscles that promotes stability to the spine. The circular dance (CD) belongs to the group of complementary and integrative practices entered in Public Health Care in Brazil, and has been used to improve several aspects related to physical and mental states such as flexibility, posture, strength and muscular endurance, awareness or scheme body, pain control and strains. There are few studies evaluating the circular dance effect on back pain. The aim of this study is to compare the effects of lumbar stabilization exercises and circular dance for improvement in non specific low back pain in middle-aged women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effect of CD with ESL exercises on pain and functional disability in women with nonspecific chronic low back pain (DLCI). METHOD: Thirty-eight women, aged 35-60 years, were randomly assigned to two groups: 1) Circular Dance group (gDC); 2) Lumbar Stabilization Exercise group (gESL). The primary clinical outcomes were pain, assessed using the Numerical Pain Scale and functional disability by the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire and the secondary outcomes were: Depression assessed by the Beck Depression Inventory; Anxiety by the Numerical Anxiety Scale; Global Perception with the Global Effect Perception Scale, Signs and Symptoms of Adverse Effects analyzed by the Collective Subject Discourse and Quality of Life method using the Short-Form Health Survey Questionnaire (SF-36). The groups were treated twice a week for 60 minutes for 8 weeks totaling 16 sessions. Each participant was assessed before and after treatment and at follow-up 12 and 24 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in pain through Pain visual analogue scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Lumbar Stabilization Exercise
  - OTHER: Circular dance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02807090
