CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02748291
Title: An Investigation Into the Role of Walking in Treating the Symptoms of Knee Osteoarthritis: The WalkOut Study
Official Title: An Investigation Into the Role of Walking in Treating the Symptoms of Knee Osteoarthritis: The WalkOut Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
There are over 8.75 million people in the United Kingdom with osteoarthritis in their knees. The effect of this condition can be debilitating. Symptoms are due to wear and tear of the knee joint. Some people can suffer with knee pain and stiffness. This study will look at whether walking improves the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis.

Investigators will recruit anyone with knee pain over the age of 45 years in Nottingham. Participants will undergo a full assessment by a qualified Doctor. After assessment, Participants meeting the eligibility criteria will be invited to join the study. Participants will be randomly allocated into 2 groups. One group will receive standard health and exercise advice. The other group will be allocated a walking activity. This group will undertake 6,000 walking steps each day. Participants will provide pedometers to monitor this walking activity.

The effect of walking will be compared using questionnaires. These will look at pain levels, quality of life and physical activity. The participants will complete these questionnaires before the study, at the 6 week midpoint and at the end of the 12 week intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND - Over 8.75 million people in the United Kingdom have painful osteoarthritis in one or both knees and a third of people of 45 years old have sought treatment. It has been well established that physical activity in mild - moderate osteoarthritis can provide improvement in symptoms and physical function. Current research is evaluating what modality of physical activity is best to achieve these improvements. A preliminary pedometer study in 2003 demonstrated symptomatic and functional improvement in knee osteoarthritis. A recent observational study has found that increased walking activity, with 6,000 steps per day being optimal, decreased the risk of functional limitation in knee osteoarthritis. Therefore, the purpose of this study is test evaluate the effectiveness of these recent recommendations against current UK physical activity guidelines.

AIMS - The study aims to investigate the role of walking in achieving a subjective improvement in symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee/s. Furthermore, the study will investigate whether walking improves performance based tests which objectively assess physical function in participants with knee osteoarthritis. Null hypothesis to be tested: There is no difference in a 12 week intervention of walking 6,000 steps, per day, in improving pain and self reported physical function, compared to the current Department of Health physical activity guidelines.

EXPERIMENTAL PROTOCOL AND METHODS - Participants will be recruited through poster advertisement and non-incentivised involvement. Potential participants will be sent a Patient Information Leaflet for the study and a Consent Form. Following consent, the participant will be screened by telephone to ensure participants meet the inclusion criteria and also to exclude participants who would not be eligible on their medical history and activity status alone. Eligible participants from screening will be invited for a formal assessment. The assessment will confirm that information given in the screening remains accurate and a focussed physical examination of the knee. Participants eligible at the end of end of assessment will be randomly allocation into the control and intervention group, both lasting 12 weeks. Block randomisation will be used and this will be prepared by an independent person. Participants, irrespective of their allocation, will complete the following questionnaires: KOOS (KOOS: Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score), IPAQ (IPAQ: International Physical Activity Questionnaire), VAS for knee pain (VAS: Visual Analogue Scale), OKS (OKS: Oxford Knee Score), SF36 (SF36: Short Form Health Survey) and WOMAC (WOMAC: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index). The intervention group will be allocated a walking activity of 6,000 per day. Participants will be provided with a pedometer and diary so walking activity can be recorded and monitored. Weekly scores will be collected via telephone contact with the participant. The cont

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Objective assessment of participant aerobic capacity and physical function measured in the 6 Minute Walk Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Walking
  - OTHER: Department of Health Physical Activity Guidelines

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02748291
