CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03991897
Title: Nutritional Ketosis: a Novel Metabolic Strategy to Treat Lymphedema Patients?
Official Title: Nutritional Ketosis: a Novel Metabolic Strategy to Treat Lymphedema Patients?
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 81
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Lymphedema is a debilitating disorder that severely impairs the quality of life of the patients and requires life-long attention. Treatment for lymphatic dysfunction remains largely symptomatic, without real cure. According to the International Society of Lymphology, lymphedema has to be treated with Decongestive Lymphatic Therapy.

Research in the lab of Angiogenesis and Vascular Metabolism (PCA lab) reported in mice that metabolism of endothelial cells controls vessel sprouting. Experiments showed that a ketogenic diet (KD) reduced the edema of the mice tail and enhanced the lymphatic transport. Based on these proof-of-concept data, the investigators plan to test this innovative concept to ameliorate lymph vessel dysfunction in lymphedema patients. Randomisation will be performed between a ketogenic diet and an isocaloric diet with and without ketone ester supplementation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lymphedema is a debilitating disorder that severely impairs the quality of life of the patients and requires life-long attention. It can be classified as primary or secondary, based on the etiology. Primary lymphedema is a rare, congenital disorder caused by inherited genetic mutation on a number of genes that are essential for lymphatic vessel development and function. Acquired (or secondary) lymphedema is a consequence of lymphatic trauma, predominantly due to surgery or radiotherapy for various types of cancers, with axillary and/or inguinal lymph node dissection being the most common cause. At the cellular level, perturbed or dysfunctional lymphatic drainage triggers accumulation of interstitial fluid, negatively affects cellular behavior, and induces infiltration of fibroblasts, adipocytes and keratinocytes, eventually leading to possible fibrosis and ulceration.

Upper extremity lymphedema most commonly affects breast cancer patients, while lower extremity lymphedema is typically associated with gynecological cancers, prostate cancer, lymphoma and melanoma. Besides the functional impairments, lymphedema severely reduces the quality of life, causing psychosocial problems such as depression, sexual dysfunctions, social avoidance and a decrease in self-confidence. While the prevalence of lymphedema is relatively high (1.33-1.44 pro mille), its true prevalence is likely underestimated and 1 in 6 patients undergoing treatment for a solid tumor ultimately develops lymphedema.

Nevertheless, treatment for lymphatic dysfunction remains largely symptomatic, without real cure. According to the International Society of Lymphology, lymphedema has to be treated with Decongestive Lymphatic Therapy, a two-stage treatment program. During the first or intensive phase, lymphedema has to be maximally reduced: this phase consists of skin care, manual lymph drainage (MLD), multi-layer bandaging and exercise therapy. The second or maintenance phase aims to conserve and optimize the result obtained in the first phase, and consists of skin care, compression by a low-stretch elastic sleeve, exercises and MLD. Skin care, multi-layer bandaging, elastic sleeve and exercises are treatment modalities that can be performed by the patients themselves, after careful instruction from the physician. On the contrary, MLD has to be applied by a physical therapist and hence entails a big financial cost for the patient and the Health Care. In addition, reductive techniques, such as direct excision and liposuction, can be applied to patients with more advanced stages of lymphedema with a predominant fibrofatty component. Encouraging initial results, i.e. symptomatic improvement and reduction in excess volume, have been obtained with lymphovenous bypass, the microsurgical anastomosis of collecting lymphatic vessels to adjacent venules, and vascularized lymph node transplantation, where lymph nodes are harvested from an unaffected region and transferred to the lymphedematous area. 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in lymphatic transport
  - Change in lymphatic transport

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ketogenic diet
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Isocaloric diet
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ketone ester supplementation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03991897
