CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02695576
Title: Lumbar Fusion or Non-operative Care for Treatment of Presumed Discogenic Pain
Official Title: Lumbar Fusion or Non-operative Care for Treatment of Presumed Discogenic Pain: A Randomized Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 74
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Title and abstract

1 a. Title: Lumbar fusion or non-operative care for treatment of presumed discogenic pain.

A randomized study.

1 b. Structured summary:

Authors: B. Nyström, B. Schillberg, E. Svensson, T. Stiles.

Corresponding author: Bo Nyström, Clinic of Spinal Surgery, Strängnäs, Sweden. e-mail address: pgbo.nystrom@gmail.com

Background: At present there is no clear evidence that surgical treatment by fusion operation is more advisable than non-surgical treatment in patients suffering from unspecific chronic low back pain (CLBP). By personal experience a subgroup among the CLBP patients is selected, possibly representing patients with pain from a motion segment/disc, thus making patient selection more specified. Furthermore, selection of level to fuse based on radiological findings has not been found reliable. Therefore a mechanical provocation test has been developed at the clinic. The aim of this randomized study was to compare the outcomes in pain and pain related functions perceived by this specific subgroup of CLBP patients following fusion surgery with those following non-surgical treatment.

Methods: Patients with a specified symptomatology and specified clinical signs at examination were recruited and randomized to either type of treatment, non-surgical (NS) including cognitive-behavioral therapy and physiotherapy (37 pat.) or surgical (S), including the same cognitive-behavioral therapy and physiotherapy as in the NS group plus fusion surgery (37 pat.). All patients were thoroughly investigated before start of the study and at follow-up one year after treatment. The outcomes perceived by the patients were assessed on the validated questionnaires Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Roland-Morris, Balanced Inventory for Spinal Disorders (BIS), Short-Form-36 (SF-36) and Euro-Quol (EQ-5D).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. a. Title: Lumbar fusion or non-operative care for treatment of presumed discogenic pain.

   A randomized study.

   Introduction

   Background and objectives:
2. a. Only two out of five existing randomized studies comparing results from fusion surgery for chronic low back pain (CLBP) with results from conservative treatment have reported the results from surgery to be better. Systematic review of these trials also found methodological concerns. At present, therefore, there is no clear evidence that surgical treatment is more advisable than non-surgical treatment in patients suffering from unspecific CLBP.

2 b. The investigators hypothesis is that a/ there exists a specific identifiable subgroup of patients within the CLBP group in whom the pain emanates from the disc, and that b/ patients in this subgroup may be selected based on thorough symptom analysis, and c/ that the actual disc may be localized, not by radiological methods or discography, but by mechanical testing procedures, making pain reduction possible by a fusion operation at that level.

Methods

Trial design:

3 a. A RCT with parallel group design with pre- and post-treatment data.

3 b. No changes were made after trial commencement.

Participants

4 a. Inclusion criteria: 18 to 65 years, with pronounced low back pain for at least one year and having tried ordinary physical therapy without improvement and being on sick leave at least 50 %. They should not have had any prior fusion operation but may have had surgery for e.g. a disc herniation.

4 b. Eligible outpatients at the Clinic of Spinal Surgery, Strängnäs, Sweden, were informed about the study and those who consented to participate were included, the other received ordinary treatment outside the study.

Data were collected at the Clinic of Spinal Surgery, Strängnäs, Sweden. Interventions

5\. A percutaneous mechanical provocation test was developed to obtain information regarding a possibly painful segment. Local disc injections were also performed to analyse the pain response at needle contact with the disc, at injection into the disc with saline or local anaesthetics blind for the patients and also the pain situation following local anaestetics into the disc, discoblock.

Further, an open mechanical provocation test was developed to analyse the location of a possibly painful disc. Operation by posterior lumbar interbody fusion was performed using microsurgical technique and autologous bone. Internal fixation was used.

Patients in both groups, the surgical (S) and the non-surgical (NS) group, were all treated by formal physiotherapy at a five days stay at the Clinic and instructed to continue their training at home according to the lines given at the Clinic. Patients in both groups were similarly treated individually by cognitive-behavior therapy at seven occasions.

Outcomes

6 a. The primary outcome was back pain, assessed by the patients on the BIS and on a VAS before treatment and at follow-up one year after treatme

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Low back pain assessed with Visual Analog Scale
  - Low back pain assessed with Balanced Inventory for Spinal Disorders (BIS)
  - Low back pain assessed with Oswestry Disability Index (ODI)
  - Low back pain assessed with Short-Form-36 (SF-36)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Lumbar Fusion Surgery
  - OTHER: Physiotherapy
  - OTHER: Cognitive behavioral therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02695576
