CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06893146
Title: Protocol for a Quasi-experimental Controlled Study to Reduce Sedentary Lifestyle in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Protocol for a Quasi-experimental Controlled Study to Reduce Sedentary Lifestyle in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 169
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The prevalence of diabetes has increased worldwide, making it the most prevalent metabolic disorder. Physical inactivity contributes to the progression of this disease and aggravates other comorbidities, such as obesity and cardiovascular disease. Beneficial strategies aimed at promotion and healthy aging, oriented to decrease sedentary behavior, are necessary to obtain desirable metabolic effects and improve the quality of life of people with diabetes.

The objective is to examine, through a clinical trial, the effect of decreasing sedentary time and increasing motivation to adopt an active lifestyle on different clinical, anthropometric and biochemical parameters in patients diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A quasy-experimental controlled study with a 12-month follow-up will be carried out. The study has been chosen to be conducted as a single-center study for strategic and logistical reasons. A two-arm parallel design will be used. The control group (CG) will receive messages by mail with healthy lifestyle habits, while the intervention group (IG) will receive a behavioral intervention based on lifestyle modification, focusing on reducing sedentary time. These interventions will be directed by the research nurse.

The general objective of the study is to know the effect of decreasing sedentary time and increasing motivation to adopt an active lifestyle of different health-related parameters in patients diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Also to provide support and resources for the proper management of diabetes. Likewise, it will be verified that face-to-face interventions and telephone interventions by nursing professionals decrease the sedentary time in the diabetic population and if it means and improvement in clinical, anthropometric and biochemical parameters. Also, to evaluate the quality of life and the degree of motivation aimed at reducing sedentary time and to integrate the reduction of sedentary time in the lifestyle of the participants with practical tools and guidelines adapted to the circumstances.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Level of sedentary lifestyle
  - Level of sedentary lifestyle
  - State of motivation to change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Reduction of Sedentary Behavior
  - BEHAVIORAL: Educational support

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06893146
