CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06229964
Title: Frozen Shoulder Treatment with Intra-Articular Corticosteroid Injection and Suprascapular Nerve Block
Official Title: A Double Blinded Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) Exploring the Additional Effect of a Suprascapular Nerve Block in Combination with an Intra-Articular Corticosteroid Injection in Patients with Frozen Shoulder
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Frozen shoulder remains a challenging disease to treat as pain and loss of range of motion can persist for many months or even years. This loss of function can have a severe impact on the patient's activities, participation and overall quality of life.

The use of ultrasound-guided (USG) suprascapular nerve blocks (SSNB) and/or intra-articular corticoid injections (IACI) has been supported by many studies. However, double blinded randomized clinical trials using a combination of SSNB and IACI are rare.

The primary objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a glenohumeral IACI combined with a SSNB, compared to a glenohumeral IACI combined with a sham SSNB. Outcome measures of interest are shoulder-related disability reported by the patients, shoulder pain and shoulder stiffness. These outcome parameters will be compared between both treatment arms with an intention-to-treat analysis.

As key secondary objectives, the investigators aim to identify which physical examination tests, or combinations of those, are correlated with MRI diagnostic criteria and favor a more positive evolution. Finally, through predictive analysis the investigators will try to establish which patients benefit the most from the combined SSNB + IACI.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Frozen Shoulder (FS) is common disease affecting 2 to 5% of the general population, with a higher prevalence in patients suffering from diabetes and thyroid dysfunction.It remains frustrating for patients and treating health care professionals as severe shoulder pain and loss of function can last for up to two years. 5-7 In the early stage, most patients identify the following symptoms: strong component of night pain, pain with rapid or unguarded movements and aggravated by movement or lying on the affected shoulder.8 Combined with marked pain and limitation in all directions of shoulder range of motion, it is easy to understand that suffering from Frozen Shoulder will have a detrimental effect on quality of life and the ability to perform activities of daily living.

The overall treatment aim for this condition is to "improve pain and function" and treatment goals should be set individually in a shared decision-making process. Patient education on the clinical course and different possible therapeutic interventions, including self-management strategies, should always come first. Clinicians should promote activity modification to utilize pain-free, functional ROM and stretching of the shoulder capsule matching the patient's current level of irritability.

Intra-articular corticosteroid injections (IACI) into the gleno-humeral (GH) joint, combined with shoulder mobility and stretching exercises, have shown to be more effective in providing short-term (4-6weeks) pain relief and improved function compared to exercises alone.

A recent article by Rex et al. places the results of the UK FROST trial in the context of 8 other randomized controlled trials comparing intra-articular corticoid injections (IACI) to manipulation under anesthesia (MUA), arthroscopic capsular release (ACR) and hydrodilatation. These findings did not show clinical superiority of either IACI, MUA nor ACR and evidence for hydrodilatation was inconclusive.

Common sense, in accordance with the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines, recommends that treatments should be offered in a stepped approach from least to most invasive. In their systematic review from 2020, Challoumas et al. show that in the early phase of Frozen Shoulder IA corticosteroid is associated with better short-term outcomes, with possible benefits extending in the mid-terms. These authors recommend to associate IACI to education for home-based exercises and physiotherapy to increase the chances of resolution of symptoms by 6 months.

Unfortunately, not all patients show sufficient improvement in pain and function with IACI and need other therapies. The suprascapular nerve (SSN) provides 60 tot 70% of sensory innervation of the shoulder and suprascapular nerve block (SSNB) has shown in meta-analysis to significantly improve pain and ROM in patients with Frozen Shoulder. This systematic review however has several limitations. Blinding was not always sufficient to rule out a placebo effect

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: SSNB + IACI
  - OTHER: Sham SSNB + IACI

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06229964
