CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01514409
Title: Sub-chronic Effects of 5-hydroxytryptophan on Mood and Emotional Processing in Healthy Volunteers
Official Title: Sub-chronic Effects of 5-hydroxytryptophan on Mood and Emotional Processing in Healthy Volunteers: A Randomised Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) is a nutritional supplement sold in many health food stores, and is taken in order to raise levels of serotonin in the brain. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that is involved in the regulation of mood.

Previous research has assessed the effects of raising serotonin levels using tryptophan (the precursor of 5-HTP) and serotonergic antidepressants on emotional processing in healthy volunteers. However, to date there has been no human trial investigating the effects of 5-HTP on emotional processing in healthy volunteers.

Thus, the current study aims to assess the effects of 5-HTP, on emotional processing and mood in healthy volunteers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The serotonin precursor 5-HTP is sold as a nutritional supplement and has been used to offset low mood for over 30 years due to its ability to raise levels of neural serotonin. However, evidence for the efficiency of 5-HTP is limited and the mechanism of action of 5-HTP in offsetting low mood has not been well-characterised.

The current study assessed the ability of 5-HTP to induce biases for positive emotional material in healthy volunteers, similar to those induced by serotonergic antidepressants and the nutritional supplement tryptophan. The effects of 5-HTP on subjective mood and depressive symptoms were also assessed.

Participants were randomised to receive either 150mg of 5-HTP or placebo daily for 14 days. Depressive symptoms and subjective mood were assessed pre- and post-intervention. Emotional processing was assessed on the 15th day using a battery of emotionally valenced cognitive tasks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II)
  - Profile of Mood States-Bipolar (POMS-BI)
  - Emotional Perception: Facial Expression Recognition Task
  - Emotional Categorisation and Memory
  - Emotional Attention: Attentional Probe Task

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: 5-Hydroxytryptophan
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Pharmaceutical grade silica

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01514409
