CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05964218
Title: Food-Body-Mind Intervention
Official Title: Food-Body-Mind Intervention: Promote Whole Child Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 37
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This novel, timely, and theory-driven Food-Body-Mind intervention addresses the national emergency of mental health crises in early childhood. By targetinGHead Start racially/ethnically diverse preschoolers from low-income backgrounds in both urban and rural areas, this intervention is expected to contribute toward reducinGHealth disparities and promotinGHealth equity, a major priority of the NIH and Healthy People 2030. If effective, it can be scalable to Head Start programs across urban and rural settings nationally with long-term sustainability benefits.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mental, emotional, and behavioral (MEB) disorders begin in early childhood, with one in six US preschoolers aged 3-5 years diagnosed with a MEB disorder. Children from low income and economically marginalized (LIEM) backgrounds have a higher risk of being diagnosed with MEB disorders than those from higher income families. To address the mental and physical health disparities based on socioeconomic status, ethnicity/race, and urban/rural residency, the proposed study will target Head Start racially/ethnically diverse preschoolers from LIEM backgrounds in both urban and rural areas. Guided by the Actor-Partner Interdependence Model, the Allostatic Load Model, and the trensactional Theory of Stress and Coping, the pilot 5-week Food-Body-Mind intervention includes: 1) a school-based mindfulness component delivered to equip preschoolers with knowledge and skills in mindful eating and movement (e.g., yoga, deep breathing exercises); 2) a home-based mindfulness component to increase caregivers' skills in practicing mindful eating, movement, and parenting behaviors at home to foster a more positive, mindful, and healthy home environment; and 3) a school learning and home practice connection component to improve caregiver-preschooler relationships. The three aims are:

Aim 1: Finalize forms, procedures, community partners, protocols, and tren research staff for trial implementation.

Aim 2: Implement study in 1 urban \& 1 rural daycares; complete enrollment of 12 dyads, collect baseline data, begin intervention in both daycares for 5 weeks; evaluate recruitment, data collection/management, and intervention fidelity.

Aim 3: Analyze evaluative data from both caregivers and teachers to determine their satisfaction and recommendations to guide UH3.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Preschoolers' problem behaviors

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Food-Body-Mind Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05964218
