CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06941064
Title: Relationship of Anthropometric Profile and Fitness Indicators With Sports Performance of Elite Mexican National Team Soccer Players
Official Title: Relating Anthropometric Profile and Countermovement Jump Performance to In-Match GPS-Derived External Load Metrics in Mexican National Team Soccer Players
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Relating Anthropometric Profile to Fitness and Sports Performance in Mexican National Team Soccer Players

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Previous studies have reported differences in the body composition of Latin American or European youth to elite soccer players based on playing position or age. Furthermore, in youth or sub-elite samples, body composition has been linked to in-match speed, distance, or acceleration. Few studies have been developed with elite samples of soccer players. Elite soccer performance depends on the complex interaction of physical, physiological, tactical, and contextual variables. Therefore, a comprehensive analysis of anthropometric, countermovement jump and in-match performance variables can provide deeper insight into soccer success. Accordingly, this study addresses this knowledge gap by characterizing and analyzing the multidimensional relationships between these variables in elite Mexican soccer players. A descriptive, cross-sectional study will be conducted. According to the International Society for the Advancement of Kinanthropometry (ISAK) standards, sixteen anthropometric variables have been assessed to characterize the athlete's anthropometric profile. The counter-movement jump assessments were conducted using a ForceDecks Max platform. During matches, the players' displacement was monitored using 18 Hz WIMU Pro GPS units. Normality tests of all variables will be performed. A descriptive analysis of anthropometric and body composition characteristics of overall and among playing positions will be performed. The relationship between body composition and anthropometric profile with counter-movement jump and in-match GPS-Derived External Load Metrics will be computed. Multivariate models will be explored to analyze multidimensional relationships between these variables.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Anthropometric profile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Anthropometric and sports performance assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06941064
