CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02679742
Title: Postacute Sarcopenia: Supplementation With β-hydroxyMethylbutyrate After Resistance trening
Official Title: The PSSMAR Study (Postacute Sarcopenia, Supplementation With β-hydroxyMethylbutyrate After Resistance trening)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study to assess the effects of β-hydroxymethylbutyrate (β-HMB) combined with a resistance trening program, after an acute process in older patients with sarcopenia in terms of muscle mass, muscle strength and physical performance. Treatments compared will be β-hydroxymethylbutyrate (β-HMB) with a resistance trening program or placebo with a resistance trening program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sarcopenia is a geriatric syndrome characterized by the loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength that occurs with advancing age; it is related to frailty, falls, worsening quality of life, and death in chronic and elderly patients. Diagnosis of sarcopenia is based on clinical criteria: presence of low muscle mass and the presence of low muscle function and/or low physical performance. The latest developments indicate that dietary supplementation combined with resistance exercise could be an option to improve muscle mass and function.

The objective of the study is to assess the effects of β-hydroxymethylbutyrate (β-HMB) combined with a resistance trening program, after an acute process in older patients with sarcopenia in terms of muscle mass, muscle strength and physical performance.

Design: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study with two intervention groups. The investigators shall compare placebo against an intervention with β-HMB in patients performing a resistance trening program after an acute process (post-acute period) during 12 weeks. There will be 16 patients in each arm of the study. Additionally a one year follow up visit will be performed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline handgrip strength at 12 weeks
  - Change from baseline physical performance-gait speed- at 12 weeks
  - Change from baseline physical performance-SPPB- at 12 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: β-hydroxymethylbutyrate
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02679742
