CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05031104
Title: Low-energy Laser Applications in Patients With Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Official Title: Efficacy of the Articular Application of Low-energy Laser on Knee Joints as an Auxiliary Treatment for Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis: A Dual-arm Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This study endeavored to evaluate the auxiliary effect of low-energy laser therapy (LLT) on pain, muscle performance, fatigue, and functional ability in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). Sixty patients with JIA were randomly allocated to the LLT group (n = 30, received LLT in addition to the standard exercise program) or the control group (n = 30, received standard exercise program only). Both groups were assessed for pain intensity, muscle performance, fatigue perception, and functional status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sixty patients with JIA were recruited from the Physical Therapy Outpatient Clinic of College of Applied Medical Sciences, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz University, and the Pediatric Rheumatology Clinic, King Khalid Hospital, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia. The study included patients who had a confirmed diagnosis of Polyarticular JIA (according to the criteria set forth by the International League of Associations for Rheumatology), aged 8-16 years, identified being stable cases, and did not participate in a regular exercise program (in the past six months). Patients who had fixed deformities, a history of joint surgery, or whose radiological investigations revealed erosive changes of bone, ankylosing, or fractures were excluded.

Outcome measures

1. Pain intensity: measures through the Visual Analogue Scale
2. Muscle performance: represented by the peak concentric torque of the right and left quadriceps muscle and measured through an Isokinetic Dynamometer.
3. Fatigue perception: tested by the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Multidimensional Fatigue Scale (PedsQL-MFS)
4. Functional status: the functional status was quantified using the cross-cultural validated version of the Childhood Health Assessment Questionnaire (CHAQ).

Patients in the control and LLT group received a 40-minute exercise program, three times a week, for three months in succession. Patients in the LLT group additionally underwent an articular application of LLT on the knee joint, each session before exercises (eight points on each knee, 30 seconds irradiation for each point, with a total irradiation dose of eight minutes per session. The treatment was conducted by two experienced pediatric physical therapists.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Muscle performance
  - Fatigue perception

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical Exercise
  - OTHER: Physical Exercise plus Low-energy Laser Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05031104
