CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03993990
Title: Effects of Empowerment-based Program on Post-discharge Glycemic Control, and Foot Ulcer
Official Title: Effects of Empowerment-based Program on Post-discharge Self-care Behavior, Glycemic Control, and Prevention of Foot Ulcer Infection and Occurrence in Patients With Diabetic Foot Ulcer
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to evaluate an empowerment-based program. A randomized controlled trial design will be used. From August 2019 to July 2021, 160 subjects will be recruited at a medical center and randomly assigned to the intervention or comparison group. Participants in the intervention group will receive an assessment of their self-care demand and self-efficacy, as well as an empowerment-based program delivered by the project host. The program includes the identification of the problems of participants, clarification of their feelings and the significance of their problems, plan setting discussion, motivation for action, and evaluation of the execution of their plan. Empowerment-based strategies will be provided individually at the following time points: before discharge, on post-discharge days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 42, 56, 70, and 84, and at 6, 9, and 12 months post-discharge. Those in the comparison group will receive routine care only. Outcome measures include self-care behaviors, glycemic control (measured by HbA1c), diabetic foot ulcer infection, and diabetic foot ulcer recurrence. Data will be collected at baseline and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after discharge.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A randomized controlled trial design will be used to evaluate an empowerment-based program.. From August 2019 to July 2021, 160 subjects will be recruited at a medical center and randomly assigned to the intervention or comparison group. Participants in the intervention group will receive an assessment of their self-care demand and self-efficacy, as well as an empowerment-based program delivered by the project host. The program includes the identification of the problems of participants, clarification of their feelings and the significance of their problems, plan setting discussion, motivation for action, and evaluation of the execution of their plan. Empowerment-based strategies will be provided individually at the following time points: before discharge, on post-discharge days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, 42, 56, 70, and 84, and at 6, 9, and 12 months post-discharge. Those in the comparison group will receive routine care only. Outcome measures include self-care behaviors, glycemic control (measured by HbA1c), diabetic foot ulcer infection, and diabetic foot ulcer recurrence. Data will be collected at baseline and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after discharge

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycemic control
  - Foot infection and recurrence of foot ulcer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: individual empowerment-based intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03993990
