CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05839496
Title: Cervical Stabilization Training on Individuals With Headache
Official Title: Effects of Cervical Stabilization Training on Individuals With Headache
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Headache is a common health problem. The most common headaches worldwide are migraine, tension-type headache (TTH), and cervicogenic headache (CGH). Due to the close anatomical relationship between the head and the cervical region, neck pain accompanies these headaches. The effects of cervical stabilization training including all of the cervical regions, thoracic regions, and the upper extremities in individuals with headaches are not yet known.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Headache is a common health problem. The most common headaches worldwide are migraine, tension-type headache (TTH), and cervicogenic headache (CGH). Due to the close anatomical relationship between the head and the cervical region, neck pain accompanies these headaches. Most of the previous studies examined the effects of exercise programs such as Cranio-Cervical Flexion Exercises (CCFE), posture exercises, muscle strengthening, and stretching exercises of the neck and shoulder on headaches. These studies presented the beneficial effects of CCFE which mostly targeted strengthening the superficial neck and shoulder muscles. However, the effects of cervical stabilization training including all of the cervical regions, thoracic regions, and the upper extremities in individuals with headaches are not yet known.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity assessed by the VAS
  - Forward head posture assessed by the craniovertebral angle
  - Deep cervical flexor muscles strength assessed by the stabilizer pressure biofeedback
  - Endurance of cervical muscles assessed by the chronometer
  - Cervical joint range of motion assessed by the cervical range of motion instrument

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cervical stabilization exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05839496
