CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01380418
Title: Factors Associated With Chronic Respiratory Failure in Obesity
Official Title: Factors Associated With Chronic Respiratory Failure in Obesity: A Cross-sectional Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 78
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Some overweight individuals develop problems with their breathing such that they gradually breathe less and less. This leads to a lack of oxygen and a buildup of carbon dioxide in the blood, called ventilatory failure. As a consequence, if such a person develops a chest infection, they are more likely to become seriously ill and need intensive care. In addition they are much more likely to develop severe complications during and following operations. This problem can be treated with a machine at home used overnight to help breathing. It is interesting that ventilatory failure only happens in some overweight individuals, and the investigators do not understand what factors make this complication develop. There are a number of theories: for example the distribution of the fat, additional lung disease (such as asthma), the addition of obstructive sleep apnoea, a condition when there are periods of cessation of breathing overnight (which is more common in obese individuals), weak muscles of breathing (perhaps due to fatty infiltration of muscles or vitamin D deficiency), and other hormonal changes.

The investigators intend to measure many potential factors in a range of overweight individuals, some who have ventilatory failure, and some who do not, to try and work out which are the important factors that cause this problem. If the investigators can identify such factors, then this will help predict in advance who is at risk from chest infections and during operations; thus allowing for earlier provision of an overnight breathing machine. This should reduce complications and potentially deaths in such individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To test the hypothesis that in obese patients with obesity-hypoventilation (OHS) there are specific factors related to the development of ventilatory failure, compared to obese subjects not in ventilatory failure

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To determine the physiological between obese patients with OHS and obese patients without OHS

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01380418
