CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05570396
Title: Long-term Follow-up on Childhood Adiposity - The FitKids Study
Official Title: Long-term Follow-up on Childhood Adiposity After Randomized Controlled Lifestyle Interventions in Pregnancy - The FitKids Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 178
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The FitKids study is a mother-child observational cohort study on obesity and metabolism in children three years of age. The study will follow up on the FitMum and FitBaby studies, conducted from 2018-2022. The children in FitKids are born by mothers who completed the FitMum study, a single-site three-armed RCT, targeting physical activity during pregnancy. 220 pregnant women were randomly assigned to one of three arms during pregnancy: structured supervised exercise training, motivational counselling supported by health technology, or a control group receiving standard treatment. From inclusion and until one-year post-partum, the women wore an activity tracker 24/7 providing important information about adherence to the prescribed intervention. The primary objective of the FitKids study is to investigate the effect of lifestyle interventions during pregnancy on body composition (fat percentage measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) and risk of childhood obesity in off-springs.

The secondary objectives are to investigate the effect of lifestyle interventions during pregnancy on obesity-associated dys-metabolic traits and mental health in off-springs as well as to gain insight into presumed causal factors for overweight and obesity in children.

The investigators hypothesize that children of mothers, who during their participation in FitMum, received an intervention will have a healthier body composition expressed as a fat percentage within the normal range for a 3-year-old child compared to children of mothers in the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Worldwide obesity has nearly tripled since 1975. In 2020, 39 million children under the age of five were overweight or obese. In Denmark approximately 13% of children are overweight or severely overweight by the time they start school.

Overweight is generally defined as abnormal fat accumulation and obesity as excessive fat accumulation that may impair health. For children under five years of age, overweight is defined as weight-for-height greater than two standard deviations above World Health Organization (WHO) Child Growth Standards median. Obesity is defined as weight-for-height greater than three standard deviations above the WHO Child Growth Standards median. Childhood obesity is associated with an increased risk of adult obesity, type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, early death and reduced mental health. The large scale of obesity and the serious health problems associated with it calls for more knowledge within the field to prevent children from becoming overweight.

Body growth, physical activity, diet, and mental health are focus areas with respect to prevention and treatment of childhood obesity. Current knowledge about both pre- and postnatal factors indicates that being exposed to an adverse fetal environment, including maternal obesity, enhances propagation of obesity and associated cardiometabolic comorbidities, including type 2 diabetes. Still, the evidence is inconsistent and leaves most questions unanswered.

Many studies have found strong associations between maternal BMI and their child's BMI. One study showed distinct differences between associations of child BMI with maternal BMI compared to paternal BMI at birth but with the difference between associations diminishing over time. Another study showed associations between maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and child BMI at age five - six years of age. Given this it seems reasonable to suggest that the intrauterine environment is likely associated with the growth trajectory of the young child.

It is known that intrauterine exposure to diabetes and size at birth are risk factors for developing type 2 diabetes mellitus later in life, but several studies have also shown that children of mothers with obesity and overweight/obese children are at risk of having early markers of metabolic syndrome, i.e., increased insulin resistance, disturbed lipid profiles and high blood pressure.

Lifestyle interventions (physical activity and/or diet) in pregnant women have shown potential to reduce gestational weight gain and are associated with epigenetic changes in the child, potentially influencing the child's lean mass and early growth. However, in a recent metanalysis, prenatal lifestyle interventions were not shown to influence childhood weight or growth, but adherence to prescribed interventions was not systematically considered in the included studies, and only few studies reported data on body composition and metabolism in the child. Therefore, previous studies may not capture more specific e

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - fat percentage

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 36 Months to 47 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05570396
