CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03459742
Title: Juntos Santiago: Gamification Strategy to Reduce Childhood Obesity in Schools in Santiago de Chile
Official Title: A Gamification Strategy to Reduce Childhood Obesity in Santiago Schools: a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12000
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
School-based interventions have shown mixed results. Most studies have lacked enough statistical power and have been carried out in North America and Europe.

The Juntos Santiago is a cluster-randomized trial based on a gamification strategy conducted in Santiago de Chile. The trial uses elements of a game such as points, levels and rewards along with a strong community participation component.

Children voted their enrollment and collectively chose the rewards (two per year, one activity and another structural) they are playing for. The intervention consists of a healthy snacks challenge, a steps challenge and an activity challenge. The primary outcome is change in z-BMI and waist circumference.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose

Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the last decades. The growing obesity epidemic has negative health, economic and social consequences (Wang et al., 2011, Withrow and Alter, 2011, Griffiths et al., 2010). These include an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and cancer, a shorter life expectancy and lower quality of life (Wang et al., 2011, Olshansky et al., 2005). Studies suggest obese and physically inactive kids also have lower academic achievement (Correa-Burrows et al., 2016, Garcia-Hermoso and Marina, 2017).

The school environment is a suitable setting for implementing evidence-based interventions to reduce obesity. Several systematic reviews of RCTs have shown a modest decrease in adiposity and blood pressure (Oosterhoff et al., 2016, Wang et al., 2015, Sobol-Goldberg et al., 2013, Mei et al., 2016, Vasques et al., 2014). Oosterhoff et al (2016) showed a significant reduction in BMI of 0.22 kg/mt2 and systolic blood pressure, while no effect was found for diastolic blood pressure (Oosterhoff et al., 2016).

Multicomponent interventions addressing both nutrition and physical activity and involving parents and the school community have shown to be more effective (Wang et al., 2015). Few studies, however, have used a structured motivational strategy to increase engagement of students and school communities.

The clustered-randomized controlled trial Juntos Santiago was designed as a multidimensional intervention that incorporates a gamification strategy to increase motivation and participation. The intervention addresses the snacks brought from home, encourages physical activity and active parent and school community participation. All the aspects of the intervention are brought together in a game that provides points, levels and rewards that improve school infrastructure for better nutrition and physical activity. Structural rewards contribute to a sustained effect of the intervention.

The purpose of the Juntos Santiago study is to examine the effectiveness of a multicomponent school-based gamification strategy to reduce the body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC) and systolic blood pressure (SBP) in school children in 5th and 6th grade, compared to usual care and a leaflet and designed to prevent obesity.

Intervention

The study is part of the Juntos Santiago project, which will be progressively scaled-up for three years. A pilot will be carried out in three schools during 2017, without a control group. In 2018, the trial will include 12 randomly selected schools; the control group will be randomly selected from schools in the Municipality of Santiago plus 4 schools in a neighbour municipality (Estación Central). In 2019, the trial will expand to include all eligible schools in the Municipality of Santiago and 4000 students in the control group from neighbouring municipalities.

The intervention is based on the socio-ecological model. The intervention is a gamification strategy c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in zBMI
  - Change in waist circumference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Gamification strategy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03459742
