CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06269991
Title: Fascial Anthropometry in Archery Athletes
Official Title: Investigation of the Effects of Facial Anthropometric Measurements and Anthropometry Related Parameters on Sports Performance in Archers
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
In archery, the body morphological and anthropometric characteristics of the prominent athletes change. It is important to examine facial anthropometry, especially since the athlete's equipment touches the facial area, and there are no studies on this subject. The aim of this study is to determine the relationship between facial anthropometric measurements and anthropometry-related parameters and sports performance in archery athletes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Within the scope of the study, a total of at least 60 athletes, between the ages of 9-18, who have been training archery at least twice a week for at least 2 years, who have not changed their bow category since it started, who do not have a temporomandibular joint problem, and who volunteer to participate in the study, will be recruited in equal numbers from each age category. Within the scope of evaluation; Demographic information and features regarding archery equipment will be recorded. Within the scope of anthropometric measurements; adipose tissue measurements with skinfold; circumference measurements and length measurements with tape measure; diameter measurements with caliper; Facial anthropometric measurements will be measured with a caliper/tape measure. Formulary named "Heath-Carter Anthropometric Somatotype Technique" to determine the body somatotypes of athletes; Lateral photography for biomechanical evaluation of the craniocervical region; Hand Grip Strength Test for performance evaluation; Corbin Postural Assessment Scale will be used for posture evaluation. In order to determine the shooting performance, the athletes' actual competition scores in the last year will be recorded. Medicine ball throwing test, upper extremity y balance test and closed kinetic chain upper extremity stability test will be used to evaluate upper extremity performance. For statistical analysis, normal distribution of parameters will be examined. To determine the relationship between shooting performance and stabilization and related parameters, Pearson test will be used for normally distributed parameters and Spearman correlation test will be used for non-normally distributed parameters.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - evaluation of cervical region biomechanic
  - fat tissue distribution
  - head circumference
  - extremity circumference
  - extremity lengt measurement

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06269991
