CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06134856
Title: A Study Examining Changes in Pain After Manual Therapy in People With Achilles Tendon Pain
Official Title: Quantitative Sensory Testing Changes Following Talocrural Joint Manipulation in People With Achilles Tendinopathy; A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research is to find out how pain sensation may change in the Achilles tendon after the use of manual physical therapy. The testing itself will use a device that gradually produces a sensation of heat or cold on your skin, which we will place directly over your Achilles Tendon. You will let the researcher know when the heat or cold becomes what you would describe as "slight discomfort," at which point the pressure will be stopped. Testing will be completed three (3) times in a row. The device has built-in programming which ensures that the heat or cold applied will be safe, even though it may be briefly uncomfortable. After this first testing the researchers will perform 1-3 repetitions of the ankle joint mobilization/manipulation. This technique involves the researcher providing a small quick stretching movement downwards at the ankle. This is a common therapeutic technique utilized by Physical Therapists, chiropractors, and physicians and is considered very safe. After this treatment we will perform the same measurements of hot and cold discomfort on your Achilles tendon

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
While healthcare's understanding of sensory processing changes has grown significantly in the last several years, numerous gaps in the literature exist. In particular, lower extremity tendinopathies, while common, have not been well studied through the lens of potential sensory sensitizations. The prevalence of Achilles Tendinopathy has been reported to be around 6%, meaning that Millions of individuals in the United States will have these issues at any given time. Historically, clinical management of the condition has been challenging. This study aims to provide data for clinicians to better inform treatment strategies by increasing knowledge of the neurosensory changes that may accompany the condition.

After subjects complete informed consent, they will then answer a brief intake screening form asking for demographic information and symptom history to confirm eligibility. The clinical screening will then be performed to confirm signs of Achilles tendinopathy, namely assessment for tenderness to palpation in the Achilles Tendon, the the Royal London Hospital Test. The Royal London Hospital Test consists of assessing for tenderness in the Achilles tendon with the ankle in a relaxed position, and then again with the subject in maximal active dorsiflexion. A positive test is noted when tenderness is reduced in the maximally dorsiflexed position as compared to the rest state. Once eligibility is confirmed, a subject number will be assigned. Prior to beginning data collection, a random number generation program will be used to determine which subject numbers will be placed into the intervention and control groups. All participants will begin data collection with standardized assessment of heat and cold pain thresholds. Heat and cold pain threshold testing will be performed using the Medoc TSA Air2, with calibration performed before each data collection session. Data collection will be performed in accordance with the protocols set forth by the German Research Network on Neuropathic Pain (DFNS.) Participants will be instructed to press the input button to stop the trial when the heat or cold pain stimulus becomes what each subject would describe as pain or discomfort.

Subjects will be instructed that it is a threshold test, not a tolerance test, thus they are asked to press the stop trial button at the beginning of pain, not at their maximal tolerable amount. All trials will be completed three times with a pre-determined 15 second rest between trials. All three trials will be averaged for data analysis purposes. Subjects assigned to the intervention group will then receive a talocrural joint high velocity, low amplitude thrush mobilization/manipulation. Standardized technique for this procedure involves the subject long-sitting with their back supported on the treatment table. The provider will then passively dorsiflex and evert the ankle to the point at which a joint tension end-feel is obtained.

A small amplitude of movement is rapidly provided b

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Heat and Cold Thresholds

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Ankle mobilization
  - PROCEDURE: Sham treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06134856
