CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05881538
Title: High Intensity Intervallic Training in Children With Bronchiolitis Obliterans
Official Title: Effectiveness of a High-intensity Intervallic Training Program in Children and Adolescents With Post-infectious Bronchiolitis Obliterans: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 51
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Post-Infectious Bronchiolitis Obliterans (PIBO) is an irreversible obstructive lung disease characterized by subepithelial inflammation and fibrotic narrowing of the bronchioles after lower respiratory tract infection. This disease is diagnosed mainly in children, more frequently before the age of 2 years. Due to symptoms such as dry cough and dyspnea sensation, most of these patients have low levels of physical activity compared to healthy individuals. Physical activity can positively influence oxygen consumption, muscle strength, and quality of life. High levels of oxygen consumption are associated with a lower risk of respiratory disease and hospitalization. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) may be an effective way to improve oxygen consumption, muscle strength, and quality of life in patients with chronic diseases. HIIT has been shown to produce less dyspnea sensation and to be more entertaining in children and adolescents with respiratory disease compared to continuous training. Thus, the investigators propose to perform telematically real-time guided training to reduce travel times and additional costs to patients.

Objective: To analyze the effects of a telematically supervised high-intensity intervallic training program on aerobic fitness, as well as functional/clinical outcomes in patients with PIBO.

Methods: Randomized controlled trial with two groups. Exercise group: 16-week HIIT training conducted telematically; Control group: will follow the routine physician's recommendations. Patients will be recruited at Vall D'Hebrón University Hospital (Barcelona), Niño Jesús University Hospital (Madrid), and Donostia Universitary Hospital (San Sebastián). Criteria for participation: (I) Diagnosis of PIBO; (II) Clinically stable at the time of the assessments; (III) Age between 6 to 20 years old.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in peak oxygen consumption
  - Change in time to ventilatory threshold
  - Change in percent oxygen consumption at ventilatory threshold
  - Change in ventilatory efficiency

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 20 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05881538
