CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06610435
Title: Effects of Manual Therapy and Home Exercise in Bruxism
Official Title: Effects of Manual Therapy and Home Exercise Treatment on Pain, Stress, Sleep and Life Quality in Patients with Bruxism: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Objectives: This trial aimed to examine the effects of manual therapy and home exercise treatments on pain, sleep quality, stress level and quality of life in patients with bruxism.

Methods: Thirty bruxists over the age of 18 were included in the study. The patients were randomly divided into Manual Therapy Group (MTG) and Home Exercise Group (HEG). Before treatment (T1) demographic information was obtained from all patients, they were asked to fill out the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Fonseca Anamnestic Index (FAI) and Quality of Life Scale/Short Form-36 (SF-36) and number of trigger points and pain levels were determined at baseline. Manual therapy and home exercises were applied to both groups for 8 weeks and all tests were repeated and re-evaluated at the end of 8 weeks (T2). After that, the data was analyzed with statistical tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Bruxism is a common parafunctional habit defined as clenching and/or grinding of teeth occurring during sleep and/or wakefulness. Although the etiology is not known exactly, there is a consensus that it is multifactorial. Emotional stress is one of the important factors leading to bruxism. It has been shown that a stressful life has an important effect in explaining clenching during the day. In addition to stress, previous studies showing that psychiatric disorders, especially depression and anxiety disorders, accompany TMD and bruxism.

This trial aimed to examine the effects of manual therapy and home exercise treatments on pain, sleep quality, stress level and quality of life in patients with bruxism. In the study thirty bruxists over the age of 18 were included in the research protocol. The patients were randomly divided into Manual Therapy Group (MTG) and Home Exercise Group (HEG). Before treatment (T1) demographic information was obtained from all patients, they were asked to fill out the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Perceived Stress Scale (PSS), Fonseca Anamnestic Index (FAI) and Quality of Life Scale/Short Form-36 (SF-36) and number of trigger points and pain levels were determined at baseline. Manual therapy and home exercises were applied to both groups for 8 weeks and all tests were repeated and re-evaluated at the end of 8 weeks (T2). The normal distribution of the groups was tested with Kolmogorov-Smirnov. Paired Samples t test was used for intra-group comparisons at T1 and T2, and Independent t test was used for inter-group comparisons. The statistical significance level was accepted as p\&lt;0.05.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Level
  - Sleep Quality Index
  - Stress level
  - Quality of Life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Manual Therapy
  - PROCEDURE: Home Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06610435
