CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02591134
Title: EffectS of Non-nutritive sWeetened Beverages on appetITe During aCtive weigHt Loss
Official Title: SWITCH: EffectS of Non-nutritive sWeetened Beverages on appetITe During aCtive weigHt Loss
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 505
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The effects of non-nutritive sweetened (NNS) beverages on weight management and psychological indices of appetitive behaviour have not been assessed in both weight loss and maintained weight loss phases over the long term to determine whether NNS beverages may assist in efforts to lose weight and maintain weight loss and how this affects appetite expression (satiety, food choice, craving, ease of dieting etc.). Thus the present research will determine the impact of NNS beverages as compared to water on weight loss and weight loss maintenance, satiation, satiety, cravings for sweet, exercise efforts and mood state across both a period of weight-loss as well as a weight-maintenance phase. To determine if the effects of NNS on appetite are beneficial or detrimental to successful weight management, the study will also systematically compare the effects of NNS beverages, water and caloric beverages (CBs) on appetite (hunger, satiety, liking and wanting) and energy intake (including food choice and caloric compensation) across the whole day during active weight management in a subset of participants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will use a parallel randomized design with two arms; participants will either be randomized to a non-nutritive sweetener (NNS) beverage condition (active) or a water condition (control). A total of 432 overweight and obese participants (Body Mass Index; BMI range: 27-35 kg/m2) will be enrolled in the study. A 3-month weight loss diet phase will initially be completed, with participants receiving nutritional advice at weekly group sessions whilst additionally incorporating the active or control products into their diet (weeks 0-12). This programme is based on a model successfully used in an American sample (Peters et al., 2014) which will be adapted for a UK sample. This will be followed by a 9-month weight maintenance phase (weeks 13-49) in which participants will be advised to follow a general healthy diet in accordance with dietary guidelines (continuing to incorporate the active or control beverages) but will only attend monthly group sessions. This will be followed by a voluntary one year post assisted weight maintenance period in which participants will continue to consume the active or control beverages every day and will be asked to complete questionnaire measures, cognitive tasks, biomarkers of health (blood samples, if willing) and body composition data (weight, sagittal diameter and hip and waist circumference measures; DXA (for Subset 2)) at the end of this period. A subset of participants (Subset 1) will additionally undergo appetite probe days (n = 116), attending the Study Centre at 15 points throughout the trial (3 sessions at baseline, 3 sessions at the start of the weight loss programme, 3 sessions at the end of the weight loss programme, 3 sessions at the end of assisted weight maintenance and 3 sessions at the end of the one year post assisted weight maintenance period). A separate subset (Subset 2) will complete biological assessment measures (n =50) involving body composition (DXA) scans at 4 points throughout the trial (at baseline, end of weight loss, end of assisted weight maintenance, and at a year post assisted weight maintenance visit) and all participants will be asked to provide blood samples at these four points but will not be excluded from the trial should they not wish to.

Both groups will be asked to ensure that they consume at least two servings (330 ml) of their elected beverages dependent on condition (NNS vs. water). All beverages will be picked by participants (from a permitted range) and then delivered to them in bi-weekly batches using an online delivery-style system. Primary study visits for body weight, waist circumference, hip circumference, sagittal diameter, and blood pressure assessments will be carried out at various stages throughout the trial. Initial assessments will be at baseline (week -2), monthly over the weight loss period (weeks 4, 8 and 12), monthly over the assisted weight maintenance period (weeks 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40, 44 and 48) and at a 1 year post assisted weight main

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Initial change in weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Non Nutritive Sweetened Beverages
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02591134
