CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06790160
Title: Study of Patients Being Treated With Anti-obesity Medication
Official Title: Observational Study of Patients Being Treated With Anti-obesity Medication
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the real-world effects of selected obesity medications in adults undergoing medical weight management. The main outcomes of interest are changes in body composition, routine clinical markers, muscular performance, and nutritional intake over the course of treatment. Additionally, the influence of lifestyle factors on changes in these outcome variables will be examined.

Participants beginning treatment with selected obesity medications will undergo periodic body composition and muscular performance testing, as well as complete online surveys about their nutritional intake and physical activity and exercise participation. Additionally, routinely collected clinical information will be evaluated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background. The popularity of anti-obesity medications, particularly glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) like semaglutide and dual GLP-1/GIP receptor agonists like tirzepatide, has increased dramatically over the past several years. These medications are routinely prescribed in obesity management clinics and other medical settings. While controlled clinical trials have been conducted for specific drugs, many of these have not reported relevant outcomes, such as body composition changes, muscular performance, and nutritional intake. Additionally, these controlled clinical trials may not fully represent the "real world" effects of treatment in varied settings. As such, there is a need for observational, real-world evaluations of the effects of GLP-1RA and GLP-1/GIP drugs on body composition, muscular performance, nutritional intake, and routine clinical markers. Additionally, the influence of lifestyle factors, such as exercise participation, on the observed changes in these outcomes should be evaluated.

Overview. Eligible participants beginning treatment with selected obesity medications (semaglutide or tirzepatide) at a specified virtual health clinic will undergo periodic body composition and muscular performance testing, as well as complete online surveys about their nutritional intake and physical activity and exercise participation. Additionally, routinely collected clinical information will be evaluated.

Body Composition Assessment. Participants will be asked to report an approved local DXA testing facility for a baseline body composition assessment as close as possible to the beginning of their anti-obesity medication treatment. Participants will be requested to report for another scan after \~6 months of treatment, as well as after \~17 months of treatment (provided they are still undergoing treatment at this point).

Handgrip Strength Testing. Handgrip testing will take place using a standard, consumer-grade at-home handgrip dynamometer, which will be provided to each participant. Participants will be provided with instructions for conducting the handgrip testing. This testing will be completed at baseline (as close as possible to the initiation of anti-obesity medication), and after \~3, \~6, and \~17 months of treatment (provided they are still undergoing treatment at these time points).

Questionnaires. The following questionnaires will be completed at baseline (as close as possible to the initiation of anti-obesity medication), and after \~3, \~6, and \~17 months of treatment (provided they are still undergoing treatment at these time points):

1. Automated Self-Administered 24-hour (ASA24®) Dietary Assessment Tool
2. The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)
3. The Muscle-Strengthening Exercise Questionnaire (MSEQ)

Standard Clinical Markers. Some clinical markers routinely collected during standard medical treatment will also be evaluated, including a lipid panel (total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Total Lean Soft Tissue
  - Change in Appendicular Lean Soft Tissue
  - Change in Total Fat Mass
  - Change in Handgrip Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06790160
