CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06131736
Title: Effects of High Intensity Interval Training and Cluster Training on Speed, Explosive Strength and Functional Performance
Official Title: Comparative Effects of High Intensity Interval Training and Cluster Training on Speed, Explosive Strength and Functional Performance in Football Players.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
High-intensity interval training has been beneficial in many sports and significantly enhanced the results of physical training. Consequently, it has progressively been implemented among the football players. A Cluster Set (CS) is a set that has been broken up into smaller blocks of repeats with the inclusion of brief intra-set breaks or a reorganization of the breaks between repetitions. The initial assumption is that this design would offer a superior rise in exercise quality with the potential to maintain or enhance performance and enable larger loads, leading to stronger performance adaptations. The objective of the study is to compare the effects of high intensity interval training and cluster training on speed, explosive strength and functional performance in football players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of the study is to determine the effects of high intensity interval training and cluster training on speed, explosive strength and functional performance in football players.This is randomized clinical trial that will be conducted at football club, Pakistan sport club Lahore. Non-Probability convenient sampling technique will be used to collect data. The study will be completed in 6 months after the approval of ethical committee of RCRS \& Allied Health Sciences. Total number of participants will be 54, in group A participants will be 27, in group B participants will be 27. Performance, speed and strength will be measured by using FMS, 30-meter speed test and vertical jump test respectively. The participants will be divided into two groups. Group A will receive high intensity interval training (HIIT) and group B will receive cluster training. The training program will be conducted for 6 weeks and data will be collected pre and post training session. The data will be entered and analyzed using SPSS version 25 and Shapiro wilk test will be applied to determine the normality of the data. If data will be normally distributed then parametric type of statistical test will be applied while if the data will not normally distribute then non parametric type of test will be applied.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - FMS (Functional movement screen)
  - 30 METER SPRINT TEST
  - THE VERTICAL JUMP TEST

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tabata Training
  - OTHER: Cluster Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06131736
