CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06894836
Title: Hybrid Type 2 Implementation-Effectiveness Trial of a Third Wave Virtual Reality Treatment for Youth Depression/Anxiety
Official Title: Hybrid Type 2 Implementation-Effectiveness Trial of a Third Wave Virtual Reality Treatment for Youth Depression and Anxiety
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This research will evaluate a new virtual reality (VR) intervention to support youth with depression and anxiety. While VR has shown promise for adult mental health, little is known about its use in youth or routine clinical care. The VR intervention is based on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) and immerses young people in fun, engaging environments to teach practical coping skills for managing distress. Clinicians within youth mental health services will use the VR intervention within their routine treatment of young people. The study will evaluate both the preliminary effectiveness of the VR intervention for improving youth mental health, as well as real-world implementation outcomes to understand how it can be successfully adopted in clinical settings. The trial will use a single-group, pre-post design, with treating clinicians delivering the intervention to up to 75 young people seeking treatment for depression and anxiety over a 12-week period. Assessments will be conducted at baseline, immediately after the intervention (12 weeks), and four weeks post-intervention (16 weeks).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Youth mental ill-health is a global crisis. One in five young people experience a mental health disorder every year, and suicide is a leading cause of death in this age group. In addition to costing the global economy $1 trillion per year in lost productivity, mental ill-health can have a severe and long-lasting impact on the lives of young people. Despite this, only a small proportion receive access to care, and of those that do, most fail to fully recover.

Technology has the potential to overcome many systemic barriers to accessing quality, sustainable care and importantly provide treatments tailored to young people's needs. In particular, virtual reality (VR) treatments have potential to tackle key limitations in youth mental health care. Through a VR headset, young people are transported into virtual environments that can provide powerful therapeutic experiences, enabling them to learn and practice skills to overcome mental health symptoms within personally relevant situations, under the safe and controlled supervision of a clinician. As a highly novel and interactive digital medium, VR has capacity to address barriers to help seeking and poor engagement amongst young people by delivering treatments that are fun, interesting and memorable. Meta analyses of randomised controlled trials have clearly supported the efficacy of VR treatments for improving mental health outcomes, however there are currently no available evidence-based options for youth and no studies have examined how VR treatments can be implemented in real world settings. This is a clear gap, with research demonstrating there is interest and need amongst clinicians and young people for innovative digital tools like VR to improve clinical care.

Through co-design with young people with lived experience and clinicians, a new VR treatment has been developed for youth depression and anxiety. Depression and anxiety are core transdiagnostic symptoms prominent in mood and anxiety disorders, which represent the most prevalent and debilitating mental health conditions with the highest burden of disease in youth populations. This new VR treatment is a blended clinical support tool which harnesses immersive VR environments to deliver targeted evidence-based treatment for depression and anxiety. Through engaging, interactive exercises, young people are guided to learn and practice core psychological skills based on ACT, an evidence-based treatment for youth depression and anxiety. Clinicians can use the third wave VR intervention within therapy sessions to help young people learn and practice these core skills in an engaging way, providing opportunities to improve treatment engagement, reduce drop out, and deliver a more effective learning experience that can translate into greater improvements in depression and anxiety in the real world.

Previous studies by our group included interviews with 30 young people and 10 clinicians which highlighted the perceived value of the third wave VR treat

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility - recruitment and retention rates
  - Acceptability - intervention endorsement
  - Effectiveness - severity of depression
  - Effectiveness - severity of anxiety

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Third wave VR therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06894836
