CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05668260
Title: Internal Biodegradable Stent Versus Non-Stent in Patients at High-Risk of Developing Fistula After Pancreatoduodenectomy
Official Title: Internal Biodegradable Stent Versus Non-Stent in Patients at High-Risk of Developing Fistula After Pancreatoduodenectomy (BioSteP): a Randomized Controlled Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 122
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this randomized controlled study is to compare the efficacy of biodegradable internal pancreatic stenting versus no stenting in patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy (PD), focusing on a possible superiority association of the device in preventing clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF).

Patients undergoing PD will be randomized into two arms:

* arm 1: a biodegradable internal pancreatic stent will be placed at the level of the pancreatic anastomosis
* arm 2: no pancreatic stent will be placed at the level of the pancreatic anastomosis

The rate of occurrence of CR-POPF will be compared between the two arms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) represents the most common complication that can occur after pancreatoduodenectomy (PD). CR-POPF is the main cause of morbidity after PD, being associated with a risk of mortality up to 60%. The placement of external or internal pancreatic stents after PD have been investigated as possible strategies for preventing the development of CR-POPF. However, device displacement has been reported as a common cause of pancreatic stents malfunction. Recently, a novel biodegradable pancreatic stent (ARCHIMEDES™) has been introduced. The device has been specifically designed to reduce the risk of displacement, thus offering a new valuable tool to decrease the rate of CR-POPF after PD.

In this randomised, controlled, single-center trial, researchers investigate the possible efficacy of biodegradable internal pancreatic stenting of pancreatic anastomosis in patient undergoing PD versus no stenting, focusing on a possible superiority association for preventing CR-POPF.

Participants will be randomised into two arms (Biodegradable stent vs non-stent) based on their intra-operative risk of developing POPF according to the Fistula Risk Score (FRS). The rate of CR-POPF will be compared between the two arms.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinically Relevant Postoperative Pancreatic Fistula (CR-POPF)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Biodegradable Stent

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05668260
