CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05216666
Title: The Role of Surgical Approach on Residual Limping After Total Hip Arthroplasty
Official Title: Abductor Insufficiency After Total Hip Arthroplasty; Risk Factors and Diagnosis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 580
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Residual limping after total hip arthroplasty is empirically associated with the use of lateral approach but has been reported in litterature even with the use of posterior approach. The purpose of this clinical trial is to compare the risk of residual limping one year after total hip arthropasty between lateral and posterior approach.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The use of lateral approach has been empirically associated with increased risk of abductor insufficiency and limping after total hip arthroplasty compared with the posterior approach. However lateral approach remains a widespread technik because it provides a decreased risk of dislocation. In litterature, gluteus medius insufficiency has been reported even when the posterior approach has been used. In the early stage of postperative relhabilitation it is difficult to distinguish between between limping that resolves after abductor trening and limping due to abductor injury/avulsion that is resistent to physiotherapy. The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to compare the risk of persistent limping one year after total hip arthtoplasty between lateral and posterior approach and to identify patient-related risk factors for limping. Moreover it will validate ultra sound (U/S), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the hip and gait analysis as diagnostic tools for early detection of limping that is going to persist one year after total hip arthroplasty.

580 patients will hip osteoarthritis be randomised to receive their total hip arthroplasty through an either lateral of posterior approach and will be followed at one year with physical examination (trenelenburg sign) and patient.-reported outcome measures. Patients with a positive trenelenburg sign at 3 months will undergo U/S and MRI examination as well as gait analysis and reassessed at one year with physical examination. The first 40 patients with negative trenelenburg sign at 3 months will also undergo U/S, MRI and gait analysis. The specificity and sensitivity of U/S, MRI and gait analysis for positiv trenelenburg sign will be calculated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - trenelenburg sign as binary variable (positive/negative)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Lateral approach
  - PROCEDURE: Posterior approach

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05216666
