CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04923555
Title: Analysis of the Postprandial Effects of a Vegetable Protein Mixture Rich in Arginine, Cysteine and Leucine on Endothelial Dysfunction and Inflammation at Low Noise in Elderly People With Cardiometabolic Risk
Official Title: Analysis of the Postprandial Effects of a Vegetable Protein Mixture Rich in Arginine, Cysteine and Leucine on Endothelial Dysfunction and Inflammation at Low Noise in Elderly People With Cardiometabolic Risk
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
By 2050, the expanding world population will consume two-thirds more animal protein than it consumes today. The increase in chronic diseases associated with the generalization of these consumption patterns tend to understand the place of meat in our diets. All these elements participate to the reduction of animal proteins in favor of vegetable proteins in our food. The elderly are particularly affected by malnutrition, the prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition increasing with age and promoting the onset of morbidities. Without care, it leads to the worsening of physiological phenomena linked to aging such as loss of muscle functionality (sarcopenia) or reduction in bone density (osteoporosis) and increases the risk of falls - the main cause of dependence. However, in France, protein consumption declines significantly with age, even though requirements appear to be greater for the elderly. It is therefore a major challenge for our societies to ensure that the aging of the population and the increase in life expectancy are not synonymous with a reduction in the physical and mental capacities of individuals. Thus, it is essential to ensure that the recommendations for reducing the intake of animal proteins in favor of vegetable proteins can be applied without risk to aging populations, in particular on the human body cardiovascular risk of these populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This human dietary intervention study is a double blind, randomized, placebo controlled, cross over trial with 3 arms, carried out on subjects with predisposition to cardiometabolic syndrome (based on weight circumference, blood triglyceride or blood cholesterol, glycemia and hypertension). This study aims to demonstrate transient improvement in vascular endothelial function (with Flow Mediated Dilatation (FMD) as main criteria) with consumption of vegetable proteins (rich in leucine, cysteine and arginine) by comparison with animal proteins and with a control without proteins.

The 33 recruited participants will receive the 3 yogurts in a random order. For each subject, the study is divided into 4 visits.

To summarize: Visit 1 (D-7) = inclusion, Visit 2 (D0: treatment period N°1), Visit 3 (D28 : treatment period N°2), Visit 4 (D56 : treatment period N°3). The wash-out periods between treatment period (duration: 4 weeks) may be extended until 5 weeks for the convenience of participants.

The protocol includes a total of 4 visits to PIC/CIC Inserm 1405 of the Clermont-Fd University Hospital.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Dilation (FMD)
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Dilation (FMD)
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Dilation (FMD)
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Dilation (FMD)
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Dilation (FMD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Vegetable proteins (VP) rich in leucine, cystein, arginine
  - BEHAVIORAL: Animal proteins (AP)
  - BEHAVIORAL: No protein (T)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04923555
