CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03979183
Title: Effect of a Rehabilitation Program to Improve Quality of Life in Women Diagnosed With Endometriosis (Physio-EndEA Study)
Official Title: 'Physio-EndEA' Study: a Randomized Controlled Trial to Evaluate the Effect of a Supervised and Adapted Rehabilitation Program to Improve Quality of Life in Women Diagnosed With Endometriosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Given (1) the high volume of women on reproductive age that have a clinical diagnosis of endometriosis and (2) the poor management of symptoms that medical treatment usually achieves, new therapeutic interventions need to be evaluated in order to improve pain and quality of life in those patients. Therefore, 'Physio-EndEA' study has been designed to evaluate whether therapeutic exercise could help on the management of endometriosis-related symptoms

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Prevalence of endometriosis is approximately 10% of women of childbearing age. Pain, considered in its multiple versions (dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, dyschezia, dysuria and, in general, chronic pelvic pain) is the most common and disabilitating symptom in affected women. Usual care, consisting on palliative pharmacological treatment in combination with surgery, is clearly insufficient and physical therapies need to be explored in order to reduce pain and to improve quality of life in affected women.

Objective: The overall objective of 'Physio-EndEA' study will be to explore potential short and mid-term benefits of a rehabilitation program on the quality of life of symptomatic women.

Methods: A total of 26 symptomatic endometriosis women will be recruited. Inclusion criteria includes: aged 18-50, clinical diagnosis of endometriosis and interested in improving lifestyle while exclusion criteria includes: diagnosed chronic disease or orthopaedic issues that would interfere with ability to participate in a physical activity program. Women will be randomized to either intervention (n=13) or usual care group (n=13). Intervention group will receive twice weekly session for 9 weeks and control group will receive recommendations about healthy lifestyle and usual care.

Discussion: This study attempts to improve the quality of life of symptomatic endometriosis women by reducing musculoskeletal and occupational impairments. Findings will offer a new therapeutic approach for a better pain control.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in quality of life assessed by EHP-30

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lumbopelvic, stretching, aerobic and relaxation exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03979183
