CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06661226
Title: Acceleration Drills and Change in Direction Drills on Agility, Speed and Performance in Squash Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Acceleration Drills and Change in Direction Drills on Agility, Speed and Performance in Squash Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Squash match play is characterized by fast and frenetic movements, making the development of agility and speed crucial for players. The majority of movements in squash involve only 2 or 3 steps, emphasizing the need for quick and explosive movement execution.

It is a randomized clinical trial with non-probability convenience sampling technique. The sample size of the study is 28. It will be conducted in Punjab Squash Association in Lahore within 6 months after approval of synopsis. Group A will receive acceleration drills in 15-minute sessions for 6 weeks. 3-5 days per week with moderate to high intensity. Group B will receive change in direction drills (15-minute sessions) for 6 weeks, 3-5 times a week, with moderate to high intensity. The collected data will be analyzed in Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 25.0. If data will be normally distributed, then parametric; if not normally distributed, then non-parametric.

The aim of the study is to compare the effects of acceleration drills versus change in direction drills on agility, speed, and performance in squash players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of my study is to determine comparative effects of acceleration drills and change in direction drills on agility, speed, and performance in squash players.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Illinois agility test
  - Sprint for speed
  - Vertical jump test
  - Squat One-repetition maximum (1RM) Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Accleration drills
  - OTHER: Change in Direction Drills

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06661226
