CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06802406
Title: Nutrition OUtReach In Systems of Healthcare
Official Title: Nutrition OUtReach In Systems of Healthcare
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 210
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Many children and adults receiving medical treatments have higher costs, which can make it harder for them to afford groceries. When someone can't afford enough food, and they do not receive proper nutrition it can make treatment more difficult.

By doing this study investigators hope to learn more about whether addressing food insecurity by giving patients bags of food in clinic can help improve nutrition, reduce costs, and improve transplant and cellular therapy outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Food insecurity (FI), defined as a lack of consistent access to enough food for every person in a household to live an active, healthy life due to insufficient money or other resources, affects 17 million (12.8%) of American households. FI is exacerbated in patients with complex medical conditions, and it is associated with worse health outcomes and increased healthcare utilization and costs. Strategies to address FI such as home-delivered meals or food assistance programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and food banks/pantries/pharmacies may improve healthcare outcomes. However, home-delivered meals are associated with higher costs due to individualized delivery while food assistance programs have several barriers to participation. We propose to leverage the strengths of both those approaches in a novel healthcare-community partnership between cancer centers and food banks called Nutrition OUtReach In Systems of Healthcare (NOURISH), to directly deliver food to patients in clinic. Patients, caregivers, dietitians, social workers, nurses, physicians, food bank staff, and community members will work together to determine medically tailored options for the patient population; food banks will oversee sourcing and preparing bags of food; and healthcare providers will distribute bags to patients in clinic after their appointments. Because NOURISH does not require patients to make an extra trip and bags are distributed discreetly to avoid stigma, it increases adoption; because food is handed out in clinic, it lowers costs. We propose to evaluate NOURISH in a multicenter randomized controlled trial in FI patients with hematologic malignancies receiving transplant and cellular therapy (TCT). We chose this population for three reasons: (1) TCT patients are in great need as approximately 75% will relocate to live near a quaternary cancer center (QCC) for a month or more while receiving TCT, removing them from their normal sources of support; (2) TCT patients are at high risk for malnutrition and other adverse outcomes, often struggling with nausea, anorexia, and other side effects that can be exacerbated by FI; (3) TCT may be a model for sustaining care: while other Food is Medicine initiatives have shown economic benefits, because cost savings do not flow to healthcare systems, there is little incentive for implementation. In contrast, TCT is among the most expensive medical procedures, and healthcare systems are typically reimbursed through bundled payments. As a result, QCCs have an incentive to pursue strategies that may lower costs and improve outcomes. For example, many TCT patients with FI will receive total parenteral nutrition, at significant cost. NOURISH may prevent malnutrition and the need for intravenous nutrition through much cheaper food assistance. The success of our randomized controlled trial will provide a compelling rationale for QCCs to continue to fund food banks in their communities, providing much-needed f

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Peri-Transplant and Cell Therapy Malnutrition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Food Bags

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06802406
