CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03680300
Title: The Effectiveness of Muscle Energy Technique and Friction Massage in Hamstring Tightness Amongst Young Athletes of Pakistan
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Muscle Energy Technique and Friction Massage in Hamstring Tightness Amongst Young Athletes of Pakistan
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The ability of an individual to move smoothly depends on his flexibility, an attribute that enhances both safety and optimal physical activity. Hamstring tightness leads to hamstring injuries and hamstring injuries are the most common type of injury among athletes. These injuries are slow to recover, make high health expenditure and decrease the performance level of the athlete.

The hamstring is an example of the muscle group that has a tendency to get shorten Muscle tightness is caused by a decrease in the ability of the muscle to deform, resulting in a decrease in the range of motion at the joint on which it acts. Inability to achieve greater than 120° of knee extension with the hip at 90° of flexion is considered as hamstring tightness.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
it will be a Randomized Controlled Trial with 3 group. there will be 60 patients with hamstring tightness divided into 3 group. Allocating by using the manual lottery system. Non-probability Convenience Sampling technique will be utilized. the self-structured questionnaire will be used to analyse the athletic condition and performance.

Each patient in group A will be given with hot pack along with Tens for 20 mins then the patient will receive post facilitation stretch only, for about one months on daily basis.

Each patient in group B will receive hot pack along with Tens for 20 mins then the patients will receive post isometric relaxation alone for about one months on daily basis.

Each patient in group C will receive hot pack along with Tens for 20 mins then the patients will receive frictional massage alone for about one months on daily basis. Friction massage on hamstrings will be given for 20 mins by thrive massager by a therapist.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Agility run test
  - vertical jump test
  - nordic lower test
  - ymca sit and reach box
  - Goniometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Post Facilitation Stretch
  - OTHER: Post Isometric Relaxation
  - OTHER: Friction Massage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03680300
