CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06350617
Title: Personalized rTMS Protocol Based on Functional Reserve to Enhance Ambulatory Function in PD Patients
Official Title: Safety and Efficacy of Personalized Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Protocol Based on Functional Reserve to Enhance Ambulatory Function in Patients With Parkinson Disease
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study was to determine the effects of protocols of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) therapy based on the functional reserve of each patient with Parkinson's disease, compared to conventional high-frequency rTMS therapy on bilateral primary motor cortex (M1). Investigators hypothesized that the functional reserve of each patient with Parkinson's disease will be different, and therefore an appropriate simulating target for rTMS therapy is needed. In addition, this approach could be more effective compared to conventional protocols applied to patient with Parkinson's disease regardless of their severity, predicted mechanism of motor function recovery, or functional reserves.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
rTMS treatment for patients with Parkinson's disease is traditionally based on stimulating the neural network of brain. The widely-used traditional rTMS treatment protocol involves high-frequency stimulation over the bilateral primary motor cortex (M1) to enhance motor and gait functions. However, concerns have arisen regarding the effect of rTMS on motor recovery in patients with Parkinson's disease. Although still subject to debate, a possible reason for the diverse results of rTMS applied is the uniform application protocol to individuals with varying pathologies and functional reserves, aimed at enhancing recovery.

Therefore, this study was aimed to determine the effects of protocols of rTMS therapy based on the functional reserve of each patient with Parkinson's disease.

Based on screening evaluations (Timed Up and Go Test (TUG), Timed Up and Go Dual Task-Cognitive (TUG-Cog)), investigators hypothesized that patients could be categorized into two groups: 1) priority in motor functional reserve, 2) priority in cognitive functional reserve. For each group, investigators plan to randomly assign patients to experimental and control groups to demonstrate the efficacy of different rTMS protocols based on functional reserves compared to conventional high-frequency rTMS applied to the bilateral M1.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Differences of Timed Up and Go Test (TUG)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: High-Frequency, ipsilateral M1
  - DEVICE: High-Frequency, bilateral M1
  - DEVICE: High-Frequency, Lt. DLPFC
  - DEVICE: High-Frequency, bilateral M1

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06350617
