CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03193138
Title: CardioTOxicity Induced by andRogeNICS and Their Antagonists (TORNICS)
Official Title: Cardiotoxicity of Androgenic Agonists and Antagonists in the National French Pharmacovigilance Database and EudraCT Database
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 3096
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Anti-androgenic therapies relying on peripheral and/or central blockade for the treatment of prostate cancer seems to have an impact on the cardio-vascular system. This study investigates reports of cardiovascular toxicities for treatment including Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification: sex hormones (G03), hypothalamic hormones (H01C) and sex hormones used in treatment of neoplastic diseases (L02) in the French pharmacovigilance database and European Clinical Trials (EudraCT) database.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hormone replacement therapies and contraceptive pills are responsible of a wide range of cardio-vascular side effects, particularly thrombo-embolic disorders and ischemic heart disease. The difference of incidence and type of cardio-vascular events between men and women are strongly related to sex hormones. Androgenic agonists and antagonists are used in various indication including prostate cancer or hormone replacement therapies. This study investigates the main characteristics of patients affected by cardiovascular side effects (of which ventricular arrhythmia's, QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointe) imputed to drugs classified as G03, H01C and L02 according to ATC. A causality assessment according to both Begaud's method and the World Health Organization-The Uppsala Monitoring Centre (WHO-UMC) is systematically applied.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Identification and report of the cardio-vascular toxicity of anti-androgenic therapies (reference G03 in the ATC classification) with a causality assessment using Begaud's and WHO's method.
  - Identification and report of the cardio-vascular toxicity of anti-androgenic therapies (reference H01C in the ATC classification) with a causality assessment using Begaud's and WHO's method.
  - Identification and report of the cardio-vascular toxicity of anti-androgenic therapies (reference L02 in the ATC classification) with a causality assessment using Begaud's and WHO's method.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Hormonal therapies: G03, H01C and L02 in the ATC classification

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03193138
