CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04132752
Title: Motivation's Effect on Home Exercise in Children With OBPP
Official Title: Does Motivation of the Parents Affect the Efficiency of Home Exercises in Children With OBPP?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The present study examined the effect of motivation on home exercise program and children's functional scores. 33 OBPP children (Narakas Type 2) aged between 0-18 months were divided into two groups. Intervention group was motivated via phone. Both groups were informed about OBPP, performed home exercises and filled exercise diary. Intrinsic Motivation Scale was used for measuring motivation and Gilbert and Raimondi Scoring and Active Movement Scoring were used for evaluating functional improvements at first assessment, 6th week and 12th week. For final comparison, parents were divided into two more groups (highly motivated and motivated group) based on motivation scores.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Home exercise program is widely used for treatment of OBPP children. The present study examined the effect of motivation on home exercise program and children's functional scores. 33 OBPP children (Narakas Type 2) aged between 0-18 months were divided into two groups. Intervention group was motivated via phone. Both groups were informed about OBPP, performed home exercises and filled exercise diary. Intrinsic Motivation Scale was used for measuring motivation and Gilbert and Raimondi Scoring and Active Movement Scoring were used for evaluating functional improvements at first assessment, 6th week and 12th week. For final comparison, parents were divided into two more groups (highly motivated and motivated group) based on motivation scores.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Motivation change
  - Scoring general arm function
  - Scoring shoulder function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Motivation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 18 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04132752
