CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05959226
Title: Effect of Exercise and Enteral Nutrition on Survival
Official Title: Effect of Exercise and Enteral Nutrition Intervention on Survival in Patients With Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer: a Prospective Multicenter Randomized Controlled Study
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 960
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The present clinical trial was designed to explore the effect of postoperative physical exercise combined with enteral nutritional supplement on 3-year disease-free survival in patients with advanced gastric cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present clinical trial was designed to explore the effect of physical exercise combined with enteral nutritional supplement on 3-year disease-free survival in patients with advanced gastric cancer. In the trial group, comprehensive postoperative management model with targeted exercise intervention and nutritional support. The details are as follows:

1. Nutrition intervention: From discharge (7-14 days after surgery) until 6 months after surgery, patients are required to take 400 kcal/day of enteral nutrition supplement (ONS) in addition to their normal diet. Once the patient's oral diet decreases, ONS will be added several times a day to ensure that the total energy reaches the ESPEN recommended daily 30 kcal/kg. The daily protein requirement is set at 1.2-1.5 g/kg of actual body weight. The Dietitian will keep records and help patients adjust their energy intake weekly.
2. Exercise: under the guidance of the rehabilitation therapist, the patient gradually recovers Exercise from discharge (7-14 days after the operation) to 6 months after the operation, and should ensure at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercise or a combination of equivalent activities per week; The control group patients received the same baseline evaluation as the experimental group patients. The control group will not receive phisical exercise intervention, but will receive postoperative nutritional treatment with the same standards as the experimental group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 3-year overall survival rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05959226
