CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02796144
Title: MEtformin and Lorcaserin for WeighT Loss in Schizophrenia
Official Title: Metformin and Lorcaserin for Weight Loss in Schizophrenia
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Purpose: The purpose of this study is to test new pharmacologic strategies for weight loss in patients with schizophrenia, a population for which no current weight-loss treatments have gained widespread use. The goal is to recruit overweight people with schizophrenia to participate in a 52-week double-blind, randomized study to assess the efficacy and safety of lorcaserin/metformin combination treatment, lorcaserin monotherapy, and placebo on weight, body composition, and measures of glucose and lipid metabolism.

Participants: Approximately 110 subjects will be enrolled at four clinical sites (UNC Chapel Hill, Carolina Behavioral Care, Columbia University, and Augusta University)

Procedures (methods): Behavioral: All participants will be offered a behavioral intervention of weekly diet and exercise counseling aimed at modifying cardiovascular risk factors. This intervention will be provided at all in-person study visits after the Baseline Visit and supplemented with weekly interim phone calls to reinforce lessons between visits. Pharmacological Intervention: All participants who meet entry criteria will be randomized to one of the three treatment groups (lorcaserin/metformin, lorcaserin, and placebo).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overview of Procedures: All procedures will be conducted at either the UNC Hospitals outpatient clinic in Chapel Hill, NC, at the outpatient North Carolina Psychiatric Research Center (NCPRC), a specialized program of the University of North Carolina Center for Excellence in Community Mental Health in Raleigh, NC, at Carolina Behavioral Care in Hillsborough, NC, at the Lieber Schizophrenia Research Clinic at the New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI) in New York, NY, or at Augusta University in Augusta, GA.

Screening: During the initial clinic visit and after giving informed consent, prospective subjects' psychiatric and medical histories will be reviewed, physical exams conducted, demographics and vital signs taken, and blood and urine collected. Fasting labs will be ordered to measure metabolic parameters (lipid profile, glucose, hemoglobin A1c, insulin and lipids) as well as a complete blood count (CBC), electrolytes, liver/renal function tests, thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), urinalysis (UA), serum pregnancy test, and urine drug screen (UDS). The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition) will be administered to confirm diagnoses and the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S) will be used to evaluate global psychopathology.

The baseline visit will be scheduled within 28 days of the screening visit. A battery of assessments will be administered including the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S), the Alcohol Use Scale (AUS), Drug Use Scale (DUS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS), three assessments to measure eating behavior (Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q), Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ), and Food Craving Inventory (FCI)). In addition to the paper pencil assessments, a 24 hour food recall assessment will be administered as a telephone questionnaire by trained personnel from the UNC Nutrition and Obesity Research Center. Accelerometry will also be used to estimate subjects' sedentary and active behavior. Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DXA) will also be conducted at the baseline visit (UNC location only). Lastly, the first behavioral intervention lesson will occur at the baseline visit, providing direct lesson instruction and a diary for subjects' to take home for recording their homework and progress.

At the completion of the baseline visit, subjects who continue to meet study inclusion criteria will be randomized to one of the three treatment groups (lorcaserin \& metformin, lorcaserin, and placebo). Lorcaserin will be administered in dosages of 10mg with a maximum dose of 20mg. Metformin will be administered in dosages of 500mg with a maximum dose of 2,000mg. In addition, matching placebos will be administered for each drug. Doses will be adjusted based on subject tolerability.

All participants will be offered a behavioral intervention of weekly diet and exercise c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Weight in Participants Assigned to Lorcaserin/Metformin Combination Treatment and Placebo

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Lorcaserin
  - DRUG: Metformin
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02796144
