CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03504111
Title: PRINT Trial (Platelet Rich Injection vs Needle Tenotomy)
Official Title: PRINT Trial (Platelet Rich Injections vs. Needle Tenotomy): Evaluation of Ultrasound Guided Procedures for the Treatment of Chronic Tendinosis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Chronic tendinopathy is often very difficult to treat and causes many patients who suffer from it to have significant pain and loss of function leading to disability. Ultrasound has been shown to be very effective in aiding in the diagnosis of soft tissue disorders including tendinopathy and can help to rule in or out other potential causes that may be confounders. Numerous methods have been tried to treat tendinopathy including rest, NSAIDs, bracing, physical therapy, extracorporal shock wave therapy, anesthetic injections, steroid injections, prolotherapy, nitro patches, surgery and more recently platelet rich plasma, all of which have had conflicting results in the literature. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is an autologous blood product that contains a high concentration of platelet-derived growth factors that have the potential to enhance healing. In a study by Mishra et al, common extensor tenindosis showed improved pain symptoms (71% vs 55% at 24 weeks) with tenontomy combined with PRP compared to percutaneous needle tenontomy alone. Current studies show conflicting results as to whether PRP improves chronic tendinopathy when compared to steroid injections, and many do not have any control group or comparison group. Percutaneous needle tenotomy is the use of a large gauge needle (18 gauge), which may be performed under ultrasound guidance, to fenestrate repeatedly the area of tendinopathy within a tendon in order to disrupt tendinopathic tissue and to induce bleeding and clot formation with release of growth factors. To date there are no published studies comparing percutaneous needle tenotomy (PNT) alone vs. PRP without concomitant tenotomy. Current literature suggests that needle tenotomy may be superior but no head to head studies are currently found in the literature. Most of the published literature of non-operative treatment of tendinosis does not yield clearly designed trials with clear selection criteria. Current literature also lacks studies with significant number of patients that meet both clinical and ultrasound criteria thus previous studies lack sufficient power. The PRINT TRIAL: may enhance the understanding of a superior treatment if it exists.

Hypothesis: In active adults with chronic tendinopathy who have failed to respond to standard of care treatment, the use of ultrasound guided percutaneous needle tenotomy (PNT) alone is superior to PRP without concomitant tenotomy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of our study is to determine if percutaneous needle tenontomy is superior to platelet rich plasma for the treatment of chronic tendinosis. Diagnosis of tendinosis will be confirmed utilizing ultrasound diagnostic criteria similar to past published studies. The study will be a prospective single blinded study utilizing sham phlebotomy, which currently is not found in the published literature. All interventions will be done ultrasound-guided which no studies in the published literature have done prospectively. The main variables of interest include patient outcomes such as improved function, objective clinical improvement as seen on serial ultrasound surveillance and patient reported utility. Secondary outcomes include: determine patient's ability to return to sport or activity and level of activity able to achieve using validated questionnaires. Lastly, compliance with survival curve data will also be evaluated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in DASH Symptoms Score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Percutaneous Needle Tenotomy
  - PROCEDURE: PRP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03504111
