CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07171216
Title: The Effect of REgulation of PArathyroId hoRmone in Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease to Investigate the Change in Bone Mineral Density
Official Title: The Effect of REgulation of PArathyroId hoRmone in Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease to Investigate the Change in Bone Mineral Density (Biskjoldbruskkirtelhormon og knogletæthed Hos Patienter Med Kronisk Nyresygdom)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in the adult population is estimated to 10%. CKD increases risk of bone fractures, cardiovascular disease and death. The main role of parathyroid hormone (PTH) is to regulate mineral metabolism, including the calcium and phosphate homeostasis. PTH increases as the kidney function declines, and at end stage kidney disease almost all patients have disturbances in the mineral metabolism. Decreasing bone mineral density is associated with risk of fracture, both in background population and in patients with CKD.

For decades, treatment with activated vitamin D, phosphate binders, and calcium supplements has been used for patients with chronic kidney disease and elevated parathyroid hormone, but treatment targets have varied greatly over the years, reflecting the lack of randomized clinical trials with clinical important end points.

The purpose of The REPAIR-CKD trial is to determine if treatment of hyperparathyroidism improves the bone mineral density in patients with chronic kidney disease.

During this trial it will also be evaluated if it is feasible to obtain a difference in PTH levels when targeting two different levels of PTH.

Further this trial will explore if a difference in PTH influences on arterial stiffness, muscle mass, muscle function, bone histology and health related quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is estimated to afflict 10 % of the adult population, and it is increasing world-wide. CKD is a devastating disease due to the risk of kidney failure and thereby the need for dialysis or trensplantation, but also because the presence of CKD increases the risk of bone fracture, cardiovascular disease and mortality.

Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a peptide hormone produced by the parathyroid glands(5). The main function of PTH is to regulate mineral metabolism, including the calcium and phosphate homeostasis. PTH increases as the kidney function declines, and at end stage kidney disease almost all patients have disturbances in the mineral metabolism. Treatment with activated vitamin D, phosphate binder and calcium supplementation has been used for more than 30 years to suppress hyperparathyroidism and keep calcium and phosphate within the normal range. Later calcimetics has been introduced as a treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism.

The risk of bone fracture is increased in patients with CKD and the risk increases as the kidney function declines. A bone fracture leads to a direct burden on the individual. In addition, the risk of complications after a bone fracture is higher in the CKD population compared to the general population. A fracture also constitutes a significant cost for the society. The increased risk of fracture in patients with CKD is associated to the presence of hyperparathyroidism.

Bone mineral density (BMD) assessed by dual energy x-ray (DXA) scan is a highly used modality to diagnose osteoporosis and future fracture risk in the general population. Bone mineral density associates with the risk of future fracture in patients with CKD. In patients with CKD there is an association between decreasing eGFR and both low BMD and future fracture risk. It is unknown how elevated PTH associates with BMD and its changes at different stages of CKD, and it is unknown if treatment of hyperparathyroidism influence on BMD and fracture risk in patients with CKD.

The risk of cardiovascular mortality, coronary heart disease, heart failure, stroke and peripheral arterial disease increase as the kidney function declines. Elevated PTH associates with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. However, hyperparathyroidism is tightly connected to the general disturbances in the mineral metabolism in CKD, i.e. hyperphosphatemia and elevated FGF-23, which associate with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality. Therefore, it is questioned if PTH is directly involved in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease, or if the increased risk of cardiovascular disease could be caused by other factors involved in the mineral metabolism. One way to approach precursors of vascular disease is measuring vascular stiffness with pulse wave velocity which is associated with cardiovascular outcomes in patients with CKD.

The active circulating form of vitamin D is 1,25 dihydroxy vitamin D (calcitri

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in percent change in bone mineral density (BMD) between the treatment groups.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Treat to target

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07171216
