CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06848257
Title: Posture Exercises in Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: The Effect of Postural Exercises on the Perception of Verticality in Parkinson's Disease
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The research was planned as a quasi-experimental study to investigate the effects of postural exercises on body image and neck and trunk position sense in Parkinson's patients.

It was decided to conduct the study with Parkinson's patients over the age of 50 who applied to the neurology clinic. After the power analysis for the research, it was planned to reach 36 participants. Participants' consent to participate in the study will be obtained through the Informed Volunteer Consent Form prepared by the researchers. Demographic information of participants who consent to participate in the study will be collected. Then, the disease levels and severity of the participants will be determined using the Modified Hoehn Yahr Staging Scale and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Assessment Scale. Subjective Visual Vertical Perception, Subjective Postural Perception and Subjective Haptic Perception evaluations to evaluate the body image of patients; Clinometer application and neck and trunk proprioception evaluations will be applied as preliminary tests to evaluate neck and trunk position sense. Posture exercises planned by the researchers will be applied to the participants, whose pre-tests are completed, three days a week for eight weeks. Preliminary tests performed after eight weeks of exercise will be repeated. All data obtained will be recorded in the Participant Data Record form. Differences in changes in tests performed at eight-week intervals will be investigated with appropriate statistical methods.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Demographic characteristics of the individuals participating in the study
  - Evaluations about Parkinson's disease
  - Subjective verticality perception evaluations
  - proprioception evaluations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06848257
