CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06275802
Title: The Effect of Nutrition Education Interventions for Adolescents
Official Title: The Effect of Nutrition Education Interventions on Nutritional Status, Nutritional Habits and Eating Behaviors in Adolescents
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to determine the effect of nutrition education on nutritional literacy, nutritional status, eating habits and eating behavior in high school students. The research will be conducted in six high schools, three of which are intervention schools and three of which are control schools It is planned that a total of 1000 students will be included in the study from the intervention school and 1000 students from the control school. At the beginning of the study (June 2022), an introductory form (sociodemographic characteristics, body image (Stunkart scale), dietary habits, knowledge about weight status) was applied to all students. Adolescent Nutrition Literacy Scale (ANLS), Instrument of Nutrition Literacy, Mediterranean Diet Quality Index (KID-MED), Eating Attitudes Test 26 (EAT-26), International Physical Activity Questionnaire Short Form (IPAQ) were applied, anthropometric measurements and three-day food consumption records were taken. During the study, nutrition initiatives consisting of 8 modules will be made to the intervention schools. Control schools will not be interfered with during this period.At the end of the study, the procedures applied at the beginning will be repeated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lack of knowledge about nutrition is one of the most important causes of nutritional problems. accordingly, wrong eating practices and habits can lead to many complications and health problems. Especially adolescent eating habits form the basis of adult eating habits. The habits acquired during this period can lead to behaviors and attitudes that persist for a long time and are difficult to change.The aim of this study is to determine the effect of nutrition education on nutritional literacy, nutritional status, eating habits and eating behavior in high school students. The research will be conducted in six high schools, three of which are intervention schools and three of which are control schools. Schools in the district will be divided into 3 layers as 1- Anatolian High Schools, 2- Technical and Vocational High Schools, 3- Imam Hatip High Schools, and a control school will be determined from each layer by means of a random numbers table. It is planned that a total of 1000 students will be included in the study from the intervention school and 1000 students from the control school. At the beginning of the study (June 2022), an introductory form (sociodemographic characteristics, body image (Stunkart scale), dietary habits, knowledge about weight status) was applied to all students. Adolescent Nutrition Literacy Scale (ANLS), Instrument of Nutrition Literacy, Mediterranean Diet Quality Index (KID-MED), Eating Attitudes Test 26 (EAT-26), International Physical Activity Questionnaire Short Form (IPAQ) were applied, anthropometric measurements and three-day food consumption records were taken. During the study, nutrition initiatives consisting of 8 modules (powerpoint supported classroom lesson, video demonstration, role-play, healthy plate model game, poster preparation, bookmarks, refrigerator magnets, etc. preparation of reminder messages, competitions such as slogan-painting contest, activities such as sports and nutrition festival) will be made to the intervention schools. Control schools will not be interfered with during this period.At the end of the study, the procedures applied at the beginning (anthropometic measurements, introductory form, scales, food consumption record) will be repeated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - nutrition literacy
  - Mediterranean Diet Quality Index (KID-MED)
  - Eating Attitudes Test 26 (EAT-26)
  - weight and height measurement
  - waist circumference measurement

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition Education
  - BEHAVIORAL: nutritional status, eating habits

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06275802
