CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03847545
Title: Muscle Strain in Multiple Sclerosis Patients Measured by Ultrasound Speckle Tracking Technique
Official Title: Muscle Strain in Multiple Sclerosis Patients Measured by Ultrasound Speckle Tracking
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The primary study, as outlined in the original trial registration, aiming to use ultrasound speckle tracking (STU) to monitor muscle contractility in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients receiving vs. not receiving fampridine, as well as to relate these results to performance-based measures and biomarkers to explore disease progression and muscle activity, has been cancelled. Instead four exploratory studies that originate from the initial trial registration but with revised aims, outcome measures and time points, have been prepared - see the DEVIATIONS TO TRIAL PROTOCOL included in the Statistical Analysis Plan filed under "Document section".

Summary of original trial registration:

Despite effective treatments, the majority of patients with multiple sclerosis experience walking impairments to a degree where walking aids or a wheelchair is required. Since 2009, medical treatment of walking impairments has been possible with fampridine, which has proven effective in approximately 40% of the patients. At present, the treatment is offered on the basis of a measurable improved walking function evaluated by simple performance-based walking tests. The treatment is offered on the basis of a measurable improved walking distance.

This is shown today using simple performance-based walking tests that are difficult to complete for those MS patients who are without gait function but could still benefit from fampridine treatment.

Ultrasound speckle tracking is a non-invasive ultrasound technique, with the potential to measure muscle function, including muscle contractility (through strain). Ultrasound speckle tracking is designed for dynamic cardiac muscular examination, but can in a modified version be used for assessment of the skeletal muscles.

The purpose of this project is to use ultrasound speckle tracking to monitor muscle contractility in MS patients receiving vs. not receiving fampridine treatment. Furthermore, to relate these results to biomarkers in blood and urine to examine disease progression and muscle activity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary study, as outlined in the original trial registration, aiming to use ultrasound speckle tracking (STU) to monitor muscle contractility in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients receiving vs. not receiving fampridine, as well as to relate these results to performance-based measures and biomarkers to explore disease progression and muscle activity, has been cancelled. Instead four exploratory studies that originate from the initial trial registration but with revised aims, outcome measures and time points, have been prepared - see the DEVIATIONS TO TRIAL PROTOCOL included in the Statistical Analysis Plan filed under "Document section"

The detailed description that was included in the original trial registration:

Despite effective treatments, the majority of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients experience difficulty in walking and the need of a walker or wheelchair. Since 2009, medical treatment of walking impairments has been possible with fampridine, which has proven effective at approximately 40% of patients.

At present, the treatment is offered on the basis of a measurable improved walking function evaluated by simple performance-based walking tests. Multiple sclerosis patients, who do not have the sufficient gait function to complete these tests, may still benefit from fampridine treatment in other activities of daily life. However, these patients are currently not eligible for fampridine treatment due to current requirements of a measurable improved effect.

Ultrasound speckle tracking (UST) is a non-invasive ultrasound technique, with the potential to directly analyze the muscle strain in the muscles. UST is designed for dynamic cardiac muscular examination, but can be used in a modified version for skeletal muscle examination. The technique has already been tested in a minor pilot study with MS patients.

The objective of the present study is to use UST to monitor muscle strain in the weight-bearing and transfer-related muscles in MS patients who receive fampridine vs. patients who do not receive this treatment. Strain is evaluated over time during different isometric contractions. Furthermore, the relation between these results and the performance based measures of clinical function and biomarkers in blood and urine will be examined to explore disease progression and muscle activity.

MS patients will be recruited from sclerosis clinics at Odense University Hospital (OUH), Esbjerg, Kolding and Sønderborg. All participants will undergo the existing standard practice for patients receiving fampridine treatment, including functional and neurological examination. In addition to the regular practice, participants will be offered UST, answer relevant questionnaires as well as the collection of blood- and urine samples (8 ml of blood and 10 ml of urine will be centrifuged and kept in 0.5 ml aliquots and stored in the already established biobank at the Department of Neurology, OUH.

Participants will be tested at baseline (just before start of

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gait Profile Score (GPS) - (subgroup of 30 allocated to 3D gait analysis)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Fampridine

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03847545
