CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06995794
Title: Osgood-Schlatter Disease in Athletic Children
Official Title: Effect Of Kinesio Tape Versus Knee Strap on Osgood Schlatter Disease in Athletic Children
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to evaluate the effect of using Kinesio tape versus strapping the knee on pain management

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osgood-Schlatter disease is a traction apophysitis of the tibial tuberosity caused by the repetitive pull of the patellar tendon on the tibia. This condition was described separately and simultaneously by Robert Osgood and Carl Schlatter in 1903 as a lesion where the tibial tubercle separates due to repetitive strain by the patellar tendon and becomes tender. Kicking, jumping, sprinting sports, a history of previous Sever's disease, and lower limb muscle tightness are among the risk factors that have been associated with Osgood-Schlatter disease. It is one of the leading causes of anterior knee pain in children and adolescents. Usually, patient history and physical examination are sufficient for diagnosis. It can be easily recognized by local pain, swelling, and tenderness on the tuberosity in one or both knees.

Osgood-Schlatter disease (OSD) is a common pediatric disorder. It is a growth- and sports-associated knee injury with pain around the tibial tuberosity and morphological alterations around the apophysis during adolescent growth. It often results from acute or chronic overload during sports activity, causing inflammation of the patellar tendon insertion on the tibial tuberosity. It was first described in 1903 independently by Osgood in the US and by Schlatter in Switzerland. Classically, the clinical presentation is associated with an insidious onset (usually atraumatic) of anterior functional knee pain over the tibial tuberosity along with a bony prominence, as well as tenderness at the patellar tendon insertion site.

Osgood-Schlatter disease occurs during the apophyseal phase between the ages of 12 and 15 in boys and 8 and 12 in girls. During the maturation phase, the cartilage cells of the proximal part of the tuberosity migrate distally, replacing the fibrocartilage in the middle part. This makes the tuberosity unable to withstand the force exerted by the quadriceps, resulting in micro-avulsions, with secondary ossification. These bone fragments are secondarily incorporated into the remainder of the tibial tuberosity, which can result in sequelae of an enlarged tuberosity. In rare cases, the fragments are not incorporated, and intratendinous bone fragments can remain after growth stops, requiring surgical removal. The pain usually occurs during and after physical activity and might be associated with local swelling. Many patients are completely asymptomatic, with less than 25% reporting pain at the tibial tuberosity apophysis. The age of onset is between 8 and 15 years. Boys experience it more often than girls, with a male-to-female ratio of 3:1. The prevalence of OSD is 9.8%, and it can be bilateral in 20-30% of patients. Many risk factors and activities have been associated with an increased incidence of the pathology.

Treatment is generally conservative, with rest, ice, and specific exercises recommended. It involves limiting activity until inflammation resolves and performing exercises that strengthen the surrounding musculature

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Comparison of the effect of knee strap with the effect of Kinesio tape on pain management in Osgood Schlatter disease

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: kinesio tape
  - OTHER: knee strap

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 15 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06995794
