CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01135966
Title: Resistance Training in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (COPD): Whole Body Vibration Versus Conventional Resistance Training
Official Title: Resistance Training in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (COPD): Whole Body Vibration Versus Conventional Resistance Training
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Pulmonary rehabilitation has been emerged as a recommended standard of care for patients with chronic lung disease based on a growing body of scientific evidence. A set of evidence-based guidelines were published in American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) and the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (AACVPR). Since then, the published literature in pulmonary rehabilitation has increased substantially, and other societies have published important statements about pulmonary rehabilitation (eg, the American Thoracic Society and the European Respiratory Society).

In patients with COPD, there is a strong scientific basis for implementing conventional resistance training (CRT) in addition to endurance training. Endurance training, such as walking, is a key component of pulmonary rehabilitation and improves in exercise tolerance and muscular endurance. However, this type of training may not reverse muscle weakness or atrophy. For that reason, strength training seems to be the optimum training modality to increase muscle mass and strength.

Recently, Whole-Body-Vibration (WBV) training has been promoted as an alternative for resistance training on multigym equipment. In WBV training, the subject stands on a platform that generates vertical sinusoidal vibration, during which static and dynamic exercises can be performed.

The present study is conducted to provide an answer on the following question: will a resistance training program, such as the whole body vibration, be even effective than a conventional resistance training program in patients with COPD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - estimation of the change of 6 MWD before and after 12 weeks resistance training program (CRT versus WBV training)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Conventional resistance training program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Whole body vibration resistance training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01135966
