CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07409142
Title: BetterLife FSHD: A Patient-driven Health and Research Platform
Official Title: BetterLife FSHD: A Patient-driven Health and Research Platform
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 5000
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
BetterLife FSHD is a registry platform built to support people living with FSHD. It connects patients with personalized resources, tools, and research opportunities that match their health experiences and needs. At the same time, BetterLife collects secure health and experience data from patients to support research. This data is shared with researchers to help better understand FSHD and work toward improved care, treatments, and outcomes for the community.

Learn more and enroll at: www.BetterLifeFSHD.org

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a genetic disorder that causes relentless weakening of skeletal muscles. BetterLife FSHD is a patient-driven health platform and research registry that aims to help FSHD patients live their best lives while also powering research.

In BetterLife, participants are prompted to respond to a series of short surveys spread out over a quarterly and yearly basis. Survey topics include demographics, health history, FSHD diagnosis and progression, FSHD management strategies, and quality of life domains like pain, fatigue, and mental health.

As participants provide survey data, they receive a personalized feed of resources relevant to them from the FSHD Society's library of articles, blogs, videos, and webinars. Survey data is also used to inform participants which clinical trials and other research studies they may be eligible for.

The information that BetterLife FSHD collects is stored and managed in a modern and secure real-world data infrastructure. De-identified data is made available upon request to researchers, clinicians, biopharmaceutical companies, regulator/payor bodies, and other organizations involved in FSHD research and therapeutic development with approval from a steering committee. BetterLife can also be used to conduct and support research initiatives external to the FSHD Society.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Longitudinal Health Data
  - Self Reported FSHD Progression

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Observational

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Year to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07409142
