CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03684148
Title: Effects of Motor Imagery Intervention on Functional Recovery Following Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Effects of Motor Imagery Intervention on Functional Recovery Following Total Knee Arthroplasty
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The knee osteoarthritis becoming a leading cause of disability among older adults' population. When conventional treatments fail, a total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is suggested. Although TKA treatment significantly reduces pain and improve mobility of patients, there is still high prevalence of patients whose neuromuscular function is impaired up to three years following TKA, which can be directly prescribed to poor or/and inadequate rehabilitation practice. Thus, motor imagery (MI) is proposed as additional rehabilitation tool to convention physical therapy to reduce decline of neuromuscular function in early days post-surgery. Recent studies showed that MI could facilitate learning and acquisition of motor skills, as well as maintain and retain previously acquired motor skills, which may be beneficial for those who undergo TKA. It represents an incentive in the process of motor learning and the transfer of the mental scheme of the motion pattern into the process of movement execution. Measuring neuromuscular function pre- and post-TKA could be unique opportunity to provide empirical evidence about its additional therapeutic effects. Outcomes of proposed research project could serve to improve existing intervention programs applied in rehabilitation protocols following TKA surgery as well as other orthopedic interventions. This would also contribute to the successful return of individuals after an injury to their everyday working routine. We hypothesized that MI practice group will experience better both subjective and objective measures of functional performance compared to control group that will be subjected to routine physical therapy only.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
TKA is widely considered to have a successful outcomes, comparing pre and postoperative scores on pain and both subjective and objective functional measures. Nevertheless, a significant proportion of patients report continuing pain, functional limitations, and dissatisfaction up to three years after the surgery. Thus we planed to conduct intervention study.

OBJECTIVES:

• Primary goal of the research is to determine how the MI practice intervention will influences on the recovery of neuromuscular and locomotor function following TKA.

Specific goals of the research are as follows:

* To examine effects of MI practice intervention to other measured parameters as follows:

  1. maximal isometric strength of knee extensors,
  2. maximal voluntary activation level
  3. spatio-temporal gait parameters during different gait velocities under single- and dual-task conditions,
  4. contractile muscle parameters,
  5. electromechanical efficiency index,
  6. self-reported measure of knee function (OKS and LEFS),
  7. and pain level assessed by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).

     HYPOTHESIS:

     The main hypothesis of this dissertation is that the group, which will perform motor imagery practice intervention will have fewer decline in motor functions following TKA surgery.

     H1: Motor imagery (MI) leads to lower functional decline at one-month period after surgery as compared to control group (CON).

     H1.1: Patients in MI intervention group have fewer decline in maximal isometric knee extensors strength.

     H1.2: Patients in MIp intervention group have fewer decline in spatio-temporal gait parameters during different gait velocities under single- and dual-task conditions.

     H1.3: Patients in MI intervention group have fewer decline in voluntary muscle activation level.

     H1.4: Patients in MI intervention group will not experience significantly greater decline in contractile muscle parameters as compared to CON group.

     H1.5: Patients in MI intervention group have fewer decline in electromechanical efficiency index.

     H1.6: Patients in MI intervention group have better self-reported knee function assessed by self-reported questionnaires.

     H1.7: Patients in MI intervention group have fewer pain level assessed by VAS.
     1. Methods

     Participants:

     N = 26 (man/woman) of which:

  <!-- -->

  1. Symptomatic population / n = 26; have already determined date for TKA surgery

     Participants will be recruited from Valdoltra orthopedic hospital (Ankaran, Slovenia).

     Inclusion criteria: scheduled for unilateral TKA secondary to osteoarthritis; age from 50 to 80 years old; participants were not engaged in preoperative treatments;

     Exclusion criteria: participants who had a previous history of TKA on the same side as the surgery; body mass index of 40 kg/m2 or higher; bilateral TKA's; patients with a history of any neurological disorder including Cerebral Vascular Attack, Multiple Sclerosis, or Parkinson's disea

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in maximal voluntary isometric contraction of quadriceps muscle following a total knee arthroplasty

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Motor imagery practice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03684148
