CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05878587
Title: Burger Allen Exercises in Knee OA With Type II Diabetes
Official Title: Effects of Burger Allen Exercises on Pain, Range of Motion, and Disability in Knee Osteoarthritis With Type II Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
There is a potential link between diabetes mellitus (DM) and severity of osteoarthritis .Type 2 diabetes is a part of the metabolic syndrome (Mets) accompanied by ageing and mechanical stress are also a risk factor to osteoarthritis. Every anatomical component of the joint demonstrated faster joint deterioration and elevated inflammation at microcellular environment of individuals with DM. Normal chondrocytes capacity to adapt to the local glucose level is impaired by OA and there is a significant risk of glucose toxicity and increased glucose absorption. The most dependable and effective treatment for mild to early joint osteoarthritis is exercise. Active free exercises i.e. Buerger Allen exercises are used as a conservative perfusion therapy because they rely on how gravity affects the smooth muscles in the valves. Synovial fluid supports the joint's ability to recover while also reducing inflammation and enhancing overall joint function. The aim of the study is to determine the effect of Buerger Allen exercise and low intensity high repetition exercises on pain, range of motion and disability in knee osteoarthritis with type 2 diabetes. The study would be randomized controlled trial. Total thirty-six subjects will be assigned randomly by using lottery randomization into two groups. Group A will receive conventional therapy and an additional Buerger Allen exercise while Group B will be a control group receiving only baseline treatment. Numeric pain rating scale (NPRS), Ankle Brachial Index, KOOS and Goniometer will be used as outcome measure tools for pain, range of motion and disability. Measure will be taken at baseline and at the end of treatment session. The collected data will be analyzed in Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 25.0.If data will be normally distributed then parametric if not normally distributed than non-parametric

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
One of the most common joint conditions, osteoarthritis (OA), causes diarthrodial articular cartilage to deteriorate, which in turn causes disability in adults. Osteoarthritis (OA) and Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are common illnesses whose prevalence is projected to increase. The association between diabetes mellitus and OA was originally identified in 1961.After adjusting for body mass index, type 2 diabetes was recently discovered to be an independent risk factor of severe OA, with a Hazard Ratio (HR) of 2.1. One of the most popular forms of exercise for diabetic patients is the Buerger Allen exercise, which improves lower extremity perfusion and alleviates symptoms in those with lower limbs arterial insufficiency by using postural changes, stimulation of peripheral circulation, and application of muscle contraction. It has been found that nurses can prevent foot ulcers and lower limb amputations by educating the public, screening high-risk individuals, and giving medical care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - KOOS
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: thermotherapy+ TENS+ low intensity high repetition exercises and Buerger Allen
  - OTHER: thermotherapy+ TENS+ low intensity high repetition exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05878587
