CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06400108
Title: Dementia Moves: Protocol for a Feasibility Study
Official Title: Dementia Moves: Protocol for a Pilot Feasibility Study Testing a Physical Rehabilitation Program for Long-Term Care Residents With Moderate to Severe Dementia
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Most long-term care (LTC) residents live with frailty and dementia and the proportion with more advanced cognitive impairment is increasing. Residents with dementia often have limited functional ability to complete their activities of daily living (ADLs) and are vulnerable to further functional decline. Multicomponent exercise can help prevent functional decline, but residents with dementia are less likely to receive it and have not often been included in previous intervention studies. The Dementia Moves intervention was designed to fill this gap. It is an individually tailored multicomponent group exercise program with an aerobic warm-up and a focus on moderate to high intensity functional balance and strength training. This pilot feasibility study will examine the feasibility of delivering Dementia Moves with 16 LTC residents across 2 homes in nolva Scotia (primary outcomes: recruitment, retention, adherence, acceptability, barriers/facilitators to delivery, fidelity; secondary outcomes: ADLs, adverse events). The next step will be to conduct a larger trial to determine the effect of the intervention on ADLs.

Through a parallel cluster randomized controlled trial, investigators will measure the effect of the Dementia Moves program on ADLs and adverse events (i.e., falls, fractures, hospitalizations, emergency department visits) for LTC residents with moderate to severe dementia (i.e., Mini-Mental State Exam of 20 or less).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Most long-term care (LTC) residents live with dementia and the proportion with more advanced cognitive impairment is increasing. Residents with dementia often have limited functional ability to complete their activities of daily living (ADLs) and are vulnerable to further functional decline. Multicomponent exercise can help prevent functional decline, but residents with dementia are less likely to receive it and have not often been included in previous intervention studies. The Dementia Moves intervention was designed to fill this gap. It is an individually tailored multicomponent group exercise program with an aerobic warm-up and a focus on moderate to high intensity functional balance and strength training. Investigators will measure the feasibility and effect of the Dementia Moves program on ADLs for LTC residents with moderate to severe dementia (Mini-Mental State Exam of 20 or less). Investigators hypothesize the intervention will be feasible without modification if 16 individuals are recruited over 6 months, 65% of our sample is retained at 6-months, and 75% of the completed exercises are performed at a moderate to high intensity.

Methods: A pre-post pilot study will be used to assess feasibility, safety (rates of falls and adverse events), and change in ADLs at three- and six-months among LTC residents with moderate to severe dementia. A physiotherapist, physiotherapy assistant, and three volunteers will deliver the group-based exercise program to groups of four residents, three times per week, for six months. Assessments will be completed at three- and six-months. Feasibility outcomes include 1) recruitment over six-months; 2) retention at three- and six-month follow-up; and adherence via 3) attendance and 4) proxy and self-reported ratings of exercise intensity. Investigators will also assess fidelity of the intervention through program audits, and audio diaries and interviews to identify barriers and facilitators to implementation of the intervention.

Discussion: The feasibility of the Dementia Moves intervention will be evaluated in LTC residents with dementia, and investigators will examine rates of falls and adverse events and change in ADLs. Investigators will use the collected information to inform a definitive parallel cluster randomized controlled trial. The feasibility of the Dementia Moves intervention will be evaluated in LTC residents with dementia, and investigators will examine rates of falls and adverse events and change in ADLs. Investigators will use the collected information to inform a definitive parallel cluster randomized controlled trial.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of residents recruited from participating homes
  - Participation rates
  - Attendance rates
  - Intensity of exercises - resistance and aerobic exercise
  - Intensity of exercises - balance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dementia Moves

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06400108
