CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06788054
Title: Intradialysis Exercise Functional Capacity, Body Composition and Survival in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: Effect of a 12-week Intradialysis Exercise Program on Functional Capacity, Body Composition and Survival in Hemodialysis Patients: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic kidney disease and renal replacement treatments (hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, kidney transplant) produce various alterations at the level of muscle, bones, fat content and the heart; can alter physical capabilities such as muscle strength, resistance to climb a step repeatedly intensely, and the ability to move the joints freely, in addition to producing an increase or decrease in weight and alterations in its distribution (for example, decreasing muscle and increase fat). The above, added to the particular factors of hemodialysis such as the reduction in daily time to exercise due to the sessions, or the fatigue after it, can together generate greater repercussions on functional capacity and thus increase the risk of suffering from cardiovascular problems. and accelerate the evolution of the disease.

Therefore, this study aims to determine the effect of a 12-week supervised physical exercise program during hemodialysis on strength and ability to move, the amount of fat and muscle in the body, as well as bone wear. ; and compare these results with a group of patients who do not perform supervised exercise. In addition, it will be determined how exercise can act in the long term, preventing the risk of hospitalization and death due to cardiovascular causes. The above is useful in order to establish recommendations and protocols that help us increase the quality of life and survival of the person.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: In Mexico, Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) has a high prevalence and is considered one of the leading causes of death. Hemodialysis (HD) is the primary renal replacement therapy; however, it is associated with significant declines in functional capacity, body composition alterations, morbidity, hospitalization, and mortality with rates that can be 30% higher than those in the general population not on HD. It is estimated that 50% of patients die within the first three years of starting HD, primarily due to cardiovascular complications. Intradialytic exercise has been linked to improvements in functional capacity and metabolic and cardiovascular parameters in HD patients. Despite these benefits, there are few studies examining the relationship between intradialytic physical exercise and increased survival in CKD patients.Objective: To analyze the effects of a 12-week intradialytic exercise program on functional capacity, body composition, and survival in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Hypothesis: A 12-week intradialytic exercise program will improve functional capacity, body composition, and survival rates in hemodialysis patients. Materials and Methods: This clinical trial will utilize a randomized design with two groups of HD patients. The intervention group will participate in an aerobic and muscular resistance exercise program during the second hour of dialysis, three times a week for 12 weeks. The control group will not participate in intradialytic exercise but will receive guidance on standard treatment, including recommendations for aerobic and resistance exercises at home three times a week. All participants (both the intervention and control groups) will be assessed for body composition using bioelectrical impedance analysis, functional capacity through the 6-minute walk test, the 30-second sit-to-stand test, and muscle strength measured by hand dynamometry. The primary outcome variable will be the survival rate at eight months of follow-up after the exercise intervention, and during this time, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-short version) will be administered every two months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Handgrip strength
  - Cardiorespiratory capacity
  - Lower limb functionality:
  - Body Weight
  - Height

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: intradialysis exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06788054
