CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04757415
Title: Gluteal Activation With or Without Traction Straight Leg Raise Technique
Official Title: Effects of Gluteal Activation With or Without Traction Straight Leg Raise Technique Among Patients of Sacroiliac Joint Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 38
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study was a Randomized clinical trial conducted to determine the Effects of gluteal activation with or without traction straight leg raise technique among patients of sacroiliac joint syndrome so that in future this study will be helpful for other clinician to determine that how much gluteal activation is important in low back pain or sacroiliac joint syndrome, and how it affects our sling system.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Non Probability Convenient sampling was done . Patients following eligibility criteria from Sports and Spine Professionals ,Lahore were considered. Sample size was calculated with Epi tool calculator. 38 Participants were randomly allocated in two groups equally via convenient sampling method. Baseline assessment was done initially. Group A was given gluteal activation exercises with traction straight leg raise technique for hamstring and Group B was gluteal activation exercises without traction straight leg raise technique for hamstring. Duration of research was almost 6 months. Patient will undergo 10 treatments in five weeks. Each session will take 30 minutes. Pre and Post treatment readings were taken in 1st and 10th session over a 5 week period respectively. Assessment was done via sphygmomanometer and numeric pain rating scale for assessing muscle strength of gluteus maximum and pain levels respectively. All participants were provided written informed consent prior to commencement of the procedures. They were free to quit the treatment at any stage of research. Data was analyzed by using SPSS version 23.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of muscle strength of gluteus maximum by "Sphygmomanometer"

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Traction straight leg raise technique for hamstring
  - OTHER: Gluteal activation exercises,Hotpack

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04757415
