CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01919541
Title: Mechanistic Prehabilitation
Official Title: Understanding How Exercise and Nutrition Enhance Preoperative Functional Capacity: a Mechanistic Study
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The investigators hypothesize that individuals who receive a personalized 4 week prehabilitation program consisting of exercise and nutrition counselling with post-workout whey protein supplementation will show, before colorectal surgery, improved insulin sensitivity, inflammatory profile, and substrate utilization compared to baseline measures. These results will translate into a higher functional capacity before surgery as demonstrated by an improvement in 6-minute walking test.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Intervention Physical exercise program

At the baseline assessment all patients' physical fitness will be evaluated by the kinesiologist (exercise specialist). The exercise component will consist of approximately 60 min of resistance and aerobic training, for a minimum of 3 days per week. The exercise program will be individualized based upon the baseline fitness test (according to the American College of Sport Medicine, ACMS, standard)50 and will include: a 5 min warm-up, either 25 min of aerobic exercise (starting at 30- 40 % of heart rate reserve, HRR), and 25 min of resistance training (8 exercises targeting major muscle groups performed at moderate intensity), and a 5-10 min cool-down and stretching period. All exercises will be clearly explained and demonstrated by the kinesiologist at baseline. Patients will be asked to carry out this program at home, unsupervised, but will be monitored with weekly telephone calls. Training intensity progression will occur when the participant can complete aerobic exercise on mild exertion and/or when the participant can complete 15 repetitions of a given resistance exercise. Participants will be provided with resistance bands and an exercise mat, as well as a pedometer and a heart rate monitor, which can be used by the participant to monitor progress and by the kinesiologist to monitor daily compliance. A log book will also be completed to report all activities and frequency of exercises completed.

The kinesiologist will follow (by telephone call) all the participants on a weekly basis to ensure program compliance and address any barriers that may prevent ongoing participation.

Nutritional counseling The patients' nutritional status and adequacy of dietary intake will be assessed by a nutritionist using a three day food record, biological indices (e.g. glycated hemoglobin), clinical history, and the Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment tool51. Anthropometric measures, including percentage of lean body mass and fat, will be measured with bioelectrical impedance and skin calipers. Nutritional care plans will focus on meeting daily protein requirements (1.2g/kg), management of cancer-related symptoms (such as diarrhea, constipation), blood glucose control, optimization of body composition (i.e. weight loss/gain if necessary) and nutrient intake through providing practical suggestions, based on actual intake, to improve macronutrient distributions of protein, fat, and carbohydrates.

The type of dietary protein (amino acid composition), digestibility, amount, timing of intake, and co-ingestion with other macronutrients can be used to capitalize on post-exercise induced muscle protein synthesis52. Twenty (20) grams of protein, in liquid form, taken immediately after resistance exercise is regarded as sufficient to maximally stimulate muscle protein synthesis in healthy individuals52. Whey protein, in particular, is regarded as being especially effective when ingested after exercise54 because it is 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Protein Synthesis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation
  - DEVICE: hyperinsulinemic euglycemic isoaminoacid clamp
  - DEVICE: hyperinsulinemic euglycemic hyperaminoacid clamp
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: whey protein supplementation
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01919541
