CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03314311
Title: Rehabilitative Strategies Following Oesophageal Cancer
Official Title: Rehabilitative Strategies Following Oesophageal Cancer
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The ReStOre trial is a multi-disciplinary intervention of exercise, diet and education for patients who have completed treatment for oesophageal cancer. The intervention aims to improve quality of life and functional performance following oesophageal cancer and assist patients to return to normal activity during the early survivorship phase. The 12-week intervention will involve structured exercise training, individual dietary advice and multi-disciplinary education sessions addressing a range of survivorship needs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The principal study proposed in this work will be composed of two phases. Phase I will consist of a longitudinal analysis, tracking the progression of cachexia and associated dysmetabolic state throughout treatment for oesophageal cancer (OC) and examining the impact of this decline on measures of physical functioning. A total of 88 newly-diagnosed OC patients will be recruited for Phase I. In Phase II, participants from Phase I will be re-assessed and if deemed suitable, will be enrolled onto a multidisciplinary team rehabilitation programme aimed at improving functional status. This rehabilitation programme will take the form of a randomised controlled trial (RCT) and will be based on the well-established cardiac rehabilitation programme model. It is anticipated that approximately 50% of participants enrolled onto Phase I will be suitable for progression to Phase II.

Outcomes The primary outcome across both Phase I and Phase II is functional capacity. Secondary outcomes including inflammatory status, energy metabolism and nutritional status will be measured as appropriate during the study. All outcomes are discussed in detail elsewhere.

Phase I: Longitudinal Study Examining the impact of progressive cachexia, dysmetabolism and cancer treatment on functional capacity in OC patients

Phase I will be designed as a longitudinal analysis, commencing at the time of diagnosis, tracking the progression of cachexia and associated dysmetabolic state, incorporating inflammatory profiles, energy metabolism (oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis) and gut hormones, throughout treatment for OC and examining the impact of this decline on measures of physical functioning. Assessments will be completed at diagnosis (T0), cycle 2 chemotherapy (T1), cycle 3 chemotherapy (T2), pre-oesophagectomy (T3), post-oesophagectomy (T4), 4-weeks post-surgery (T5) and six months post-surgery (T6). All assessments will be completed during the same day as routine out-patient appointments thereby reducing the burden on participants. Furthermore, blood samples will be taken during routine clinical sampling and CT scans will be completed as part of routine medical care.

Phase II: Randomised Controlled Trial Can rehabilitation following curative treatment for OC optimise health-related functional outcomes?

Phase II will examine the effect of a 12-week rehabilitation programme, incorporating a walking intervention, individualised nutritional advice and education session, on functional status following curative treatment for OC. Following completion of Phase I and medical clearance to progress to Phase II, participants will be randomised 1:1 to either the intervention group or a control group. The control group will not receive the intervention however following completion of final assessments, participants will be offered an individual exercise and dietary session with the research physiotherapist and dietitian. During the intervention period, participants in the control group

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Aerobic Fitness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Rehabilitation programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03314311
