CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04059146
Title: Tendinopathy Education on the Achilles
Official Title: Tendinopathy Education on the Achilles
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with individuals who have chronic Achilles tendinopathy (AT). This study investigates the effects of education on outcomes (specified in hypotheses below) related to participation in an exercise program. Participants will be randomized to one of two educational programs. All participants will receive the same exercise intervention. This study will consent and randomize 66 participants, who will complete 2 in-person evaluation sessions (baseline, 8-week follow-up), 8 treatment sessions with a physical therapist (between baseline and 8-week follow-up), and 1 online evaluation sessions (12-week follow-up).

We hypothesize that 1) a biopsychosocial approach to education will decrease pain (NPRS) and disability (PROMIS physical function) more than the standard of care for patients with AT, 2) exercise will improve all three pain mechanisms examined in this RCT (increased PPT, decreased kinesiophobia, increased number of heel raises).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This feasibility randomized controlled trial was designed to address the following aims:

Specific Aim 1 examines if education on central pain mechanisms (i.e. biopsychosocial approach) compared to education on peripheral pain mechanisms (i.e. standard of care utilizing a biomedical approach) is more effective at reducing pain and disability in a pilot RCT exercise program for Achilles tendinopathy. We hypothesize that a biopsychosocial approach to education will decrease pain (NPRS) and disability (PROMIS physical function) more than the standard of care for patients with AT.

Specific Aim 2 determines which central pain mechanisms (nociplastic pain, pain psychology, motor dysfunction) are improved by an exercise program, regardless of education group. We hypothesize that exercise will improve all three central pain mechanisms (increased PPT, decreased kinesiophobia, increased number of heel raises).

A total of 66 adults with chronic Achilles tendinopathy (AT) will be enrolled (consented and randomized) in this single-site pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT). All data will be collected at a single site within an academic medical center. A pilot RCT comparing effectiveness of exercise with pain education to standard of care, i.e. exercise with biomedical education. Participants will be randomized to treatment group using a permuted block randomization scheme stratified by sex and AT type (insertional and midportion). Participants will complete up to 7 treatment sessions over an 8-week period. With an anticipated 10% dropout rate, we plan to analyze data on 30 adults with chronic AT per group.

Participants will complete 2 evaluation sessions at baseline and 8-week follow-up. Evaluation sessions will involve the following 4 types of testing.

1. Clinical exam (including ultrasound imaging)
2. Questionnaires (demographics, symptom description, and psychological) Private, identifiable information will be collected via questionnaires administered online and in-person. All data will be entered into a University of Iowa REDCap database, which is maintained by University of Iowa ITS staff.

2\) Movement analysis and verbal pain rating Participants' motion and force will be captured as they walk, perform heel raises, hop, and do calf stretches within a 3-dimensional motion analysis with force plates flush with the floor. To monitor pain level throughout participation, we will have participants verbally rate their pain with each task.

3\) Sensory testing (Pain pressure threshold at the hamstring and Achilles bilaterally; Conditioned pain modulation at the Achilles)

In addition, participants will complete questionnaires at 12-weeks. Participants will attend 7 treatment sessions over approximately 8 weeks. Over this time period participants will complete the following procedures

1. Questionnaires (exercise adherence, educational quizzes, symptom description) This private, identifiable information will be collected via questionnaires administered onl

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain (Aim 1)
  - Self-reported Function (Aim 1)
  - Nociplastic Pain- CPM (Aim 2)
  - Fear of Movement
  - Performance-based Function: Heel Raises

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Pain Education and Exercise
  - OTHER: Standard Education and Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04059146
