CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02698072
Title: Improvement in Pain and Function Following a Physiotherapy Program in Older Adults With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Improvement in Pain and Function Following a Therapeutic Exercise Program and Dry Needling in Older Adults With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Double-blind Multicenter Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the combination of a therapeutic exercise program and dry needling in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis in older adults. Half of participants will receive therapeutic exercise program and dry needling in combination, while the other half will receive the same therapeutic exercise program and sham dry needling.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Therapeutic exercise and dry needling each relieve pain and improve function, but they are different treatment tools.

Therapeutic exercise takes a multitude of forms and results in numerous systemic and local effects, some of which have been investigate among people with knee osteoarthritis. Therapeutic exercise covers a range of targeted physical activities that directly aim to improve muscle strength, neuromotor control, joint range of motion and aerobic fitness. One of the main aims of this therapeutic approach is to improve muscle strength, given that weakness is common in knee osteoarthritis. Enhanced strength of the lower limb may lessen internal knee forces, reduce pain and improve physical function.

Primary knee osteoarthritis provokes pain and disfunction is thought mediated by joint damage and changes in joint homeostasis. Recently, investigations focused in impaired neuromuscular system as a contribution to the above mentioned symptoms in the knee osteoarthritis syndrome explore the use of dry needling. Dry needling is a therapeutic approach for decreasing pain and improve function with high recommended evidence (grade A) effectiveness for upper-quarter myofascial pain, but poorly understood in knee osteoarthritis patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) change assessment.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Therapeutic exercise
  - DEVICE: Dry needling
  - DEVICE: Sham dry needling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 62 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02698072
