CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06871098
Title: Improving Mechanics and Confidence in the Hip Hinge
Official Title: Evaluating the Founder Exercise Technique: Improving Mechanics and Confidence in the Hip Hinge
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
To evaluate if the Founder exercise will significantly change participants kinematics when performing hip hinge movement. Secondary purpose is to evaluate if completing the Founder Exercise intervention will improve confidence in performing a hip hinge.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Procedures Involved\*

* This study will employ a Single Group Pre-Post Test Design. Baseline data will be collected from all participants prior to the intervention. Participants will then undergo the intervention, after which the same measures will be administered to evaluate changes attributable to the intervention.
* The intervention will be administered in one session to each participant individually by a team of UCF DPT students (Assessor 1 and 2) in person at University of Central Florida's Health \& Science Building I Room 231. Each session will be divided into 3 phases: (I) Pre-intervention assessment, (II) Intervention, (III) Post-intervention assessment.

Pretest:

1. The participant will be asked to provide their age, biological sex, self-reported height, and self-reported weight. The participant will be assigned a subject ID number (These will be sequential, starting at P001).
2. The participant will be asked to fill out a paper copy of a patient confidence scale (attached document labeled "Patient Confidence Scale") for utilizing a hip hinge movement pattern. The scale will consist of Likert-type questions, asking participants to rate their confidence in performing the hip hinge during a range of functional tasks, such as lifting, bending, and squatting. Each question will be rated on a 5-point scale, with higher scores indicating greater confidence in safely executing the movement.
3. Participants will be asked to remove their socks and shoes to allow for the precise placement of reflective markers (small skin-safe adhesive stickers). A trained member of the research team will position these markers either directly on the skin or over clothing at specific anatomical landmarks on the left side of the body. The landmarks include: the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, the head of the humerus, the greater trochanter, the lateral joint line of the knee, and the lateral malleolus
4. The participant will then be instructed using the following statement: "Please perform a hip hinge movement based on your current understanding and ability". Assessor 1 will obtain the following measurements:

   Foot placement: The participant will step on to the prepared surface (a sheet of paper that has been rolled out and secured to the ground with tape). The participant will stand with both feet on the paper and instructed to adjust to their preferred start position as necessary. Assessor 1 will mark the paper at the center of each calcanei and at the distal end of each great toe. At the conclusion of the movement the participant will step off the paper and Assessor 1 will measure the distance between the two center points using a tape measure to obtain the participant's stance width. Assessor 1 will then use a goniometer to measure the angle between the center point and the great toe point of each foot to obtain the angle of orientation of the foot.

   Shoulder flexion, hip flexion, knee flexion, ankle sagittal plane flexion: The angles will be measur

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 2D motion capture
  - Grip Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Hip Hinge Instruction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06871098
