CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05473182
Title: IndieTrainer: Enabling Individuals With Cerebral Palsy to Receive Power Mobility Training
Official Title: IndieTrainer: Enabling Individuals With Cerebral Palsy to Receive Gamified Power Mobility Training in Their Own Manual Wheelchairs
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Power wheelchairs offer children who are unable to independently opportunities for participation in social, educational, and leisure activities. Unfortunately, children who have severe cognitive, motor, or sensory impairments may need extended training to be able to master the power wheelchairs skills needed to "qualify" for their own power wheelchairs. The IndieTrainer system was developed to address this need. The IndieTrainer system is comprised of the IndieGo device and video-game modules. The IndieGo device temporarily converts a manual wheelchair into a powered wheelchair, thereby allowing children to remain in their own manual wheelchair and use their own custom seating system during power wheelchair skills training activities. The video-game modules are integrated into the IndieGo device such that the video games can be played on a television screen using the specific access method used to control the IndieGo (i.e., switch or joystick). The IndieTrainer system is designed to allow a child to practice power wheelchair skills as part of the video-game modules or as part of more traditional power wheelchair skills training activities wherein children are able to actively explore the environment and practice executing actual wheelchair skills. This study will evaluate the use of the IndieTrainer system in children with cerebral palsy, ages 3-21 years.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Child Participants' Understanding How to Use a Power Mobility Device Between Baseline and Immediately After the Conclusion of the Intervention Period at Week 3
  - Change in Child Participants' Power Mobility Skill Performance Between Baseline and Immediately After the Conclusion of the Intervention Period at Week 3
  - Change in Parental/Caregiver Perceptions of Their Child's Power Mobility Skills Performance Between Baseline and Immediately Following the End of the Intervention Period at Week 3.
  - Change in Child Participants' Understanding How to Use a Power Mobility Device From Immediately After the Conclusion of the Intervention Period at Week 3 to the End of the Follow-up Period at Week 7
  - Change in Child Participants' Power Mobility Skill Performance Between the Conclusion of the Intervention Period at Week 3 and the End of the Follow up Period at Week 7.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: IndieTrainer system

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 21 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05473182
