CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04532827
Title: Web-based Rehabilitation for Persistent Physical Symptoms.
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Web-based Rehabilitation for Enhancing Workability and Daily Functioning for Persistent Physical Symptoms.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 105
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Persistent physical symptoms (PPS) might diminish studying or workability and daily functioning without a clear medical or environment-related explanation. Psychosocial, patient-involving treatments that support individuals' abilities managing with the PPS and health behaviours have shown promising effects in treating PPS but the acceptability of these treatments among symptomatic individuals is low.

This study aims to assess the effectiveness of an eHealth intervention based on relational frame theory and acceptance and commitment therapy on PPS with two focus groups, among participants with indoor air associated disabling symptoms or persistent, chronic fatigue.

This study will compare web program enhanced with video-based individual case formulation with treatment as usual. The web program includes 10 one weeks (pilot included 6 two weeks) modules. In addition to patient-reported outcomes, ecological momentary assessments are conducted to provide real-time data on functioning and national registers are used to obtain information on health-care use and social benefits.

Data collection begins in August 2020 and will continue until 2023.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Frequent physical symptoms are common in the general population with over 90 per cent of the population reporting symptoms at some level. In some cases, they become persistent diminishing workability and daily functioning and associate with increased healthcare usage and sick leaves independently of other somatic or psychiatric comorbidities. Persistent physical symptoms (PPS) challenge health care systems as it is estimated that up to 4-30 per cent of primary health care visits are due to PPS without a clear medical explanation. Psychosocial, patient-involving treatments, such as cognitive-behavioural psychotherapy (CBT), that support individuals' abilities managing with the PPS and health behaviours have shown promising effects in treating PPS but so far, evidence-based treatments have resulted only in small to moderate effect sizes. The acceptability of these treatments among symptomatic individuals is also low - presumably because of the stigma related to the ambiguity of the PPS´ status as a medical condition. A stronger orientation to personalized treatment protocols is needed to improve the treatment efficacy and applicability.

This study will assess the effects of an eHealth intervention based on relational frame theory and acceptance and commitment therapy on PPS with two focus groups, among participants with indoor air associated disabling symptoms or persistent, chronic fatigue.

Methods: Using a randomized controlled design (RCT) with two parallel groups in a 1:1 ratio, the investigators will compare ACT/RFT-based web program enhanced with individual case formulation with treatment as usual. The web program intervention includes 10 one weeks (pilot included 6 two weeks) modules that each ask to complete the module and included training in two weeks. The web program is in Finnish. Participants will be asked to complete outcome questionnaires at baseline before the interview for inclusion, after the interview (randomization) and at 3, 6- and 12-months' follow-up after the randomization. The intervention group receives also a questionnaire four weeks after the beginning of the web program. In addition, ecological momentary assessments are also conducted to provide real-time data on functioning and national registers are used to obtain information on healthcare use and social benefits to complete patient-reported outcomes.

Eligible participants will be randomized to either the intervention or to TAU. The primary outcome will be a health-related quality of life. The secondary outcome measures are symptoms, illness perceptions, psychological flexibility and workability. Further, the investigators will assess whether any effect of the intervention on the primary outcome is mediated by the case formulation. The baseline data collection begins in August 2020 and will continue until 2022, follow-up data collection will continue until 2023.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The 15D questionnaire (health related quality of life)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Case formulation with web-program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04532827
