CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05671406
Title: RCT of Sensor-controlled Digital Game for Hypertension Self-care in a Native American Community
Official Title: A Sensor-controlled Digital Game-based Approach to Improve Self-care Behaviors Among Adults Diagnosed With Hypertension in a Native American Community
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 220
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates a sensor-controlled digital game (SCDG) to motivate self-management behaviors of physical activity in Native American adults with hypertension (HTN). Half of the participants will receive the SCDG app and physical activity sensors and the other half will receive only the physical activity sensors.

Native American participants with hypertension (HTN) in the sensor controlled digital game intervention group will show increased PA behaviors; improved HTN knowledge, self-care behaviors, self-efficacy, motivation, and quality of life (QoL); and larger reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and cardiac hospitalizations at baseline,3 months, and 6 months as compared to participants in the sensor-only control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among Native Americans (NAs). Hypertension (HTN) strongly elevates the morbidity and mortality risks related to cardiovascular disease. Lifestyle modifications promoted by U.S. HTN guidelines includes modifiable self-care behaviors such as regular physical activity which is associated with lower blood pressure, reduced cardiovascular risk, and beneficial cardiac structural remodeling. Therefore, motivating physical activity behaviors would be key to cardiovascular health promotion efforts among a Native American community.

One promising approach is the use of sensor-controlled digital games (SCDGs), which offer affordable, portable, and scalable tools to facilitate engagement in HTN self-care behaviors while being enjoyable and easy to use. The SCDG intervention integrates HTN participants' behavioral data from an activity tracker sensor to activate game progress, rewards, and feedback. The primary goal of this study is to test a culturally adapted SCDG intervention (N-SCDG) for improving daily physical activity self-care behaviors among Lumbee tribal adults with HTN and examine approaches for sustaining the impact of the N-SCDG at the community level.

The investigators will compare the N-SCDG intervention versus a sensor-only control for the primary outcome of engagement in the HTN selfcare behavior of physical activity and the secondary outcomes of HTN self-care knowledge, self-care behaviors, self-efficacy, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, cardiac hospitalization, and quality of life at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. The investigators will randomize 220 participants to either the N-SCDG intervention group, in which participants will receive sensors that track physical activity and will play the N-SCDG on a mobile smart phone, or a control group that will receive sensors, an app that tracks physical activity, and standardized written HTN educational materials.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean of Daily Steps on Physical Activity Sensor Logs at 3 months
  - Mean of Daily Steps on Physical Activity Sensor Logs at 6 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sensor-controlled digital game
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sensor only

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05671406
