CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02730598
Title: Combined Application of Electrical Stimulated Antagonist Contraction During Walking (Walking Study)
Official Title: Determining Efficacy of the Combined Application of Electrical Stimulated Antagonist Contraction During Walking With Sensory TENS for Increasing Strength and Decreasing Pain in Women With Frequent Knee Symptoms
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis of the knee (KOA) is the most common cause of disability in older adults. Osteoarthritis involves a loss of cartilage, which acts like a cushion between the bones as well as changes in the bones of joints. Once the joint cartilage is gone, the body does not produce new cartilage. Joint damage can contribute to pain. Currently, treatment for pain associated with knee osteoarthritis includes exercise. However, exercise at a medium- to high-intensity level can be problematic for people with knee pain. Because exercise is a common treatment for knee pain but many people experience pain during exercise, researchers hope to find a safer and more effective exercise method to strengthen the muscles around the knee.

Both aerobic exercise and resistance exercise are recommended for the treatment of people with knee pain. However, pain can be a barrier to participating in exercise at a moderate or vigorous intensity. Electrical stimulation of muscles holds potential to allow effective exercise to be completed at tolerable intensities. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is the use of very low electric currents produced by a device to stimulate the nerves, to treat pain. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) uses low electrical current to cause muscles to contract.

By doing this study, the investigators hope to learn if a hybrid training system (HTS), using a combination of NMES and walking, is effective in strengthening muscles in people with knee pain, aching or stiffness.

In this pilot study, the investigators will use walking with TENS as conventional exercise.

Randomized controlled trial will be conducted to compare the effect of walking augmented by HTS with walking without HTS. The investigators will evaluate the relative advantages of training that combines HTS with conventional walking exercise on the improvement of muscle strength, physical function, and pain relief in obese women with frequent knee symptoms.

Study Hypotheses: Compared with walking with sensory TENS, walking with HTS will:

* 1 increase quadriceps muscle strength.
* 2 decrease knee pain.

Exploratory Hypotheses:

* 3 improve physical function.
* 4 increase PPT (improve central sensitization).
* 5 improve self-reported quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Osteoarthritis of the knee (KOA) is the most common cause of disability not only in the United States but also in Japan. KOA is associated with pain, quadriceps weakness, swelling, instability, decline of range of motion, physical function, and quality of life (QOL) (1). In particular, quadriceps weakness may contribute to incident symptomatic and progressive disease (2, 3), cause functional limitations and disability (4) and increase the risk of mortality (5). Both aerobic exercise and resistance exercise are recommended for the treatment of people with knee osteoarthritis (KOA) (6). However, exercise at a moderate or severe intensity is often a problem for people with knee pain or a history of knee injury.

Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is widely used as a method to increase muscle strength and improve physical function even at a low-moderate exercise intensity (7). However, NMES effect may prove to be insufficient because the exercise intensity is determined by the electrical stimulation endurance level of the user (7). On the other hand, transcutaneous electrical stimulation, so-called transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), is effective for pain relief (8). Knee pain independently reduced quadriceps strength and activation (9). TENS restores inhibited quadriceps motor function (central and muscle activation) through pain relief (10). Moreover the combined application of electrical stimulation (ES) and volitional contractions (VC) is said to be more effective than ES or VC alone (11). Therefore, a hybrid training system (HTS) that resists the motion of a volitionally contracting agonist muscle using the force generated by its electrically stimulated antagonist (NMES) was developed as a way to combine the application of electrical stimulation and voluntary contraction (12). HTS is a method that eliminates the disadvantages of both volitional exercise and NMES (13). It has been reported that HTS is a new training technique that can increase both muscular strength and muscle mass (12, 13, 14, 15). Recently, HTS is showing promise as a countermeasure for the musculoskeletal disuse of astronauts because the HTS technique can generate exercise resistance within the body even if there is no gravity (1). In addition, HTS can be utilized during many different types of exercise (e.g. knee extension exercise, squat and hip flexion, walking exercise, and cycling exercise) (17, 18). It seems to be more effective for improvement of muscle strength and physical function to combine HTS with easy exercise (e.g. knee extension, walking, and squats) for KOA patients.

The main purpose of exercise therapy for KOA is not only muscular strength improvement (the quadriceps femoris muscle in particular) and but also pain relief (19, 20). Muscular strength improvement protects joints and relieves nociceptive stimulation. However, exercise sometimes increases pain. In addition to the pathological change in articular structures, changes in cen

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Knee Extensor Strength Assessed by Isokinetic Dynamometer.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Hybrid Training System (HTS)
  - DEVICE: Sensory TENS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 39 Years to 70 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02730598
