CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05458024
Title: Vitamin D to ENhance TraUma REcovery
Official Title: Randomized Controlled Trial of Vitamin D to Reduce Racial Disparity in Chronic Pain Following Motor Vehicle Collision
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The main objective of this study is to determine whether the administration of aromasingle dose of Vitamin D in the Emergency Department following a motor vehicle collision can improve musculoskeletal pain severity as well as reduce musculoskeletal pain outcome disparity between Blacks and White following a motor vehicle collision. This randomized controlled trial is a pilot study to determine feasibility and potential efficacy (response to study drug, ability to reduce racial disparity in pain outcomes). This data can be used to adequately power a larger randomized controlled trial to fully assess efficacy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Motor vehicle collisions (MVCs) are one of the most common traumatic stress exposures in the US, and the most common for which individuals seek emergency department (ED) care. More than 1 million Black Americans (Blacks) come to the ED after MVC each year, and \>90% of such ED MVC patients are discharged home with a diagnosis of acute musculoskeletal pain (MSP)/stren only. More than 80% of these individuals report acute moderate or severe (mod/sev) MSP in the ED, and \>50% of those with acute mod/sev MSP trensition to chronic MSP. MVCs, as well as pain after MVC, disproportionately affect Blacks vs. Whites. For example, in previous cohort studies 67% of Blacks had mod/sev MSP six months after MVC, vs. only 40% of Whites. Interventions are urgently needed that prevent chronic MSP and reduce these MSP outcome disparities.

One safe, inexpensive, widely available, and well-tolerated intervention, with exciting potential to achieve these goals, is Vitamin D (Vitamin D). The dose of Ergocalciferol that the investigators propose, 300,000 IU, has been shown to effectively raise Vitamin D concentration by \~9 ng/ml, and to raise serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D concentration above 30 ng/ml (Vitamin D sufficient levels) for over 3 months5. The ability of this single-dose protocol to raise Vitamin D will be a primary feasibility endpoint of this pilot study.

Importantly, this dose is extremely well-tolerated: in previous trials, reports of side effects/adverse events is rare,6 many studies administering single, high-dose regimens report no side effects7-9, and the most common side effects have been mild GI complaints (e.g. nausea).6 Vitamin D administration has also been demonstrated to be safe, even among individuals who are already Vitamin D sufficient. 10-12

Chronic pain is associated with reduced mental and physical health and interferes with essential activities of daily life. Currently there are limited treatment options to address chronic pain once it has become established and the overarching aim of this clinical trial is to prevent chronic pain development, therefore there is a critical unmet need of safe, non-addictive, non-invasive preventative treatment options that can be administered to MVC survivors in the aftermath of an injury. This study has the potential to benefit participants and future MVC survivors and improve pain and general health outcomes. The risks of taking Vitamin D are small. Side effects from Vitamin D are rare, however, it is possible that over supplementation of Vitamin D may be associated with headache, loss of appetite, dry mouth, metallic taste, and nausea/vomiting.

Primary Objective:

1. Assess the feasibility of the Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) protocol by (a) calculating recruitment rate and participant retention, and (b) measuring the ability of Vitamin D administration to generate sustained increases in whole-blood Vitamin D concentrations (assessed 3 months after MVC).
2. To demonstrate the preliminary efficacy 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Chronic Pain Severity
  - Chronic Pain Race X Treatment Arm Interaction
  - Enrollment of the 90-participant Sample Size During Enrollment Period (Feasibility)
  - Percent of Participants Who Arecompliant With Follow-up (Feasibility)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin D 2
  - DRUG: Vitamin D2 Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05458024
