CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04672200
Title: Improving Physical Activity of Older People in Community Through Trained Volunteers: the ImPACt Study
Official Title: Improving Physical Activity of Older People in Community Through Trained Volunteers: the ImPACt Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Research question is can volunteers be trained to deliver an exercise programme for community-dwelling older people attending community clubs and is the intervention acceptable to older people and volunteers? Physical activity is important for older adults and studies have shown the benefits of physical activity on health outcomes including maintenance of physical function, improvement in well-being and quality of life, and reduction in mortality risk. A recent report on physical activity guidelines published by the Department of Health and Social Care highlighted the importance of physical activity in healthy ageing. Nonetheless, current evidence suggests that less than 7% of community-dwelling older adults meet the recommended physical activity guideline of 150 minutes of moderate vigorous physical activity per week. A review of current literature suggests some evidence that volunteers can be trained to deliver physical activity interventions for community-dwelling older people. Yet few studies have been conducted in the UK, and there is a knowledge gap in understanding the facilitators and barriers of training volunteers to deliver physical activity interventions for community-dwelling older people.

This study aims to explore the feasibility and acceptability of implementing volunteer-led exercise classes at local community clubs to encourage older people living in the community to be more active. The investigators aim to develop and evaluate a training programme for volunteers, determine the acceptability of the intervention through qualitative methods and identify facilitators and barriers to its implementation. The investigators will also explore the impact of the intervention on health outcomes for older people to inform future trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design

A quasi-experimental mixed methods approach will be used to determine the feasibility and acceptability of implementing volunteer-led exercise sessions in community clubs. This feasibility study will be conducted at community-clubs managed by Brendoncare. The acceptability of the intervention will also be examined through qualitative interviews and focus groups to explore the views and experiences of volunteers and older adults involved in this study. The impact of the intervention on physical activity levels and functional outcomes will be measured.

Method

A quasi-experimental mixed methods approach will be used to determine the feasibility and acceptability of this volunteer-led physical activity intervention. This feasibility study will be conducted at community-clubs with a focus on social interactions managed by Brendoncare. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the community clubs are currently meeting online. The exercise intervention will be conducted online and will consist mainly of seated exercises. The impact of the intervention on physical activity levels and functional outcomes will be measured. The acceptability of the intervention will also be examined through qualitative interviews and focus groups to explore the views and experiences of volunteers and older adults involved in this study. Facilitators and barriers to the intervention will be identified to inform future implementation studies.

Participants

Community-dwelling older adults who attend Brendoncare community clubs will be invited to participate in this study. The inclusion criteria are community-dwelling older adults age 65 years and above who able to provide written consent. Club members who are not able to transfer or walk independently, and those who are actively participating in other exercise classes, will be excluded from the study. A sample size of 30 participants was chosen for pragmatic reasons for this feasibility study. Each Brendoncare club consists of between 10 - 20 regular members and to achieve the desired sample size, the intervention will need to be implemented in three clubs. The regional manager and club volunteers of the respective clubs will inform eligible club members about the study and those who are keen to participate in this study will be approached by the research team to be recruited to the study. Club members who have been approached but decline to take part will be asked if they are willing to discuss their reasons for doing so. This will help in the evaluation of the acceptability of the intervention. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the community clubs are currently meeting online. The clubs will reconvene according to government guidance taking into consideration social distancing measures.

Recruitment and training of volunteers

The Brendoncare clubs are managed by paid staff members but the activities are led by volunteers. Existing volunteers who are actively involved in the clubs will be invited to participate in this stud

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Volunteer training

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04672200
