CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05319184
Title: Acute Effect of Myofascial Release and Kinesiology Taping
Official Title: Acute Effect of Myofascial Release and Kinesiology Taping on Parameters Associated With Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic low back pain (LBP) is one of the leading causes of activity limitation and disability. The prevalence of chronic CBA among young adults is known to increase, and a recent epidemiological study reported a rate of 42.4% per year among young adults. Studies show that changes in the paravertebral muscles have an important relationship with the formation of Chronic LBP, and therefore, evaluation of the mechanical properties of the paravertebral muscles is of great importance for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of Chronic LBP.

Mechanical properties of the muscle, such as muscle stiffness and tone, are considered essential for maintaining efficient muscle contraction. Abnormally high muscle tone blocks blood flow, leading to faster muscle fatigue and slower muscle recovery. When there is abnormally high muscle stiffness, stretching the stiffened antagonist muscles requires more effort, resulting in lower exercise efficiency. Muscle stiffness is one of the critical indicators of energy storage of the muscle-tendon unit, which has a significant effect on the control of joint movement. Altered tone and stiffness in the lumbar myofascial region have been described in association with underlying pathologies and symptoms in people with Chronic LBP. Rehabilitation interventions such as manual therapy or therapeutic exercises are common techniques for the treatment of chronic Chronic LBP because of their benefits in altering muscle tone and stiffness by reducing paraspinal muscle activity.

Although the effectiveness of the myofascial release technique in individuals with Chronic LBP is supported in the literature, the long-term use of the therapist's hand support creates difficulties in practice in the clinical setting. The KT technique, on the other hand, seems to be a method that can be used as an alternative to myofascial release technique in the treatment of Chronic LBP, since it is an easy-to-use and time-consuming approach. When the studies conducted to date are examined, no study has been found that compares the effectiveness of myofascial release and kinesiology taping applied to individuals with Chronic LBP. The aim of our study is to compare the acute effect of myofascial release and kinesiology taping in individuals with Chronic LBP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Tone and Stiffness
  - Visual Analogue Scale
  - Joint Range of Motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Myofascial Release Technique and Kinesiology Taping

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05319184
