CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05178420
Title: STREAM Trial - Statins in Multimorbid Older Adults Without Cardiovascular Disease
Official Title: Discontinuing Statins in Multimorbid Older Adults Without Cardiovascular Disease (STREAM) - a Randomized Non-inferiority Clinical Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1881
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Statins are among the most widely used drugs. While they were found to be effective for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in middle-aged subjects, their benefits for primary prevention in older adults (aged ≥70 years) without CVD are uncertain, particularly for those with multimorbidity. The aim of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to provide guidance on the benefits and risks of statin deprescribing in multimorbid older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Until now, no RCT examining the benefits of statins in primary prevention has exclusively recruited multimorbid participants aged 70 years and older (70+), and 70+ participants are under-represented in most RCTs, including those examining statin benefits for primary prevention. However, statin side effects and drug interactions are common in populations of multimorbid older adults and might negatively impact quality of life. The proportion of patients developing myalgia on statins has been shown to be as high as 5-20% in observational studies; older age and polypharmacy are known risk factors for developing muscle problems under statins. Furthermore, multimorbid older adults with polypharmacy are more likely to experience side effects with statins (e.g. elevated liver enzymes, diabetes, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis) and drug-drug interactions (e.g. antibiotics, antifungals), with the potential consequences of drug toxicity, reduced physical activity, sarcopenia and falls. In practice, statins are often discontinued in multimorbid older adults without CVD after side effects. The net clinical benefit of statins for primary prevention in multimorbid 70+ older adults remains unclear, and the effect of multimorbidity might shift the evidence towards favoring no statin treatment, but no large RCT examined this issue.

Design:

The study is a multicenter, randomized, non-inferiority trial conducted in multiple centers in Switzerland, France and the Netherlands. Study subjects are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either discontinue (intervention arm) or continue (control arm) statin therapy. The study is open-label, with blinded outcome adjudication. After inclusion the study participants will be followed with phone calls, first after 3 months and then yearly for a mean of 24 months (min. follow-up period 12 months, max. follow-up period 48 months). Outcomes are assessed at each study follow-up.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite endpoint of all-cause death and major non-fatal CV events (non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal ischemic stroke)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Statin discontinuation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05178420
