CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01882400
Title: Assessment of Response to Treatment of Osteoporosis With Oral Bisphosphonates in Patients With Muscular Dystrophy
Official Title: Évaluation Multidimensionnelle de la réponse au Traitement de l'ostéoporose spontanée et Induite Par Les corticostéroïdes à l'Aide d'un Bisphosphonate à Administration Orale Chez Des Malades Porteurs d'Une Dystrophie Musculaire sévère.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
By supplying an adequate amount of calcium and vitamin D with the addition of weekly bisphosphonate, the investigators will be able to increase bone mass and decrease the incidence of fragility fractures in these children with muscular dystrophy.

The investigators think this treatment will also decrease the intensity of pain frequently present in these patients and slow the progression of scoliosis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Children with muscular dystrophy, as well as children with other chronic diseases (e.g. cystic fibrosis, chronic inflammatory arthritis) are at risk to develop fragility fractures both due to the disease itself and to drugs (mostly corticosteroids) used to treat the diseases.

In addition, children with muscular dystrophy frequently complain of diffuse pain making daily care more difficult and almost always develop structural scoliosis.

The objective of the present protocol is to offer these children a preventive treatment aimed at maintaining or increasing their bone mass. We also propose that maintaining bone mass will decrease fracture rates, as well as pain and the rate of progression of scoliosis.

Rigorous care to ensure adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D, as well as addition of a weekly bisphosphonate, are the central aspect of the project. In addition, we will monitor to avoid possible side-effects such as hypercalciuria and kidney stones.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Increase in bone density according to osteodensitometry

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Bisphosphonate treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01882400
