CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05454800
Title: Effects of Physical Activity Counseling in Patients With Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
Official Title: Effects of Physical Activity Counseling in Addition to Scoliosis-Specific Corrective Exercises in Patients With Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Scoliosis is a three-dimensional deformity of the spine of unknown etiology and is clinically defined as 10° or more lateral curvature of the spine. Although there are different types of scoliosis, the most common type is adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), which starts at the age of 10. AIS can affect body alignment, spine and soft tissues and cause physical problems such as postural disorder, cosmetic trunk deformity, decreased flexibility of the spinal column, changes in spinal muscle characteristics, and back pain. The aim of our study is to examine the effects of physical activity counseling on physical activity level and posture, perception of deformity and quality of life in patients with AIS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
AIS is the most common spinal deformity seen by primary care physicians, pediatricians, and spinal surgeons. The primary goal in the conservative treatment of scoliosis in adolescents is to prevent the progression of the curvature and secondary problems associated with spinal deformity and ultimately to eliminate the need for surgery. For this reason, scoliosis-specific corrective exercise therapy given by a physiotherapist is recommended for patients with AIS. However, while this treatment is effective to the gold standard on spine and posture, its effect on physical activity is not known exactly. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of physical activity counseling on physical activity level and posture, perception of deformity and quality of life in individuals with AIS who are given physical activity counseling in addition to scoliosis-specific corrective exercises. Individuals with AIS in both groups, in accordance with the Schroth classification, individually planned exercise program aimed at correcting and stabilizing the spine in three dimensions, in the form of 45-60 minutes sessions, 2 days a week for 8 weeks, a total of 16 sessions. Group 1 will be given physical activity counseling as well as scoliosis-specific corrective exercises. Physical activity counseling will be done face-to-face, and one-on-one interviews will be provided with each participant. Each meeting will last approximately 20-30 minutes and individuals will be encouraged to participate in more physical activity by providing alternative solutions on their physical activity habits, what they like to do or how they can access activities.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Physical Activity Questionnaire for Older Children (PAQ-C) (The change between the baseline value and the post-follow-up value will be evaluated)
  - Physical Activity Questionnaire for Adolescents (PAQ-A) (The change between the baseline value and the post-follow-up value will be evaluated)
  - One-Week Step Count Measurement with Pedometer for Physical Activity Assessment (The change between the baseline value and the post-follow-up value will be evaluated)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Scoliosis Specific Corrective Exercises and Physical Activity Counseling
  - OTHER: Scoliosis Specific Corrective Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05454800
