CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01880086
Title: Clomiphene Citrate for the Treatment of Low Testosterone Associated With Chronic Opioid Pain Medication Administration
Official Title: Clomiphene Citrate for the Treatment of Opioid-Induced Androgen Deficiency: Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this randomized controlled clinical trial is to evaluate the effects of clomiphene citrate compared to placebo (substance without active medication) in men who are taking pain medication (opioids) for chronic pain conditions and who have low blood testosterone levels.

The condition of men having low testosterone with long-term pain medication (opioid) usage is called opioid-induced androgen deficiency (OPIAD). Low testosterone can be caused by pain medication effects on part of the brain (hypothalamic-pituitary axis) which ultimately result in decreased testosterone production by the testes. Typical symptoms of low testosterone (hypogonadism) may include decreased muscle mass, increased fat, osteoporosis, anemia, erectile dysfunction, delayed ejaculation. In addition, men with low testosterone may experience decreased attention, and decreased libido, fatigue, and depressed mood. Few studies have looked at hormonal changes caused by long-term opioid usage in men.

Clomiphene citrate, a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) oral medication which inhibits estrogen effects (feedback) on the brain, has been identified by prior studies to raise testosterone in men with low testosterone (due to reasons other than chronic pain medication). Clomiphene citrate is also known to lead to increased sperm production in men with low testosterone unlike testosterone topical or injection medications. Although clomiphene citrate has been studied in hypogonadal men with beneficial outcomes and minimal side effects, no group has previously studied clomiphene citrate as treatment in patients with OPIAD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic nonmalignant pain is a widespread issue affecting 15-30% of the population. Many patients with chronic pain are responsive to first-line combination of physical modalities and non-opioid analgesics. Up to 20% of these patients, however, require opioid therapy for adequate pain relief. The use of long-acting opioids, including morphine sulfate, oxycodone, fentanyl, and methadone, although effective for pain control, carries risks of addiction, tolerance, and systemic side effects including nausea, itching, constipation, and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with consequent testosterone depletion (in up to 86% of patients taking chronic pain medication) leading to the multiple adverse effects. Opioid-induced androgen deficiency (OPIAD), occurs with high frequency and persistence, and commonly remains undiagnosed in the pain clinic. Low testosterone may be treated using exogenous testosterone (topical or gel) or other medications such as selective estrogen receptor modulators (i.e. clomiphene citrate). While both medication types increase serum testosterone levels, clomiphene citrate is known to benefit sperm parameters in hypogonadal men while exogenous testosterone is known to inhibit sperm production. Few studies have examined the hormonal changes caused by long-term opioid usage in men, and no studies have formally studied clomiphene citrate for this patient population.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Serum Total Testosterone (Change From Baseline)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Clomiphene citrate
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01880086
