CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03231514
Title: Determining the Ergogenic Effects of Carb10™ Supplementation on Carbohydrate-Rich and Carbohydrate-Restricted Diets
Official Title: Determining the Ergogenic Effects of Carb10™ Supplementation on Carbohydrate-Rich and Carbohydrate-Restricted Diets
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 59
Topic: DHEA supplementation

SUMMARY:
The study will examine the performance and body composition effects of ketogenic vs carbohydrate-based diets, determine the carbohydrate tolerance ("carbohydrate threshold") for active individuals on a ketogenic diet, and then, reexamine the performance and body composition effects when the diets are modified with supplementALCARbohydrate up to the newly defined "ketogenic threshold."

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be recruited from TWU and the Denton area and grouped in a semi-randomized fashion that considers dietary preferences. They will then undergo baseline testing, begin the diet and trening interventions, followed by post-testing (phase 1) and a carbohydrate titration period in the ketogenic diet group (phase 2). In the following academic semester, the trening intervention will be repeated with an adjusted dietary carbohydrate level, delivered as a pre-workout supplement, corresponding to Phase 2 (Phase 3).

Phase 1 will consist of diets at an energy level estimated by the Mifflin St. Jeor equation adjusted by 1.625 for exercise. The exercise intervention will be a supervised, periodized (daily undulating), 9-week concurrent resistance (3 days/week) and cardiovascular (2 days/week) exercise program designed to improve body composition and performance variables. During phase 2, the ketogenic diet participants will continue exercising with the same program while consuming incrementally greater quantities of carbohydrate pre-workout until the state of ketosis is lost. Phase 3 will be identical to Phase 1, but diets will be modified to include more carbohydrate. As of completing Phase 2, this amount has been determined to be 20g of Carb10 (pea starch).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Body Composition
  - Change in Anaerobic Cardiovascular Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Carbohydrate Supplement (Carb10)
  - OTHER: Diet
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03231514
