CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04794985
Title: Post-COVID-Health Study: Multidimensional Health Status of COVID-19 Survivors One Year After a SARS-CoV-2 Infection
Official Title: Post-COVID-Health Study: Multidimensional Health Status of COVID-19 Survivors One Year After a SARS-CoV-2 Infection
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
This study assesses the multidimensional health status of COVID-19 survivors one-year post-infection using validated subjective and objective measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Within the Netherlands, more than 1 million people have been infected with SARS-CoV-2, also known as COVID-19. Although the mortality rate is considerable, the vast majority of COVID-19 patients survive the infection. Preliminary findings show that a majority of COVID-19 survivors still experience health problems 3 months after the infection, including reduced lung diffusion capacity, low exercise capacity, muscle weakness, mental problems and reduced cognitive function resulting in a generally poor health status. Whether these health consequences persist on the long-term is unknown.

Objective: To assess the multidimensional health status of COVID-19 survivors one-year post-infection using validated subjective and objective measures.

Study design: A multicenter prospective observational study performed within the MUMC+ and VieCuri Medical Center.

Study population: 200 COVID-19 survivors of the MUMC+, VieCuri Medical Center or Zuyderland Medical Center, both hospitalized (ICU and non-ICU admitted) as well as non-hospitalized patients.

Main study parameters/endpoints: Outcome parameters include objectively and subjectively measured multidimensional health outcomes including physiological and metabolic health, physical capability, cognitive function, psychosocial well-being, social well-being, patient reported outcomes as well as potential determinants of these multidimensional health outcomes (e.g. treatment during/after SARS-CoV-2 infection, vaccination, comorbidities, medication use etc.). Outcomes will be measured during a one-day study visit.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Subjects will benefit from participating within this study, because their general health will be evaluated in detail and from a multidimensional perspective. Furthermore, subjects will be informed on their multidimensional health outcomes and will receive a lifestyle advice tailored to their health status. Risks and inconveniences are limited to the time investment associated with the completion of the questionnaires and the study visit. During the study visit various non-invasive measurements as well as minor invasive blood sampling will be performed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lung function measured with spirometry
  - Diffusion capacity measured with the single breath method
  - (Persistent) lung damage
  - Bone mineral density by dual-energy X-ray (DEXA)-scan
  - Lean mass by dual-energy X-ray (DEXA)-scan

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04794985
