CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05807204
Title: Effect of a Multi-ingredient on Visceral Adiposity and Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Individuals With Abdominal Obesity
Official Title: Effect of a Multi-ingredient of L-Histidine, L-Serine, L-Carnosine and N-Acetylcysteine on Visceral Adiposity and Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Individuals With Abdominal Obesity. Randomized, Parallel, Placebo Controlled, Triple Blind Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to validate the efficacy of specific combination of different natural histidine-related amino acids in the reduction of visceral fat and liver steatosis, as well their associated comorbidities, in individuals with abdominal obesity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
World Health Organization (WHO) defines obesity as an excess of fat accumulation in adipose tissues and in other metabolic organs, leading to serious health implications. Obesity is a rising issue whose prevalence has defined as a global pandemic or globesity (\>30% world population) being responsible of millions of deaths annually. Also, obesity is related with several comorbidities such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), with a global prevalence of \>25%. Thus, strategies to ameliorate obesity and NAFLD are critical to improve life expectancy and quality of life and to reduce the economic burden of both diseases.

Current therapies against obesity are mainly focused on weight loss, including lifestyle intervention, to modify eating behaviours and to promote physical activity. However, the compliance of patients with these therapies is small. In addition, there are some drugs to fight against these diseases. In obesity, these medical therapies are focused to decrease fat gastrointestinal absorption using lipase inhibitors with several side effects: faecal incontinence, abdominal cramping and raise in blood pressure. In NAFLD, medical therapies are designed to reduce insulin resistance, using pioglitazone and metformin. However, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommend avoiding pioglitazone use by its relationship with heart failure and cancer, and metformin provides just a modest improvement in NAFLD.

Thus, the finding of new and efficient therapeutic agents is highly desirable to combat these global diseases.

The main objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of daily intake of a specific combination of L-histidine, L-serine, L-carnosine and N-Acetylcysteine, in combination with dietary recommendations, on the amount of visceral fat in individuals with abdominal obesity.

The secondary objectives of this study are to evaluate the effect of daily intake of the multi-ingredient aforementioned in liver fat content and obesity related comorbidities.

Participants who fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the intervention and control group.

During the study there will be 4 visits: a preselection visit (V0; day -7) and 3 study visits during the consumption of the treatments, which will take place on the first day of the study (V1; day 1 +/- 3 days; week 1), at 6 weeks of treatment (V2; day 44 +/- 3 day; week 6) and at 12 weeks of treatment (V3; day 90 +/- 3 days; week 12).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Visceral Adiposity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Multi-ingredient of L-histidine, L-serine, L-carnosine and N-Acetylcysteine
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05807204
