CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06058351
Title: ABI-aftercare in Motion: Multidisciplinary Aftercare in the Home Environment in Patients With Acquired Brain Injury
Official Title: ABI-aftercare in Motion: Multidisciplinary Aftercare in the Home Environment in Patients With Acquired Brain Injury; an Implementation Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The goal of this implementation study is to improve aftercare for patients with ABI receiving outpatient rehabilitation. The ABI-motion program was developed to improve and active lifestyle and to prevent persistent complaints after ABI and poor HR-QoL.The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Is the ABI-motion program feasible?
* What are the health benefits of the ABI-motion program?

Participants will receive brain education, a joint therapy session with a physical or occupational or movement therapist and a buddy from a patient support organization during outpatient rehabilitation, followed by community buddy support after discharge from outpatient rehabilitation, and follow-up by a rehabilitation physician.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Many people with acquired brain injury (ABI) experience difficulties in reintegration into their social life after discharge from the rehabilitation center. It is also known that people with ABI do not meet the physical activity guidelines; they have lower physical activity levels than healthy people and they have difficulty maintaining their physical fitness level reached during rehabilitation. An inactive lifestyle may lead to persistent complaints, such as fatigue, anxiety or depression, and may result in a poor health-related quality of life (HR-QoL).

Objective: To improve aftercare for patients with ABI receiving outpatient rehabilitation, aimed at promoting an active lifestyle to prevent persistent complaints after ABI and poor HR-QoL.

Study design: Care improvement study using a prospective mono-center cohort with a pre-post implementation study design.

Study population: Patients with ABI receiving outpatient rehabilitation therapy.

Intervention (if applicable): Implementation of an aftercare program that strengthens the cooperation between rehabilitation center and local patient support organisations in the community. The aftercare program integrates standard outpatient rehabilitation and community services, including: 1) brain education regarding long-term consequences of ABI, physical activity guidelines, and patient support organizations in the area; 2) a joint physical/ occupational/ movement therapy session with a buddy from a patient support organisation during outpatient rehabilitation; 3) buddy support (max 8 hrs) in the community towards an active lifestyle after rehabilitation discharge; 4) follow-up by the rehabilitation physician.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The proportion of participants with ABI participating in the community buddy program (target 60%) and feasibility (rating of satisfaction) of the program will be calculated. Secondary, objectively measured physical activity, physical fitness and cognitive functioning and patient reported outcomes (physical activity, fatigue, anxiety, depression, cognitive complaints, coping, community integration, HRQoL, physical fitness, health care use, return to work) using validated questionnaires will be collected before and at 3, 6, and 12 months after outpatient rehabilitation discharge.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in proportion of patients participating in buddy support programs after rehabilitation discharge
  - Mean rating of satisfaction with the ABI-motion program

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: ABI-motion program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06058351
