CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05082649
Title: Remote Exercise Programs in Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Investigation of Short and Long Term Results of Remote and Face-to-Face Exercise Education Programme for Chronic Low Back Pain Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is a common problem that affects many people at some point in their lives. These people constitute a big part of the disease burden due to their recurrent complaints. About 45% of individuals with chronic low back pain seek medical attention. This situation makes chronic low back pain the second reason for individuals to apply to the hospital.

Exercise therapy is the first option that comes to mind in the management of low back pain. It is seen that exercise therapy both reduces the intensity of pain and reduces the recurrence rate of complaints. When the literature is examined, it is observed that among the exercise models, stabilization exercises can provide more benefits than general exercises in reducing pain and improving disability. The COVID-19 pandemic causes disruptions in face-to-face rehabilitation services. The development of telemedicine and telerehabilitation services, whose popularity is increasing with the advancing technology, gained momentum with these disruptions. With telerehabilitation, long-term treatments tailored to the needs of the patients can be offered, the cost is low, and the patients can exercise at home, on their own, at their own pace, whenever they want. These reasons make telerehabilitation stand out especially during the pandemic period. The aim of the study planned in this context is to investigate short and long-term results of remote and face-to-face exercise training on function and disease symptoms for individuals with chronic low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of Trunk Range of Motion
  - Evaluation of Gait Parameters - Time Characteristics 1
  - Evaluation of Gait Parameters - Time Characteristics 2
  - Evaluation of Gait Parameters - Distance Characteristics
  - Evaluation of Functional Capacity Level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Face to Face Exercise
  - OTHER: Telerehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05082649
