CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05374863
Title: Intradialytic Physiotherapy in Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease
Official Title: Evaluation and Intervention of Intradialytic Physical Therapy in Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease: a Randomized Clinical Trial Protocol
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The objective is to evaluate in adult patients with chronic kidney disease the effect of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) in the upper limbs associated with a cycle ergometer in the lower limbs, during hemodialysis, on functional capacity and peripheral muscle strength.

The hypothesis is that in people with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis, the addition of neuromuscular electrical stimulation in the upper limbs associated with aerobic training of the lower limbs is superior to aerobic exercise alone in improving functional capacity, peripheral muscle strength, quality of life, safety intervention and patient adherence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: To evaluate, in adult patients with chronic kidney disease, the effect of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) in the upper limbs associated with a cycle ergometer in the lower limbs, during hemodialysis, on functional capacity and peripheral muscle strength.

Methods. This is a controlled, randomized, double-blind, intention-to-treat clinical trial carried out at the Cassiano Antônio Moraes University Hospital (HUCAM). Thirty individuals who will be randomly allocated to an intervention group (ie active NMES on upper limbs for 20 minutes and aerobic exercise on a cycle ergometer for 30 minutes) or a control group (ie NMES-Sham on upper limbs for 20 minutes and aerobic exercise on a cycle ergometer for 30 minutes). The treatment will be carried out for 8 weeks, with 3 weekly sessions totaling 24 sessions. Outcome measures will be collected by trained researchers before treatment (week 0) and at the end of treatment (week 9), always in the second hemodialysis session of the week. Functional capacity, peripheral muscle strength, activity level of daily living, quality of life, intervention safety, patient compliance, hemodialysis filtration rate (KT/V) and renal function (potassium, phosphate and magnesium clearance) will be evaluated.

Impact. This study could potentially provide important information and assist in clinical decision making regarding the combined use of NMES with a cycle ergometer to optimize the clinical benefits of therapeutic exercise in patients with chronic kidney disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Improved Functional Capacity
  - Improved Peripheral muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) - Active
  - DEVICE: Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) - Sham
  - DEVICE: Aerobic exercise with cycle ergometer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05374863
