CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05770076
Title: Probiotic Lysate (Postbiotic and Metabiotic) Supplementation for Type 2 Diabetes Patients (DELI_Diab Study)
Official Title: Effect of Probiotic Lysate (Postbiotic and Metabiotic) Supplementation on Metabolic Parameters in Type 2 Diabetes Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The current study aim was to conduct placebo-controlled randomize clinical trial to assess the short-term efficacy and safety of postbiotics as an adjunction to the standard anti-diabetic therapy on insulin resistance, glycemic control parameters, β-cells functional activity, anthropometric parameters and markers of a chronic systemic inflammatory response in type 2 diabetes patients.

The study will include 3 periods. Screening period of up to 1 weeks to assess the eligibility to inclusion/exclusion criteria. Treatment period for 3 month where the participants will receive a twice daily oral dose of postbiotics (cell lysate and DNA fragments of the probiotic strain L. rhamnosus DV - NRRLB-68023) at the assigned dose of 100mg or placebo in capsules. During this period monthly phone contacts will be done for assessment of compliance and safety concerns. Follow-up period of up to 3 month.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The scientific literature points to the beneficial properties of probiotics in the process of regulating metabolism, yet at the same time, some scientific papers question the effectiveness and the safety of probiotics. In turn, postbiotics and metabiotics are preparations of inanimate microorganisms and / or their components, which are directly identified with the safety of their use and the health benefits of the host. Due to the chemical structure of postbiotics and metabiotics, it is found that they have many health benefits; in particular, they have a local effect on certain tissues of the intestinal epithelium, and influence on many other organs and tissues. It is postbiotics metabolites and metabiotics structural cell fragments that create the appearance of a therapeutic effect of probiotics, which, in turn, limits the risk of introducing living microorganisms into a weakened immune defence. It should also be pointed out that postbiotics and metabiotics are more stable and have a longer shelf-life.

The practical use of probiotics and the study of the mechanism of their action made lately to find that a certain level of biological activity is preserved by dead probiotic cells and even their lysates, which are the natural mixes of metabiotic and postbiotic substances; a biological activity which is strongly oriented toward gut health and immune system regulation. Because probiotic lysates demonstrated biological activity without any of the potential adverse side effects associated with live bacterial cells, one of the future goal is research of the novel postbiotics and metabiotics substances, their individual structures and biological characteristics for understanding their way of communications with host cells and microbiota representatives.

Considering the high biological activity and safety of postbiotics and metabiotic substances, it can be concluded that such a treatment vector will be promising in the near future. That's why our investigation will concentrate on postbiotic, a supplement containing dry fermented cell lysate and DNA fragments of the probiotic strain L. rhamnosus DV - NRRLB-68023.

Recent scientific animal studies on the stated issues point to the benefits of some postbiotics in treating metabolic disorders. The current study aim was to conduct placebo-controlled randomize clinical trial to assess the short-term efficacy and safety of postbiotics as an adjunction to the standard anti-diabetic therapy on insulin resistance, glycemic control parameters, β-cells functional activity, anthropometric parameters and markers of a chronic systemic inflammatory response in type 2 diabetes patients.

The study will include 3 periods. Screening period of up to 1 weeks to assess the eligibility to inclusion/exclusion criteria. Treatment period for 3 month where the participants will receive a twice daily oral dose of postbiotics (cell lysate and DNA fragments of the probiotic strain L. rhamnosus DV - NRRLB-68023) at the assigned dos

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in HbA1c level
  - Changes in fasting plasma glucose (FPG) level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic lysate (postbiotic and metabiotic)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05770076
