CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07286747
Title: Efficacy and Safety of Oral Controlled-release Nicotinic Acid (CIR-NA) for the Remission of Prediabetes. (CONCEPT)
Official Title: A Phase II, Randomised, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Oral Controlled-ileal-release Nicotinic Acid (CIR-NA) for Inducing Remission in Subjects With Prediabetes
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 390
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to prevent the change from prediabetes (a pre-stage of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM)) to T2DM in participants with prediabetes using oral CIR-NA (a nicotinic acid formulation that is designed to be released after reaching the ileum) which targeted the gut microbiota. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Is CIR-NA effective and does it prevent the change from prediabetes to T2DM?
2. Is the safety of CIR-NA that was observed in the Phase I clinical trial confirmed in subjects with prediabetes?

Researchers will compare CIR-NA to a placebo (a look-alike substance that contains no drug) in terms of an extended safety evaluation including safety laboratory assessments, physical examination, vital signs and 12-lead ECG.

Participants will:

Take CIR-NA or a placebo every day for 26-weeks. Visit the clinic at week 1 and subsequently once every 4 weeks for checkups and tests.

Receive standardized lifestyle recommendations regarding nutrition and physical activity during the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study is a multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of CIR-NA in participants with prediabetes. The trial includes a 26-week intervention period, which is expected to provide adequate time for prediabetes remission and a 4-week follow-up (FU) period.

A total of 390 male and female participants with a BMI of ≥ 20 kg/m² with prediabetes will be random-ised into three arms with 130 participants each in the CIR-NA (100 mg/d or 200 mg/d CIR-NA) and placebo groups. During the intervention, two indistinguishable tablets (CIR-NA and/or placebo) will be administered orally once daily. After screening and baseline assessment (including randomisation and IMP dispensing), 7 regular visits during treatment and one FU visit after 4 weeks are scheduled.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Remission of prediabetes at week 26

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: controlled-ileal-release nicotinic acid as multiple dose 100 mg/day
  - DRUG: controlled-ileal-release nicotinic acid as multiple dose 200 mg/day
  - DRUG: controlled-ileal-release nicotinic acid as multiple dose placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 79 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07286747
