CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03811197
Title: Efficacy of Diet and Hypnotic Suggestions or Telemedicine in Obesity Management
Official Title: Efficacy of Medical Nutrition Therapy of Obese Patients Supported by Hypnotic Suggestions or Telemedicine
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is the assessment of the effectiveness of medical nutrition therapy (MNT) among obese patients, including a well-balanced low-calories diet, an individual dietary counseling conducted by dietitians and supported by telemedicine (T) or hypnotic suggestions (HS).

The study will cover a group of 90 adult patients, both sexes, with obesity (BMI ≥30 kg/m\^2) undergoing MNT a dietetic treatment. Three arms are planned in the study scheme, according to the scheme: Group 1 - individual MNT (30 people); Group 2 -individual MNT and T (30 people); Group 3 - individual MNT and HS (30 people).

The authors hope that the results of the study will allow to develop a new model of the most effective management of obesity, resulting in weight reduction and maintaining this effect over time. The results obtained during the study will also allow to assess the impact of the therapy applied on lifestyle changes, dietary habits and the knowledge about the disease among obese patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective randomized control trial among obese subjects. The scope of the study includes: identification of nutritional habits leading to obesity; assessment of patient's motivation to introduce life style changes; assessment of anthropometric parameters, body composition, arterial stiffness and resting metabolic rate at baseline and at specific control points; development of individual medical nutrition therapy (MNT) and weight reduction plan depending on the initial body weight of the subjects; quantitative and qualitative assessment of the diet at baseline and in each month for a period of 6 months (Part A) and 9, 12 months (Part B); assessment of nutritional knowledge at baseline and at specific control points; education of patients using the behavioral-cognitive method, conducted for 6 months; introduction of hypnotic suggestion (HS) or telemedicine (T) to support the achievement and the maintenance of the lifestyle changes.

The study covers a group of 90 adults, both sexes, with obesity (BMI ≥30 kg/m\^2), undergoing individual MNT, randomly assigned to one of three groups for 6 months (Part A): Group 1 - individual MNT (30 people); Group 2 - individual MNT and T (30 people); Group 3 - individual MNT and HS (30 people). All subjects will continue the program for additional 6 months (Part B follow up).

The selection of subjects for the study is purposeful and the participation in the study is voluntary. All subjects are educated to follow a reduced calorie Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension diet ("DASH") for 6 months (Part A). Education materials (handouts and sample meal plans) are provided to the subjects.

The primary and secondary outcomes will be evaluated at baseline, months 1,2,3,4,5, 6 (Part A) and months 9, 12 (Part B follow up).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body Weight
  - Body Mass Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary counseling via face to face meeting
  - BEHAVIORAL: Telemedicine
  - BEHAVIORAL: Hypnotic Suggestions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03811197
