CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04487184
Title: Effect of the Different Methods of Kinesiology Taping on the Muscle Contraction Performance of Fatigued Biceps Brachii
Official Title: Effect of the Different Methods of Kinesiology Taping on the Muscle Contraction Performance of Fatigued Biceps Brachii
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Recently, kinesiology tape is a common intervention in clinic and sport. According to the theory mentioned by the founder (Dr. Kenzo Kase), the elasticity of kinesiology tape has different effects from different taping skill. For muscle and fascia, taping could promote or inhibit contraction of muscle. For skeletal system, the intervention could correct posture and improve movement pattern through limiting joint mobility. For swelling, it may increase circulation of lymph during acute stage. However, whether these theories are feasible are still controversial in most studies.

The differences between results may be related to the high heterogeneity of taping method and outcome measures. On the other hand, there are lack of studies with high quality. The differences of taping method and skill should be considered for investigating the effect of kinesiology tape. And the performance of muscle contraction should be assessed by accurate instruments.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Double-blind and crossover study design will be used in this study. The taping method is divided into 4 types: Tradition (from origin to insertion), Cross, New (from insertion to origin) and Control (non-taping). The order of types will be assigned to subjects randomly. The 4 types of taping will be applied in 2 days that one week apart. Ultimate physical rehabilitation system (Pris RS, BTE, USA) will be used to access the differences of muscle strength and muscular endurance between different taping skills. The aims are to investigate the effect of the different method of kinesiology tape on performance of fatigued biceps brachii.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Maximal Isometric Contraction Strength
  - Change from Baseline Peak Contraction Speed
  - Change from Baseline Maximal 10-s Power
  - Change from Baseline Isokinetic Contraction Work

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Kinesiology taping

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04487184
