CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04109274
Title: Implementing Exercise Into Clinical Practice in Breast Cancer Care
Official Title: Evaluation of a Novel Strategy to Implement Exercise Evidence Into Clinical Practice in Breast Cancer Care: The NEXT-BRCA Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 85
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
BACKGROUND:

One in eight women will develop breast cancer in their lifetime. With improved screening and treatment techniques, more women are surviving breast cancer. However, women live with physical and emotional side effects secondary to treatment for years after cancer treatments have ended. Exercise can help to manage these side effects, however, less than 30% of this population takes part in regular exercise. The objective of this trial is to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of a novel exercise and education program for women with breast cancer during chemotherapy.

METHODS:

Participants in this study include women with a diagnosis of stage 1 - 3 breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy. Women will be divided into three groups. The first group will include 8 sessions of exercise and self-management education during their chemotherapy treatment. The second group will receive self-management education only, and the third group will receive usual care. Outcomes will be compared between groups at baseline, post-intervention, and at 6- and 12- month follow up. Outcomes to be assessed include exercise level, functional mobility, muscle strength, quality of life, health status, and use of health care services.

EXPECTED OUTCOMES:

Women with breast cancer are among the least active segment of the Canadian population. It is well known that inactivity can lead to physical and psychological side effects, cancer recurrence, and an increase in comorbid conditions. This proposed project addresses a long-standing need to help women with breast cancer become and stay more active by implementing a novel exercise and education program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in baseline physical activity level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Self-Management
  - BEHAVIORAL: Booster Sessions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04109274
