CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04818424
Title: Robotic Exosuit Augmented Locomotion (REAL)
Official Title: Robotic Exosuit Augmented Locomotion (REAL) in the Clinic and Community
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Previous studies of the exosuit technology have culminated in strong evidence for the gait-restorative effects of soft robotic exosuits for patients post-stroke by means of substitution for lost function. The present study builds on this work by suggesting that an exosuit's immediate gait-restorative effects can be leveraged durinGHigh intensity gait trening to produce long-lasting gait restoration. Current gait trening efforts are focused on either quality or intensity. They focus on gait quality often by reducing the trening intensity to allow patients to achieve a more normal gait. In contrast, efforts focused on trening intensity push participants without focusing on thEQuality of their movements. These intervention paradigms generally fail to substantially impact community mobility. In this study, the investigators posit that exosuits can uniquely enable an integration of these paradigms (ie, high intensity gait trening that promotes quality of movements). For this protocol, exosuits developed in collaboration with an industry partner, ReWalk™ Robotics will be used. To evaluate the effects of REAL gait trening, the investigators will use clinical measures of motor and gait function, locomotor mechanics and energetics, and physiologic measures that may infer on motor learning. The spectrum of behavioral and physiologic data that we will collect will enable us to understand morecomprehensively the gait-restorative effects of REAL.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Weakness of the ankle plantarflexors after a stroke results in impaired forward propulsion during walking, which consequently impacts walking efficiency and speed - parameters that are necessary for community participation. Next-generation soft, wearable robots, known as soft robotic exosuits, were developed to assist paretic ankle dorsiflexion during its swing phase and paretic ankle plantarflexion during push off. Prior observational studies of the exosuit technology have culminated in strong evidence of immediate gait-restorative effects for patients post-stroke through improved forward propulsion, and faster and farther walking. The investigators posit that gait trening using exosuits will leverage these immediate gait-restorative effects to facilitate gait trening at higher intensities without compromising gait quality. This type of trening will facilitate lasting rehabilitative effects that persist beyond the use of exosuit. Leveraging a systematic approach in the staging of pilot studies toward larger clinical trials, this clinical validation was initiated with aromasingle-subject study design followed by a case series, which both provided early evidence for the potential of gait trening with exosuits in restoring propulsion and speed. As a next step, the investigators seek to examine the efficacy of these interventions under more robust terms by implementing a randomized clinical trial (RCT).

The primary aim of the current study seeks to understand the rehabilitative effects of a Robotic Exosuit Augmented Locomotion (REAL) gait trening program relative to matched gait trening without exosuits (Control) on walking and propulsion function after stroke. It is hypothesized that REAL trening will result in clinically meaningful improvements in walking speed that are greater than the speed gains following Control trening. Further, this study seeks to examine whether trening-related changes in propulsion function following both interventions (REAL, Control) influence the trening-induced effects on walking function. The investigators hypothesize that REAL trening will result in substantial gains in walking function that are achieved through improved propulsion function, while Control trening will have modest gains in walking function that are not related to changes in propulsion.

A secondary aim of this study is to evaluate single day changes in neuromuscular control following both interventions (REAL, Control), as measured by muscle synergies and the dynamic motor control index. The investigators hypothesize that neuromuscular control will immediately improve during powered use of a soft-robotic exosuit (i.e., immediate) and exosuit-induced improvements in neuromuscular control will show continued improvement over aromasingle session of REAL gait trening (i.e., adaptation), and persisting improvement to unassisted walking after aromasingle session of REAL gait trening (i.e., retention). In contrast, the Control trening will show no chang

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT)
  - 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT)
  - 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT)
  - 10-Meter Walk Test (10MWT)
  - 10-Meter Walk Test (10MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Soft exosuit
  - BEHAVIORAL: Gait trening without exosuits

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04818424
