CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03533972
Title: Effect of Ashwagandha on Salivary Antioxidant and Serum C-reactive protein in Chronic Generalized Periodontitis
Official Title: Effect of Ashwagandha (Withania Somnifera) as an Adjunct to Scaling and Root Planing on Salivary Antioxidant and Serum C-reactive protein Levels in Chronic Generalized Periodontitis- a Randomized Double Blind Clinico-biochemical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Periodontal disease is an immune-inflammatory disease which consists of connective tissue breakdown, loss of attachment, and alveolar bone loss.In normal physiology, there is an equilibrium maintained between reactive oxygen species (ROS) activity and antioxidant defence capacity. when this equilibrium changes and shifts in favour of ROS, it will result in oxidative stress (OS). Increased levels of acute phase proteins have been associated with gingival inflammation and periodontitis, which reflected the locally stressed environment. it has been well established that in chronic inflammation sites there is over-production of ROS. The human body consists of an array of antioxidant defense mechanisms (non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants) which removes harmful ROS as soon as they are formed and prevent their deleterious effects. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase are the enzymatic antioxidants, while the nonenzymatic antioxidants include vitamins E and C, and reduced glutathione. C - reactive protein (CRP) is a plasma protein that reflects a measure of the acute phase response to inflammation and is one of the markers of choice in monitoring this response. Changes in peripheral blood cellular and molecular components can be seen in patients with periodontitis, as periodontitis includes inflammatory changes of the periodontal tissues. Ashwagandha is also known as Indian ginseng and winter cherry. It consists of dried roots of Withania Somnifera (Family: Solanaceae).6 The Sanskrit words ashva meaning horse, and gandha meaning smell together form the name Ashwagandha. Ashwagandha possessed marked anti-inflammatory effect against denaturation of protein in vitro. the effect was plausibly due to the alkaloid and withanolide contents of ashwagandha. It is a multipurpose herb, which acts as adaptogenic, antioxidant, anticancer, anxiolytic, antidepressant, cardio protective, thyroid modulating, immunomodulating, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, cognitive enhancing and hematopoietic agent.So, this study is carried out to assess SOD \& CRP levels with or without Ashwagandha supplementation as an adjunct to scaling and root planing(SRP) in chronic periodontitis(CP) patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Periodontal disease is an immune-inflammatory disease which consists of connective tissue breakdown, loss of attachment, and alveolar bone loss.1 In normal physiology, there is an equilibrium maintained between reactive oxygen species (ROS) activity and antioxidant defence capacity. Thus when this equilibrium changes and shifts in favour of ROS, it will result in oxidative stress (OS). OS plays a causative role in pathogenesis of periodontal disease.2 Increased levels of acute phase proteins have been associated with gingival inflammation and periodontitis, which reflected the locally stressed environment.3 The human body consists of an array of antioxidant defense mechanisms (non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants) which removes harmful ROS as soon as they are formed and prevent their deleterious effects. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase are the enzymatic antioxidants, while the nonenzymatic antioxidants include vitamins E and C, and reduced glutathione.2 C - reactive protein (CRP) is a plasma protein that reflects a measure of the acute phase response to inflammation and is one of the markers of choice in monitoring this response. CRP can be used for the prediction and early detection of periodontal disease as it is a sensitive marker to evaluate the inflammatory status.4 Ayurveda is the traditional system of medicine practiced in India that can be traced back to 6000 BC .It is a basic foundation of ancient medical science in India. Ashwagandha is also known as Indian ginseng and winter cherry. It consists of dried roots of Withania Somnifera (Family: Solanaceae).6 The Sanskrit words ashva meaning horse, and gandha meaning smell together form the name Ashwagandha. The root has been described as having a strong "horse like" aroma, although some experts note that the origin of the name suggests that one who ingests it can attain the strength and vitality of a horse.7 Ashwagandha possessed marked anti-inflammatory effect against denaturation of protein in vitro. the effect was plausibly due to the alkaloid and withanolide contents of ashwagandha.6 Ashwagandha root has major bioactive constituents which are steroidal alkaloids and lactones known as withanolides which have immunomodulatory effect.8 It is a multipurpose herb, which acts as adaptogenic, antioxidant, anticancer, anxiolytic, antidepressant, cardio protective, thyroid modulating, immunomodulating, antibacterial, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, cognitive enhancing and hematopoietic agent.7 Also, by taking Ashwagandha regularly one can enhance his memory and learning skills dramatically.9So, this study is carried out to assess SOD \& CRP levels with or without Ashwagandha supplementation as an adjunct to scaling and root planing(SRP) in chronic periodontitis(CP) patients.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

The study will be a randomized double-blind clinical and biochemical trial in which 50 subjects with CP in the age group of 30-55 years, repo

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in C-reactive protein
  - change in super oxide dismutase
  - change in probing depth
  - change in clinical attachment loss

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Ashwagandha
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03533972
