CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07400419
Title: Effects of Resistance Exercise Among TGD Individuals Initiating Estrogen-Based Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy
Official Title: Effects of Resistance Exercise Among TGD Individuals Initiating Estrogen-Based Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Estrogen-dominant gender-affirming hormone therapy (GAHT) is standard of care for transgender women and gender-diverse individuals and typically consists of estrogen together with anti-androgen/ testosterone therapy. Estrogen and testosterone balance influences fat and muscle mass, muscular strength and the development of sarcopenia. Sarcopenia, a condition characterized by the loss of muscular mass, strength, and function, in turn, is associated with increased mortality and adverse health outcomes. Estrogen-dominant GAHT may have deleterious effects on body composition and muscular performance that place TGD individuals at-risk for sarcopenia. As part of NCT04128488, our investigative team found that appendicular lean mass (ALM)/ height2 decreases after estrogen-based GAHT, thereby portending a higher risk for sarcopenia after GAHT. Early recognition of the changes in body composition and muscular performance leading to sarcopenia are critical, providing potential avenues to intervene and abrogate untoward downstream health effects. A promising intervention is resistance exercise, which has been shown in select populations to improve muscular mass and strength and reduce fat mass, and, thus, mitigate progression to sarcopenia in at-risk populations. For this prospective, pilot clinical trial, investigators will enroll participants who are about to be initiated on estrogen-dominant gender-affirming hormone therapy. Investigators will be randomizing participants 1:1 to either an at-home resistance exercise intervention or no exercise intervention (nutritional and exercise counseling only) for 12 weeks and assess muscle mass, strength, and function both before and after this 12-week period. The exercise intervention group will be provided with the necessary materials to complete the exercise program along with weekly virtual visits with our study team in order to learn their assigned exercises for the week. Further, survey tools will be administered to ascertain whether the resistance exercise intervention may affect gender congruence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Appendicular lean mass/height^2
  - Gender congruence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance Exercise Program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition and Exercise Counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07400419
