CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04750668
Title: Post-Stroke Visual Dependence and Multisensory Balance Rehabilitation
Official Title: Post-Stroke Visual Dependence and Early Intervention of Multisensory Balance Rehabilitation
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Stroke patients have higher levels of visual dependence, which affects orientation, balance and gait. Visual adaption or habituation training aiming to decrease visual sensitivity and tolerance, is commonly used to decrease the levels of visual dependence. However, the visual adaption training often evokes unbearable vertigo, resulting in lower compliance to training program. In addition, stroke patients who have higher visual dependence may not have the symptom of dizziness. Therefore, it is unclear whether visual adaption training has similar effects on stroke patients. Visual dependence is considered as a sensory reweighting deficit and therefore visual dependence could be improved through multisensory balance training which comprises of visual, vestibular, and proprioceptive manipulation. This study will investigate the effects of early multisensory balance training on visual dependence, balance and gait in subacute stroke patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 80 subacute stroke participants will be randomly assigned to either experimental and control groups. Participants in the experimental group will receive multisensory balance training while those in the control group will maintain their regular care. All participants will be assessed their levels of visual dependence, motor ability, balance and gait, vertigo symptom and activities of daily living before and after intervention program as well as at 3-month follow-up.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Perceived visual dependence
  - Postural visual dependence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multisensory Balance Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04750668
