CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04893369
Title: Determining the Effectiveness of the Pain and Disability Drivers Management Model on the Management of Low Back Pain
Official Title: Determining the Effectiveness of the Pain and Disability Drivers Management Model on the Management of Low Back Pain - a Pilot Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims to assess the feasibility of procedures for conducting a pragmatic cluster nonrandomized controlled trial and to collect data on the effectiveness of a previously validated approach that takes into account all the pain and disability drivers associated with low back pain - the Pain and Disability Drivers Management Model (PDDM).

The overall objective is to provide data to assess the feasibility of implementing a multisite pragmatic cluster nonrandomized clinical trial to determine the effectiveness of the PDDM on short-term patient-related outcomes compared to the most recent clinical practice guidelines to improve the management of patients living with low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Low back pain (LBP) is highly prevalent, recurrent and is the leading cause of disability among all MSK disorders (1). Evidence endorses the use of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) to help clinicians establish the diagnosis and guide treatments. Yet, they have shown limitations as they mostly focus on addressing biological deficits and poorly integrate psychosocial factors. Thus, we recently developed and validated the Low Back Pain and Disability Drivers Management (PDDM) model that aims to identify the domains influencing pain and disability to create a personalized clinical profile facilitating diagnosis, prognostic and treatment options (2).

Aims and hypotheses: 1) To assess the feasibility of procedures for conducting a pragmatic cluster nonrandomized controlled trial and 2) to explore preliminary evidence of the effectiveness of the PDDM model compared to CPGs on short-term patient-related outcomes. We hypothesize that the feasibility of conducting such trial will be confirmed. Our secondary hypothesis is that the PDDM model will lead to better short-term patients' outcomes compared to CPGs.

Methods:

Design: A pilot cluster nonrandomized controlled trial where allocation occurs at the level of the clinics (CONSORT). Physiotherapy clinics from different demographic and administrative settings will be recruited.

Participants: We aim to recruit a minimum of 12 physiotherapists (PT) per group arm with each PT recruiting a minimum of 5 patients within a 9-month timeframe. To be included, PTs will have to 1) be working with LBP patients, 2) be able to participate in a 1-day training workshop and 3) assess and initiate treatment of their patients guided by the PDDM model (intervention group) or CPGs (comparator). Patients 18 years or older presenting with a primary complaint of LBP without serious underlying pathology will be included.

Intervention: PTs in the intervention group will undergo a 1-day workshop on the PDDM model. In the control group, PTs will be blinded to the PDDM and will receive a 1-day training on CPGs for LBP.

Outcomes: Feasibility outcome measures will include: 1) feasibility of trial design and procedures, 2) recruitment and retention rates, 3) suitability of eligibility criteria and 4) fidelity of intervention. Feasibility success criteria will be determined to guide the decision on conducting a future definitive trial. Effectiveness outcomes will be measured by validated self-reported questionnaires, and more precisely by changes in severity and impact of pain on function, nervous system dysfunctions, cognitive-affective and contextual drivers at baseline, 6- and 12-week follow-ups.

Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize feasibility outcomes. Quantitative analysis will be conducted using linear mixed models to explore between- and within-group differences.

Discussion: This project will lead to a better understanding of LBP management as well as the effectiveness of the PDDM model, w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants recruited for the study
  - Retention rate of participants
  - Suitability of admissibility criteria
  - Clinicians' compliance to study protocol/fidelity of intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: The Low Back Pain and Disability Drivers Management model
  - OTHER: Low back pain clinical practice guidelines

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04893369
