CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06847139
Title: Effect of Zinc Supplementation on Hyperhomocysteinemia Compared to Folic Acid in CKD Patient on Hemodialysis
Official Title: Effect of Zinc Supplementation on Hyperhomocysteinemia Compared to That of Folic Acid in Patients of Chronic Kidney Disease on Hemodialysis-A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Hyperhomocysteinemia is a well-recognized risk factor for accelerated cardiovascular events in hemodialysis patients. Hyperhomocysteinemia is common in individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Zinc is a vital cofactor for homocysteine metabolism enzymes. Although numerous studies have demonstrated the efficacy of folic acid in hyperhomocysteinemia, zinc supplementation has the potential to reduce homocysteine levels in hemodialysis patients. Objective: To evaluate the effect of Zinc supplementation on hyperhomocysteinemia compared to that of folic acid in patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis. Materials and Methods: This open-label randomized active-controlled trial will be conducted in the Department of Nephrology of Chittagong Medical College Hospital, Chattogram, Bangladesh, for one and a half years. A total of ninety CKD patients on maintenance hemodialysis will be included in the study. Patients will be randomly divided into two groups. The experimental group will be treated with zinc sulfate (50 mg elemental zinc/day) for six weeks in conjunction with conventional treatment for CKD. The Control group will receive folic acid (5mg/day) along with conventional medications for CKD. The primary outcome measure will be the change in the plasma homocysteine level after 6 weeks, while the other variables will include serum creatinine, eGFR, serum albumin and C-reactive protein (CRP) level. Adverse events and safety measures will also be recorded. The primary analysis will be an intention to treat analysis performed with SPSS-23. Data from previous studies indicate zinc supplementation can reduce homocysteine levels in CKD patients facilitating its metabolism. Additionally, the anti-inflammatory properties of zinc may facilitate homocysteine reduction. Moreover, zinc is crucial in various physiological processes, including immune function, protein synthesis, and wound healing. Further clinical trials are still needed to understand better the safety and efficacy of zinc supplementation in CKD patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change from baseline plasma homocysteine level after intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Zinc Sulfate 50 Mg Tab
  - DRUG: Folic Acid 5 Mg Oral Tablet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06847139
