CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07302399
Title: Comparison of the Postoperative Analgesic Efficacy of SAP and SPSIP Blocks in Patients Undergoing Mammoplasty
Official Title: Comparison of the Postoperative Analgesic Efficacy of SAP and SPSIP Blocks in Patients Undergoing Mammoplasty
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The aim is to compare the postoperative analgesic efficacy of serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) and serratus posterior superior intercostal plane block (SPSIPB) in patients undergoing mammoplasty surgery. To this end, a double-blind, randomized, controlled study has been designed. Female patients aged 18-65 years who will undergo mammoplasty surgery will be included in the study. Postoperative pain levels, opioid consumption, duration of analgesic requirement, and patient satisfaction will be evaluated in patients who receive fascial blocks for analgesic purposes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pain management after breast surgery plays an important role in the patients' recovery process. Therefore, investigating effective and safe analgesic methods is important for improving patient comfort in the postoperative period. The serratus anterior plane block (SAPB) is a regional anesthesia technique commonly used for pain control after breast surgery. SAPB has been shown to be effective in reducing postoperative pain and decreasing opioid consumption. In addition, SAPB is easy to perform and has a low risk of complications. The serratus posterior superior intercostal plane block (SPSIPB) is a new technique developed to provide analgesia in thoracic surgeries. SPSIPB has been reported to be effective in reducing postoperative pain and decreasing analgesic consumption. However, data on the efficacy of SPSIPB in breast surgery are limited. This study aims to compare the postoperative analgesic efficacy of SAPB and SPSIPB in patients undergoing mammoplasty. For this purpose, a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial has been designed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total opioid consumption
  - Postoperative pain scores (Numerical rating scale: NRS),Between 0 and 10 points (11 points in total), as the score increases, the pain intensity increases.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Serratus Anterior Plane Block
  - PROCEDURE: Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07302399
