CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02827630
Title: Proteus Discover in Subjects With Uncontrolled Hypertension and Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Use of Proteus Discover to Enable Improved Clinical Outcomes in Subjects With Uncontrolled Hypertension and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 118
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of a new digital health offering, Proteus Discover to lower blood pressure and glycated hemoglobin in patients with uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
"Cardiometabolic diseases" as defined in this protocol refer to diseases that increase risk for cardiovascular disease. Proteus® Digital Health is operationally defining cardiometabolic (CMB) conditions for this study as including hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia. The prevalence of metabolic diseases is growing. Factors contributing to this rise include the obesity epidemic and the aging population. In particular, because of the costs and risk of complications associated with diabetes and hypertension, many health systems and payers are increasing focus on interventions to reduce the burden of these diseases.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the ability of a new digital health offering, Proteus Discover to lower blood pressure and glycated hemoglobin in patients with uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes.

The study enrolled subjects with uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes failing at least 2 antihypertensives and metformin and/or a sulfonylurea. Subjects were randomized to one of 3 arms: use of Proteus Discover for 4 weeks, use of Proteus Discover for 12 weeks, or usual care.

Subjects randomized to the intervention arms, used a digital health offering to (1) provide automatic and passive electronic documentation of medication adherence and patterns of medication taking, (2) assist providers in distinguishing inadequate medication adherence or pharmacologic unresponsiveness as the root cause for uncontrolled hypertension and type 2 diabetes, and (3) inform management decisions (dose adjustment, medication addition or substitution, adherence counseling, referral to a hypertension specialist).

Subjects randomized to usual care, received usual medical care such as medication changes, adherence counseling, and lifestyle coaching. Providers could also schedule additional visits without restrictions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Week 4 Change in Systolic Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Proteus Discover
  - OTHER: Usual Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02827630
