CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07189676
Title: Sustainable Diets and Cardiometabolic Health
Official Title: PLANETDIET: Sustainable Diets and Cardiometabolic Health: a Multi-omics Approach in a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
This study aims to investigate the effects of sustainable diets on traditional and novel cardiometabolic risk factors.

The primary objective is:

• To test the effects of a sustainable diet on traditional cardiometabolic risk factors, specifically, a metabolic health score.

The secondary objectives are:

* To test the effects of sustainable diets on blood lipids, inflammatory markers, glucose markers, and anthropometric and body composition markers.
* To test the effect of sustainable diets on circulating metabolomic profiles.
* To test the effects of sustainable diets on circulating proteomic profiles.

Participants will receive dietary interventions of a sustainable health diet, namely the PHD diet (Planetary Health Diet), an ovo-lacto-vegetarian diet, or a habitual diet following general recommendations for a healthy diet without advice on consumption of animal products. The three-arm parallel RCT will involve adults (45-70 years old) at cardiovascular risk.

The primary hypothesis is that targeted interventions to adopt sustainable diets will have beneficial effects on cardiometabolic biomarkers, metabolomic, and proteomic profiles, compared to the habitual diet in individuals at cardiovascular risk.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: To promote sustainable diets for planetary and human health, the EAT-Lancet Commission called for a global dietary transformation by 2050, advocating a dietary pattern shift to align food systems with environmental sustainability and human health. The Planetary Health Diet (PHD) promotes a plant-based approach, emphasizing the consumption of whole grains, fruits, vegetables, nuts, and legumes, and limited amounts of seafood and poultry, while discouraging excessive intake of red and processed meat, added sugar, refined grains, and starchy vegetables. Despite the promotion of the popular EAT-Lancet diet, there is no Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) evaluating the impact of this pattern on established and novel cardiometabolic biomarkers. The trial design addresses the recognized lack of RCTs evaluating changes in multi-omic profiles by adhering to different dietary interventions; the lack of RCTs on sustainable diets that consider environmental aspects; and overcome limitations of potential reverse causation and other biases from observational studies.

Investigation plan: Participants will be randomized to receive advice on changes in the overall dietary pattern from specialized dietitians. Participants in the PHD diet group will be guided to follow the EAT-Lancet recommendations adapted to be nutritionally adequate and culturally acceptable in Denmark (a high-quality plant-based diet with a low allowance of intake of eggs, dairy, chicken, and fish, but strictly avoiding red and processed meat). Participants in the vegetarian diet group will be advised to adhere to a stricter plant-based diet with an intake of eggs and dairy but avoiding chicken, fish, and red and processed meat, and no recommendations on food quantity or the environment. The two interventions will be compared with the control group, where participants will follow their habitual diet without specific advice on the consumption of animal products. The present RCT is not a weight loss trial, thus no total calorie restriction will be advised, and physical activity will not be promoted. A maximum alcohol consumption limited to 100 grams/week for men and women drinkers will be allowed.

Dietary considerations: The comparisons will allow us to address the unanswered question of whether the inclusion of moderate amounts of animal-based products in the context of a climate-friendly diet is superior to a stricter vegetarian diet. Vegan diets were not considered because of the difficulty in adherence in European settings and the potential for micronutrient deficiencies. The higher between-group contrast, considering both health and environmental impact is expected to be found for PHD vs control group.

The study will include an information meeting, screening visit, baseline visit, two visits during the intervention (1 month and 3 months), and a final visit at 6 months. Additionally, two group visits (at 2 and 4 months) will be conducted. Outcome parameters (a metabolic health s

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in metabolic health score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary advice (PHD)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary advice (Ovo-lacto-vegetarian diet)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dietary advice (control)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioural support PHD
  - BEHAVIORAL: Food boxes PHD

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07189676
