CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03756909
Title: Effect of Neutrophil Lymphocyte-platelet Lymphocyte Ratio on Complications in Pediatric Patients
Official Title: The Effect of Neutrophil Lymphocyte Ratio and Platelet Lymphocyte Ratio on Intraoperative and Postoperative Complications in Pediatric Patients Undergoing Otolaryngology
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 127
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between NLR, PLR and postoperative complications in children undergoing adenotonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Between the dates of February 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018, patients between 2-10 years of age, ASA I-II, elective adenotonsillectomy and adenoidectomy under general anesthesia were planned to be included in the study. The number of neutrophils, lymphocytes and platelets will be taken from the hospital registry system taken preoperatively and the NLR and PLR ratios will be calculated.

All patients in the operating room will be started with routine monitoring and anesthesia. Hemodynamic data during surgery will be recorded. The entrence to the operating room (T1), 5 minutes after the start of anesthesia (T5), 15 minutes (T15), 30 minutes (T30) and 45 minutes (T45) will be recorded in the follow-up form of the anesthesia. The fasting period of the patients and the drugs and fluids applied during surgery will be recorded from the anesthesia form. At the end of the operation, the patients who were taken to the recovery room at the end of the surgery will be evaluated with 1 point, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour and 4 hours and 6 hours vomiting using the 4 point nausea scale.

Introduction to recovery room using Modified Eastern Ontario Children's Hospital Pain Scale (mCHEOPS), postoperative pain at 15 min, 30 min, 1 hr and 4 hr. Analgesic requirement will be recorded. Bronchospasm, agitation, etc. will be recorded by evaluating whether there arecomplications.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The effect on postoperative complications of neutrophil lymphocyte ratio in adenotonsillectomy and adenoidectomy PAIN
  - The effect on postoperative complications of neutrophil lymphocyte ratio in adenotonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy POVN

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 10 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03756909
