CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05425082
Title: Comparison of Motor Relearning and Neurodevelopmental Therapy in Stroke Patients
Official Title: Comparison of Motor Relearning and Neurodevelopmental Therapy on Motor Performance and Quality of Life in Stroke Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to find out the comparison of motor relearning and neurodevelopmental therapy on motor performance and quality of life in stroke patients.As motor relearning program and neurodevelopmental therapy have different effects on lower limb motor functions and quality of life. Therefore, there is need to find out the best treatment approach either MRP, neurodevelopmental therapy or both to improve motor function of lower limb and quality of life as it will help the patient to gain functional independency. This study will provide the health professionals the evidence to use these techniques according to patient interest in the clinical setup.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Stroke is one of the leading causes of death and the commonest cause of long-term disability in adults. In Pakistan it is also prevalent with prevalence of 1.24%, having common risk factor hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and smoking. The focus of stroke rehabilitation is largely on the recovery of impaired movements and functions as it often leads to balance impairment and impaired postural control and mobility. The diagnosis and management of acute ischemic stroke are limited by the lack of rapid diagnostic assays for use in an emergency setting. Computed tomography (CT) scanning is used to diagnose hemorrhagic stroke but quite ineffective (\<33% sensitive) to diagnose ischemic stroke. Among patients with acute ischemic stroke with a proximal vessel occlusion, a small infarct core, and moderate-to-good collateral circulation, rapid endovascular treatment improved functional outcomes and reduced mortality.

Stroke is a common, serious, and disabling worldwide health-care problem and rehabilitation is a major part of patient care. Many evidences support the concept of rehabilitation of stroke which involve multidisciplinary team.Stroke have adverse effect on mobility and activity of daily livings depending upon which vessel is being effected. If ACA is involved then there will be contralateral hemiparesis and hemisensory loss more effecting the lower limb with mobility issues and dependency of stroke patients on their relatives in ADLs and if MCA involve then upper extremities will be affected with speech related impairments. Stroke patients must get rehabilitation despite of which vessel is being involved in the cerebrovascular accident CVS. Stroke patients get benefit from the physical therapy rehabilitation. A well planned rehabilitation program can reduce the catastrophic events

from stroke. Motor relearning is a specialized program rehabilitation focused on motor function recovery. Many studies have been conducted to check the effectiveness of MRP on physical performance of stroke patients. The motor relearning program has found to be useful to increase functional recovery of patients with strok. Peroneal nerve stimulation (PNS) for motor relearning have significant role in improving functional mobility and quality of life. Berta Bobath gave the concept of Bobath or neurodevelopmental therapy (NDT). Bobath therapy or neurodevelopmental therapy NDT is use as an adjunct in stroke rehabilitation which is based on the principal of encouragement of normal movement pattern and discouragement of compensatory movements (11). Bobath therapy is based on inhibition of spasticity and facilitation of normal movement. Bobath therapy has become the heart of neurorehabilitation approach.

Different strategies had been used for this purpose, which includes motor relearning program (MRP) and neurodevelopmental therapy. MRP involves active participation from patients because MRP involve relearning of functional activities that are very beneficial for pati

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fugl Meyer Assessment Scale
  - Modified Barthel Index
  - TIME UP AND GO TEST

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Motor relearning program
  - OTHER: Neurodevelopmental therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05425082
