CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06703996
Title: InBody Band 3 Fitness Tracker to Improve Health Outcomes and Quality of Life in Black Prostate Cancer Survivors
Official Title: bridging the Digital Divide of Wearables to Improve Health Outcomes and Quality of Life Among Black Prostate Cancer (CaP) Survivors
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 13
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial studies how well the InBody Band 3 fitness tracker works to improve physical activity, body composition, and quality of life in Black prostate cancer survivors. Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men and Black men are more likely to be diagnosed with prostate cancer in an advanced stage. Body composition is associated with disease progression, treatment response, and survival in cancer patients. Reducing stress and maintaining healthy levels of physical activity and sleep are important for a healthy body and improving outcomes, however, there is currently little evidence available on the physical activity, stress levels and sleep patterns in this population. Wearable health activity trackers and smart watches are tools that can be used to track physical activity, stress, sleep and body composition and have been shown to have a positive impact in many patient populations. The InBody Band 3 may be an effective method to improve physical activity, body composition and quality of life in Black prostate cancer survivors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the feasibility of a remote wearables-based intervention among Black prostate cancer survivors.

II. Assess the acceptability of the wearables-based intervention among Black prostate cancer survivors.

OUTLINE:

Patients wear the InBody Band 3 fitness tracker continuously and participate in check-in/goal-setting discussions over 20-30 minutes weekly for 6 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adherence rate
  - Change in acceptability scale score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Discussion
  - OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation
  - OTHER: Questionnaire Administration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06703996
