CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06520527
Title: Comparison of the Effectiveness of Sambiloto Herbs (Andrographis Paniculata) and Brisk Walking Exercise on Blood Pressure of Obese Patients
Official Title: Comparison of the Effectiveness of Sambiloto Herbs (Andrographis Paniculata) and Brisk Walking Exercise on Blood Pressure of Obese Patients
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Problem Formulation

1. Is there an effect of giving jamu sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata) on blood pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District?
2. Is there an effect of brisk walking exercise on blood pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District?
3. Is there an effect of brisk walking exercise and combined administration of jamu sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata) on blood pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District?
4. Is there a difference in effectiveness between the administration of jamu sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata) and brisk walking exercise and the combination on blood pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District?

Research Objectives

General Objective:

This study aims to determine the difference in effectiveness between the administration of jamu sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata) and brisk walking exercise on blood pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District.

Specific Objectives:

This study specifically aims to:

1. Knowing the effect on blood pressure of obese people in Jekan Raya District before and after giving Jamu Sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata).
2. Knowing the effect on blood pressure of obese people in Jekan Raya District before and after doing Brisk Walking Exercise.
3. Knowing the effect before and after giving Jamu Sambiloto (Andrographis paniculata) and Brisk Walking Exercise on Blood Pressure in obese people in Jekan Raya District.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This type of research uses the Quasi Experimental method type Non-equivalent control group design, with a research design in the form of two group pre test and post test design, in this study there are two groups that will be measured pretest before intervention and post test after intervention and 1 control group without being given intervention. The intervention group is divided into two groups, namely the group given the sambiloto herbal medicine, and the group given the Brisk Walking Exercise treatment. Quasi-experimental research design with research design in the form of two group pre test and post test design.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Systole and Diastole Differences

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Andrographis paniculata
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brisk Walking Exercise
  - OTHER: Combination

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 39 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06520527
