CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05822596
Title: Tablet-based Interactive Games in Elderly With Cognitive Impairment and Persons With Intellectual Disability
Official Title: The Effectiveness and Feasibility of Tablet-based Interactive Games in Elderly With Cognitive Impairment and Persons With Intellectual Disability: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 68
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The study has 10 research questions regarding the cognitive training program and tablet-based interactive games:

Primary study questions:

1. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games maintain cognitive functioning?

   Secondary study questions:
2. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games improve the scores of 6 supplier-developed cognitive domains (including executive function, memory, eye-hand coordination, attention, visual-spatial ability, language)?
3. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games improve the reaction time of the participants?
4. What is the attendance rate in the cognitive training program, and for how long do the participants play the tablet-based interactive games?
5. What is the usability and acceptability of the tablet-based interactive games?

   Auxiliary study questions:
6. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games reduce neuropsychiatric symptoms?
7. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games improve upper-body flexibility?
8. What are the physical side effects of using digital devices in the 12-week cognitive training program?
9. What are the perceived benefits and feasibility of the cognitive training program and tablet-based interactive games?
10. Can the participation of 12-week cognitive training program using tablet-based interactive games improve activities of daily living of persons with intellectual disability?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design

The trial is a randomized controlled trial. The participants will be randomly allocated into either intervention group and control group in a 1:1 allocation ratio. The target participants are residents in elderly residential settings, members in day care units, and persons with intellectual disabilities in day activity centre cum hostel. Participants in the experimental group will participate in a 12-week cognitive training program that includes facilitated sessions and non-facilitated sessions. The outcome indicators between joining and not joining the 12-week cognitive training program will be compared. In addition, the compliance of the participants, the perceived benefits and feasibility of the program and games will be assessed.

This protocol complies with the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use - Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) and Declaration of Helsinki.

Procedures

1. Participants' recruitment and consent

   Elderly with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) in the elderly service setting

   Elderly scoring above the cutoff for dementia in Montral Cognitive Assessment - Hong Kong (MoCA - HK) and not receiving a medical diagnosis of dementia or other mentally incapacitating disease will be classified as competent in giving consent and will be invited to give consent.

   Elderly with dementia \& Persons in the rehabilitation setting

   For elderly with dementia scoring below the cutoff in MoCA or receiving a diagnosis of mentally incapacitating disease, and persons in the rehabilitation setting, the criteria stated in the Alzheimer Europe Report (2011) will be followed to ensure that they are provided chances to give consent. In particular, four criteria will be evaluated, including 1) the person must have sufficient capacity to understand the information, 2) the person is able to retain, use and weight up such information for making a decision, 3) the person will understand the benefit, risk, and convenience, 4) the person must have the ability to communicate the decision. The University of Hong Kong (HKU) research staff and the care staff will first commit them in a causal chat to assess their ability to communicate and understand the dialogues.

   If potential participants are competent in giving consent, both potential participants and their next of kin members will be approached for consent. In cases potential participants are not competent in giving consents, only their next of kin will be approached for consent. They will then be referred to join a 1-to-1 study introduction session. In this session, HKU research staff and service unit staff will introduce the study to the participant, and invite them to sign a consent form.

   For program facilitators, written consent will be obtained from them before qualitative interviews.
2. Randomization

   After all baseline assessment are completed, participants will be individually randomized to ex

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of cognitive functioning of elderly without intellectual disability before and after using the tablet-based interactive games
  - Change of cognitive functioning of person with intellectual disability before and after using the tablet-based interactive games

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Tablet-based interactive games experimental group intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05822596
