CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06556277
Title: Acute Consequences of Glucocorticoid Secretion in Overweight and Obese Individuals During Maximum Calorie Intake
Official Title: Acute Consequences of Glucocorticoid Secretion in Overweight and Obese Individuals During Maximum Calorie Intake: a Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Cross-over Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The investigator aim to understand whether food-induced glucocorticoids influence fat mass in overweight and obese people.

In a randomized, cross-over study, 23 overweight and obese volunteers will receive a block and replace therapy that mimics physiological glucocorticoid (GC) rhythm (metyrapone plus hydrocortisone) or placebo. Participants will undergo two identical overfeeding periods with each treatment. With the block and replace therapy food-induced GC peak will be suppressed. Metabolic and immunological parameters will be compared to reveal the effects of GCs during excessive overfeeding, particularly to understand changes in body fat.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is one of the most serious health problems of the 21st century, and new therapies are urgently needed.

Glucocorticoids (GCs) increase with acute food intake. Several clinical studies have found that glucocorticoids contribute to common obesity, but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Here, the investigator aim to understand whether GCs influence the total body fat in obese and overweight study participants during excessive overfeeding.

In a randomized, cross-over study, 23 overweight and obese individuals will receive a block and replace therapy that mimics physiological GC rhythm (Metyrapone plus hydrocortisone) or placebo. Participants will undergo two identical overfeeding periods with each treatment. With the block and replace therapy, food-induced GC peak will be suppressed. Metabolic, autonomic, and immunological parameters will be compared.

A) Participants will receive hydrocortisone 19.9mg/d day 1 to day 6 and 12mg on day 7 subcutaneously via a pump in a pulsed fashion (eight times/day) and metyrapone per os (starting with a dose of 750mg/d on day 1 to 2500mg on day 3, which will be kept constant until day 6 and then reduced to 750mg on day 7)

B) Participants will receive placebo (0,9% NaCl solution) 19.9mg/d day 1 to day 6 and 12mg on day 7 subcutaneously via a pump in a pulsed fashion (eight times/day) and placebo pills per os (starting with a dose of 750mg/d on day 1 to 2500mg on day 3, which will be kept constant until day 6 and then reduced to 750mg on day 7)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total body fat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Metyrapone And Hydrocortisone
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06556277
