CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06621927
Title: The Effect of the Ideal Food Pyramid on Rheumatoid Arthritis
Official Title: Effect of Ideal Food Pyramid on Gut Microbiota, Disease Activity, Body Composition and Biochemical Parameters in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to observe the effects of the Ideal Food Pyramid created for Rheumatoid Arthritis patients on disease activity, inflammatory markers, body composition and intestinal microbiota. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does the Ideal Food Pyramid improve dysbiosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis?
* Does the Ideal Food Pyramid improve clinical and laboratory findings in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? Researchers will compare the Ideal Food Pyramid with a control group (no intervention) to determine if it has an effect on rheumatoid arthritis.

Participants:

All participants will fill out questionnaires at the beginning of the study, blood and stool will be collected. These procedures will be repeated at the end of the study.

Diet or control (no intervention) will be applied for 12 weeks Diet group will be checked for compliance with the diet every 2 weeks

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be conducted on patients diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis who meet the inclusion criteria and apply to the Rheumatology Polyclinic of Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine Hospital. Diagnosed patients will be directed to the Diet Polyclinic. Patients who come to the polyclinic will be included in the study on a voluntary basis and the patients will sign an informed consent form. A diet program based on the pyramid created for Rheumatoid arthritis patients will be created for each patient and will be followed for 12 weeks. A questionnaire form containing questions about sociodemographic characteristics, nutritional habits, anthropometric measurements, physical activity status and disease activity will be filled out by face-to-face interviews with the patients. The questionnaire and scale forms used for disease activity and physical activity status are as follows: DAS28 (Disease Activity Score), Simple Disease Activity Index (SDAI), Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), International Physical Activity Questionnaire (Short), Visual Analog Scale (VAS), SF-36 Quality of Life Scale (Short Form 36), Rheumatoid Arthritis Quality of Life Scale (QOL-RA). Fecal samples, blood samples and anthropometric measurements will be taken from the volunteers before starting the study and twice at the end of 12 weeks, and comparisons will be made before and after. Fecal samples taken from individuals will be stored at -80°C until the day of analysis for microbiota analysis. The samples will be processed in the Metagenome laboratory at Erciyes University Genome and Stem Cell Center (GENKÖK) and sequenced using the 16s rRNA next generation sequencing method. The obtained data will be analyzed in detail with an artificial intelligence algorithm and reported. Blood will be taken from individuals after 10-12 hours of fasting; Fasting blood glucose (mg/dl), C-reactive protein (CRP), sedimentation rate (mm/s), triglyceride (mg/dl), cholesterol (mg/dl), HDL cholesterol (mg/dl), LDL cholesterol (mg/dl), urea (mg/dl), creatinine (mg/dl), uric acid (mg/dl), complete blood count (hemogram), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (IU/L), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (IU/L) values will be checked at Erciyes University Central Laboratory.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gut Microbiota

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Diet
  - OTHER: Control (Standard treatment)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06621927
