CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05974761
Title: Clinical Observation on the Treatment of Massage Based on Fascia Chain
Official Title: Clinical Observation on the Treatment of Chronic Low Back Pain With Side-lying Massage Based on Fascia Chain
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The goal of thisclinical trial is to observe and quantify the impact of our massage methods on the human body based on B-mode ultrasound, Vas score, and ODI score, and to compare our massage methods with traditional Chinese massage treatment. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* To set up our standard operating procedure of massage therapy to adjust the stress line of psoas myofascial chain, and provide a more simple and effective therapy for Chronic low back pain.
* try to establish a kind of ultrasonic standard to evaluate the curative effect of treating chronic low back pain.

The subjects were randomly divided into two groups, the experimental group and the control group, the experimental group was given our characteristic massage treatment, the control group was given traditional Chinese massage treatment.Both groups were treated once every other day, 3 times a week, 2 weeks as a course of treatment, 2 courses of treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. the patients in the observation group were treated with the manipulation of side-lying and tendons poking. The specific manipulation methods were as follows: (1) the relaxation method: the patients were in prone position, in order to relieve the superficial muscle and fascia, the doctor applied the method of massage, palm massage and arm movement up and down the vertical spine muscle for 3-5 minutes, move your body as close to the bedside as possible. Straighten your lower legs, bend your hips and knees, rest your ankles on your lower legs, and lift your arms to the side of your head. The surgeon stands on the ventral side of the patient, with the crotch resting on the anterior edge of the superior iliac crest, with the elbow rising from the medial top of the superior iliac crest, and slowly following the palpation along the vertical edge of the skeleton toward the spine (avoiding the L 3 transverse process) , and focus on the pain point or the rope to repeatedly apply elbow pressure, elbow plucking method 1-2 minutes to ease the spasm and analgesia, ease adhesion, promote the absorption of inflammatory edema, manipulation is appropriate to ease the gentle; Then the elbow moved down to the buttocks, with the elbow tip touch to find the sinew knot and along the vertical direction of the vertical plucking 3-5 times, the force should be deep penetration. (3) the method of adjusting the extensor muscles and bones: keeping the upper posture, doing the lumbar oblique pulling, one time each side, further stretching the deep muscles of the waist, adjusting the disorder of the lumbar facet joints caused by the twinning contraction of the muscles and fascia. 4 ending type: with double palm up and down alternately percussion waist muscle ten times to end.
2. control group: according to the Tuina treatment scheme of low back pain in the textbook of the 13th five-year plan for higher education of Chinese medicine published by China Traditional Chinese Medicine Press in July 2016 and edited by Fan Binghua. The specific methods of operation are as follows: 1 relaxation method: the patient lies prone, the operator stands on the affected side, and applies the massage to the affected side waist, arm and thigh back and forth for 5 minutes, the strength should be deep and gentle, in order to relax the tendons and activate the blood circulation, promote the absorption of peripheral inflammation and edema. 2 point method: the Doctor uses one finger to push the middle acupoints in Ashi, Shenshu, Baihuanshu, Huantiao, zhibian, Chengfu, and massages each point for about half a minute to relax the muscles and activate the blood, 3 method of relieving spasm and pain: the Doctor applied the thumb plucking method at the tendon of the cord-like muscle 2-3cm below the medial side of the highest point of the skeletal crest. The manipulation was from light to heavy, and could be alternately operated with the thumb pressing and kneading method for about 2 minutes, in order to 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The changes of fascia of erector spine muscle before and after 4 weeks treatment were compared.
  - The changes of Vas score were compared before and after 4 weeks treatment
  - The changes of ODI score were compared before and after 4 weeks treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: massage
  - OTHER: Traditional Chinese massage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05974761
