CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06559930
Title: Multiple Effects of Dual-Task Focused Training in Individuals with Chronic Stroke
Official Title: Multiple Effects of Dual-Task Focused Training in Individuals with Chronic Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to comprehensively investigate dual-task-focused training on balance, functionality, anxiety, healthy function and quality of life in chronic individuals. Stroke is a clinical condition that occurs as a result of deaths in the brain blood and is an important public health problem, ranking third among the causes of death in the world and first among the diseases that cause disability. There are a limited number of studies in the literature investigating the effectiveness of dual task training in stroke rehabilitation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Unlike other studies in the literature, this designed study evaluates balance, functionality, anxiety, cognitive functions and quality of life in addition to walking, making it unique. In the light of all this information, the hypothesis of the study is as follows: Application of dual-task-oriented training in addition to the regular physiotherapy program in individuals with chronic stroke affects balance, functionality, anxiety levels, cognitive functions and quality of life. It is planned to include 40 participants who meet the inclusion criteria in the study. After giving the necessary verbal and written information about the study, participants who receive informed consent will be randomized and divided into 2 groups of 20 people each. Group 1 will receive 30 sessions of traditional neurological rehabilitation program every day for 6 weeks. In Group 2, in addition to traditional neurological rehabilitation, a dual-task-oriented training program will be applied for a total of 12 sessions, twice a week. Participants will be evaluated twice, before and after treatment. Researchers will record personal information through a socio-demographic data form. Balance will be evaluated with the Berg Balance Test, functional status will be evaluated with the 10 Meter Walk Test and Timed Up and Go Test, anxiety level will be evaluated with the Beck Anxiety Scale, cognitive functions will be evaluated with the Verbal Fluency Test, and Standardized Mini Mental Test and quality of life will be evaluated with the Stroke Specific Quality of Life Scale.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Berg Balance Test
  - 10 Meter Walking Test
  - Timed Up and Go Test Timed Up and Go Test Timed Up and Go Test
  - Beck Anxiety Scale
  - Verbal Fluency Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Traditional Neurological Rehabilitation + Dual Task Focused Training
  - OTHER: Traditional Neurological Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06559930
