CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05754632
Title: The Impact of Blood Flow Restriction Training in Adolescents After ACL Reconstruction: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: The Impact of Blood Flow Restriction Training in Adolescents After ACL Reconstruction: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
While there are a number studies that have reported on the use of blood flow restriction training (BFRT) in the adult population, there is limited information about the use of BFRT in the adolescent population. This study aims to evaluate the use of BFRT in conjunction with traditional anterior ligament reconstruction (ACLR) rehabilitation in adolescents.

The purpose of this study is to compare the addition of a BFRT based exercise protocol to a standard ACL rehabilitation protocol in adolescents. Does the addition of BFRT-based exercise improve strength, hypertrophy, and patient reported outcomes after ACLR in the adolescent population?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A single randomized control trial will compare the use of exercises augmented with BFRT with quantitative measurements of strength and patient-reported outcomes. A total of 40 youth and adolescent patients undergoing a surgical procedure for ACLR and subsequent physical therapy at our institution will be recruited for this study. Patients will be randomized into one of two groups using computer randomization for allocation: the intervention group receiving BFRT as part of physical therapy, and the control group will follow the institution's standard ACLR rehabilitation protocol. Both groups will follow a time- and criterion-based standardized rehabilitation protocol. The primary outcomes will be isometric and isokinetic knee peak torque and limb symmetry indices. Secondary outcomes will be quadriceps hypertrophy via mid-thigh circumference and patient-reported outcomes.

Target Population Adolescent patients between the ages of 12 and 18 will be recruited at the time of surgery, specifically, those that participate in sports who are undergoing primary ACLR reconstruction at Connecticut Children's

Study Group and Control Group Inclusion Criteria

· Prior to surgery participated in \> 50 hours/year of level I or II sports as defined by Noyes et al and planned to return to prior level.

Level I Sports (4-7 days/week) Jumping, hard pivoting, cutting (basketball, volleyball, football, soccer, gymnastics, skiing. wrestling) Running, twisting, turning (racquet sports, baseball, hockey) Level II sports (1-3 days/week) Jumping, hard pivoting, cutting (basketball, volleyball, football, soccer, gymnastics, skiing. wrestling) Running, twisting, turning (racquet sports, baseball, hockey)

* Completion of postoperative rehabilitation following standard protocols
* Orthopedic surgical intervention and physical therapy completed at Connecticut Children's.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Range of Motion
  - Isometric Quad strength Peak Torque
  - Isometric Quadriceps Strength limb symmetry index
  - Isometric Hamstring Strength Peak Torque
  - Isometric Hamstring Strength Limb Symmetry Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Blood Flow Restriction using Delfi Personalized Tourniquet System

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05754632
