CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06670742
Title: Gut-muscle Axis: Exploring the Gut Microbiota Influences Host Energy Sources and Exercise Performance
Official Title: Gut-muscle Axis: Exploring the Gut Microbiota Influences Host Energy Sources and Exercise Performance Via Modulation of Lactate Metabolism and Utilization
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Through training, the investigators can adjust the composition and functions of gut microbiota. Exercise also alters the body's energy metabolism pathways, which, in turn, impacts the gut microbiota and its metabolic products. Understanding how the body utilizes and regulates energy during exercise is essential for enhancing athletic performance. This study aims to explore the relationships among post-exercise energy metabolites, gut microbiota, and their metabolic products, applying omics technologies in the field of sports science.

This interdisciplinary research will contribute to fields such as exercise physiology, sports nutrition, exercise biochemistry, and sports medicine, providing innovative and practical research insights for advancing sports science in our country.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The gut microbiota, which is comprised of trillions of microbes, is the collective term for the gut microbiota. It establishes a symbiotic relationship with the host and plays a vital role in maintaining host health. Through training, the investigators can adjust the composition and functions of gut microbiota. Exercise also alters the body's energy metabolism pathways, which, in turn, impacts the gut microbiota and its metabolic products. Understanding how the body utilizes and regulates energy during exercise is essential for enhancing athletic performance. This study aims to explore the relationships among post-exercise energy metabolites, gut microbiota, and their metabolic products, applying omics technologies in the field of sports science.

This interdisciplinary research will contribute to fields such as exercise physiology, sports nutrition, exercise biochemistry, and sports medicine, providing innovative and practical research insights for advancing sports science in our country.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of lactate
  - Concentration of creatine kinase
  - Concentration of glucose
  - Concentration of creatinine
  - Concentration of blood urea nitrogen

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: running

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06670742
