CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04159298
Title: Cervicogenic Concussion Rehabilitation With TopSpin360
Official Title: Novel Multi-planar Neuromuscular Neck Strengthening for the Treatment of Delayed Recovery of Concussion in Adolescence and Young Adults With Cervicogenic Symptoms
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Concussions occur most frequently in adolescents and often result in significant disruption to daily living for prolonged periods of time. Concussions are an epidemic, with the incidence rates for sports related concussions (SRC) in adolescents up to 0.47 per 1000 athlete exposures. Research would suggest that multi-planar neck strength is a protective factor of SRC risk in adolescents as greater neck strength is associated with a lower SRC risk.(Collins et al) Neck pain is a common symptom associated with SRC that is also associated with prolonged recovery from SRC. (King et al, Van der Naalt et al) Neck pain is also associated with decreased neck muscle strength (DeKoning et al). Our study will address a critical gap in concussion management - multi-planar cervical spine strengthening to specifically rehabilitate the cervicogenic component of prolonged post-concussion symptoms with a cervicogenic component and determine if this approach restores normal neck strength, decreases neck pain and headaches, improves daily global function and allow patients to return to sport and school. work more quickly than those without specific multi-planar neck strengthening.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overall Design: This will be a randomized clinical trial using a prospective cohort model. A total of 56 adolescents/young adults with concussion symptoms that persist \>4 weeks post-trauma and +ve screening for cervical involvement (rated neck pain as a symptom, TOP para cervical or suboccipital spine, +ve cervical flexion-rotation test (Hall et al)) will be assigned randomly into one of two groups: 1) Control group who undergo traditional usual clinical care comprised of bi-weekly physiotherapy sessions and home-based exercise programs (TRADITIONAL), and 2) In combination with standard clinical care as described above, 2 sessions per week training on the TopSpin360 (protocol outlined below). (INTERVENTION). The intervention will last up to 7 weeks or until medical clearance to return to normal daily activities. Balancing as much as possible the impact of age and sport is critical because mechanisms and patterns of injury differ with the patient and the sport in which the concussion occurred. The randomization process will balance the influence of one's sex on the measured outcomes.

Randomization: Patients will be randomized into one of the two groups using a 1:1 ratio to balance recruitment and covariates. A random number generator will be used to assign groups.

Test Sequence: Based on previous work, it is anticipated that 7 weeks of intervention will be required. (Versteegh et al) Following baseline measures (Week 0) upon study entry, tests will be conducted at the midway point (4 weeks) and upon completion (7 weeks) or upon medical clearance to return to sport. The test sessions ideally will occur following the clinical examination with the physician . This will increase convenience for the patient's family who, for this age group, will be with the patient. At each test session a physiotherapist will bring the participant through 1. Cervical Flexion-Rotation test, 2. Deep neck flexor endurance test, 3. a multi-planar static neck strength assessment using a handheld dynamometer (Versteegh et al), 4. Dynamic necks strength assessed via peak RPM and time to complete 20 revolutions clockwise and counterclockwise on the TopSpin360, 5. Joint position error testing (Revel et al), 6. and complete standard questionnaires: SCAT 5 symptom score, Neck Disability Index, Headache Inventory and

Intervention training protocol using TopSpin360: Participants allocated to the INTERVENTION group will participate in 2 training sessions per week using the TopSpin360 neuromuscular neck-training device. Each session will be separated by a minimum of 2 days. Given the target population for this study will include younger subjects than previous training studies using the TopSpin360 and given they will have some neck pathology, a significantly reduced training load (number of revolutions used per set) will be used. The advantage of the TopSpin360 as a training tool is its safety profile in that the device uses self-generated resistance to create the muscular load an

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cervical Flexion-Rotation Test (CFRT)
  - Multi-planar static neck strength (MicroFET2)
  - Deep neck flexor endurance test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Top Spin 360

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 21 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04159298
