CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03916198
Title: Polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) for Cuff Regeneration
Official Title: Effect of Polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) on Healing and Fatty Degeneration of Rotator Cuff in Human
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 79
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study is to evaluate the effect of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) for healing and fatty degeneration of rotator cuff. The investigators will enroll 130 patients with rotator cuff tear who will undergo arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. 130 patients will be classified into two group. One group (PDRN) will be injected at the repaired cuff with 3cc polydeoxyribonucleotide just after surgery and be injected with another 3ml polydeoxyribonucleotide under ultrasound guidance 2 weeks after the surgery. The other group (CONTROL) will be injected with 3ml normal saline in the same manner.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Polydeoxyribonucleotide is a tissue regeneration activator. It binds an adenosine receptor and stimulate VEGF(vascular endothelial growth factor) synthesis and stimulate collagen synthesis. Nowadays, a lot of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs are being performed. but the failure rate of rotator cuff repair is considerably high. Therefore, this study is to evaluate the effect of polydeoxyribonucleotide for healing and fatty degeneration of rotator cuff.

Visual analog scale (VAS) of pain and other functional scores of the two group will be checked preoperatively and postoperative 3, 6, 12, 24 months. Growth factors (VEGF, fibroblast growth factor(FGF), insulin like growth factor(IGF)) will be checked preoperatively and postoperative 1h, 2 days, 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3, 6 months. Follow up MRI will be checked at postoperative 6 months. The parameters will be compared using statistical analysis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - American Shoulder and Elbow score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Polydeoxyribonucleotides
  - DRUG: Normal saline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03916198
