CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04248413
Title: Return to Baseball After BFR Therapy for Shoulder Injury
Official Title: Blood Flow Restriction Training Following Acute Shoulder Injury In Baseball Players: Assessment of Efficacy in Return to Sport
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
The literature is limited on whether BFR therapy provides improved return to function after acute rotator cuff or biceps rehabilitation in non-operative cases, and whether there is a clear mechanism of action in musculotendinous repair after BFR therapy. The purpose of the study is to 1) evaluate patient reported outcomes and return to play in baseball athletes undergoing rehabilitation with blood flow restriction (BFR) therapy for shoulder injury and 2) evaluate changes in blood biomarkers to assess the mechanism of action of BFR therapy in injured athletes. Investigators will perform a randomized blinded placebo-controlled trial of 2 separate study populations: 1) baseball players with biceps or rotator cuff tendinopathy undergoing non-operative treatment with BFR therapy incorporated into routine physical rehabilitation and 2) baseball players with biceps or rotator cuff tendinopathy undergoing non-operative treatment with routine physical rehabilitation alone.

Primary outcomes will be functional outcomes and evaluation of return to sport. Functional outcomes will be evaluated using validated patient reported outcome surveys that are upper extremity-specific. Return to sport will be assessed by evaluating time to receiving clearance for returning to routine practices and reported level of physical performance and re-injury. Secondary outcomes will be measurement in muscle strength and blood biomarkers, as well as evaluation of 3D throwing motion. Strength will be measured using a biodex system at baseline prior to beginning physical rehabilitation, half-way through the rehabilitation protocol +/- BFR phase, and once cleared for return to play. Blood biomarkers GH, IGF-I, and IL-6 will be quantified at the same time points in order to investigate the mechanism of action of BFR on tissue repair. Patients will be followed longitudinally during this time for rates of reinjury.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will evaluate the efficacy of BFR therapy in physical rehabilitation for baseball athletes with non-operative biceps or rotator cuff tendinopathy. This will be directly measured by evaluation of upper extremity biomechanics measurements, strength testing, patient reported functional outcome scores, and identifying time required for clearance of return to sport. These outcomes in patients undergoing BFR therapy in addition to traditional rehabilitation will be compared to patients undergoing traditional rehabilitation only.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire
  - American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Blood Flow Restriction Therapy
  - OTHER: Standard physical rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04248413
