CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05381987
Title: The Effectiveness of Radial Shockwave Therapy on Myofascial Pain Syndrome in Neck and Upper Back.
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Radial Shockwave Therapy on Myofascial Pain Syndrome: A Mixed Method Study That Combines a Randomised Control Trial and Semi-Structured Interview.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) is a common, costly and often persistent musculoskeletal problem. Radial shockwave (RSW) is one of the most common treatment for MFS. However, a recent systematic review found very low-level evidence to support its short-term benefit, due to poor methodological qualities. The authors therefore recommended further large scale, good quality placebo-controlled trials (RCT) in this area. Further still, previous studies have not considered the experiences of patient regarding this intervention.

Study Objectives: To determine the effectiveness of RSW compared to placebo for the treatment of patients with MPS in neck and upper back, and to establish the experiences of patients receiving the treatment.

Research Questions: Is RSW therapy more effective at improving MPS compared to a placebo? What are the experiences of patients with MPS receiving this treatment?

Methods: A pragmatic double blind RCT to investigate the effectiveness of RSW on patients with MPS and a semi-structured-interview to investigate the patients' experience of receiving the treatment.

Sample: 120 potential participants with MPS for the RCT and 20 participants for the semi-structured qualitative interview.

Interventions: The Intervention group will receive a total of 6 sessions of RSW following manufacturer's parameters: 1.5 bar, pulses 2000, frequency 15 Hz (Time 3 minutes). The Control group will receive an identical treatment except that the they will receive a no energy shock of 0.3 bar, frequency 15 and no pulses.

Outcome measures: Improvements in the patient's numeric pain scale (NPS), neck disability index (NDI), pressure pain threshold (PPT) and SF-12 questionnaires at 4, 8 and 12 weeks' follow-up between the two groups.

Significance of the Study's Outcome: The expectation is that this study will add to the body of knowledge required to help patients, healthcare practitioners, policy makers and researchers make effective treatment choices on RSW in the management MFS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
INTRODUCTION Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) is a common, costly and often persistent musculoskeletal problem that affects 85% of the general population at some point in their lifetime (Fleckenstein et al, 2010; Simon, 1996). Reported overall rates vary between male and female population and with different patient populations. MPS has been reported as the leading cause of chronic and persistent musculoskeletal regional pain such as neck pain, shoulder pain, chronic back pain and facial pain (Li et al, 2017). In the United States, the estimated economic cost for the management of chronic pain is $560-$635 billion per annum for medical care and disability programs, with the potential to increase year on year (Gaskin \& Richard, 2012). Therefore, it is important that chronic musculoskeletal pain such as MPS in the neck and upper back is treated efficiently and effectively to improve patient's clinical outcomes and experience.

The clinical manifestation of MPS varies widely because it is not a distinct pathology. It is characterised by localized pain, muscle tenderness, palpable intramuscular taut band, local twitch response, referred pain, muscle spasm and sleep disturbance (Fernández-de-las-Peñas et al, 2012; Sciotti et al, 2001; Alvarez \& Rockwell, 2001; Travell \& Simmons, 1999). Myofascial trigger points can produce symptoms of pain upon palpation and pressure. A nail bed palpation by pressing manually with a thumb or using a digital algometer probe can trigger a local twitch response (LTR), which can reproduce symptoms of pain. This study will use a digital algometer to measure pressure pain threshold, which have been used by previous authors (Luan et al, 2019).

Most patients with MPS are treated by physiotherapists, physicians, chiropractors and osteopaths using trigger point injection, dry needling, acupuncture, ultrasound, stretches, deep frictional massages and taping (Galasso et al, 2020; Tough et al, 2009; Müller-Ehrenberg, 2005; Fernández-de-las-Peñas, et al, 2012). However, the most effective treatment for MPS is not known.

Radial shockwave is one of the most common and non-invasive treatments method with very few negative side effects, for musculoskeletal tissues such as MPS that normally are very difficult to treat (Watson, 2014). They are low to medium-energy pulses and their penetration depths are normally 0-6 cm ("0-2.3") (Watson, 2014). The therapeutic doses of radial shockwave ranges from low (up to 0.08mJ/mm2) to high (up to 0.63mJ/mm2) energy levels, and the number of treatment session repetitions is between 3 - 7 sessions (Watson, 2014). The number of shocks per session is usually between 1000 to 2500.

Some of the most strongly established therapeutic and biological effects of radial shockwave include mechanical stimulation, increased local blood flow that leads to tissue repair and regeneration by causing micro-functional and micro-structural changes, increase in cellular activity - release of substance P, prostaglandin E

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric pain rating scale (NPRS)
  - Neck Disability Index (NDI)
  - Pressure pain threshold (PPT)
  - SF12 - Quality of life (QoL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Radial shockwave therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05381987
