CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03802045
Title: Electroacupuncture Frequency-related Effects on Non-specific Low Back Pain in Older Adults.
Official Title: Electroacupuncture Frequency-related Effects on Chronic Low Back Pain in Older Adults: Triple-blind, 12-month Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 125
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Background: Low back pain (LBP) is the most frequent complaint in the clinical practice. Electroacupuncture treatment may be effective, however, the evidence supporting this possibility is still limited, especially in older adults.

Methods: A five-arm randomized controlled trial with patients and evaluators blinded to the group allocation. A total of 125 participants with non-specific low back pain will be randomly assigned into one of five groups: three electroacupuncture groups (low, high and alternating frequency), a control and a placebo group. The electroacupuncture will be applied twice a week (30 minutes per session) for 5 weeks. The primary clinical outcome will be pain intensity. The secondary outcomes include: quality of pain, physical functioning, perceived overall effect, emotional functionality, patient satisfaction and psychosocial factors. Patients will be evaluated before the first session, immediately after the last, and followed-up after 6 and 12 months to check the effects in the medium and long term.

Discussion: Results of this trial will help clarify the therapeutic effect of different frequencies of electroacupuncture for chronic low back pain in older adults and to determine the most effective electroacupuncture frequency.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a randomized controlled clinical trial with blind evaluators and patients. The study will be conducted at the University of São Paulo (USP), approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Medical School of USP (authorization No. 2.903.991) and financed with its own resources.

Participants will be recruited through radio ads, social networks and local newspapers. Individuals will be informed about the research proposal and treatment protocol, and those that are interested in participating will be selected according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

Patients will be eligible for inclusion if they are over 60 years of age, of either gender, with diagnosis of nonspecific LBP of more than 3 months duration, with or without radiating leg pain, with a minimum pain intensity score of 4 on the 11-point pain numerical rating scale (NRS - Brazilian Portuguese version), that can walk independently (with or without walking devices) and that agree to voluntarily participate in this study and sign the consent form.

Patients will be excluded if they have had previous surgery on the spinal column, have a known or suspected serious spinal pathology (e.g., cancer, vertebral fracture, spinal infection or cauda equina syndrome), a fear of needles, have participated in acupuncture treatment in the previous 30 days, if they are wheelchair users, or if they are unable to sign the consent form.

The protocol of this study is based on standards established under the Standards for Reporting Interventions in Clinical Trials of Acupuncture (STRICTA) and the Initiative on Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials (IMMPACT).

Prior to the first treatment session, the random allocation sequence will be implemented by a researcher not involved in the patient recruitment or evaluation, and will be generated through the randomization.com program, where each number will match one of five study groups.

After the numbers are generated, they will be placed in sealed, brown envelopes and numbered in series, then given to the acupuncturist. This person will open them according to the numerical sequence, prior to the first session.

Patients will remain blind regarding the category of their allocation throughout the data collection period of the study. Additionally, the evaluators responsible for the data collection will be blinded to the patient allocation. The acupuncturist, being responsible for the interventions, will be the only person not blind to the type of treatment to be performed.

The interventions will be performed by acupuncture specialists with at least 3 years of clinical experience, who will receive prior training to ensure that they rigorously follow the study protocol and are familiar with the types of treatments, including details such as acupuncture points and manipulation of electroacupuncture parameters.

Outcome measures Four stages of evaluations will be performed: prior to the start of treatment, immediately aft

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity - Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)
  - Pain intensity - Pressure pain threshold (PPT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Electroacupuncture
  - DEVICE: Needle
  - DEVICE: Adhesive Moxa

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03802045
