CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03954808
Title: Motor Imagery Training in Children With Unilateral Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: The Effect of Motor Imagery Training on Muscle Activity, Motor Imagery and Functional Movement Skills in Individuals Unilateral Cerebral Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 51
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Motor imagery (MI) is a promising method to improve more cognitive aspects of motor behaviour, and may, thus, be effective for facilitating motor planning in children with Cerebral Palsy (CP). MI training facilitates the neural plasticity by enhancing the neuronal cortical pathways in brain. In children with CP, motor planning and MI capacity were found to be affected by studies. In the literature, there are studies about the evaluation of MI in Unilateral CP but there is insufficient number of studies included in MI in the rehabilitation program.

The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of motor imagery training for gait and lower extremity muscle activity (with EMG), functional capacity, quality of life, and time performance variables in Children with Unilateral CP.

The eligible participants will be allocated three groups, including motor imagery training group, traditional physiotherapy control group, and healthy control group. All the assessments will be performed before and after the training in the 8-week motor imagery training group and 6 weeks after the end of training. The participants in the control group will be evaluated with a 8-week interval and 6 weeks after the end of physiotherapy training. The healthy participants will be assessed only once. The motor imagery training will be designed for the individual basis with standard protocols. It will be applied two times a week for 8 weeks. All sessions will be performed in the clinic.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Unilateral CP and age matched healthy individuals will be participate the study between the ages of 7 and 18 years. Children's gross motor skills classified with GMFCS.

The control group individuals will be given a traditional physiotherapy two days per week for a total of 8 weeks (traditional physiotherapy session will last 45 minutes). Motor imagery training group will receive a traditional physiotherapy and motor imagery training within a specific program, two days a week for a total of 8 weeks (30 minutes traditional physiotherapy session+15 minutes MI training) .

Within the scope of MI training, individual training program will be determined by taking into consideration the needs of the individuals and the expectations for gait. The basic case of PETTLEP (Physical, Environment, Task, Timing, Learning, Emotion, Perspective) will be followed. MI training will be given individually with the same physiotherapist.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Movement Imagery Questionnaire-Children(MIQ-C)
  - Mental Chronometry for Timed Up and Go Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Motor Imagery Training
  - OTHER: Traditional physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03954808
