CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06723808
Title: Physical Activity and Work Ability in University Staff
Official Title: Relationship Between Leisure-Time Physical Activity and Work Ability in University Staff With Different Occupational Demands: A Cross-Sectional Study With a Gender Perspective
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 876
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The goal of this observational study is to explore the relationship between leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) and work ability in university staff, with a focus on occupational physical activity (OPA) and gender. The main question it aims to answer is:

How does leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) influence work ability in university staff, considering their occupational physical activity (OPA) and gender?

Participants from the University of Alcalá will complete an online survey, which includes sociodemographic data and validated questionnaires on LTPA, OPA, work ability, musculoskeletal disorders, health-related quality of life, and workload.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction: 39.17% of the population in the Autonomous Community of Madrid (CAM) does not meet the physical activity recommendations set by the World Health Organization, representing a significant public health issue and considerable socioeconomic costs. Sex, gender, and working conditions are key determinants of leisure-time physical activity (LTPA). However, there are few studies aimed at understanding these sociocultural barriers.

Objective: To describe the association between LTPA and work ability, depending on occupational physical activity (OPA), among university staff in CAM, with a gender perspective. Secondly, to describe the relationship between the prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders at work, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), physical and mental workload, functional capacity, and working conditions with the aforementioned association.

Methodology: Cross-sectional descriptive study. The study population will consist of a representative sample of 885 workers from the University of Alcalá (Alcalá de Henares, Madrid), selected by snowball non-probability sampling. Participants will complete an ad hoc form (Microsoft Forms) including sociodemographic data (working hours, type of service, main task, income, menopause, etc.) and validated questionnaires in Spanish. The variables collected through these questionnaires will include LTPA and OPA (Global Physical Activity Questionnaire), work ability (Work Ability Index), prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders at work (Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire), HRQoL (SF-12), and physical and mental workload (NASA Task Load Index).

Discussion: Improving understanding of the social determinants of physical activity in this population could facilitate the design of culturally sensitive interventions, thus making them more effective in reducing the economic and health costs of sedentary behavior.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Leisure-Time Physical Activity (LTPA)
  - Occupational Physical Activity (OPA)
  - Work Ability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Leisure-Time Physical Activity and Occupational Physical Activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06723808
