CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05414396
Title: Eat, Move, Live Program for the Reduction of Cancer and Chronic Disease Risk in Underserved Communities
Official Title: Reducing Cancer and Chronic Disease Risk in Underserved Communities: Eat, Move, Live Program
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 347
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial tests the Eat, Move, Live (EML) Program in reducing the risk of chronic diseases among underserved communities by improving healthy lifestyle practices, increasing physical activity and encouraging healthy eating behaviors. EML is a series of free culturally and linguistically appropriate nutrition and physical activity sessions. The interactive education segment of the EML Program is culturally responsive, and based on the community EML program, and topics will include: nutrition guidelines, reading food labels, recipe modification and healthy food preparation, eating healthy on a budget, chronic diseases information and prevention strategies. The EML program may help reduce the risk of cancer and chronic diseases by encouraging more physical activity and healthy eating behaviors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate program by assessing in combination with standard of care metformin: Changes in participants' knowledge, attitudes, and behavior.

II. To evaluate program by assessing in combination with standard of care metformin: Changes in body measurements.

III. To evaluate program by assessing in combination with standard of care metformin: Changes in biomarkers.

OUTLINE:

Participants attend EML program sessions weekly for 12 weeks including an educational session chronic disease risk reduction via nutrition and physical activity, a physical activity session, and a cooking/taste test demonstration.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in attitudes and beliefs as measured by questionnaires from baseline to week 12
  - Changes in behavior as measured by questionnaires from baseline to week 12
  - Changes in height from baseline to week 12
  - Changes in weight from baseline to week 12
  - Changes in waist circumference from baseline to week 12

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention
  - OTHER: Questionnaire Administration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05414396
