CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05911113
Title: Impact Of Sensory Re-Education Paradigm On Sensation And Quality Of Life In Patients Post-Covid 19 Polyneuropathy
Official Title: Impact Of Sensory Re-Education Paradigm On Sensation And Quality Of Life In Patients Post-Covid 19 Polyneuropathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to investigate the effect of a sensory re-education paradigm on sensation and proprioception in patients with post covid-19 neuropathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Coronavirus disease has profoundly impacted the world, altering the functioning of the population and health system. it is so far affected more than 532 million cases and 6.3 million confirmed deaths (WHO., 2020). Recent studies documented that COVID-19-associated peripheral neuropathy is a common and frequent problem, with neuro-muscular complications. This phenomenon is widespread in those with comorbidities, such as diabetes mellitus, which may result from immune processes or as side effects of some medications used to manage COVID-19 symptoms, such as hydroxychloroquine, clindamycin, and steroids. To a lesser extent, prolonged hospitalization may cause entrapment neuropathy (peripheral nerve compression). Most physiotherapists focus on motor improvements rather than sensibility improvements though the sensory system may have the upper hand in improving motor function. Therefore; the sensory re-education paradigm should be assessed in randomized trials with a blinded assessment of functional outcomes to evaluate its effectiveness in patients with post covid-19 neuropathic patients. Currently, there is not enough research addressing the impact of the sensory re-education paradigm on sensation and quality of life in neuropathic patients post-covid19. forty patients will be assigned randomly into two equal groups; the study group will receive sensory re-education paradigm and traditional treatment while the control group will receive traditional treatment only.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - disability of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: sensory re-education training
  - OTHER: traditional treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05911113
