CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03205241
Title: Effect of 4 Weeks Fish Oil Supplementation on Cycling Performance in Healthy Male Cyclists
Official Title: Effect of 4 Weeks Fish Oil Supplementation on Cycling Performance or Oxidative and Inflammatory Parameters in Healthy Male Cyclists
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Research Plan

Eleven trained cyclists have completed 4 cycling performance trials, before and after 4 weeks of fish oil supplementation and before and after 4 weeks of placebo with a 4 week washout between supplementation periods. During the performance trials blood, expired air and heart rate were collected. The blood samples have been used to investigate the production of inflammation resulting from the cycling performance test. Inflammation has been assessed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for IL-6, which is an inflammatory cytokine. Work done from the cycling performance will be analysed to investigate whether there is a relationship with power and inflammation and whether this is modulated by fish oil supplementation.

Specific Aims

1. Does 4 weeks of Fish Oil supplementation attenuate the inflammatory response following high intensity cycling.
2. Is a modulation of the inflammatory response connected to cycling performance.

Hypotheses

1. Four weeks of n3-PUFA supplementation will reduce the inflammatory response
2. A reduction in inflammation will improve cycling performance

Anticipated Outcomes

A high level of cycling performance, indicated by a high average power, will be associated with high levels of systemic inflammation. n3-PUFA supplementation will decrease the level of inflammation and consequently cycling performance will be improved.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Work Done

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: n-3 PUFA
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03205241
