CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06484621
Title: Motivating Increases in Physical Activity for Prevention of Weight Regain After Metabolic Bariatric Surgery
Official Title: Using Acceptance and Commitment Therapy to Promote Autonomous Motivation for Increased Physical Activity and Improved Weight Loss maintenance in Bariatric Surgery Patients: A Randomized Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 164
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a psychological intervention can increase regular physical activity to help prevent weight regain after metabolic bariatric surgery in adults. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does the psychological intervention increase physical activity?
2. Does the psychological intervention prevent weight regain?
3. Does the psychological intervention increase internal motivation for physical activity and acceptance of the discomfort that can come with physical activity?

Researchers will compare the psychological intervention to an educational intervention to see if the psychological intervention works to increase physical activity and prevent weight regain after metabolic bariatric surgery.

Participants will:

* Complete 12 months of either the psychological or educational intervention. This includes attending online workshops with a small group of participants, completing brief homework assignments, and having individual telephone calls with a counselor.
* Wear a device to measure physical activity, use an electronic scale to measure body weight, and complete questionnaires at home on five separate occasions over an 18-month period

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Nearly one in five U.S. adults have severe obesity (Body Mass Index ≥ 35 kg/m2), which is related to numerous comorbidities and reduced life expectancy. Metabolic bariatric surgery (MBS) reliably produces substantial, durable weight loss and health improvements for a majority of patients with severe obesity. However, weight regain over time is common and can develop into a serious complication marked by reemergence of comorbidities and impaired physical and mental quality of life. This issue is compounded by a lack of effective and accessible strategies to help MBS patients prevent weight regain and achieve lifelong success. Indeed, current post-surgical guidelines advise that patients increase moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity (MVPA) for weight loss maintenance and lifelong health, but most patients do not, and available interventions do not address their reported low internal drive to engage in regular MVPA. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)-based interventions are effective at promoting health behavior changes via improved autonomous (or internal) motivation. ACT achieves this by clarifying personal values, linking behavioral performance to those values, and increasing acceptance of contrary thoughts and emotions that act as barriers to new behavior engagement. The investigators pilot-tested a one-time, group-based ACT-based workshop intervention (+ email feedback and support phone calls) to increase MVPA among low-active adults with obesity. Participants on average achieved and maintained clinically important increases in MVPA and autonomous motivation, and larger improvements in motivation were related to larger MVPA increases. These preliminary results show potential for this approach to help MBS patients boost autonomous motivation for achieving sustainable increases in MVPA. Further, this low-touch approach makes it ideal for reducing barriers to participation and future application in MBS and other clinical settings. The investigators will now build on these findings by testing whether targeting MBS patients' autonomous motivation with ACT-based intervention produces sustained increases in MVPA, and if such increases prevent weight regain after MBS. The investigators will randomize 164 patients who are 8-20 months post-MBS and show relative weight stability to 12 months of: ACT targeting autonomous motivation for MVPA; or contact-matched educational control (CON) providing PA-focused education and prescribed goals. Both groups will: (1) receive group-based workshops via Zoom video conferencing, email feedback and homework assignments, and individual telephone counseling calls; and (2) be assessed at pre- and 3, 6, 12, and 18-months post-randomization. The investigators will compare ACT and CON on changes in: 1) MVPA and weight regain (primary outcomes) and 2) autonomous motivation and acceptance (secondary outcomes). The investigators will also explore mediators of the treatment effect on MVPA (motivation, acceptance

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Moderate-to-Vigorous Physical Activity
  - Amount (%) of weight regain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Acceptance and Commitment Therapy-Based Physical Activity Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity Education Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06484621
