CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04727905
Title: The Effect of Supplementing Different Solutions on Firefighters' Simulated Fire Rescue Training
Official Title: Sports Science Institute
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
One of the three major tasks of firefighters is disaster rescue, and fire rescue accounts for the majority. They must wear personal protective equipment (PPE) at the fire site during execution. This set of equipment plus other equipment required for rescue will always It weighs up to 40 kg, and the rescue environment is extremely hot and the rescue mission must be carried out in a short time. Under this extremely high pressure, firefighters must have speed, agility, strength and endurance that are different from ordinary people. However, after performing the above fire rescue tasks, firefighters often lose a lot of water; therefore, the purpose of this study is to explore the impact of water and electrolyte supplementation on physical recovery after firefighters perform fire rescue tasks. A total of 24 field firefighters from the Fire Department were research subjects.

In the past research on firefighters, there was no research on the effect of water and electrolyte supplementation on physical recovery after dehydration after performing fire rescue tasks. Therefore, in this study, the body composition was measured before and after the special training of firefighters simulated fire rescue. , Collect venous blood; Replenish electrolytes in sections after training, and take venous blood, urine and saliva for tests at 15, 30 and 60 minutes to analyze relevant values and perform strength tests to observe firefighters The state of physical recovery.

The experiment was divided into three groups. The control group only drank 1 liter of pure water, the sports drink group was supplemented with commercially available sports drinks, and the mint flavored sports drink group was supplemented with mint flavored commercially available sports drinks. Drink 1 liter of liquid within 60 minutes after training; 8 people in each of the 3 groups are randomly assigned. The results of the experiment were analyzed by analysis of variance (ANOVA), and Tukey-Kramer test was used to detect whether there are differences between different treatments, and P\<0.05 represents statistical significance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood biochemical value
  - Blood biochemical value
  - Blood biochemical value

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: energy drink

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 50 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04727905
