CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06320327
Title: Topical CBD's Effects on Soreness and Performance
Official Title: The Effects of Cannabidiol (CBD) Cream on Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS and Performance After Exercise
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) results from unaccustomed exercise and can lead to delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). Impairments associated with EIMD and DOMS can result in moderate-to-severe discomfort and hindered performance. Recently, a compound derived from the cannabis plant, cannabidiol (CBD), has been used as a recovery tool for EIMD and DOMS. Despite the rising popularity of CBD products, their effectiveness in mitigating EIMD and DOMS is unknown. Specifically, to the investigators' knowledge, no clinical trials have been completed to assess the effects of topical CBD cream application on soreness, recovery and performance.

Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of CBD cream on DOMS and performance after an intensive lower-body exercise protocol. Specifically, the study's aims were:

Aim 1: To assess the effect of topical CBD cream administration on muscle soreness following fatiguing exercise.

Hypothesis 1: CBD cream would decrease perceived muscle soreness when compared to a placebo or control (no cream) group.

Aim 2: To assess the effect of topical CBD cream administration on muscular performance following fatiguing exercise.

Hypothesis 2: Recovery of muscular power would be quicker when CBD cream is applied, compared to a placebo or control (no cream) group.

Aim 3: To assess if topical CBD cream has a localized (if any) or systemic effect on muscle soreness.

Hypothesis 3: Improvements in muscle soreness would only be observed in localized muscles around where the CBD cream was applied.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled experiment examining if CBD cream impacts recovery after exercise. It will be investigated whether or not the potential effects of CBD cream are localized or systemic within the lower body muscles (quadriceps and hamstrings). Furthermore, the study will examine if these potential effects on recovery impact the expected decrements on lower body performance in the days following an intense exercise bout. Overall, the main objective is to determine whether or not CBD cream is an effective recovery method for those who are experiencing DOMS.

Participants will be recruited from volunteers who reside in the Lexington area. Those who participate within the study will be randomly placed into one of three groups by the PI, Dr. Stuart Best: a group that will apply the CBD cream (Group 1), a group that will apply the placebo moisturizer cream (Group 2), or a control group that does not participate in any cream-related procedures (Group 3).

The research participants and research personnel conducting the testing will be blinded to who is in the CBD and placebo groups throughout the study. Furthermore, the PI, who will not participate in any form of testing, will also be responsible for the storage and distribution of the CBD and placebo creams during the study. Those in Group 3 (the control group) will be aware that they are in the control group, as they will be skipping the steps involving cream application. The protocols for Group 1 and Group 2 will be identical and the respective cream will be made available to the testers and participants in identical containers.

A summary of the participant groups is shown below:

Group 1 - CBD Group; This group will apply the CBD cream in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations throughout the study. Application procedures are described in a section below.

Group 2 - Placebo Group; This group will apply a placebo moisturizer cream that will match the scent, volume, and viscosity of the CBD cream. Application procedures are described in a section below..

Group 3 - Control Group; This group will not apply any cream and will skip all cream-related procedures during the study. During the time that would be designated for cream-related procedures, the control group will rest; this rest period will match the durations of the cream-related procedures for Groups 1 and 2 to keep the delivery of procedures as controlled as possible between groups.

Participants will complete five sessions over the span of 7-11 days. Sessions 1 and 2 will be separated by 3-7 days to wash-out any potential soreness from baseline testing, and Sessions 2-5 will be separated by 24-hr each. A session outline is described below:

Session 1: Anthropometric data, baseline measurements for isokinetic peak torque (PT) and countermovement jump (CMJ) as well as familiarization with the pressure-pain threshold (PPT) test are established. Prior to baseline testing, familiarization with t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vertical Jump Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cannabidiol cream
  - OTHER: Placebo cream

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06320327
