CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04919603
Title: Impact of Exercise Intervention on the Phenome
Official Title: Impact of Exercise Intervention on the Phenome (Metabolism and Predictive Complications) in Well Characterised Pre-diabetes and New Onset Type 2 Diabetes Cohorts in China
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 270
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
It is an open-label, parallel-group, randomized controlled clinical trial, which is designed to enroll people with different glucose metabolism status who are also overweight or obese, including people with normal glucose metabolism, pre-diabetes patients and newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients. The patients are randomized to an enhanced physical activity intervention (high-intensity interval training exercise prescription combined with resistance training) or standard education group (diabetes health education only, including lifestyle education and guidance) for 12 weeks. This trial intends to compare the influence of enhanced physical activity treatment with that of a standard education on liver steatosis, serum glucose and lipids level, insulin sensitivity, cardiovascular metabolic parameters, metabolic molecules, and gut microbiota profile et al.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The trial will recruit 270 patients from 2 hospitals within the China Diabetes Clinical Research Network. Eligible criteria include men and women aged 18-65 years; with normal glucose metabolism or pre-diabetes or newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes; no insulin treatment; BMI ≥23 kg/m2 and \<40 kg/m2. Main exclusion criteria include severe cardiovascular diseases, uncontrolled hypertension, and other serious illness. The proposed trial has 90% statistical power to detect an absolute 3.0% reduction of liver triglyceride level changes between intensive physical activity intervention and standard education groups at a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. To achieve the proposed study objectives, we plan to perform the following specific aims:

1. Recruit 270 study participants who meet the eligibility criteria, including 90 people with normal glucose metabolism, 90 pre-diabetes patients and 90 newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients, and randomly assign 135 to the enhanced physical activity intervention group and 135 to the standard education group for 12 weeks;
2. Employ a study-wide strategy to encourage standard of care for all participants for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and other metabolic disorders;
3. Obtain clinical data on study outcomes for up to 12 months of follow-up among all trial participants;
4. Perform strict quality control procedures for intervention and data collection;
5. Conduct data analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle;
6. Disseminate the study findings to influence clinical practice and clinical guidelines.

The results will be analyzed to examine the pan-omics changes after the interventions and clarify their predictive benefits on the effects of the interventions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in liver steatosis quantified by MRI-PDFF (percentage)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced physical activity intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04919603
