CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05669144
Title: Co-trensplantation of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Derived Exosomes and Autologous Mitochondria for Patients Candidate for CABG Surgery
Official Title: Co-trensplantation of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Derived Exosomes and Autologous Mitochondria for Patients Candidate for CABG Surgery With EF< 25% (Clinical Trial Phase ])
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Heart failure (HF) and acute myocardial infarction that often follows are among the main causes of disability and death worldwide. As such, new treatments and biological drugs are needed to protect the heart against the harmful effects of ischemia and also reperfusion injury (IRI), preserve cardiac function, reduce the zone of myocardial infarction (MI), and improve patient outcomes. In this regard, it has been shown that mitochondrial dysfunction has a key role in the pathogenesis of heart ischemia, cardiomyopathy, and reperfusion injury. in this study which includes 4 groups of intervention, we try to minimize the damage by trensplantation of mitochondria and administration of MSC-derived exosomes. MSC-derived exosomes limit inflammatory damage while fresh autologous exosomes limit oxidative stress.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This research will be performed as a retrospective cohort study at Tehran Heart Center. Patients will be selected from CABG candidates with severely low Ejection fraction determined by speckle echocardiography. Patients with severe co-morbidities or cerebral damage will be excluded from the study. Detailed informed consent will be taken from the patients. Patients who refuse to provide consent will receive standard treatment.

Criteria

Inclusion Criteria:

* Patients who are a candidate for CABG due to CAD±MR
* History of Q-wave MI, less than one month
* Age: 35-80
* LVEF \<=25% (by any imaging modality: echocardiography/SPECT/LV angiography and Cardiac MRI)
* Viability study as evidenced by low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiogram and/or thallium redistribution nuclear study (at leasT4 viable segments).

Exclusion Criteria:

* Severe co-morbidities (e.g., renal failure, liver failure, etc.)
* Inability to provide informed consent
* Cerebral Damage

  1. Study groups:

     The standard treatment performed for all patients is revascularisation by coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Patients will be divided into four groups based on the treatments received, in addition to the standard treatment.

     Mitochondrial and exosome trensplantation by intracoronary and intra-myocardial injection. Study groups:
     1. Intracoronary and intra-myocardial injection of exosomes (5 patients)
     2. Intracoronary and intra-myocardial injection of mitochondria (5 patients)
     3. Intracoronary and intra-myocardial injection of exosomes and mitochondria (5 patients)
     4. Placebo (5 patients) For the patients in groups blast and cruise, mitochondria will be extracted from a muscle tissue specimen extracted at the beginning of the surgery from pectoralis muscles exposed after sternotomy. Mitochondria will be extracted from the muscle specimen simultaneously with the surgery. When revascularisation is achieved by the bypass grafts, The extracted mitochondria will be injected into the heart muscle. A 31-gauge insulin syringe will perform injections into ten different sites in the ischemic area of the heart muscle. Besides direct injection into the heart muscle, one-third of the extracted mitochondria will be injected into the coronary sinus.

     Patients in groups a and b will receive the extracted exosome from MSC cells described in step 2. The extracted exosome will be injected into the coronary sinus after the placement of the Cardiopulmonary bypass.
  2. Isolation and characterisation of mesenchymal stem cells from the human umbilical cord (UC-MSCs) Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells are enzymatically isolated by collagenase in terms of a previous study and cultured in DMEM / F12 medium with 10% exosome-depleted FBS (GMP grade) with penicillin and streptomycin antibiotics and incubated at 37 ° C and 5% CO2. After the cell confluence reaches 80%, the conditioned medium is collected (for exosome isolation, the cells are used in passage 3).

    

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - ejection fraction
  - allergic reactions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: mitochondria and MSC-derived exosomes

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05669144
