CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04493177
Title: Educational Intervention in the First 18 Months of Life to Prevent/Manage Obesity of Children After Gestational Diabetes
Official Title: Effect of an Educational Intervention for the Prevention and Management of Overweight and Obesity During the First 18 Months of Life Children and Mothers With Gestational Diabetes in Insured of the Instituto Mexicano Del Seguro Social.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 645
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
In order to evaluate the effect of an educational intervention on mothers with gestational diabetes and their offspring in the first 18 months of life, The intervention will be applied to mothers with gestational diabetes, and a group of mothers without diabetes, against a control group with the normal post-partum treatment. Effects on overweight and obesity will be evaluated in both mothers and offspring.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Effect of an education intervention for the prevention and management of overweight and obesity during the first 18 months of life of offspring and mother with gestational diabetes among insured of the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social.

ABSTRACT BACKGROUND: According to ENSANUT 2012, 9.7% of children \<5 years already are overweight or obese. Recently, an increase was reported in the frequency of overweight and obesity worldwide, beginning at earlier ages, especially in Mexico. The predisposition to chronic diseases in adults may be programmed in the womb ("fetal programming"). Also, women that suffer diabetes during pregnancy have a very high risk (6.4 times more) of developing diabetes in a middle range. The challenge for health personnel dedicated to the care of mother-child pairs is to achieve glycemic control from conception and to identify all the maternal-fetal secondary complications. To carry out compliance with adherence to medical management and/or healthy eating habits would allow us to reduce future overweight, obesity and the incidence of type 2 diabetes in mother-child pairs. Approaching the mother-child pair is a great opportunity to study the intervention, which would allow us not only have a new, useful awareness in the evaluation of educational strategies, but also to apply good practices of healthy habits for the prevention of obesity and to avoid progression to diabetes. For the aforementioned reasons, the objective is: to implement and evaluate the effect of an education intervention for the prevention and management of overweight and obesity during the first 18 months of life of child and in mothers with and without gestational diabetes in insured members of the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social.

MATERIAL AND METHODS. Pregnant women will be invited to participate, who receive their prenatal and/or birth care in the Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad (UMAE) Gineco-Obstretric Hospital No. 4 (HGO #4) and UMAE HGO #3 of Centro Médico "La Raza" of IMSS. After acceptance and signing an informed consent to participate in the study, 645 mother-child pairs will be included, with and without gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), which will be diagnosed according to the criteria of the American Diabetes Association; all mothers with be between 18 and 40 years old. There will be 3 groups of binomials: 1) with GDM, 2) without GDM who will received the education intervention, and 3) without GDM who will receive the conventional care IMSS offers to mothers and nursing infants, during the first 18 months post-partum.

At the time of canalization before delivery or cesarean, a blood sample (15 mL) will be taken from the mother for measurement of glucose, glucosylated hemoglobin (A1c) and lipid profile. After birth, blood (15 mL) will be extracted directly from the umbilical cord for measurement of the child's glucose and lipid profile. Once the pediatric doctor has carried out reanimation of the newborn, previously-standardized healt

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Prevention of overweight/obesity in offspring, determined by z-score in the indicator for weight for age
  - Prevention of overweight/obesity mothers, determined by loss in body mass index (BMI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Educational intervention
  - OTHER: Conventional treatment Guia de Practica Clinica IMSS-029-08

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04493177
