CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03121911
Title: Effects of Interval Physical Training on Expiratory Flow Limitation in Recent Myocardial Infarction
Official Title: Effects of Interval Physical Training on Inflammatory Markers, Cardiac Autonomic Modulation at Rest, Expiratory Flow Limitation and Respiratory Efficiency in Recent Myocardial Infarction
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Expiratory flow limitation (EFL) and ventilatory inefficiency during dynamic exercise have been identified in patients with recent myocardial infarction (RMI) with preserved ventricular and pulmonary function. However, it is not known what is the prevalence of EFL in this population and what are the effects of physical and respiratory training on this limitation.

Objectives: To evaluate the prevalence of EFL and ventilatory inefficiency during dynamic exercise in individuals with uncomplicated RMI, and to evaluate the effects of interval physical training (IT) in addition to inspiratory muscle training (IMT), exclusive IT and absence of cardiopulmonary rehabilitation (CR) on EFL and ventilatory efficiency.

Methods: 54 patients will be included, divided into three groups with 18 participants each. All will be submitted to evaluations of heart rate variability, hematological and biochemical profile, erythrocytes membrane deformability and stability, inflammatory markers, respiratory pressures, plethysmography, spirometry, carbon monoxide diffusion capacity, ankle brachial index, electrical bioimpedance, echocardiogram, quality of life questionnaires, cardiopulmonary exercise testing and constant load tests. Then, groups 1 (IT) and group 2 (IT + IMT) will participate in a physical training program for 12 weeks and will be re-evaluated after this period. In addition, they will be monitored for a 6 month period after discharge, with returns every two months to measure the energy expenditure through an accelerometer, and at the end of this period they will repeat all the tests again. Group 3 (absence of CR), will consist of patients who do not live in the city or those who can not participate in the CR program for any other reason, and will only participate in the evaluations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) attended by the Sistema Unico de Saude (SUS) in the city of Uberlandia and region are routinely referred to Hospital de Clinicas - Federal University of Uberlandia after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) for coronary angiography and other exams, receiving appropriate clinical or surgical follow-up. After the resolution of the clinical condition, the patient is released from the hospital with a medical referral to the Cardiorespiratory Rehabilitation Program offered by the institution.

These patients are contacted by telephone by the team of the rehabilitation sector, and invited to attend for a pre-entry evaluation for inclusion in treatment. In this telephone contact the secretary of the sector clarifies that the hospital does not have transportation services for the patients who accept to be part of the program, and afterwards the evaluation is scheduled. The initial anamnesis will be performed by a multidisciplinary team. In this screening are collected complaints, past and current history of possible diseases, personal and family history, life habits, medications in use, exams performed pre-hospital discharge and physical examination, collected from an individual anamnesis form. At the end of the evaluation the patient receives a card with the scheduling of training days that occur three times a week and dressing and feeding instructions prior to training.

All volunteers who fit the study criteria will be invited to participate in the study, being informed about the experimental procedures to which they would be submitted. They will also be clarified that all the information collected during the accomplishment of the work will be kept confidential, protecting their identities. Individuals who agree to participate in the study will sign an informed consent according to National Health Council (466/12) guidelines, and a next return will be scheduled to begin physical testing and blood collection. At that moment, the Research Participant Identification Card will be filled in, which will be kept in a confidential place separated from the other evaluations, with restricted access to the researcher, and a code will be given to the participant. In case of refusal to participate in the study, the participant will receive the same care offered to other patients routinely referred to the rehabilitation sector, being included into the conventional rehabilitation program that also lasts for 12 weeks.

Considering that the patients enrolled in the research will have to attend for evaluation and monitoring related to the study, all the displacements related to these additional activities will be refunded to the participants during the entire period of the study.

The evaluation procedures that will be performed in 2 days will consist of: Step 1 - ankle brachial index, heart rate variability at rest, respiratory pressures (maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures), cardiopulmonary exercise test (incremental 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change on Expiratory Flow Limitation (EFL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Interval Training (IT)
  - OTHER: Inspiratory Muscle Training (IMT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 80 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03121911
