CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01508091
Title: Calorie Restriction Retards the Aging Process
Official Title: Calorie Restriction Retards the Aging Process by Inducing Sirtuins and Uncoupling Protein 3, Thereby Reducing the Production of Reactive Oxygen Species.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Calorie restriction is the only experimental manipulation that prolongs longevity in experimental animals. The life prolonging effects of calorie restriction are related to a lower incidence of tumors and less inflammation, but more importantly, a lower generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This effect is related to the overexpression of two groups of enzymes. One is a group of (NAD+)-dependent deacetylases called sirtuins whose main actions are to increase free fatty acid flow from adipose tissue, improve insulin secretion and promote mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle. The other group corresponds to uncoupling proteins (UCP), specially UCP 3 that reduces the mitochondrial production of ROS. On the other hand, an effect of calorie restriction that is always reported, is a decrease in resting energy expenditure. A reduction in the activity of UCP1 in brown adipose tissue could be a mechanisms to explain this effect. However sirtuins apparently increase the expression of UCP1.Recently PET CT scans have emerged as a non invasive methodology to recognize brown adipose tissue activity and indirectly, UCP1 activity. Also measurement of telomere length in peripheral blood mononuclear cells has consolidated as a good marker of aging. Two possible models of calorie restriction can be studied in humans. One is a retrospective model in which adults are separated in those that have maintained a stable weight during adulthood in a manner analogous to the weight clamp model of calorie restriction in non human primates. This model is only reliable if there are objective records of the weight that the studied subjects had 20 or more years ago. In the retrospective part of this project the investigators propose to study adults whose weight was recorded previously. The investigators pretend to compare telomere length and expression of SIRT1 and 6 in PBMC, plasma 8 isoprostanes and carotid intima media thickness between weight maintainers and weight gainers. The investigators hypothesis is that weight maintainers will have a better aging profile than weight gainers. In the prospective part of the project the investigators will study a human model of calorie restriction prescribing a 25% reduction in calorie intake during 3 months and comparing groups according to weight loss. At baseline and the end of the study period, UCP3 and SIRT1 expression in muscle biopsies, SIRT1 and 6 expression in PBMC and brown adipose activity, assessed by 18fluorodeoxyglucose uptake using PET/CT will measured. The investigators hypothesis is that individuals subjected to calorie restriction will experience an increase in the expression of UCP3, SIRT1 and SIRT6 and a reduction in brown adipose tissue activity. Simultaneously, these subjects will experience a reduction in oxidative stress markers in muscle and plasma.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
HYPOTHESIS: Calorie restriction delays the ageing process and thus telomere erosion, due to a reduction of oxidative stress, via expression modulation of uncoupling proteins and sirtuins.

RETROSPECTIVE STUDY:

Approximately 1000 adults aged 40 to 55 years, that had participated in nutritional assessments studies during which their body weight was recorded, and had a body mass index (BMI) of less than 30 kg/m2 at that time will be considered eligible. Other sources of subject recruitment will be health records from armed forces personnel and our institutional data base. Those that accept and sign a written informed consent, will be subjected to:

1. A complete clinical history, recording past and present diseases, medication use, history of smoking, drinking and illicit drug use.
2. A dietary questionnaire to assess nutrient intake
3. A complete clinical examination including the measurement of body weight, height, blood pressure.
4. A physical activity questionnaire previously validated by us 1
5. Measurement of body composition by DEXA
6. Withdrawal of a 10 hours fasting blood sample of 30 ml to measure

   * Packed red cell volume, blood glucose, creatinine, serum lipids, TSH, thyroid hormones and insulin
   * Telomere length in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)
   * Sirt1 and 6 gene expression in PBMC.
   * Plasma 8- isoprostanes
7. Measurement of carotid intima media thickness by ultrasound, performed by a trained professional using previously reported protocols.

Once evaluated, subjects will be classified as:

1. Weight maintainers if their actual weight is, at the most within 10% of the weight recorded at least 10 years before
2. Weight gainers, if their actual weight is over 20% of the weight previously recorded

The following will be excluded from further analysis:

1. Subjects with a history of chronic debilitating diseases such as renal failure, cancer, autoimmune diseases,hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus or AIDS.
2. Subjects engaged in extremely high physical activity (more than 10 hour per week of sports or work requiring extreme physical activity such as shoveling or hard manual work.
3. Subjects with a history of drug abuse or alcoholism
4. Subjects using anorexigenic or anabolic drugs, or chronic users of non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
5. Subjects smoking more than 5 cigarettes per day (91 packs per year)
6. Overly malnourished subjects, defined as a body mass index below 18 kg/m2.

PROSPECTIVE STUDY:

Main objective:

To study the effects of a three month period of calorie restriction in normal volunteers on the expression of expression of SIRT1 and UCP3 in muscle, SIRT6 in PBMC, brown adipose tissue activity and the accumulation of markers of oxidative damage.

Specific goals:

1. To develop a prospective model of calorie restriction in normal human volunteers.
2. To study changes associated with calorie restriction on:

   * Serum markers of inflammation and free fatty acids during fasting.
   * The uptake of 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - UCP3 mRNA expression in vastus lateralis after energy restriction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: energy restricted mediterranean-type diet
  - BEHAVIORAL: 25 % calorie restriction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01508091
