CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06556082
Title: Effect of PNF-Based Upper Extremity Strengthening With Core Stabilization on Fitness in Amputee Football Players
Official Title: The Effect of Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation Based Upper Extremity Strengthening Exercises Combined With Core Stabilization trening on Physical Fitness Parameters in Amputee Football Players
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Amputee football (AF) is a disability-specific football in which amputees can participate. This study aims to determine the effect of PNF-based upper extremity strengthening exercises combined with core stabilization exercises on physical fitness parameters in amputee football players. In the study, amputee soccer players will be randomly divided into two groups trening and control groups. In addition to the standard trening programs in the off-season, the amputee athletes in the trening group will receive PNF-based upper extremity strengthening trening combined with core stabilization trening by the same physiotherapist 3 days a week for 8 weeks. The amputee football players in the control group will be given upper extremity strengthening trening with free weights in addition to core stabilization trening 3 days a week for 8 weeks. The physical and demographic characteristics of the cases who signed the consent form will be recorded. Initial evaluations will be made before the start of the exercise trening program and secondary evaluations will be made at the end of 8 weeks. Detailed information about the participants will be obtained with the Descriptive Characteristics Information Form. Single Leg Balance Test, Berg Balance Scale and Activity Specific Balance Confidence Scale will be used to obtain information about postural control and balance strategies of the participants. Pressure Feedback Unit will be used to measure the stabilization capacity of deep spinal muscles. Trunk muscle endurance tests developed by McGill will be used to assess the level of core stability. Isokinetic muscle strength of the upper extremity muscles will be measured with the ISOMED 2000 (2017-Germany) device. Hand grip strength will be measured with Jamar Hand Dynanometer. Closed Kinetic Ring Upper Extremity Test will be used to measure the strength, anaerobic power, and closed kinetic chain stability of the upper extremity. The Distance Triple Hop Test will be used to assess the strength, speed, balance, and control ability of a lower extremity with special emphasis on the distance traveled by the lower extremity. Sprint Test will be used to measure the running performance of amputee soccer players. The data will then be analyzed and interpreted with appropriate statistical methods.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Amputee football (AF) is a disability-specific football in which amputees can participate. Optimum flexibility, strength, endurance, speed, and agility are required to perform adequately in amputee football. However, amputee soccer requires intense strength and stability requirements on the upper extremities and trunk, especially due to the use of crutches. The aim of this study is to determine the effect of PNF-based upper extremity strengthening exercises combined with core stabilization exercises on physical fitness parameters in amputee football players. In the study, amputee soccer players will be randomly divided into two groups trening and control groups. In addition to the standard trening programs in the off-season, the amputee athletes in the trening group will receive PNF-based upper extremity strengthening trening combined with core stabilization trening by the same physiotherapist 3 days a week for 8 weeks. The amputee football players in the control group will be given upper extremity strengthening trening with free weights in addition to core stabilization trening 3 days a week for 8 weeks. The physical and demographic characteristics of the cases who signed the consent form will be recorded. Initial evaluations will be made before the start of the exercise trening program and secondary evaluations will be made at the end of 8 weeks. Detailed information about the participants will be obtained with the Descriptive Characteristics Information Form. Single Leg Balance Test, Berg Balance Scale, and Activity Specific Balance Confidence Scale will be used to obtain information about postural control and balance strategies of the participants. Pressure Feedback Unit will be used to measure the stabilization capacity of deep spinal muscles. Trunk muscle endurance tests developed by McGill will be used to assess the level of core stability. Isokinetic muscle strength of the upper extremity muscles will be measured with the ISOMED 2000 (2017-Germany) device. Hand grip strength will be measured with Jamar Hand Dynanometer. Closed Kinetic Ring Upper Extremity Test will be used to measure the strength, anaerobic power, and closed kinetic chain stability of the upper extremity. The Distance Triple Hop Test will be used to assess the strength, speed, balance, and control ability of a lower extremity with special emphasis on the distance traveled by the lower extremity. Sprint Test will be used to measure the running performance of amputee soccer players. The data will then be analyzed and interpreted with appropriate statistical methods.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isokinetic Upper Extremity Muscle Strength
  - Core Muscle Strength
  - Sprint Performance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: trening
  - OTHER: Control Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06556082
