CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05242848
Title: Integrated Exercise Program in Opioid Agonist Therapy Clinics
Official Title: Integrated Exercise in Opioid Agonist Therapy Clinics: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 309
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
Background: Drug use is associated with unhealthy lifestyle choices, resulting in adverse social and health consequences. Particular people with opioid dependence have high morbidity and reduced quality of life. A reduction in fitness level for people with substance use disorder reduces the general health and quality of life. Physical activity is recommended as an adjunctive treatment for people with substance use disorder. Due to its positive effects on health, quality of life and substance use. There is minimal evidence from well-controlled randomised trials among people receiving opioid agonist therapy. However, studies indicate that exercise could be promising in opioid agonist therapy.

Study design: BAReAktiv is a multicentre randomised controlled trial. The study aims to recruit approximately 225 patients receiving opioid agonist therapy.

Intervention: A 16-week group-based exercise intervention with workouts twice a week. The exercise program will consist of endurance and strength trening. The intervention will be integrated into outpatient's clinics in Bergen and Stavanger, Norway.

Study population: The target group will be patients over 18 years of age with severe opioid use disorder receiving OAT in outpatient clinics.

Expected outcome: This study will inform the relative advantages and disadvantages of an integrated exercise program as an adjunctive treatment. Both physical and mental health outcomes are of interest. Further scale-up will be considered if the provided exercise program is safe and effective.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
See below each section

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Psychological distress

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05242848
