CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02754232
Title: Telemedical Training for Chronically Ill COPD Patients: a Cross Sectoral Study
Official Title: Telemedical Training in a Daily Perspective for Chronically Ill COPD Patients: a Cross Sectoral Study
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Problem:

Training is an important part of the treatment and rehabilitation of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) because training can increase the patient's muscle mass, lead to higher physical performance, reduce difficulties in breathing and hereby increase the patients' capacity to make use of the medical treatment.

Rehabilitation is provided by hospitals training centres/outpatient clinics. However, the transport is too tiring for the patients, which is why they decline taking part in it. This can mean a worsening of their condition and an increase in readmissions.

Solution:

* To develop a better treatment for patients with severe COPD: Telemedical training of patients with COPD in teams.
* To develop a cross-sectoral practice for the telemedical training patients will use, thus decreasing the readmissions of OUH's patients with severe COPD
* To optimize the patient's journey in and across sector borders by using Lean methods.

Perspective:

The study is expected to contribute to improving treatment of severely ill patients with COPD cross-sectorally. The results are expected to contribute to reducing readmissions and raising the level of evidence in telemedical research on training patients with severe COPD. The study's findings may be of use in relation to other patient groups who have difficulties coming to training.

Background:

This research project has its starting point in a pilot project. Its goal was to determine whether severely ill COPD patients could train at home and earlier than normal. Evaluation showed patients found it reassuring to train with the help of the COPD briefcase. They found it increased their physical and mental well-being.

Method:

To gain knowledge of the effect of telemedical training. The patient's strength, daily activity level and quality of life will be measured by conducting a randomized controlled trial including 125 patients - 62 in the intervention group and 62 in the control group.

Qualitative research methods will be used to explore the user perspective concerning patients, family and health professionals. The method is critical psychological practice research.

A Lean method consultant from University Hospital Odense (OUH) will be involved in developing the best clinical pathway for the patients and the professionals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Project Description:

Problem:

Training is an important part of the treatment and rehabilitation of patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) because training can increase the patients' muscle mass, lead to higher physical performance, reduce difficulties in breathing and hereby improve the patient's ability to make use of the medical treatment.

Rehabilitation is provided by hospitals training centres/outpatient clinics. However, the transport is too tiring for the patients, which is why they decline taking part in it. This can mean a worsening of their condition and an increase in readmissions.

Solution:

* To develop a better treatment for patients with severe COPD: Telemedical training of patients with COPD in teams.
* To develop a cross-sectoral practice for the telemedical training patients will use, thus decreasing the readmissions of OUH's patients with severe COPD
* To optimize the patients' journey in and across sector borders by using Lean methods.

The projects relevance for the clinic and target group:

The study is expected to contribute to improving the treatment of severely ill patients with COPD cross-sectorally by generating knowledge for the physical and occupational therapists' practice. The results are expected to contribute to reducing readmissions and raising the level of evidence in telemedical research on training patients with severe COPD.

The study includes patients with severe COPD in Odense and Svendborg. It is anticipated that similar patient groups with similar difficulties, nationally as well as internationally, will benefit from the findings.

Background:

More than 430.000 people in Denmark have Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) (Hansen et al., 2008). Characteristic for COPD is respiratory tract obstruction, which is not completely reversible and worsens as time passes. Complications of COPD are: loss of muscle mass, weight loss and an increasing social isolation (The National Board of Health, 2007).

It is well documented that a systematic individually composed rehabilitation program, including training, has an effect on patients' functional level and quality of life (National board of Health, 2007). Early rehabilitation after hospitalization may break the vicious circle, which can arise for patients with COPD. In this cycle, hospitalization can entail inactivity and loss of muscular strength, thus increasing the risk of new aggravations with re-admittance to hospital as a result (National board of Health, 2014). In addition, at this time no studies examine the effect of training on daily activities (ibid).

To offer these severely ill patients rehabilitation is a regional task. However, the patients with severe COPD often decline training, as the transport to and from hospital is too exhausting for them. The result is no training for this group. The same dilemma exists in other countries (Burkow et al., 2013). Inactivity can mean stagnation in daily life, which affects functioning

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Stand up - sit down five times test (FTSST)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Telemedical training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02754232
