CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06567847
Title: Neurocognitive Exercises for Ankle Instability
Official Title: Is a Neurocognitively Enriched Exercise Effective in Reducing Re-Injury Risk and Improving Balance and Proprioception in Individuals With Lateral Ankle Instability?
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
In the general population, 19.0-26.6 per 1000 cases of ankle instability have been reported, while in the athletic population, the rate is 11.3 per 1000. Ankle instability also predisposes individuals to recurrent instability, leading to persistent symptoms. After ankle injuries, temporary increases in afferent activity, along with long-term deficits in somatosensory information from ligaments, may cause central neuroplasticity that affects sensorimotor function. This central neuroplasticity can lead to permanent dysfunctions in the affected limb, thereby increasing the likelihood of developing and maintaining chronic ankle instability (CAI). In addition to the association between impaired balance and reduced proprioception with CAI, it has been reported that the central nervous system may fail to manage joint stress due to its inability to discern load on the ligaments.

Impaired neurocognition has been linked to decreased performance and higher rates of re-injury. Deficiencies in neuromuscular control, motor learning, or other neurocognitive components related to an individual's performance and safety may affect the ability to respond appropriately in a dynamic environment. Any deficiencies in these neurocognitive processes can hinder the successful completion of tasks.

The aim of this study is to comparatively examine the effects of neurocognitively enriched rehabilitation versus traditional rehabilitation on re-injury risk, balance, and proprioception in individuals with a history of ankle instability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Voluntary participants who have been diagnosed with lateral ankle instability will be included in the study. Signed voluntary consent will be obtained from participants. Participants will be divided into two groups. Study groups will be as follows: a) Neurocognitive Enriched Exercise, b) Multimodal Exercise.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT)
  - Surface Electromyography-maximum voluntary isometric contraction
  - Surface Electromyography-muscles' normal functional activities

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Neurocognitive Enriched Exercise
  - OTHER: Multimodal Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06567847
