CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04378218
Title: Cardiovascular Effects of High Intensity Interval trening in Individuals With Paraplegia
Official Title: Cardiovascular Effects of High Intensity Interval trening in Individuals With Paraplegia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The study seeks to determine whether high intensity interval treninGHas an effect on cardiovascular parameters in wheelchair users with paraplegia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of this pilot study is to produce preliminary data testing the feasibility and effectiveness of high intensity interval trening (HIIT) on cardiovascular health parameters in individuals with paraplegia. The long term research goal is to determine whether these short term physiologic effects trenslate to long term reduction in cardiovascular disease and mortality in this high risk population. The rationale for this study is that identifying a well-accepted form of exercise in individuals with paraplegia, which is safe and effective in improving cardiovascular health parameters, would provide an efficient and sustainable evidence-based approach to lowering cardiovascular disease risk. We propose the following two Specific Aims:

Specific Aim #1: Measure cardiovascular changes after a 16-week HIIT program in individuals with paraplegia. Measurements will include oxygen utilization during maximal exercise via VO2max testing (primary outcome measure), body composition via dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, blood lipid panel, C-reactive protein blood test, and glucose utilization via oral glucose tolerance blood test.

Specific Aim #2: Investigate the feasibility, sustainability and acceptance of implementinGHigh-intensity interval trening (HIIT) via arm-ergometer as a form of home exercise in individuals with paraplegia. After the personalized trening session with the arm-ergometer and the HIIT protocol, each participant will be given an arm-ergometer (also known as arm-cycle) to use within their home to complete three sessions weekly for the entire16 week program. An adjustable table will be provided to allow for height customization of each arm-ergometer, and provide a method for securing the device during exercise. The arm-ergometers allow the subject to complete the exercise intervention from their own wheelchair. Compliance will be monitored via chest strap heart rate monitors. Acceptance of the program will be determined through a pre- and post- trening survey Spinal Cord Injury Exercise Self-Efficacy Scale (SCI ESES) and interview with participants.

At the completion of this project, we expect to have determined whether HIIT is an appropriate form of exercise intervention for individuals with paraplegia, effective in improving short-term cardiovascular health parameters within a 16 week home program. We anticipate participants will find HIIT acceptable given the time-efficiency of the protocol, the convenience of using their own wheelchair and the elimination of environmental barriers by performing the program within their home. This study is expected to have a positive impact on cardiovascular health in individuals with paraplegia and foresee this form of exercise being implemented as a standard of care recommendation in the physical activity guidelines for individuals with paraplegia.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical activity
  - Exercise self-efficacy
  - Glucose metabolism
  - Inflammatory marker
  - Lipid profile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity Interval trening (HIIT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04378218
