CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03155737
Title: Self-administered Acupressure for Knee Osteoarthritis: A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Self-administered Acupressure for Knee Osteoarthritis in Middle- and Older Adults: A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Objectives: To test the feasibility of the study design and clinical effects of self-administered acupressure on relieving knee osteoarthritis (OA) pain.

Hypothesis: self-administered acupressure would have a superior beneficial effect compared to health education control group in terms of pain relief in patients with knee osteoarthritis across the 6-week study period.

Design and subjects: A pilot randomized controlled trial. 36 subjects with knee OA will be recruited; 18 per group. All eligible subjects will be randomized to either self-administered acupressure or health education control group in 1:1 ratio.

Interventions: Subjects in the self-acupressure group will attend two 1.5 hours training sessions to learn self-acupressure and will practice self-acupressure every morning and night for 6 weeks; subjects in the education control group will receive two 1.5 hours training sessions to learn the health information related to knee OA.

Main outcome measures: The primary outcome measure is the numerical rating scale for knee pain. Other measures include Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index, knees' range of motion (ROM), and SF-6D. Acceptability of the self-acupressure training course will also be evaluated.

Data Analysis: Differences in the questionnaire scores and ROM will be examined using a mixed-effects model. Both completer and intention-to-treat analyses will be conducted. Effect sizes will be computed by dividing the difference in means by the pooled standard deviation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain severity numerical rating scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Self-acupressure
  - OTHER: Knee health education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03155737
