CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05860283
Title: Core Stability Exercise Versus Diaphragmatic Release on Respiratory Functions on Physical Therapists With Low Back Pain
Official Title: Core Stability Exercise Versus Diaphragmatic Release on Respiratory Functions on Physical Therapists With Low Back Pain
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
To compare between core stability exercise and diaphragmatic release on respiratory functions on physical therapists with low back pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is the most frequent self-reported type of musculoskeletal pain. It is often recurrent and has important socioeconomic consequences. 99.5% of Egyptian physical therapists (PTs) suffer from work related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs), mainly in the lower back (69.1%) and it is more common in female than male therapists. Physical therapists are routinely exposed to work-related physically demanding tasks such as handling heavy patients, applying manual techniques and assuming sustained awkward positions, which are the most common predisposing factors for development of WMSDs.

Respiratory dysfunction is a major factor for the diagnosis and treatment of chronic LBP. This respiratory dysfunction may be related to the altered function of the diaphragm and poor coordination of deep stabilization muscles due to dysfunctional movement patterns. Respiratory dysfunction compromises the subject's ability to stabilize the spine during balancing and postural tasks. Besides diaphragmatic dysfunction, several studies have observed in chronic LBP delayed or decreased activation of lumbar multifidi and transversus abdominus during gait and extremity movement. Since it is difficult to isolate contraction of the transversus abdominis required for the core stability exercises, biofeedback strategies using pressure biofeedback unit (PBU) will be used. This instrument allows visual detection of pressure fluctuations inherent to movements in that region. Another clinical use for the PBU is to help train lumbopelvic stability in individuals with chronic LBP during open-chain segmental control exercises, through challenging the motor control by active movements of the upper or lower limbs, meanwhile the individuals should maintain lumbopelvic neutral position known by getting visual feedback of maintenance of a steady pressure.

People with LBP have an abnormal diaphragm position impacted by small diaphragmatic excursions (mobility) with respiration, in other words "the diaphragm is splinted". Diaphragm tightness can promote shallow breathing, resulting in decreased diaphragm contractile force that impacts the diaphragm strength. Diaphragmatic release has an immediate effect on the diaphragm strength. Increased diaphragm strength immediately follows the intervention, suggesting utility of these techniques for patients with diaphragmatic movement restrictions or breathing-related disorders.

By reviewing the literature it was found that both core stability exercises and diaphragmatic release techniques have positive effects on both respiratory variables \& low back pain. Thus, the present study will compare between these two interventions.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pulmonary Function tests
  - The diaphragm excursion and thickness
  - Total Faulty Breathing Scale (TFBS)
  - Chest expansion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Core stabilization exercise using pressure biofeedback unit
  - PROCEDURE: Diaphragmatic release technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05860283
