CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05111782
Title: Age Bias on Biopsychosocial Factors in Persons With Non-specific Low Back Pain.
Official Title: Age Bias on Biopsychosocial Factors in Persons With Non-specific Low Back Pain.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 280
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is a debilitating condition experienced by people of all age groups. This study will be completed in two stages in which back pain assessment tools will be first translated to Urdu language and later on age-related bias on biopsychosocial factors will be assessed using various biopsychosocial tools over a period of six months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain (LBP) is an extremely common symptom experienced by people of all ages. The current incidence, prevalence and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) account for 245.9 million cases/year (15th worldwide cause; 32.4% cases associated with leg pain), 577.0 million cases (15th worldwide cause) and 64.9 million DALYs (6th worldwide cause), respectively. In recent decades, the biopsychosocial model has been applied as a framework for understanding the complexity of low back pain disability in preference to a purely biomedical approach. Considering the large population of patients with LBP and limited medical resources, the development of brief and efficient prognostic clinical tools for use in routine practice is particularly significant. Recent data from epidemiological studies suggest that LBP could affect the physical function of young and older individuals differently. The age-related differ¬ences in the prevalence of some low back pathologies may explain the differential treatment outcomes. The aim of the study is to explore the age bias on biopsychosocial factors in persons with non-specific low back pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - Örebro Musculoskeletal Pain Screening Questionnaire
  - Keele STarT Back Screening Tool
  - Low Back Outcome Scale
  - Gait & Balance mobile Application

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Symptom Modulation Approach, Movement Control Approach, Functional Optimization Approach

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05111782
