CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06768086
Title: Preoperative Administration of EGCG, Vitamin D and DCI Prior Hysteroscopic Myomectomy
Official Title: 3 Months Preoperative Administration of Eutris Plus Prior Hysteroscopic Myomectomy: a Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The administration of Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), Vitamin D and D-Chiro-Inositol (DCI) are effective in reducing the volume of fibroids and improving the symptoms of uterine fibroids.

Since this benefit has been seen in laparoscopic myomectomy, a study was designed to see if there are positive effects in women undergoing hysteroscopic myomectomy.

For this reason, patients were enrolled to undergo hysteroscopic myomectomy, then divided into two groups: patients to be treated preoperatively with a product based on Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), Vitamin D and D-Chiro-Inositol (DCI) for 3 months before myomectomy and patients not to be treated before surgery. All clinical and surgical parameters were then collected and analyzed to verify the differences between the two groups (treated women VS untreated women).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The administration of Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), Vitamin D and D-Chiro-Inositol (DCI) are effective in reducing the volume of fibroids and improving the symptoms of uterine fibroids.

Since this benefit has been seen in laparoscopic myomectomy, a study was designed to see if there are positive effects in women undergoing hysteroscopic myomectomy.

For this reason, patients were enrolled to undergo hysteroscopic myomectomy, then divided into two groups: patients to be treated preoperatively with a product based on Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), Vitamin D and D-Chiro-Inositol (DCI) for 3 months before myomectomy and patients not to be treated before surgery.

The ideal objectives of a preoperative treatment in patients undergoing hysteroscopic myomectomy are to facilitate surgery (i.e, better visualization of the uterine cavity, decrease in the length of the procedure), to improve the characteristics of myomas (such as decreasing their volume and vascularization) and of endometrium (inducing endometrial atrophy and ideally amenorrhea, that can be useful for scheduling surgery and recovering from anemia), and to decrease the risk of intraoperative complications (such as uterine perforation, excessive bleeding, and fluid intravasation), the rate of 2-step hysteroscopic procedures, and ideally, the risk of long-term complications (such as intrauterine adhesions).

Generally, the main disadvantages of preoperative medications are treatment-related adverse effects, cost, and delay in surgery.

Since these are natural molecules, all contained in a commonly sold supplement (EUTRIS PLUS), many patients have willingly agreed to take it for 3 months before surgery.

Thus, the aim of the study was if the Eutris Plus administration can facilitate hysteroscopic myomectomy by decreasing myoma volume and vascularization, even not inducing endometrial atrophy.

Study setting: Prospective, observational study on type of Submucous Myomas to be resected (FIGO type 0, 1, 2), by bipolar hysteroscopic resectoscopy (with use of bipolar saline solutions), performed from the fifth to the 15th day after the end of the menstrual cycle.

Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study.

Patients' settings in the two arms:

1. Pre-treated patients by Eutris Plus for 3 months and the hysteroscopic myomectomy.
2. Control group of women (no treatments and without preoperative hormonal therapy) scheduled to undergo hysteroscopic myomectomy after 3 months.

Therapy by a total of 300 mg EGCG, 50 μg vitamin D, and 50 mg DCI divided in 2 pills per day for 3 months.

Patients were informed that Eutris Plus decreases uterine myoma volume and improves iron-deficiency anemia.

However, they were also informed that limited data are available on the usefulness of Eutris Plus before hysteroscopic resection under general anesthesia and that no previous study investigated the role of Eutris Plus before hysteroscopic myomectomy.

The hysteroscopies w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Operative results
  - Surgical results
  - Hysteroscopic results

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Hysteroscopic myomectomy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06768086
