CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02314221
Title: Exoskeletal-assisted Walking to Improve Mobility, Bowel Function and Cardio-Metabolic Profiles in Persons With SCI
Official Title: A Randomized, Crossover Clinical Trial of Exoskeletal-assisted Walking to Improve Mobility, Bowel Function and Cardio-Metabolic Profiles in Persons With SCI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 73
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study is to achieve successful walking skills using exoskeletal walking devices over the course of 36 sessions in 3 months at specific velocities and distances in people with chronic SCI who are wheelchair dependent for community mobility. The secondary objectives are to determine if this amount of exoskeletal walking is effective in improving bowel function and body composition in the same patient population. The exploratory objectives are to address additional questions concerning the retention or non-retention of the positive changes, the effects of the increased physical activity from this intervention on vagal tone, orthostatic tolerance, lipid profile, total testosterone, estradiol levels, and quality of life (QOL).

A Phase III randomized clinical trial (RCT) will be performed using a crossover design and employing an exoskeletal-assisted walking intervention. The experimental arm will be compared to a usual activities (UA) arm, as the control, in 64 persons with chronic SCI (\>6 month post injury) who are wheelchair-dependent for outdoor mobility in the community. The WALK arm will consist of supervised exoskeletal-assisted walking training, three sessions per week (4-6 h/week) for 36 sessions for their second 12-week period. The UA arm will consist of identification of usual activities for each participant, encouragement to continue with these activities and attention by study team members throughout the 12-week UA arm. These activities will be recorded in a weekly log. The investigators hypotheses are that 1) this exoskeletal intervention will be successful in training ambulatory skills in this patient population, 2) the exoskeletal intervention will be better than a control group in improving body composition, bowel function, metabolic parameters and quality of life in the same population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Design Research design: A Phase III randomized clinical trial (RCT) will be performed using a crossover design and employing an exoskeletal-assisted walking intervention. The experimental arm will be compared to a usual activities (UA) arm, as the control, in 64 persons with chronic SCI (\>6 month post injury) who are wheelchair-dependent for outdoor mobility in the community. Eligible participants will be randomized (within site) to one of two groups for 12 weeks (three months): Group 1 (n=32) will receive exoskeletal-assisted walking (WALK) first for 12 weeks then crossover UA for a second 12 weeks; Group 2 (n=32) will receive UA first for 12 weeks then cross-over to the WALK arm for 12 weeks of training. The WALK arm will consist of supervised exoskeletal-assisted walking training, three sessions per week (4-6 h/week) for 36 sessions for their second 12-week period. The UA arm will consist of identification of usual activities for each participant, encouragement to continue with these activities and attention by study team members throughout the 12-week UA arm. These activities will be recorded in a weekly log. A fixed answer format will be used to capture this information.

Rationale for intervention to be studied: This research design has several advantages. Group 1 will serve as the intervention follow-up to assess retention or non-retention of change due to the intervention on the outcome variables. Group 2 will serve as a lead-in to assess stability of the outcome variables prior to the intervention. Additionally, because of tremendous variability in the SCI population and difficulty with case-control matching, the cross-over design will help to control for variability between participants because each participant will serve as their own control. Veterans and nonveterans with SCI generally do not receive further structured rehabilitation once they have completed the acute and sub-acute phases of their rehabilitation. As such, the usual lifestyle activities have been chosen as the control for this study. Dr. Spungen has discussed the optimal control for an exoskeletal-assisted walking program. She has consulted with the Chiefs of several SCI Services in both the VA and non-VA rehabilitation hospitals. A case-controlled, matched RCT study would be strongest with two interventions: exoskeletal-assisted walking compared with any other form of physical activity such as robotically assisted body weight supported treadmill training (Lokomat), body weight supported treadmill training, arm ergometry etc. However, there are two considerations that make this type of study not feasible. One is that it would be extremely difficult to case-control match for independent variables within site, and the second is that most participants would likely not agree to participate if there was A-50% chance they would not get the exoskeletal-assisted walking arm. In order to control for an attention effect, participants in the UA arm will keep weekly activity

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 10meter Walk Test
  - 6min Walk Test
  - Timed-Up-and-Go Test (TUG)
  - Number of Participants With Advanced Walking Skills

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Exoskeletal-assisted walking (ReWalk, Ekso)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02314221
