CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04721028
Title: A Cross-sectional Study of Sarcopenia in Patients With Parkinson ' s Disease
Official Title: A Cross-sectional Study of Sarcopenia in Patients With Parkinson ' s Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 908
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease of aging. The average age of PD onset is about 60 years old. Sarcopenia is common in PD patients, and one in five Parkinson's patients is diagnosed with severe sarcopenia. The prevalence of Parkinson's disease is expected to increase in the coming decades as the population ages.

Sarcopenia is a syndrome with progressive and widespread loss of skeletal muscle mass and function, resulting in disability, loss of quality of life, and even death. Chronic disease, long-term bedridden, unreasonable diet and drug therapy may be the important factors leading to sarcopenia. China is gradually stepping into an aging society. Sarcopenia, as an age-related disease, lacks effective treatment, and has become a global public health problem and frontier research problem, bringing huge economic burden to families and society. The decline of the musculoskeletal system in the elderly will lead to muscle atrophy and loss of muscle strength, as well as decreased motor ability and balance ability, and ultimately lead to a decline in the quality of life of the elderly. The European Working Group on Sarcopenia recommends routine screening for sarcopenia in older people aged 65 and over in the community. At present, screening for sarcopenia has not received enough attention in China, and there is no unified standard for screening methods. The assessment of sarcopenia mainly focuses on three aspects: muscle mass, muscle strength and muscle function. The main symptoms of Parkinson's disease patients are postural tremor, bradykinesia and stiffness. The existence of sarcopenia may lead to poor treatment control in PD patients, and the recognition of sarcopenia in PD patients may have therapeutic effects.

This project through the cross-sectional survey of Parkinson's disease less muscle disease prevalence situation, further clear according to Parkinson's disease staging classification muscle disease prevalence, less and less by Logistic regression analysis to investigate the muscle disease and Parkinson's disease progression and the correlation between the severity of disease, for the next step nursing intervention strategies for implementation of PD patients less muscle disease provides guidance basis, to prevent and delay the less muscle disease is of great significance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The research content PD patients admitted to the Department of Neurology of our hospital from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2022 were evaluated according to the assessment criteria for Asian sarcopenia patients (pre-sarcopenia, sarcopenia stage and severe sarcopenia stage), and the muscle mass, muscle strength and functional status of each patient were recorded. To understand the current situation of sarcopenia in PD patients, and to clarify the correlation between sarcopenia and the course and severity of disease in Parkinson's disease patients, and actively look for the influencing factors that can be intervened to guide the development of nursing intervention measures.

The research target This project through the cross-sectional survey of Parkinson's disease less muscle disease prevalence situation, further clear according to Parkinson's disease staging classification muscle disease prevalence, less and less by Logistic regression analysis to investigate the muscle disease and Parkinson's disease progression and the correlation between the severity of disease, for further implementation of PD patients with less muscle disease provide guidance on the basis of nursing intervention strategies.

The problem to be solved Dyskinesia, static tremor, and myotonia are common features of Parkinson's disease, which contribute to the loss of function and independence of Parkinson's patients. The methods used for the assessment of sarcopenia in the general population (such as the inability to measure walking speed and muscle strength) may not be applicable to PD patients, so it is necessary to consult clinical experts and teachers in the implementation process of the project.

Future research ideas

1. Through a large sample size cross-sectional survey, this project clarified the prevalence of sarcopenia in Parkinson's disease patients, collected data to clarify related preventive measures to reduce the disease burden, and provided theoretical basis for further implementation of nursing intervention strategies in the future.
2. To conduct further multicenter and cross-sectional investigation and study in the future, so as to better define the correlation between Parkinson's disease and sarcopenia.
3. To gradually develop sarcopenia assessment criteria for patients with Parkinson's disease.

1\. Research method, technical route and schedule The research methods Study Design This study was a cross-sectional survey Subjects: PD patients who were admitted to the outpatient and inpatient departments of the Department of Neurology of our hospital on January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2022 were evaluated by H-Y grading scale and UPDRS-3 scale. Obtain basic patient information by consulting patient's medical records or asking patient's family members.

Included in the standard

1\) Meets MDS-2015 diagnostic criteria for Parkinson's disease; 2) The patient can stand independently; 3) Informed consent of patients and their families. Exclusion criteria

1\) Parkinso

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The prevalence of sarcopenia in PD patients
  - analyze the correlation between sarcopenia and disease course, disease grade and other factors of Parkinson's disease

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Human body component analyzer

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04721028
