CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01499160
Title: Letrozole and Lapatinib Followed by Everolimus in Women With Advanced Breast Cancer
Official Title: GCC 0901- A Phase II Study of Letrozole in Combination With Lapatinib Followed by an Addition of Everolimus in Postmenopausal Women With Advanced Endocrine Resistant Breast Cancer
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 7
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
About a third of patients with breast cancer are usually treated by hormone pills called tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors. Aromatase inhibitors are drugs that stop female hormone production. Female hormone or estrogen is an important hormone for the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of breast cancer cells. Letrozole is one of the aromatase inhibitors that is approved by the FDA and has been used to treat breast cancer since 1997. However, hormone pills usually work for about 6-10 months in most patients. Later on, breast cancer will start to grow again. This condition when hormone pills or endocrine therapy no longer work is called "endocrine resistant" breast cancer. The scientists here at University of Maryland have discovered how these cancer cells can become resistant to hormone pills. In our laboratory tests, the investigators found that lapatinib and everolimus can reverse this resistance and make letrozole work again. However, it is not known if the drugs can reverse the resistance in humans.

The purpose of this study is to find out whether the combination of letrozole, lapatinib, and everolimus is effective in women with breast cancer when hormone pills no longer work.

Lapatinib is an anti-cancer drug that is already approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It is the standard of care for the treatment of a particular type of breast cancer called human epithelial growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. HER2 is a protein involved in the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of some cancer cells. This study will also include patients with HER2-negative breast cancer. This means that the cancer cells in these patients do not depend on the HER2 protein. The use of lapatinib in these patients is considered experimental.

Everolimus is also an anti-cancer drug that is approved by the FDA for kidney cancer. Initial studies in mice and later studies in women with breast cancer have shown that everolimus may also slow the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of breast cancer. The use of everolimus is experimental in this study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is aromasingle-institution clinical trial. Patients will be stratified according to the HER2 status:

Group 1: HER2-positive in the tumor tissue Group 2: HER2 negative in the tumor tissue

In the first part of the study, all of the patients will receive the combination of lapatinib 1,500 mg/day and letrozole 2.5 mg/day. We do not expect any significant toxicity from this combination since the previous study of lapatinib and letrozole showed that this combination is safe with no grade 3-4 toxicities observed. Restaging scans (CT scan, MRI, or bone scan) will be obtained after every 12 weeks of treatment. In those patients who progress from any group, everolimus 5 mg/day will be added to letrozole and lapatinib will be reduced to 1,250 mg/day as per the SWOG phase I study of lapatinib and everolimus. The outcome of each group will continue to be assessed separately. We do not expect to see additional serious toxicity from adding everolimus to the combination of lapatinib and letrozole. All of the treatment will be continued until disease progression.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinical Benefit Rate of Patients Treated With the Combination of Letrozole and Lapatinib and Then After Progression, Treated With Everolimus, Letrozole and Lapatinib.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: letrozole
  - DRUG: lapatinib
  - DRUG: everolimus

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01499160
