CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01836978
Title: Prehabilitation to Enhance Postoperative Functional Capacity Following Radical Cystectomy
Official Title: Prehabilitation to Enhance Postoperative Functional Capacity Following Radical Cystectomy: Combining Physical Exercise to Stress Reduction Strategies and Nutritional Supplementation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The process of enhancing the functional capacity of an individual before an operation to enable him or her to withstand the stress of surgery has been termed prehabilitation. It has been shown that poor baseline capacity for physical performance and poor nutritional status increase the risk of complications after major non cardiac surgery and prolong recovery. A controlled randomized study in patients undergoing radical cystectomy for cancer is therefore proposed to determine the impact of multimodal prehabilitation on functional exercise capacity and functional recovery. Patients who accept to be enrolled in the study will be randomized to either a group receiving a multimodal intervention which includes nutritional supplementation (Immunocal® whey protein) combined with a physical exercise program and stress reduction strategies before and after surgery, or a control group who will receive standard preoperative treatment as per our institution.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Arms

1. Standard group Patients in this group will follow standard MUHC clinical guidelines. This group will receive general instructions on exercises (breathing, ankle rotation) to be done before and after surgery by the preoperative clinic nurse. They will also be seen by a nutritionist who will provide general counseling for healthy eating.
2. Prehabilitation group Patients in this group will follow the multimodal protocol consisting of nutritional supplementation, a specific physical exercise program and stress reduction strategies.

Randomization Patients will be assigned to the two groups using a computer-generated randomization process whereby brown sealed envelopes will be prepared and opened after patients' consent has been signed.

Components of prehabilitation

1. Nutritional supplementation The nutritional status of patients affected by bladder cancer is directly influenced by the presence of cancer which has an impact on all aspects of intermediary (protein, carbohydrate, lipid, trace element, vitamin) metabolism, and by other factors such as age, adjuvant cancer therapy and stage of the disease. In addition, a patient who is undernourished before surgery has greater risk of morbidity and mortality. The primary goal of nutrition therapy during the perioperative period is thus to optimize nutrient stores pre-operatively and provide adequate nutrition to compensate for the catabolic response of surgery postoperatively. This includes preventing the loss of lean body mass which is inversely correlated with the survival of critically ill patients.

   The patients' nutritional status and adequacy of dietary intake will be assessed by a nutritionist using a three day food record and the Subjective Global Assessment tool. Percentage of lean body mass and fat will be measured with bioelectrical impedance. Serum albumin will also be measured. All patients in the prehabilitation group will be provided with a whey protein supplement (Immunocal®, Immunotec Inc.) and will be provided with strategies to optimize dietary energy and protein intake. The quantity of supplement the patient will be required to consume daily will depend on the estimated deficit in dietary protein intake. This will be determined based on the difference between usual protein intake and protein requirement, as assessed by the nutritionist at the baseline assessment. Patients in the control group will receive general instructions about healthy eating.

   Compliance will be monitored weekly through phone calls by the study coordinator. The patients will also be asked to complete a journal detailing the quantity of nutritional supplement consumed each day.
2. Physical exercise program It has been shown that prehabilitation can improve postoperative physical function in cancer patients undergoing colorectal surgery and lung resection, and these changes are associated with improvements in mental health, vitality, and self-perceived health. Moreover, it appears that subje

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Six minute walking test (6MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01836978
