CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04274894
Title: A Study of the Effect of Topical Testosterone Replacement Therapy on Blood Pressure in Adult Male Participants With Hypogonadism
Official Title: 24-Hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring Study in Hypogonadal Men Receiving Testosterone Replacement Therapy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 246
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Hypogonadism is an endocrine disorder characterized by absent or deficient testosterone levels along with signs and symptoms of androgen deficiency, including delayed development or regression of sexual characteristics, impaired sexual function and sense of well-being, depressed mood, decreased muscle strength associated with loss of muscle mass and reduced bone mineral density. AndroGel 1.62% has demonstrated its ability to increase total Testosterone levels in the blood by absorption of testosterone through the skin when applied topically. This study evaluated the effect of AndroGel 1.62% on systolic blood pressure using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in hypogonadal men who used testosterone replacement therapy.

AndroGel 1.62% is a drug used for the treatment of hypogonadism, which is associated with low or no testosterone. This was an open-label study which means that both the study doctor and study participants knew what drug and what dose is being used. All participants in this study were in the same group, called a treatment arm. Adult male participants with hypogonadism were enrolled and received AndroGel 1.62%. This was a multi-center study with 190 participants enrolled (initially planned) in approximately 45 sites in the United States to yield 171 subjects in the per protocol (PP) population. A blinded sample size re-estimation (BSSR) was performed when around 70% of the planned subjects in the PP population had completed the end of treatment visit. Sample size was increased at BSSR and 246 participants were actually enrolled.

Participants received daily topical gel doses of AndroGel 1.62% for approximately 16 weeks.

There may have been a higher burden for participants in this study compared to standard of care. Participants attended 8 study visits during the course of the study at a hospital or clinic and received 2 study phone calls. The effect of the treatment was checked by medical assessments, blood tests (including pharmacokinetic sampling), and 24-hour blood pressure monitors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change From Baseline to End of Treatment (EOT) in 24-hour Average Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: AndroGel 1.62%

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04274894
