CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06065410
Title: The Effect of Intrinsic Focus on Gait Cycle and the Possible Confounding Effect of Noise in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Research Assistant Doctor
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Patients with knee osteoarthritis may develop an antalgic gait over time due to pain in the knee, characterized by a decrease in the stance phase and stride length on the painful side. Gait asymmetry, which may lead to different musculoskeletal problems in the future, is observed in the patients. Gait symmetry can be achieved with gait retrening, and effective focus is required during trening.

In the literature, there are many studies of the positive effects of white noise on focusing, but there are also studies that report that it reduces focusing.

Today, exercise trening is usually performed in rehabilitation units or on treadmills. As there are important differences between walking on a treadmill and walking outdoors in terms of noise, uneven ground and visual stimuli, the place where walking trening is performed does not reflect the outdoor environment.

It was aimed to investigate the effect of internal focusing on gait cycle and the effect of white noise and environmental sound on internal focusing in patients with knee osteoarthritis

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 40 patients between the ages of 50 and 75 years, who were admitted to the outpatient clinic of Gazi University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation or hospitalized in the ward and diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis according to ACR knee osteoarthritis criteria and had a Kellgren Lawrence staging of at least 2, were included.

The demographic data of the patients who were evaluated with the HearinGHandicap Inventory for the Elderly Screening Version (HHIE-S) and had adequate hearing level were recorded, bilateral true leg lengths were measured and detailed knee examinations were performed. Lequesne Knee Osteoarthritis Severity Index, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Lower Extremity Functional Scale (LEFS), 30 Second Sit to Stand Test and Timed Up and Go Test were applied to the patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

Patients walked at a speed of 0.40-0.45 m/s on a treadmill (Biodex Gait trener) where gait parameters were collected. Each patient walked at a constant speed for three minutes each in the baseline (without any instruction or sound), intrinsic focus (focusing on ensuring equal step lengths and step durations on both sides and symmetry between both steps), white noise (intrinsic focus accompanied by white noise) and environmental sound (intrinsic focus accompanied by environmental sound) conditions. After walking in each condition, gait parameters ( average step cycle, average step length, percentage of step length variability, percentage of left/right side stepping time and ambulation index) were recorded. The User ExperiencEQuestionnaire Short Form was adapted for our study to assess patients' experiences during intrinsically focused walking in white noise and environmental sound conditions. Patients were asked to rate their walking periods in white noise and environmental sound conditions in terms of inhibiting-supportive, inefficient-efficient, complex-simple, confusing-clear, boring-exciting, uninteresting-interesting, traditional-unique, and familiar-unusual characteristics.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Average step cycle (cycle/second)
  - Average step length (m)
  - Percentage of step length variability (%)
  - Percentage of left/right side stepping time (%)
  - Ambulation index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Baseline
  - OTHER: Intrinsic focus
  - OTHER: White noise
  - OTHER: environmental sound

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06065410
