CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01796860
Title: Effectiveness of Ankle Foot Orthoses on Gait in Multiple Sclerosis
Official Title: The Impact of Ankle Foot Orthosis (AFO) on Gait Recovery in Select Individuals With Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of a specifically designed ankle foot orthosis (AFO, hinged, with tamarack joint and adjustable check strap) on the spatial and temporal gait parameters, electromyography (EMG), and walking endurance, in select individuals living with MS. This orthotic is fabricated to allow ankle range of motion required for normal gait kinematics. Additionally, it controls forward progression of the tibia during the stance phase of gait. This study has three hypotheses 1. Individuals who are fit with the AFO will demonstrate improvements in spatial and temporal gait parameters 2. Individuals who are fit with the AFO will demonstrate improvements in walking endurance, and 3. Individuals who are fit with the AFO will demonstrate improvements in muscle firing profiles/EMG measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a non-randomized, single group (N=15), repeated measures study. The study will take place at the David M. Crowley Research and Rehabilitation Lab in the School of Health Professions at University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. The outcome measures for the study include: 1. GAITRite System for temporal and spatial parameters, 2. EMG of the anterior tibialis, gastrocnemius, and vastus lateralis muscles, 3. 6 Minute Walk Test (gait endurance) 4. Lower extremity strength, 5. MS Fatigue scale, 6. Observational Gait Analysis - Video tape of over ground walking. This study will be 13 weeks long. Over the 13 week period, the subject will participate in 5 gait trening sessions which will be at weeks 1, 2, 3, 7, and 10. They will be 60 minutes in duration. Outcome measures will be assessed at the following times: initial (T1), week 5 (T2), and week 13 (T3). Subjects will be closely monitored throughout the 13 week study and will be un-enrolled by self-request or the following medical reasons: 1. Acute exacerbation of MS symptoms, 2. New diagnosis with direct consequences affecting gait trening, 3. Inability to tolerate the study AFO.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Step Length From Initial Testing to End of Study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: AFO

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01796860
