CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07013305
Title: Pre- and Post-Treatment Investigation of B12 and Folic Acid (Folate) Levels in Patients Receiving Antiepileptic (Anticonvulsant) Treatment for Fibromyalgia: Retrospective Study
Official Title: Pre- and Post-Treatment Investigation of B12 and Folic Acid (Folate) Levels in Patients Receiving Antiepileptic (Anticonvulsant) Treatment for Fibromyalgia: Retrospective Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 104
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Fibromyalgia is a rheumatological disorder characterised by chronic widespread body pain, second most common after osteoarthritis. The overall prevalence is 2-8% and it is more common in women. Diffuse body pain, fatigue, sleep and cognitive dysfunction occur. The etiology of fibromyalgia is multifactorial and occurs due to central and peripheral pain mechanisms that occur with neuroendocrine imbalance due to psychological and physical stress in people with genetic predisposition. The diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia were updated by the American College of Rheumatology in 2016 to include a widespread body pain scale and a symptom severity scale.

Fibromyalgia treatment consists of drug (antidepressants and antiepileptics) and non-drug treatments. Pregabalin is also used in the treatment of epilepsy by blocking and modulating the α2 δ subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channels. There are studies showing that antiepileptics cause folate and vitamin B12 deficiency in epilepsy patients. In our study, we aimed to retrospectively investigate vitamin B12 and folic acid levels before and after treatment in patients with fibromyalgia using antiepileptics (anticonvulsants).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
After the acceptance of the study (after obtaining ethics committee approval), patients who have been followed up for at least 6 months in the physical medicine and rehabilitation outpatient clinic with a diagnosis of fibromyalgia and who use pregabalin will be evaluated retrospectively (1-year records). Blood vitamin B12 and folate (folic acid) levels of the patients before and after antiepileptics (anticonvulsants). use will be determined. Patients will be evaluated whether there is a change in vitamin B12 and folic acid levels due to antiepileptics (anticonvulsants) drug use.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vitamin B12 level analysed before treatment (pre-treatment) (retrospective)
  - Vitamin B12 level analysed after treatment (post-treatment) (retrospective)
  - Folic acid level analysed before treatment (pre-treatment) (retrospective)
  - Folic acid level analysed after treatment (post-treatment) (retrospective)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07013305
