CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05660824
Title: Effectiveness of Stromal Vascular Fraction (SVF) and Platelet -Rich Plasma (PRP) in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: Study Protocol for a Phase III, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Multi-center Study.
Official Title: Effectiveness of Stromal Vascular Fraction (SVF) and Platelet -Rich Plasma (PRP) in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: Study Protocol for a Phase III, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Multi-center Study : (SPOST Study)
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
This multicenter, randomized, triple-blind, controlled trial, will enroll 108 patients who will block-randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either the intervention or control group. The main question to answer are the clinical efficacy of SVF as adjuvant therapy to PRP on functionality and tissue regeneration for knee osteoarthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Osteoarthritis, the most common joint disease, has a high social and individual impact and the development of therapeutic options is a public health priority. It's multifactorial etiology is still a source of active research

Most common conservative treatments for osteoarthritis treatment include painkillers, active physical therapies, orthotics, infiltrations of corticosteroids, hyaluronic acid (HA), and platelet-rich plasma (PRP).

PRP may be beneficial in osteoarthritis by interfering with catabolic and inflammatory events and by subsequently promoting anabolic responses. Activation of PRP releases biologically active components, including platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-β (PGF-β), type I insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These proteins are responsible for a range of critical tissue healing roles such as chondrocyte and mesenchymal stem cells proliferation, bone and vessel remodelling, inflammatory modulation and collagen synthesis.

For osteoarthritis, an improvement of clinical outcomes has been found in several clinical trials, presumably associated with the chondroprotective effect of PRP. Nevertheless, an in-vivo effect on human cartilage regeneration is not yet demonstrated despite the numerous studies approaching the subject.

Preclinical models elucidated how injected Adipose Derived- Mesenchymal Stem Cells (AD-MSC) coordinate the cartilage regeneration process through paracrine mechanisms, producing cytokines and trophic bioactive factors that stimulate cellular proliferation, reduce inflammation, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and chondrocytes senescence.

Stromal Vascular Fraction (SVF), a product from specific adipose tissue processing, contains mesenchymal stem cells, endothelial precursor cells, T regulatory cells, macrophages, smooth muscle cells, pericytes and preadipocytes. SVF extraction and injection techniques have been recently used as an alternative to harvest AD-MSC due to its logistic simplicity and feasibility in clinical practice.

SVF injections produce a clinically significant effect on the treatment of knee osteoarthritis, and a possible improvement in cartilage quality.

This clinical trial aims to assess the clinical efficacy of SVF as adjuvant therapy to PRP on functionality and tissue regeneration on osteoarthritis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - WOMAC

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Stromal Vascular Fraction infiltration
  - PROCEDURE: Plattelet Rich Plasma infiltration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05660824
