CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07460999
Title: Singing Training vs Usual Care 6-18 Months After Surgical Resection for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Official Title: Effects and Mechanisms of Online Delivered Singing Training vs Usual Care in Patients With Persistent Symptoms 6-18 Months After Surgical Resection for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) - a Multi-centre RCT
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
People who have undergone curative surgery for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) often experience reduced quality of life (QoL), a high burden of symptoms, and physical deconditioning. Current Danish rehabilitation offers are heterogeneous and inconsistent and not tailored to the specific needs of this population. Additionally, some patients continue to suffer from persistent physical symptoms months or even years after surgery, yet no targeted support is currently available for them. Singing - delivered as a structured form of training - has shown benefits in improving both physical and psychological outcomes in individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Although singing has not yet been studied in NSCLC patients, the two conditions share overlapping symptoms and characteristics. Therefore, the present study aims to explore whether a singing-based intervention can help reduce symptom burden and improve physical function and QoL in NSCLC patients 6 to 18 months post-surgery. To test this, a multi-centre randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted, comparing a singing intervention to usual care. Given that travel and distance often pose significant barriers to participation, the intervention will be delivered online.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Post-surgical rehabilitation should include combined aerobic training and strength training, alone or combined with respiratory muscle training. A Cochrane review (Cavalheri, et al., 2019) concluded that rehabilitation with exercise training improved physical capacity and physical fitness and suggested improved Health-Related QoL and dyspnoea. Additionally, a Core Outcomes Set (Edbrooke, et al., 2025) defined critical outcomes as: physical function, HRQoL, breathlessness, activities of daily living, emotional and mental well-being, pain.

In a recent Danish mapping study (Kaasgaard, et al., 2024), a large proportion experiences physiological-oriented symptoms: Fatigue (78%), hyper-vigilance (74%), dyspnoea (65%), and pain (47%); besides psychological-oriented symptoms: Worry about the future (40%), depression (35%), and anxiety (29%). In addition, 27%, experienced having vocal problems. This was confirmed in a subsequent Danish cross-sectional study, which specifically found impaired QoL (physical functioning) and symptoms (dyspnoea) 6-12 months after NSCLC surgery. This aligns with other recent Danish studies demonstrating persistent symptoms long-term after NSCLC surgery. In addition, a systematic review found poor mental health-related QoL, dyspnoea, and pain up to one year after surgery. Taken together, this implies signs of a neglected population with persistent symptoms, yet without a standard offer available to support them.

Singing has become increasingly popular in respiratory diseases, comprising elements of both physiological training and psychosocial aspects, therefore, likely to address the unmet needs in lung cancer. Previous studies have suggested physiological training effects and increased respiratory control, less dyspnoea, improved QoL, and reduced anxiety and depression. Moreover, singing is suggested to confer physiological training effects with work load equivalent to brisk walk pace. Furthermore, singing is perceived as a relevant and beneficial activity that builds joy, meaning, and social cohesion. However, studies have overall mostly been small and heterogenous, and with contradictory findings and a lack of knowledge about the underpinning mechanisms. Moreover, there are different approaches to singing, although a conventional choir approach is mainly adapted. The currently most well-documented, best-practice disease-specific approach is Singing for Lung Health (SLH), developed within a multidisciplinary healthcare setting in the UK since 2008. SLH aims to provide health-promoting benefits, uses exercises and songs as tools for purpose, and, further, includes movement and dancing while singing. In a recent multicentre-RCT in COPD - Sing-a-Lung 1.0 -, the study investigators demonstrated that PR with SLH improved functional capacity and QoL in a dose-response manner and was non-inferior to PR with usual care delivery of physical exercise. Furthermore, SLH was related to improved respiratory strength and dyspnoea control.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical capacity
  - Perceived exertion
  - Change in Health-related quality of life (HRQoL)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Singing training (Singing for Lung Health (SLH))
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control group: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07460999
