CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04442321
Title: Ultrasound-Guided Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation on Radial Nerve in Patients With Lateral Epicondylalgia
Official Title: Effectiveness of Ultrasound-Guided Percutaneous Electrical Stimulation on Radial Nerve With Exercises in Patients With Lateral Epicondylalgia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Lateral epicondylalgia is a common musculoskeletal condition that approximately affects 1-3% of the general population. Several authors have found greater mechanical pain sensitivity in the radial nerve when compared with healthy subjects. Radial tunnel syndrome exhibits a similar clinical presentation to lateral epicondylalgia. Percutaneous electrical stimulation has shown reduce pain in several conditions. Percutaneous electrical stimulation on the radial nerve could cause an important relief in lateral epicondylalgia.

Hypothesis: Percutaneous electrical stimulation on radial nerve plus exercise therapy in patients with lateral epicondylalgia is better than sham percutaneous electrical stimulation plus exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial, using Percutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (PENS). PENS is technique to provide a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation current throughout needling filaments place close to the nerve.

Study Aims:

Aim #1: The primary aim of the study is to compare the effect of the short, mid and long-term of PENS on intensity of pain as measured by numeric pain rating scale and disability as measured by Patient Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) in patients with lateral epicondylalgia with random assignment to two treatments: PENS plus exercise program or Sham PENS plus exercise program.

Aim #2: The secondary aim of the study is to compare the effect of the short, medium and long-term of PENS on disability as measured by DASH questionnaire, and psychological factors (fear and avoidance and catastrophism) and Global Rating of Change (GRoC) in patients with lateral epicondylalgia with random assignment to two treatments: PENS plus exercise program or Sham PENS plus exercise program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Elbow Pain Intensity between baseline and follow-up periods

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PENS plus exercise
  - OTHER: Sham PENS plus exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04442321
