CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04323319
Title: Comparions the Effect of Different Treatment Modalities on Chronic Plantar Fasiitis
Official Title: The Comparison of the Effects of ESWT and Instrument Assisted Soft Tissue Mobilization Techniques in the Treatment of Chronic Plantar Fasiitis- Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Plantar fasciitis is a common cause of heel pain affecting about 20% of the general population. The basic treatment of plantar fasciitis is conservative. Approximately 85-90% of plantar fasciitis patients can be successfully treated without surgery. Methods include resting, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, stretching, shoe orthotics, corticosteroid injections, physical therapy, night splints, and extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and ultrasound therapy. Plantar fasciitis treatment is a chronic treatment that has been clearly described in the literature despite the use of treatment modalities. In the literature, treatment modalities which should be used respectively in the treatment of plantar fasciitis are expressed. Nevertheless, it is a chronic disease caused by skipping the treatment steps for various reasons or applying the treatments in the wrong hierarchy. The aim of this project is to compare the effects of stretching exercises, ESWT and instrument-assisted myofascial relaxation technique (Graston Technique®) in the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis in terms of pain, disability level, quality of life and static and dynamic plantar pressure analysis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Traditionally, the fascia tissue was described as a single connective tissue surrounding each muscle, muscle fiber and myofibril. In the International Fascia Research Congress held in Vancover, Canada in 2012, the definition of fascia was redefined, including aponeurosis, ligament, tendon, joint capsule, central nervous system, epinerium, bronchial connective tissue and abdominal mesentery. With the emphasis on the importance of fascia in the literature, soft tissue techniques, including fascia, have gained popularity.

Plantar fasciitis is a common cause of heel pain affecting about 20% of the general population. It is usually caused by biomechanical imbalance resulting from tension occurring along the plantar fascia.Plantar fascia is thought to be effective in the pathogenesis of micro-ruptures and inflammation caused by recurrent tension in the insersio. A variety of predisposing factors have also been proposed, including minor trauma, foot pronation, inappropriate shoes, obesity, and prolonged standing. Diagnosis is usually based on clinical history and local sensitivity. The pain is typically felt in the morning and / or after long sitting, in the origin of the plantar aponeurosis, and a centimeter distal to this area, and typically occurs in the first steps after getting out of bed in the morning, resulting in difficulty in daily activities. Basic treatment of plantar fasciitis is conservative. Approximately 85-90% of plantar fasciitis patients can be successfully treated without surgery. Methods include resting, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, stretching, shoe additions, orthoses, corticosteroid injections, physical therapy, night splints, and extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and ultrasound therapy. Plantar fasciitis treatment is a chronic treatment that has been clearly described in the literature despite the use of treatment modalities.In 2000, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the use of Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy (ESWT), an electrohydraulic device for use in the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis. Pain, redness, edema and ecchymosis are rarely reported during ESWT treatment, but these effects are not permanent.The exact mechanism of action of the ESWT has not been clearly established. However it is believed that the body responds by increasing the healing ability in that area, by stimulating a repair process. For the patients who treated with ESWT, there was a decrease in pain and an increase in walking ability compared to a control group. ESWT is recommended in chronic plantar fasciitis patients who do not respond to conservative treatment.

Tight bands in the gastrocnemius muscles, myofascial / intramuscular trigger points, may interfere with the development of plantar heel pain. Intramuscular trigger points are defined as hyperirritable areas that are painful on the compression, contraction, or stretching of the muscles in a skeletal muscle stretched and produce pain that is reflected at a dist

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - First step pain: Visuel Analog Scale (VAS)
  - First step pain: Visuel Analog Scale (VAS)
  - First step pain: Visuel Analog Scale (VAS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: ESWT, Graston Technique

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04323319
