CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02917915
Title: The CaNadian Standardized Pulmonary Rehabilitation Efficacy Trial
Official Title: The CaNadian Standardized Pulmonary Rehabilitation Efficacy Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 207
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic lung disease primarily caused by smoking. Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an evidence-based, interdisciplinary, and comprehensive intervention for COPD patients that includes patient assessment, exercise training, and self-management education to promote behavior changes. PR has been shown to be the most effective strategy to improve clinical health outcomes, and is now considered to be a standard of care intervention for individuals with COPD who remain symptomatic despite optimal drug therapies. Despite considerable evidence supporting the effectiveness of PR at enhancing clinical outcomes, it is unclear if PR influences the behaviors that promote COPD management (i.e., physical activity, medication adherence, self-managing exacerbations).

In collaboration with the local clinical staff as well as national colleagues and the Canadian Thoracic Society, a new national pulmonary rehabilitation program has been co-developed that is designed to increase physical activity, medication adherence, and skills to help manage chronic lung diseases. The new program aims to increase people's confidence and autonomy for performing disease-management behaviors, and has been designed to be more effective at increasing physical activity, medication adherence, and disease management skills than previous pulmonary rehabilitation programs. The program is designed to be delivered within different settings of practice, including traditional PR centers, satellite sites (i.e., sites that are remote from the major institutions),with the use of Tele-health and web-based resources, and primary care medical centers. The effectiveness of the new Standardized Canadian PR program will be assessed relative to the traditional PR program. This trial is an important step towards establishing the necessary evidence that will then enable us to work on dissemination and implementation of this new standardized PR program across the country.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Phase 1: The implementation of the new Canadian Standardized PR program "Real life project" will be done after evaluating the existing pulmonary rehabilitation program in each of the four sites (G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health, Mount Sinai Hospital, Montreal Chest Institute and West Park Health Care Centre). This will serve as pilot testing of the new pulmonary rehabilitation program to identify problems, adapt solution and improve the program, its content and delivery.

Phase 2: A randomized parallel-controlled trial (RPCT) will also be implemented in one site at the G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health. Entire PR classes will be block randomized according to a random numbers table to receive usual care (traditional PR) or the new Canadian Standardized PR program. Several rural Tele-health sites that participate in PR via the G.F. MacDonald Centre for Lung Health will also be included and randomized as well. Both groups will be exposed to the same exercise training component. The two groups will be exposed to different education components (described in detail elsewhere). The effectiveness of the new Canadian Standardized PR program (experimental group) will be evaluated relative to the Traditional PR program (active comparator group) in terms of clinical, behavioural, and psychological outcomes.

Primary Objective: To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program delivered in-person and in satellites sites with the support of Tele-health improves and maintains specific self-management behaviors after rehabilitation more than the traditional PR program.

Primary Outcome: Physical activity (in steps-per day as measured by Fitbit®) Secondary Outcomes: i) Medication adherence (measured by pharmacy refills); ii) exacerbation recognition and prompt decision-making (diary \& phone calls).

Secondary Objectives: To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program improves predisposing factors of behavior change (knowledge, self-determination theory constructs such as motivation, and self-efficacy) following rehabilitation more than the Traditional PR program and if there is variation according to the method of delivering the program, i.e., via Tele-health technology vs in person.

To determine if the new Canadian Standardized PR program results in greater improvement of clinical outcomes (exercise capacity, health status) and health service use (hospital admissions) following completion of rehabilitation compared to the Traditional PR program.

Statistical Methods: Analysis for determining the potential benefit of the new Canadian Standardized PR program: Repeated measures ANOVAS will be conducted to evaluate changes over PR in behavioral outcomes (physical activity, medication adherence, exacerbation adherence), predisposing behavior change outcomes (self-efficacy, knowledge, self-determination theory constructs), and clinical outcomes (quality of life, exercise tolerance) between the Traditional PR group compared to the new Canadi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical activity assessed as steps per day as evaluated by Fitbit

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Canadian Standardized PR
  - OTHER: Traditional PR

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02917915
