CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06639009
Title: Effect of Laser Photobiomodulation in Improving Mouth Opening in Oral Submucous Fibrosis
Official Title: To Determine and Compare the Adjunctive Effect of Photobiomodulation With 940nm Diode Laser on Maximal Interincisal Mouth Opening Versus Conventional Non-invasive Management in Moderate Oral Submucous Fibrosis: A Patient and Outcome Assessor Blinded, Multiple- Arm, Randomized, Placebo Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 315
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
This a patient and outcome assessor blinded, multiple arm, randomized placebo controlled clinical trial.

The goal of the study is to study the adjunctive effect of 940nm laser photobiomodulation therapy (PBMT) in precancerous condition like moderate Oral submucous Fibrosis in increasing the mouth opening. It will also assess the the effect of PBMT on oral burning sensation cheek flexibility, electromyography of bilateral masseter muscle, inflammatory and fibrogenic cytokines and oral health quality of life at baseline and after 1 and 3 months of PBMT.

Adult subjects fulfilling the selection criteria will be prospectively recruited after ethical clearance and informed written consent. They will be randomized into 3 groups in 1:1 :1 distribution

The three groups are as follows:

Group A: Photobiomodulation therapy given intraorally on bilateral buccal mucosa and extraorally (sham) with conventional non-invasive management.

Group B: Photobiomodulation therapy given intraorally (bilateral buccal mucosa) and extraorally (bilateral masseter muscle) with conventional non-invasive management.

Group C: Sham (Use of laser handpiece with only red guide light and without using the foot pedal which activates the laser)Photobiomodulation therapy(Placebo) (Intraoral and Extraoral) with conventional non-invasive management.

The conventional non invasive management in Oral submucous fibrosis which all the groups will receive are as follows:

Brief behavioral Tobacco, areca nut and alcohol habit cessation counseling as per WHO 5As and 5Rs technique at baseline and each follow up.

Oral prophylaxis Removal of oral irritational factors like sharp teeth, appliances or prosthesis, impacted buccoverted third molars, parafunctional habits Oral hygiene maintenance instructions Oral physiotherapy(Mouth opening and cheek ballooning exercises) Control of systemic conditions (Anemia, Diabetes, hypertension, thyroid disorders) by specialist referral Removal of all predisposing factors for oral candida infection Advocacy for safe sexual practices Nutrition and diet counseling( seasonal and regional food rich in nutrients, vitamins, antioxidants avoidance of spicy /sour/ hot foods and drinks) Regular surveillance for malignant transformation All the outcome parameters will be assessed at baseline and 1 and 3 months after PBMT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design:

A patient and outcome assessor blinded, multiple- arm, randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial Setting: All India Institute of Medical sciences New Delhi

Selection of patients:

Consecutive patients diagnosed with Oral Submucous Fibrosis based on WHO clinical criteria (Warnakulsurya et al 2007, 2021) and classified as Moderate Oral Submucous Fibrosis based on functional staging of More et al 2011 (Functional staging M2 and M3: maximal interincisal distance 15-35 mm) will be prospectively recruited after ethical clearance and informed written consent.

Clinicopathologic characteristics:

The clinical demographics, Tobacco and Areca nut habit history ( Type, quantity, frequency, duration), association with other habits like smoking/ smokeless tobacco with/ without slaked lime, alcohol and addictive drugs will be recorded. The clinical characteristics and staging/grading of OSMF would be recorded as per prepared proforma and protocol. The clinical grading of moderate OSMF will be done according to WHO clinical criteria and More et al 2011 classification. Biopsy of any suspicious oral lesions if found will be done to rule out malignancy and referred to the cancer center for further management and excluded from study. Enrolment of subjects fulfilling the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be done after information and written informed consent before any further investigation. Routine blood investigations to rule out common systemic conditions ( CBC, Blood glucose, LFT, KFT) Participants will be randomized into three arms (1:1:1) Group A: Photobiomodulation therapy (parameters defined below) given intraorally on bilateral buccal mucosa and extraorally (sham) with conventional non-invasive management.

Group B: Photobiomodulation therapy (parameters defined below) given intraorally (bilateral buccal mucosa) and extraorally (bilateral masseter muscle) with conventional non-invasive management.

Group C: Sham (Use of laser handpiece with only red guide light and without using the foot pedal which activates the laser)Photobiomodulation therapy(Placebo) (Intraoral and Extraoral) with conventional non-invasive management.

Randomization:

Block randomization with varying block size will be done using computer generated random numbers using the Nquery software.

Allocation concealment:

Participants will be randomized using sequentially numbered, opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE). 315 white envelopes will be prepared with aluminum foil sheet and carbon sheet in each. Assigned treatment protocol will be mentioned clearly on a paper and put in each envelope. For each treatment protocol 105 envelopes will be prepared and sealed. Each envelope will have an identifier of trial on its front. Envelopes will be opened sequentially by an operator blinded to the study protocol after which patients will be allotted a study arm as per the treatment mentioned in the envelope. Before opening the envelope we will write the patient's study 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Interincisal Mouth opening (mm):

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: 940nm diode laser photobiomodulation
  - OTHER: Conventional non -Invasive management in Oral Submucous fibrosis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06639009
