CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05166564
Title: The PROtein Enriched MEDiterranean Diet and EXercise Trial for Older Adults At Risk of Undernutrition
Official Title: A Randomised Controlled Trial to Evaluate the Effect of a Protein Enriched Mediterranean Diet and Exercise Intervention on the Nutritional Status and Cognitive Performance of Adults At Risk of Undernutrition and Cognitive Decline
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 105
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
PROMED-EX is a single-blind, parallel group randomised controlled trial to determine the effect of a PROtein enriched MEDiterranean diet (PROMED) in comparison to a PROtein enriched MEDiterranean diet and EXercise (PROMED-EX) intervention, or standard care on the nutritional status and cognitive performance of older undernourished adults with subjective cognitive decline.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Undernutrition is common in older adults and can cause significant negative impacts on the health of older people, leading to weight loss and decline in cognitive function (memory and thinking abilities), loss of independence and hospitalisation. Undernutrition is associated with £23.5 billion/year in health and social care costs in the United Kingdom - over half of these costs are related to undernutrition in older adults.

Research suggests that undernutrition and weight loss occur a long time (at least 10 years) before the symptoms of cognitive decline become apparent. This means that correcting undernutrition and weight loss could help to prevent the onset of cognitive impairment.

The aim of the PROMED-EX trial is to test the effect of a 6-month protein enriched Mediterranean diet, with and without exercise, on the risk of undernutrition and cognitive decline in older adults in Northern Ireland. The PROMED-EX trial will recruit 105 older adults living in the community, at risk of poor nutrition, with a decline in memory but without a diagnosed cognitive impairment. Investigators will collect several measurements to determine the nutritional status and cognitive functioning of study participants and will repeat measurements during the study (at the start of the study, at 3 months (study midpoint) and at 6 months (study endpoint).

The goal is to identify potential effective solutions to undernutrition which can reduce cognitive decline and other negative health impacts on older adults. The research can be used to guide public health dietary guidelines for older people to prevent undernutrition and increase healthy life years.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mini Nutritional Assessment Score- Long Form

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: A Protein Enriched Mediterranean Diet (PROMED) Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: A Protein Enriched Mediterranean Diet & Exercise (PROMED-EX) Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05166564
