CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06649981
Title: Aging Resilience Through Microbiota Optimization and Regulation
Official Title: Intestinal Microbiota Transplant as a Strategy to Enhance the Resilience Capacity of the Elderly Aiming to Retain Muscular, Cognitive, and Metabolic Functions in a Stressful Environment.
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia, characterized by the progressive loss of muscle mass and strength in older adults, is a key factor in health deterioration. It affects 15% of people between 65 and 80 years old and over 50% of those over 80, compromising autonomy and increasing the risk of diseases. Sarcopenia not only impacts muscle function but also bone health, mobility, and is associated with cardiometabolic diseases and cognitive decline.

It has been proposed that changes in the gut microbiota in aging individuals, known as gut dysbiosis, contribute to sarcopenia. Species diversity decreases, and bacterial representation is altered, which could impair muscle function through various pathways, such as mitochondrial dysfunction, chronic inflammation, and disruption of protein synthesis. Muscle function loss is strongly associated with cognitive and metabolic impairment in older adults.

Recently, it has been demonstrated that fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is an effective procedure for modulating gut microbiota and has proven highly effective in managing cases of Clostridium difficile-associated chronic diarrhea. The main objective of this project is to carry out FMT from young, physically active donors to a cohort of older adults to evaluate its effect on muscle, cognitive, and metabolic function.

Why donors who exercise? There is growing evidence that gut microbiota diversity is increased in young, physically active individuals. The FMT is planned to be administered through lyophilized microbiota capsules. By restoring microbial diversity, it is expected to improve the quality and function of skeletal muscles, leading to greater cognitive and metabolic resilience.

This project has great potential to develop an innovative approach for treating highly debilitating diseases that affect older adults, based on the lyophilization and encapsulation of gut microbiota from young, trained donors, which can be easily stored in a conventional freezer. Due to the high percentage of older adults worldwide and the high prevalence of sarcopenia within this age group, the aim of the project is to address a significant public health issue with a large target population eager for options to promote muscle health, functional autonomy, as well as cognitive and metabolic well-being.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Skeletal muscle loss in old age is a critical point for the development of very serious health conditions affecting the quality of life of older adults, such as loss of autonomy, loss of healthy cognition, and the development of complex metabolic diseases. Additionally, intestinal microbiota can be modulated through fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), and possibly this modulation could have direct effects that promote muscle health. Therefore, this project aims to investigate whether modifying the intestinal microbiota in older adults through FMT using young and trained donors can enhance skeletal muscle health and function, leading to greater resilience, reducing cognitive decline, and metabolic dysfunction associated with aging, especially in stressful contexts.

The donors would be young and trained individuals. Why trained donors? There is growing evidence that the composition of the intestinal microbiota is regulated by physical exercise. In animal studies, chronic exercise has been shown to increase the biodiversity of the intestinal microbiota and reduce systemic and intestinal inflammation. The bacterial profile associated with exercise is specific, for example, it does not correspond to that associated with a healthy diet, suggesting that physical activity allows for the development of a specific microbial profile in intestinal bacterial communities. Several studies have observed that changes in the intestinal microbiota associated with exercise are beneficial for promoting intestinal mucosal integrity and overall metabolic function in the individual.

In humans, intestinal bacterial biodiversity has been observed to be higher in athletes compared to sedentary subjects (normalized by body weight, age, and gender). In fact, there is evidence that a chronic exercise routine can restore the intestinal microbiota to a healthy profile in individuals with intestinal dysbiosis. In rats and mice, chronic exercise increases the biodiversity of Firmicutes, Bifidobacteria, and Actinobacteria and reduces the proportion of Bacteroides. Some data show how the presence of intestinal microbiota affects muscle performance, for example, it was found that germ-free mice had greater swimming endurance compared to germ-free mice, and when the latter were colonized with bacteria in the gut, the mice increased their physical endurance and swam for longer.

The main objective of this project is to carry out fecal microbiota transplants (FMT) from physically active young donors to a cohort of older individuals to evaluate their effect on muscle, cognitive, and metabolic function. FMT in older adults is planned to be performed by administering lyophilized microbiota capsules. By restoring microbial diversity, it is expected to improve the quality and function of skeletal muscles, leading to greater cognitive and metabolic resilience. It is important to mention that modifications of the intestinal microbiota have been associated with direct and specific effect

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isometric strength
  - Functional Autonomy: Global Index of the Latin American Group for Maturity (GDLAM)
  - Adverse effects after FMT registration

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: FMT capsule
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo Capsule(s)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 84 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06649981
