CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03860649
Title: Effects of Different Physical Therapies and Dance in People With Parkinson's Disease
Official Title: Effects of Different Physical Therapies and Dance on Clinical and Functional Parameters, MusclEQuality, Pendular Mechanism of the Gait and Brain-derived Neurotrophic Factor in People With Parkinson's Disease
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The aim of study is to analyze the effects of different physical therapies (Aquatic Jogging, Neurofunctional Physiotherapy, Pilates trening and Nordic Walking) and Dance and compare with unsupervised home exercises in the clinical-functional parameters, postural balance, muscular echographic quality, pendulum gait mechanism, and serum levels of BDNF in people with Parkinson's disease with camptocormia or Pisa Syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: Analyze the effects of different physical therapies (Aquatic Jogging, Neurofunctional Physiotherapy, Pilates trening and Nordic Walking) and Dance and compare with unsupervised home exercises in the clinical-functional parameters, postural balance, muscular echographic quality, pendulum gait mechanism, and serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in people with Parkinson's disease with camptocormia or Pisa Syndrome. Experimental Design: Randomized controlled clinical trial with trenslational study characteristics. Search Location: Exercise Research Laboratory at the School of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Dance, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, and in the Movement Disorders Outpatient Clinic of the Hospital of Clinicals of Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Participants: 100 patients from the Unified Health System (UHS) of both sexes, from 50 to 80 years old, diagnosed with idiopathic PD, sedentary. Interventions: In this research, four groups of patients with PD will receive intervention during 4 months of different physical therapy programs (Nordic walking, aquatic jogging and supervised neurofunctional physiotherapy) and dance; and a control group, who will receive telephone guidance for performinGHome-based exercises. The trening programs will have a duration of 4 months and will be periodized so that the duration of the sessions is matched between them. The intensity of the interval trening will be manipulated by the subjective effort scale (Borg) and by the heart rate, with predetermined series durations. All trening programs will have a frequency of two sessions per week and a duration of 60 minutes. In order to evaluate the effects of the trening, evaluations will be performed before and after the trening period: 1) Basal (month 0): initial pre-trening evaluation; 2) month 4: Evaluation 48h after the last trening session. Outcomes: clinical-functional parameters, postural balance, muscular echographic quality, pendulum gait mechanism, and biochemistry. Data Analysis: Data will be described by average values and standard deviation values. The comparisons between and within groups will be performed using a Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) analysis, adopting a level of significance (α) of 0.05. Expected Results: The intervention groups of the different physical therapies and dance are expected to be more effective in all outcomes analyzed, especially improving functional mobility when compared to the control group of unsupervised home exercises. In addition, it is expected that the results of the research will be expandable and the possibility of future developments in the scientific, technological, economic, social and environmental fields and that they will be implemented in the Unified Health System (UHS).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Test Timed Up and Go

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Nordic Walking
  - OTHER: Jogging
  - OTHER: Dance
  - OTHER: Pilates trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03860649
