CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04201028
Title: A Remote Delivered Lifestyle Therapeutics Program
Official Title: A Remote Delivered Lifestyle Therapeutics Program: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. The overall risk for heart disease is a composite measure of various modifiable factors including blood pressure, cholesterol, and tobacco use; which are exacerbated by a sedentary lifestyle, unhealthy diet, and being overweight. Approximately 32% of the adult U.S. population has high blood pressure and 46% of them have uncontrolled hypertension. Successful management of high blood pressure and other cardiovascular risk is a complex process that requires significant lifestyle changes but adopting and adhering to these changes is challenging. A promise approach to overcoming these challenges is utilizing health coaching. The purpose of this research study is to compare at home devices for blood pressure and weight measurements (DEV) group compared to not using any at home devices Group (NODEV). Both groups will be supported throughout this study by meeting with obesity medicine doctor monthly in office and have a virtual health coaching visits throughout the study duration.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Baseline Assessment Participants attend a baseline assessment with a study Health Coach that includes an overview and explanation of the study, the completion of several surveys that involve questions related to your overall health and demographics (age, race, etc). In addition, body weight using a scale and resting blood pressure using a blood pressure cuff. During participants will be asked to download the DiscoverHealth app which will be used to track daily nutritional information (food and drinks) and for health coaching sessions.

Groups Participants will then be randomly assigned to a device group (DEV) or a no device group (NODEV).

Control Group If randomly assigned to the NO DEV Group, participants will be asked to download the DiscoverHealth® app and daily input their nutritional information into the app. This will occur at the baseline assessment. Monthly participants will be asked to attend the Sleep Health Clinic to obtain body weight and blood pressure.

Intervention Group

Regardless of randomization (NODEV OR DEV) participants will be be asked to input their daily nutritional information (food) into the DiscoverHealth® app which will be used by the medical doctor and health coach.

Physical Activity Recommendations:

They will be asked to exercise in accordance with obesity medicine doctors recommendations which may be recommendations like obtaining 20 minutes per day of walking with gradual progression to at least 60 minutes per day and achieve 10,000 steps/day. These recommendations are consistent with the guidelines of national organizations.

No Device Group (NODEV):

Medical Doctor Visits:

If participants are randomized to the NODEV group they will individually meet at the Sleep health Clinic and meet with the obesity medical doctor monthly (1-6) with each visit lasting approximately 15 - 45 minutes per visit. During the first visit each subject will be provided with individualized targets for the number of calories to consume per day and associated macronutrient ratios (i.e. percent of calories from protein, fat, and carbohydrates). They will be asked to follow diet recommendations which emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy foods and reduced consumption of saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol along with whole grains, poultry, fish, and nuts. The obesity medicine doctor will prescribe calories. At each visit body weight and blood pressure will be assessed and recorded, and the medical doctor will review and discuss each subject's current diet, physical activity plan, body weight and blood pressure changes.

Health Coaching Visits:

Months 1-3: Following the initial baseline visit they receive weekly individualized video health coaching sessions through the video conference feature of the DiscoverHealth® app on your Apple iPhone® or Android® smart phone. These health coaching sessions will be separate video conferences with the research team's Health Coach (HC). During these sessions, they will receive weekly

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight loss
  - Blood Pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Video Conferencing Health Coaching with devices
  - BEHAVIORAL: Video Conferencing Health Coaching with no devices

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04201028
