CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05801081
Title: The Relationship Between Physical Activity Level and Reaction Time in University Students
Official Title: The Relationship Between Physical Activity Level and Reaction Time in University Students
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Reaction time, movement and total movement time are said to affect athletic performance.

The unit of time between giving a stimulus to the person and the beginning of the person's voluntary response to this stimulus is defined as the reaction time.

Recent studies have reported that reaction time may depend on gender differences, neuromuscular and neurophysiological factors, force production, structural and neural properties of muscles, and information processing speed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In recent studies, it has been reported that reaction time can be affected by parameters such as gender, neuromuscular and neurophysiological factors, force production, structural and neural properties of muscles, and information processing speed. Reaction time measurements are basically for two functions. The first of these is the situations that we encounter during traffic lights, sportive activities or daily life activities. The other is to measure the duration of mental activities such as processing the stimulus from the environment, making decisions, programming the reaction.

Physical activity is defined as all movements that require energy expenditure as a result of the use of skeletal muscles. Physical activity has positive effects on the development of muscle strength, balance, flexibility, posture, reaction time and motor skills. There is a complex relationship between physical activity and cognitive performance. Depending on the chosen cognitive task and the type of exercise, there is a change in cognitive load.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Nelson Hand Reaction Test
  - Reaction Time Measurement with Computer

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05801081
