CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03867435
Title: Assessing Clinical Endpoints and Biomarkers in Myotonic Dystrophy Type-1 and Type 2 (ASCEND-DM)
Official Title: Assessing Clinical Endpoints and Biomarkers in Myotonic Dystrophy Type-1 and Type 2
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Background:

Myotonic dystrophy is a long-term genetic disorder that affects muscle function. Symptoms include gradually worsening muscle loss and weakness. Muscles often contract and cannot relax. Researchers want to find out how various tests for DM1 or DM2 change over 2 years, to help them develop better tests for people with these diseases. Data and samples from this study will be shared with the Myotonic Dystrophy Clinical Research Network (DMCRN) investigators participating in the ongoing Establishing Biomarkers and Clinical Endpoints in Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 (ENDDM1) study

Objective:

To find better ways to assess how myotonic dystrophy type 1 or type 2 affects people.

Eligibility:

People ages 11 70 with DM1 or DM2

Design:

Participants will have 3 study visits over 2 years. Participants may be admitted to the clinic. Each visit may last up to a week and will include:

Medical history and physical exam

Blood, heart, and pregnancy tests

Questions about their disease

Breathing and muscle tests, including tests of movement, grip, and hand opening

Speech and swallowing exam

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Participants will lie on a table that slides into a cylinder.

A magnetic field and radio waves will take pictures of the body. They may do a task during the scan. They may have a dye injected.

Pictures of chemicals in the brain or muscle taken in an MRI scanner

Thinking and memory tests

Sleep studies. Electrodes placed on the scalp will record the electrical activity of the brain.

Other devices on the body will measure heartbeat, breathing, movement, and oxygen.

Tests of electrical activity of muscles. Participants move their arms and legs with disks stuck on their skin.

Visits may also include:

Exam by a physician expert in stomach and bowel disorders

A piece of muscle and/or spinal fluid removed by needle

Sponsoring Institute: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke

...

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective: Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) and type 2 (DM2) are the most common inherited skeletal myopathies in adults. RNA toxicity is the core disease mechanism, good molecular targets have been identified and there has been rapid progress in developing targeted therapies. However, incomplete characterization and limited biologic understanding of phenotypic heterogeneity, and lack of reliable clinical endpoints and biomarkers remain major obstacle in the road to therapeutic success in these diseases. The present study seeks to overcome these roadblocks building on previous work of the Myotonic Dystrophy Clinical Research Network (DMCRN) (14-N-0132 study) with the following added features: 1) larger DM1 cohort including 11 - 70 year old individuals; 2) including DM2 individuals, 3) longer study duration; 4) allowing validation of NIH custombuilt devices for longitudinal measurements; and 5) including non-muscle endpoints and biomarkers specifically respiratory and central nervous system (CNS) function, which are important for survival and quality of life. The goal of the current study is to prospectively assess the disease progression over 2 years in individuals with DM1 and DM2. Selected tests, imaging and patient-reported outcomes will be assessed for ability to quantify disease burden, detect disease progression and predict changes. Additionally, we will examine muscle and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) RNA alternative splice events as biomarkers of DM1 and DM2 severity and explore genetic modifiers of DM1 and DM2 severity by genome wide association (GWA) study.

Study population: This study plans to enroll up to 180 participants: 120 individuals with DM1 and 60 individuals with DM2 (open to both juvenile and adult individuals (11 to 70 years old, inclusive)) at the NIH Clinical Center.

Study Design: This will be a prospective observational study. No treatment will be administered as part of this study. Participants will receive standard of care as determined by their treating physician. Participants will report to the NIH Clinical Center for 3 visits each: at baseline (Visit 1), at 1-year from baseline (Visit 2), and at 2-years from baseline (Visit 3). To reduce fatigue and impact on results, each study visit be split into more than one trip to the NIH within a 30 day window) and may require the patient to be admitted to the clinical center. Each trip to the NIH for a study visit may last up to seven days. Study procedures for each visit are outlined in Section 4 and Appendix A. Data and samples will be shared with DMCRN investigators participating in Establishing Biomarkers and Clinical Endpoints in Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 (ENDDM1) study as indicated in Appendix B.

Outcome measures: No specific primary and secondary outcomes will be specified; however, the change in the following measures from baseline may be used to characterize the baseline status and disease progression over the course of the study: 1) muscle strength; 2) myotonia; 3) ha

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - to characterize baseline status and disease progression over two years in the handgrip strength by dynamometry of DM1 and DM2 patients.

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03867435
