CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02459561
Title: EndoBarrier TM Gastrointestinal Liner Diabetes Trial
Official Title: A Randomised Controlled Trial of a Duodenal Sleeve Bypass Device (EndoBarrier)Compared With Standard Medical Therapy for the Management of Obese Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 170
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The management of obesity is challenging and obesity surgery is by far the most effective treatment currently available. Recent medical research indicates that it also improves the management of blood glucose levels in people with type 2 diabetes. Obesity surgery carries different risks and benefits and it is important to balance these by choosing the right procedure for each patient. Therefore new effective strategies to prevent and reduce obesity and its complications such as type 2 diabetes mellitus are needed. This study is designed to see whether a new device called the EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner helps patients manage their blood sugar levels and lose weight. It is a randomised, placebo controlled trial which compares the potential of the EndoBarrier device with conventional drug therapy, diet and exercise for obesity related type 2 diabetes, and their effectiveness on metabolic state (HbA1c reduced by 20% and blood pressure below 135/85), weight loss, and quality of life. It will further evaluate whether any other conditions that may be related to obesity could become less severe and collect information about complications to determine the safety of the device. The study will also perform various measurements and tests to understand the underlying mechanism of the device. After an initial screening visit to determine patients eligibility, they will be invited for 14 subsequent visits. Patients will be randomised into either having the EndoBarrier device or standard medical therapy treatment for 12 months followed by another 12 months follow-up period. They will also be routinely seen by specialist dietitian who will provide dietetic support throughout the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients will be recruited via primary care and secondary care trusts. After an initial screening visit to determine subject's eligibility, they will be randomised to either the EndoBarrier or Control arm (conventional medical therapy including dietary counselling), and invited for 15 study visits over 24 months. The standard medical therapy drug titrations will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the American Diabetes Association. These guidelines have been chosen as they are applicable to an International audience and thus would adhere to the current best worldwide practice that would still be likely to be relevant when the results of this trial are published following study completion.

Patients will receive the intervention for 12 months and then be followed up for 12 months. They will be contacted via telephone in between visits to monitor any problems and boost motivation.

The main outcome of this study is to compare the EndoBarrier device with conventional medical therapy, diet and exercise for obesity related type 2 diabetes and their effectiveness on:

1. Metabolic state as defined by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) with an HbA1c \< 6% (or \< 42 mmol/mol) and a blood pressure \< 135/85mmHg
2. Absolute weight loss.

Patients will also be invited to participate in one of 3 sub-groups as part of the mechanistic studies (Group 1: functional MRI (fMRI), Group 2: insulin clamps or Group 3: food preference). Participation in the sub-studies is optional.

The following assessments will be performed at visit 1 (Screening Visit):

Informed consent, inclusion and exclusion criteria, demographics, medical history, physical examination, body measurements including height, weight and waist , vital signs, ECG, urine albumin-creatinine ratio, routine haematology and biochemistry, C13 urea breath test and urine pregnancy test, if applicable. Additional checks will be completed if the subject consents to take part in a sub-group mechanistic study.

Once all data including blood test results related to the screening have been obtained, the Investigator will review the subject's eligibility to continue in the trial. If the subject is eligible after this review, the subject will be randomised into one of the two study arms (EndoBarrier or Control).

Both groups will undergo the following measurements:

* Body weight and waist circumference, blood pressure, changes in illness and medication and adverse events will be checked at all visits.
* Blood samples will be obtained at 13 visits
* Urine albumin:creatinine ratio: urine samples will be collected at visit 3, 5, 8, 10 and 14
* Questionnaires (Health Economics) will be completed at visits 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 14.
* Dietary counselling: at visits 2, 4 (control arm only), 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, and 15 subjects will receive diet (either in groups or individually) by a qualified dietitian.

EndoBarrier group:

Visit 2 (- 4 weeks) will include dietary counselling with a dietitian, diet

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HbA1c reduced by 20%

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: EndoBarrier TM Gastrointestinal Liner
  - OTHER: Best Medical Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02459561
