CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03590158
Title: Time RestrIcted Feeding For Improving Diabetes Risk (TRIFFID)
Official Title: The Metabolic Impacts of Time-restricted Feeding in Men at High Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study will explore the effects of eight weeks of time-restricted feeding (TRF) on body weight and composition, glycaemic control, 24-hour glucose profiles, glucoregulatory hormones, and cardiovascular risk in men at high risk of type 2 diabetes. The investigators hypothesise that 8 weeks of TRF will reduce body weight, improve body composition, improve glycaemic control and blood lipid profiles. The potential mechanism will be explored in terms of the changes in gene expression patterns and multi-omics level (e.g., adipose tissue transcriptome, blood proteome).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Following a 2 week baseline monitoring phase (food intake by smartphone APP, activity by accelerometer, glucose by continuous glucose monitor), participants will attend the metabolic clinic for testing (visit 0). Body weight, body composition (by DEXA), and blood pressure will be assessed. Blood and adipose tissue samples will be collected over 24-hour period for assessment of glucose, insulin, glucoregulatory hormones, blood lipids and adipose tissue transcriptome. Glucose and insulin responses to a standardised breakfast will be measured. All food will be provided for 3 days prior to the metabolic visit. Following visit 0, participants will be instructed to eat only within a 10-hour time frame each day for 8 weeks. Participants may self-select the precise window that best suits their lifestyles, however any food and drink must be consumed at least 3 hours prior to their usual bedtime. 24-hour glucose profiles, activity and food intake will be measured again at week 6-8. At the end of the 8 weeks, participants will return for a follow-up metabolic visit, identical to that at visit 0, except foods are provided with the 10h time frame.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycaemia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: TRF

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 70 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03590158
