CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06004219
Title: Peer Support for Patients With Diabetic Foot Ulcers
Official Title: Peer Support in Patients With Diabetic Foot Ulceration
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The objective of the study is to develop a peer support program that helps improve ulcer care in patients with a diabetic foot ulcer (DFU).Diabetes, peripheral arterial disease (PAD), foot ulceration, and subsequent amputation are unevenly patterned in terms of racial/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, health insurance, and geographic area. The project will identify opportunities to reduce health disparities among economically marginalized patients regarding DFU outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Of the estimated 30 million people in the U.S. with diabetes, 34% will develop a DFU in their lifetime, and 50% of those with a DFU have concurrent PAD. Foot ulceration, which precedes 80% of amputations in diabetics, is associated with impaired physical function, reduced quality of life, and increased risk of death. Moreover, PAD, DFU, and subsequent major amputations are unevenly patterned in terms of racial/ethnic, SES, health insurance, and geographic status. More specifically, Black and Hispanic adults with an ischemic DFU have a higher prevalence of amputation than their White counterparts. The mechanisms of these observed disparities in amputation, beyond disease severity and comorbidities, are complex. However, evidence indicates that ulcer care (including wound care, diabetic shoe, offloading, and recognizing warning signs) is a significant challenge for low-income patients with an ischemic DFU. In addition, our team and other researchers have demonstrated how psychological, interpersonal, social, and healthcare system-level barriers limit appropriate ulcer and foot care. Furthermore, our qualitative data demonstrates a high rate of psychological and interpersonal factors to diabetic foot care that cannot be ignored. Clearly, there is a compelling need for innovative methods to improve DFU care that are based on health equity that led to diverse support. To address this gap, we propose a patient-centered and culturally tailored Peer-Pal Intervention (PPI) that helps promote ulcer care in patients with a DFU, while minimizing the burden placed on system resources.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - VascuQoL-6
  - VascuQoL-6
  - VascuQoL-6
  - PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System)
  - PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Peer counseling group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06004219
