CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04105647
Title: Lifestyle Modification Program for Lung Cancer Patients - A Pilot Study
Official Title: A Brief Messaging Lifestyle Modification Program for Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer - A Pilot Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Lung cancer is one of the most common cancer diseases, globally and locally. Several health benefits of increased physical activity (PA) have been reported for people with cancer. PA plays a critical role across the cancer trajectory, from prevention through to post-diagnosis and has been proposed as an alternative for improving physical and psychosocial health outcomes, reducing cancer recurrence, and cancer-specific and all-cause mortality.

Although there are a variety of exercise intervention programs for cancer patients, those programs werEQuite intensive, requiring individuals to commit extra time and effort. Feeling of overwhelmed appointments, lack of time, other barriers, includinGHigh cost and limited access to facilities are the most frequently reported barriers that prevent people from starting and maintaining exercise. Hence, the investigators propose to use a brief messaging lifestyle modification intervention program to incorporating simple and easy-to-do patient-centred home-based lifestyle-integrated exercise into daily activities of patients with lung cancer. The aims are to increase patients' physical activity and improve their fatigue, emotion and quality of life, compared to the control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lung cancer is one of the most common cancer, globally and locally. Patients with lung cancer are in a uniquely challenging situation in their disease, comorbidities, and treatment that may lead to worsened symptoms and many negative health consequences, including fatigue, irritability, and impaired daytime functioning.

Physical activity (PA) is defined as 'any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscle that results in energy expenditure'. Several health benefits of increased PA have been reported for people with cancer. PA plays a critical role across the cancer trajectory, from prevention through to post-diagnosis and has been proposed as an alternative for improving physical and psychosocial health outcomes, reducing cancer recurrence, and cancer-specific and all-cause mortality. Although there are a variety of exercise intervention programs for cancer patients, those programs werEQuite intensive, requiring individuals to commit extra time and effort. Most clinicians underutilise exercise therapy, regardless of its low-cost way to improve symptoms and potential health outcomes. Feeling of overwhelmed appointments, lack of time, other barriers, includinGHigh cost and limited access to facilities are the most frequently reported barriers that prevent people from starting and maintaining exercise. Low motivation, fear to exercise, lack of knowledge about benefits are the most common barriers of engaging in physical activity for cancer patients.

Hence, the current proposal is to use a brief messaging lifestyle modification intervention program to incorporating simple and easy-to-do patient-centred home-based lifestyle-integrated exercise (light to moderate physical activity) into daily activities of patients with lung cancer.

The investigators hypothesised that patients in the experimental group would display significantly higher increases in physical activity and improvements in fatigue, emotion and quality of life, compared to the control group.

The objectives are to examine the short-term clinical effects on impacts on fatigue, emotion and quality of life in patients with lung cancer, and to evaluate the feasibility of a brief lifestyle-integrated exercise program to increase physical activity by a pilot study with objective fitness and subjectivEQuestionnaire assessment, and focus group interviews.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in fatigue level at 6 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle-integrated exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Healthy living information

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04105647
