CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04099420
Title: Lifestyle, Self-medication and Use of Nutraceuticals in a Population of Italian and Spanish Students
Official Title: Differences in Behaviour Related to Dietary Habit, Self-medication and Nutraceuticals Use Among Italian and Spanish University Students: Relationship With Cardiovascular Risk Factors.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
University students are considered a population class with a high risk of malnutrition and/or obesity, metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, with a tendency to misuse drugs and self-medication.

The interest in a healthy diet can lead to a psychological obsession known as orthorexia, frequent among students in the biomedical field and in the sports context.

The high levels of stress recorded in university students have been related to the use of drugs to enhance their cognitive abilities. The phenomenon of self-medication is one of the main problems for public health, with high levels recorded among students of health professions.

A high adherence to the Mediterranean diet seems to brinGHealth benefits, with an impact even on the intestinal microbiota composition. Although several studies have investigated the effect of the Mediterranean diet on intestinal microbiota, little attention has been paid to the effect of this diet on the oral microbiota, one of the most relevant microbial habitats from a clinical point of view.

The aim of this study is to evaluate self-medication, adherence to the Mediterranean diet, the relationship between lifestyle and biomarkers of the metabolic and immunological status, and impact of eatinGHabits on the oral microbiota composition.

Students, doctoral students, post-docs and specialists in the biomedical and pharmaceutical fields will be recruited in Italy (N = 200) and in Spain (N = 200). Data will be collected through questionnaires in order to evaluate self-medication, eatinGHabits, level of physical activity, orthorexia and lifestyle of the subjects. The entire group will be evaluated with clinical parameters of metabolic status and thEQuality of saliva and urine. The latter will be determining factors for the selection of 50 Italian and 50 Spanish students, on which parameters of immunological and antioxidant status, cortisol, urinary phenols, and the composition of the oral microbiota will be evaluated.

Italian and Spanish students may have different eatinGHabits and lifestyles. It is assumed that subjects with high adherence to the Mediterranean diet have a better metabolic and immunological status. Moreover, high rates of orthorexia are expected among students who practice sports. The composition of the oral microbiota could vary depending on the type of diet and consistently with the immunological status markers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Young people are considered a population at risk of nutritional deficiencies due to bad eatinGHabits, found especially among university students. In fact, the latter tend to change their eatinGHabits when they begin their university studies, with adherence to a typically western diet that includes low consumption of fish, fruit and vegetables, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids, and an increase in consumption of sugars, alcohol and "fast food", with the consequent increase in this population class of the risk of malnutrition and/or obesity, metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. These changes are due to the lack of experience in meal planning, with a consequent increase in the frequency of meals away from home, to the increase in the number of snacks or meals skipped to respect the timetable of the lessons, to the easier access to the fast food and limited economic resources. Among the unhealthy behaviors adopted by the students, in addition to the wrong eatinGHabits, there are also reduced physical activity, increased sedentariness, alcohol consumption and smoking.

Over the past 20 years there has been an increase in obesity rates among university students who, especially for medical students, are closely related to specific habits such as: skipping breakfast, attending fast food, low fruit and vegetables consumption, and easy access to unhealthy foods from the machines. Among the freshmen, especially those who live far from families and find themselves independent for the first time in their lives, higher rates of weight gain and higher levels of stress have been reported, responsible for changes in food choices. In fact, to control stress levels, individuals are encouraged to prefer foods that are high in fat. Therefore, university students should be seen as a group that requires special attention regardinGHealth promotion, especially food.

However, the interest in a healthy diet can lead to a psychological obsession known as orthorexia (ortho = just, oreksis = appetite), which consists in the persistent concern of maintaining the self-imposed diet to improve one's health. Nutritionists/dieticians and students are the categories of population most affected by orthorexia, with a prevalence in Italian nutrition science students of 35.9%. The typical behaviors of orthorexia can be associated with a negative image of one's own body, despite the subject's strong interest in appropriate and healthy food choices. However, as a result of extreme restriction/concern over one's diet, orthorhexics would tend to eliminate whole groups of foods with consequent nutritional deficiencies, malnutrition and weight loss. Furthermore, the typical eating behavior of orthoressia is associated with intense physical activity, suggesting that students who practice sports have a greater tendency to develop this disorder.

The high levels of stress recorded in university students were also related to the use of smart drugs and "smart nutrients", which

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Compare the prescription of drugs in Italian and Spanish university students
  - Compare the use of alcohol in Italian and Spanish university students
  - Compare the use of energy drinks in Italian and Spanish university students
  - Compare the use of supplements, dietary products and/or other types of nutraceuticals in Italian and Spanish university students
  - Compare the adherence to the Mediterranean diet in Italian and Spanish university students

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04099420
