CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05465057
Title: "HIIT Med Kiloene".
Official Title: "HIIT Med Kiloene" Investigating the Physical, Metabolic, and Psychosocial Effects of High-intensity Interval Training (HIIT) in Childhood Obesity
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 172
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
In Denmark, 15% of children are overweight and 5% obese. Obese children and adolescents have several metabolic complications, such as pre-diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and excess fat deposition in liver, already at a young age. In addition, obese children suffer from psychological issues such as low quality of life and anxiety. These findings underline the need for effective treatment strategies to eliminate the development of obesity-related complications.

We will conduct a two-study project in order to investigate the effect of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) and lifestyle intervention in obese children and adolescents on several metabolic risk factors and psychological problems.

Study 1 is a randomized controlled study including 150 obese children and adolescents recruited from the municipal obesity clinics in Northern Jutland. Study 1 will examine the value of a group based HIIT intervention in the children's local environment and investigate the association between HIIT and psychosocial wellbeing.

Study 2 is a randomized controlled study including 60 severe obese children and adolescents recruited from Videnscenter for Børn og Unge med Overvægt (VIBUO) at Aalborg University Hospital. Study 2 investigates the effect of HIIT and lifestyle intervention on metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors.

In both studies, the children and adolescents are 9-16 years old and will be randomized to lifestyle guidance or a combination of HIIT and lifestyle guidance for 3 months, both followed by 9 months of lifestyle guidance only.

Our primary goal is to show the efficacy of HIIT and facilitate the establishment of permanent targeted training propositions for obese children and adolescents with local anchoring in the municipalities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Purpose:

We will conduct a two-study project in order to investigate the effect of High-intensity interval training (HIIT) and lifestyle intervention in obese children and adolescents on several metabolic risk factors and psychological problems. Moreover, we wish to facilitate the establishment of permanent targeted training propositions for children and adolescents with obesity with local anchoring in the municipalities. Hereby, enhance and maintain the engagement of an active lifestyle throughout adolescence.

Study 1 will examine the value of a group based HIIT intervention in the children's local environment in addition to a validated lifestyle intervention protocol and investigate the association between HIIT, physical activity and quality of life. Moreover, we wish to investigate the applicability and adherence of the HIIT program in a community-based setting.

Study 2 will investigate the effect of a combined HIIT and validated lifestyle intervention on ectopic fat deposition, insulin sensitivity, inflammation, and muscle microvascular function in children with severe obesity. This study will give us a better understanding of the interplay between important components of the pathophysiology of obesity-related complications and the possible positive effects of HIIT intervention.

Background:

Treatment of childhood obesity Through the past 30 years, several studies have been conducted with various types of lifestyle interventions focusing on dietary modifications, increased psychical activity and behavioral therapy. A Cochrane Review from 2019, showed a significantly better result by multidisciplinary family-based intervention, who combined all three elements.

In Denmark an approach in obesity treatment, developed at The Children's Obesity Clinic, Regional Hospital Holbæk is commonly used.This method described in The Children's Obesity Clinic´s Treatment (TCOCT) protocol has shown positive results in both obtaining and maintaining weight loss in children with obesity. The treatment comprises a lifestyle intervention targeting all aspects of everyday life, incl. guidance on diet, physical activity, sleep, screen time, and social problems. However, training intervention is currently not part of the standard obesity treatment program offered to the majority of children with obesity in Denmark. In fact, no prior Danish study has examined the effects of HIIT, in combination with lifestyle intervention, on physiological and mental health in a large cohort of children and adolescents with obesity.

High-intensity interval training. High-intensity interval training is defined as intermittent exercise periods with intensities reaching 90-95% of maximal heart rate. Several studies show that HIIT induces weight reduction, cardiovascular health and quality of life. Obese children and adolescents are often discouraged from participating in sports, because of previous bad experiences and defeats. Therefore, a specialized group-based training set-up, wh

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in BMI and BMI z-score from baseline and 3 and 12-month follow-up between children randomized to either the HIIT+ lifestyle intervention (TCOCT) group or the lifestyle intervention (TCOCT) group.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High intensity interval training (HIIT) + lifestyle intervention (TCOCT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle intervention (TCOCT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05465057
