CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06449456
Title: Exercise Capacity, Physical Fitness, and Physical Activity Levels in Children With CAH
Official Title: A Comparison of Exercise Capacity, Muscle Functions, Physical Fitness, and Physical Activity Levels in Children With Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia and Healthy Controls
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Congenital Adrenal Hyperplesia (CAH) is a group of automosal recessive disorders that develop due to a deficiency of one of the five enyzmes necessary for cortisol synthesis in the adrenal cortex. Research indicates a predisposition in children and adolescents with CAH towards adverse metabolic changes such as obesity, hypertension, insulin resistance and increased intima-media thickness. This study aims to compare the extent to which children and adolescents with CAH are effected in terms of respiratory and peripheral muscle strength, exercise capasity, physical fitness and physical activity levels compared o their matched healthy individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is a group of autosomal recessive diseases caused by the deficiency of one of the five enzymes necessary for cortisol synthesis in the adrenal cortex. Dysfunction in cortisol synthesis, as seen in other enzyme deficiencies, leads to an increase in adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion, resulting in hypertension and hypokalemia. Additionally, patients with CAH exhibit excess androgens alongside cortisol deficiency. İn CAH treatment, glucocorticoids are used to suppress androgen production in the adrenal cortex. Deficiency in glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids, as well as excess androgens, can contribute to the development of adverse metabolic and cardiovascular anomalies.

Ongoing research has revealed a predisposition for adverse metabolic changes in children and adolescents with CAH, including obesity, hypertension, insulin resistance, and increased intima-media thickness, which can increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease in adulthood. Furthermore, subclinical left ventricular diastolic dysfunction has been observed in adolescents with CAH. İn these patients, due to the deficiency of epinephrine there is an increased tendency for hypoglycemia under stress conditions.

These metabolic changes can lead to impaired exercise performance in patients with CAH, consequently affecting their quality of life.

A study involving twenty classic CAH adolescents and twenty healthy counterparts demonstrated that classic CAH patients exhibited reduced exercise capacity with lower peak workload and higher peak systolic blood pressure during exercise. However, there is a lack of research in the literature comparing respiratory and peripheral muscle strength, daily life activities, physical fitness, and levels of physical activity in children and adolescents with CAH to their healthy peers.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Respiratory Muscle Strength
  - Peripheral Muscle Strength
  - Physical Fitness Level
  - Functional Exercise Capacity
  - Physical Activity Level

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06449456
