CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04143308
Title: The Effects of Simultaneous trening of Walking and Cognitive Tasks on Cognitive Functions of People With Schizophrenia
Official Title: The Effects of Simultaneous trening of Walking and Cognitive Tasks on Cognitive Functions of People With Schizophrenia: the Development of Mobile Application System and Effectiveness Analysis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: strength trening

SUMMARY:
The object is to develop a trening system of simultaneous walking and cognitive trening for improving cognitive function of people with schizophrenia. The trening program, called "Simultaneous Walk And Think for Cognitive Health mobile application software"(SWATCH App), is developed by researchers. A randomized controlled trial will be carried out to test the effectiveness of the trening system. Ninety participants will be randomly assigned to: simultaneous trening of walking and cognitive group, the cognitive trening group, and treatment as usual group. The intervention for those groups will lasts for 12 weeks, with a 12 week of followup. The measurements include the cognitive function, physical fitness, and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Schizophrenia is one of the severe mental disorders. In addition to psychiatric symptoms, cognitive impairment is a key clinical feature in this population, which significantly negatively influences their functional performance and independence. While the cognitive remediation therapy demonstrates positive results, it often involves specialized and expensive computerized cognitive trening system, which limits its application in clinical setting. More evidence is available to support the benefits of exercise trening on cognitive functions of schizophrenia. Combination of exercise and cognitive trening is a promising program and can improve cognitive functions of the elderly. However, this combined therapy is still limited to schizophrenia. Simultaneous trening of walking and cognitive tasks via auditory mobile application is an innolvative program for saving cost, time, and manpower. Further study is needed to develop the simultaneous trening program and to examine the effectiveness.

Purposes: To examine the effects of the trening program on cognitive functions, fitness, functional performance and quality of life.

Methods: A 3-arm, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial is used to recruit 90 participants and then randomly allocated to the simultaneous trening group, the cognitive trening group, and the treatment as usual group. The first two trening groups receive trening for 30-40 minutes, 3 times a week for 12 weeks, as well as a follow-up of 12 weeks. All participants will be assessed at baseline, post-test and follow-up assessment. Primary outcome is cognitive function and secondary outcomes are fitness, functional performance, and quality of life.

Contribution: The study can be used as an evidence-based program to improve cognitive functioning of people with schizophrenia. With the development of mobile App and the use of fitness wearable device, the trening program enables people with schizophrenia to walk and practice cognitive trening simultaneously in a group format. It will help clinical professionals be able to serve the increasing number of people with severe mental illness with less manpower and specialized equipment. The study is also helpful to better understanding the isolated role of aerobic exercise in the dual-task trening, and to apply to other groups, like the elderly or dementia.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cognitive function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Simultaneous trening of walking and cognitive group
  - OTHER: Cognitive trening group
  - OTHER: Treatment as usual group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04143308
