CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06049251
Title: ELDOA Technique Versus Lumbar SNAGS With Motor Control Exercises
Official Title: Effects of ELDOA Technique Versus Lumbar SNAGS With Motor Control Exercises on Pain, Function and Mobility in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Study will be a Randomized clinical trial to check the effects of ELDOA technique versus lumbar SNAGS with motor control exercises on pain, function and mobility in patients with chronic low back pain. Duration of study will be 8 months, non probability convenience sampling technique will be used, subject following eligibility criteria from District Headquarters Hospital Okara will be randomly allocated in two groups using computer random number generator. baseline assessment will be done. Group A participants will be given baseline treatment along with ELDOA exercises, Group B participants will be given baseline treatment along with Lumbar SNAGS and motor control exercises for 3 weeks. Assessment will be done by using Numeric Pain Rating Scale, Oswestry Disability Index and Inclinometer at baseline, at 3 weeks and a follow up will be taken at 6 weeks. 3 sessions per week will be given, data will be analyzed by using SPSS version 21.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
LBP is a significant global health problem, and its impact is still great. In 2019, there were 6972.5 (95% UI 6190.5 to 7860.5) age-standardized point prevalence estimates for LBP worldwide, with 568.4 million (95% UI 505.0 to 640.6 million) prevalent cases. The GBD research also revealed that LBP has a worldwide point prevalence of 9.4%, with men having a greater prevalence than women (8.7% vs. 10.1%). Back discomfort might arise as a result of mobility disorders, musculoskeletal sprains, incorrect spine positioning, or nucleus pulposus degeneration. There is huge literature regarding the management of low back pain and yet after the decades of research there are gaps in treatment options. The current study will compare the ELDOA technique to Lumbar SNAGS with motor control exercises. The current study is novel in a way that there is very limited evidence avialbale on ELDOA Technique and Motor Control Exercises. This study will provide vital insights into their efficacy and can help to guide clinical decision making for individuals with low back pain. Furthermore, this study can add to the expanding body of information regarding low back pain treatment and will help to improve patient outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric Pain Rating Scale
  - Oswestry Disability Index
  - Inclinometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: ELDOA exercises
  - OTHER: Lumbar SNAGS and motor control exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06049251
