CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02794519
Title: A Phase 2a Study to Evaluate the Effects of Sirukumab in Subjects With Severe Poorly Controlled Asthma
Official Title: 205076: A Phase II, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind (Sponsor-unblind), Placebo- Controlled, Parallel Group Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Sirukumab in Subjects With Severe, Poorly Controlled Asthma
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Sirukumab is a fully human anti interleukin (IL)-6 immunoglobulin G1-kappa monoclonal antibody (MAb) which is in development for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The continuing unmet need in subjects with asthma refractory to corticosteroid therapy and increased understanding of asthma pathogenesis have stimulated the development of targeted biologics based on predictive biomarkers. The majority of approaches to date have targeted T Helper 2 (Th2) cytokines or their downstream effects. Targeting IL-6 in severe asthma represents an unprecedented approach that has potential to address non-Th2 drivers of severe asthma. This multicenter, randomized, double-blind (sponsor-unblind), placebo-controlled, parallel group study will investigate the efficacy of sirukumab compared to placebo in subjects having uncontrolled severe asthma despite use of high dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in combination with long-acting Beta-agonist (LABA). The study will employ a variable treatment period for individual subjects. Dosing will continue every 4 weeks until week 44 (inclusive), or until 24 weeks after the final subject has been randomized, whichever the sooner. Upon receiving the final dose of study medicine or placebo, subjects will enter a 16 week Follow Up period. Overall, the duration of participation for subjects who complete the full 44-week treatment period and Follow Up period may be up to 64 weeks. Approximately 175 subjects will be randomized such that 140 evaluable subjects complete the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Asthma Control Questionnaire-7 (ACQ-7) at Week 24

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Sirukumab
  - DRUG: Placebo
  - DRUG: Rescue medication

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02794519
