CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05884138
Title: Effect of Essential Aminoacid Supplementation and Exercise on Skeletal Muscle Function in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial to Analyze the Effects of Essential Aminoacid Supplementation and Exercise on the Improvement of Skeletal Muscle Function in Hemodialysis Patients
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia can be easily observed in patients with hemodialysis. However, there were few studies on the precise concept and diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia in patients with hemodialysis. The investigators have already recognized the sarcopenia-associated mortality and morbidity in patients with hemodialysis. However, intervention studies on hemodialysis patients with sarcopenia have not been conducted until now. In 2021, the investigators conducted a pilot study to evaluate the effectiveness of the combined exercise and nutrition intervention for sarcopenia in patients with hemodialysis to confirm the effectiveness. This study is a follow-up study, conducted as a randomized controlled trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective, 1:1 randomized controlled study with 40 patients with hemodialysis who were diagnosed as sarcopenia or frailty in our previous cohort study. Combined intervention will consist of resistance exercise and nutritional supplementation for 12 weeks. The primary outcome of this study is muscle mass and handgrip strength after 12 weeks' intervention. All functional outcomes will be measured at 0, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after intervention. The data will be analysed using the intention-to-treat principle.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Handgrip strength in Kg using a portable dyanometer
  - Body composition using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
  - Body composition using body composition monitor (BCM)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercise and nutritional support

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05884138
