CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01864460
Title: Improving Autonomic Function and Balance in Diabetic Neuropathy
Official Title: Improving Autonomic Function and Balance in Diabetic Neuropathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 61
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Type 2 diabetes (DM2) affects nearly 20 million people in the United States while impaired glucose regulation (IGR), which includes impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), impaired fasting glucose (IFG), and early diabetes affects a considerably larger but unknown population group. At the current time there is no effective therapy to completely prevent, or reverse neuropathy associated with IGR and this represents a considerable challenge in rehabilitation. There is a particularly strong incentive to prevent IGT and related complications from advancing to DM2. IGR is a growing problem among all older adults and its strong association with many functional limitations, particularly mobility limitations, is not always recognized, even though diabetes-related disability occurs in up to 2/3 of older adults with diabetes and is associated with dependency, poor quality of life, and increased acute and long-term care utilization.

Autonomic dysfunction is a significant problem in subjects with IGT. The Preliminary Data shows that over 90% of subjects with IGT have an abnormal score on questionnaires about autonomic symptoms such as lightheadedness, dry mouth or dry eyes, pale or blue feet, feet that are colder than the rest of the body, decreased sweating in the feet or increased sweating in the hands, nausea or bloating after eating, persistent diarrhea or constipation, or leaking of urine. In addition, patients with IGR have impaired balance control. These factors can increase the risk of falls in affected subjects. A non-randomized and non-controlled study showed that a diet and exercise intervention in patients with diabetes led to an overall improvement in autonomic function. Furthermore, it was shown that standing balance can be improved with a balance intervention program.

However, there are no published studies that assess the effect of an intense physical activity intervention on autonomic function in IGR related neuropathy. This study will test an aerobic exercise and balance intervention in participants with IGR. The investigators will examine if an individually tailored, carefully monitored, Diet, Physical Activity, and Balance Enhancement Program (DPAEP) can improve autonomic function and balance control when compared to patients who receive standard care. Improving balance control and autonomic function can decrease the risk of falls and have a significant effect on the health of participants.

The research is also significant because it will test subjects either before they become diabetic, or at an early stage in their diabetes, thus enhancing the chance of reversing the autonomic neuropathy or balance impairment. Furthermore, the study is designed to test whether improvement in autonomic function and balance is associated with improvement in clinical outcomes, quality of life, and the metabolic state of participants. Thus, the proposed interventions are likely to have a real life impact on participants and their health.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In this proposed study, investigators will determine if an intense, individually tailored, carefully monitored, Diet, Physical Activity and Balance Enhancement Program (DPAEP) can improve autonomic function and balance and other measures of autonomic and balance control. In contrast, the primary and secondary and other efficacy measures will be compared in standard care controls (SC) who will receive general diet and physical activity information. The "Improving Autonomic Function and Balance in Diabetic Neuropathy" study is a single blinded, randomized study to determine if an intensive diet and exercise program improves autonomic function and balance. Following baseline testing, participants are randomized to either DPAEP or SC groups. DPAEP participants will receive an intensive physical activity enhancement program with a focus on aerobic activity and a balance program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Autonomic Function: heart rate variability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: lifestyle modification

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01864460
