CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07331662
Title: Intercostal and Thoracic Cage Stretching on Chest Expansion , Dyspnea ,Oxygen Saturation in Asthma
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Intercostal and Thoracic Cage Stretching on Chest Expansion, Dyspnea, Oxygen Saturation in Asthma Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 56
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The rationale of this study is to clarify distinct role of these two stretching techniques in pulmonary rehabilitation. Insight gained from this research could provide evidence based recommendations for implementing these therapeutic approaches, aiming to optimize symptoms in asthma patients. so improved respiratory function and muscular flexibility can empower individuals with asthma to better manage their condition, weakening of muscles, airflow obstruction , reduce the effort required for daily activities and engage more fully in physical and everyday tasks thereby enhancing overall quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder characterized by the inflammation and constriction of the airways, resulting in recurrent episodes of wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing. This condition often results in the weakening and atrophy of muscles, particularly the key areas impacted include the respiratory muscles like intercostal muscles, muscles in the chest, shoulders, thoracic become weaker due to decreased physical activity. Stretching exercises can offer several benefits for individuals with asthma by improving overall lung function, enhancing muscle strength, and promoting relaxation. The objective of this study will be to evaluate the effects of intercostal and thoracic cage stretching on chest expansion, dyspnea, and oxygen saturation in asthma patients.

This study will be conducted as a randomized clinical trial with enrollment of 56 participants, that will divided equally into two groups. Group A will receive intercostal muscle stretching like lateral side bending stretch, torso rotational stretch, (4x\\week) or Group B will undergo thoracic cage stretching like overhead arm chest stretch, chest opener stretch,(4x\\week) .Study will be conducted for four weeks at sheikh zaid hospital Lahore, involving asthma patients both male and female. Key outcome measures will include chest expansion assessed using tape measure, dyspnea via Borg category scale, oxygen saturation via pulse oximeter. The non-probability convenient sampling technique, followed by random allocation using a lottery method ensure diverse yet unbiased sample. Pre, Post values will be noted. Data will be entered and analyzed by SPSS version 25 after checking normality of the data. Parametric and non-parametric test will be applied. Statistical significance will be set at P=0.05.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - chest expansion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: thoracic cage stretching
  - OTHER: intercostal stretching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07331662
