CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06763718
Title: Optimizing Fitness: Post Bariatric Surgery With Modified Qigong Breathing Exercise
Official Title: Optimizing Fitness: Post Bariatric Surgery With Modified Qigong Breathing Exercise
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Bariatric surgery has been reported to be the most effective treatment option for losing and maintaining body weight and improving comorbidities and mortality associated with morbid obesity. Nevertheless, even though physical activity is recommended to optimize bariatric surgery results. Very little is known, about whether engaging in an exercise program after surgery can provide additional improvement in health outcomes. While to date there are relatively few researches studied the effect of exercise in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery. This study was conducted to explore the influence of Modified Qigong Breathing Exercise on pulmonary function, endurance and fitness on post bariatric surgery patients.

Qigong as ancient Chinese traditional medicine have been documented to be effective in treating obesity. Literature showing that the desire to eat and the feeling of hunger, along with prospective food consumption in patients with obesity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Bariatric surgery has been reported to be the most effective treatment option for losing and maintaining body weight and improving comorbidities and mortality associated with morbid obesity. Nevertheless, even though physical activity is recommended to optimize bariatric surgery results. Very little is known, about whether engaging in an exercise program after surgery can provide additional improvement in health outcomes. While to date there are relatively few researches studied the effect of exercise in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery. This study was conducted to explore the influence of Modified Qigong Breathing Exercise on pulmonary function,endurance and fitness on post bariatric surgery patients.

Bariatric surgery has been reported to be the most effective treatment option for losing and maintaining body weight and improving comorbidities and mortality associated with morbid obesity. Nevertheless, even though physical activity is recommended to optimize bariatric surgery results. Very little is known, about whether engaging in an exercise program after surgery can provide additional improvement in health outcomes. While to date there are relatively few researches studied the effect of exercise in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery.

Qigong as ancient Chinese traditional medicine have been documented to be effective in treating obesity. Literature showing that the desire to eat and the feeling of hunger, along with prospective food consumption in patients with obesity .

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pulmonary function by (SP - electronic hand held spirometer)
  - Core endurance by McGill tests
  - Pulmonary function by (SP - electronic hand held spirometer)
  - Pulmonary function by (SP - electronic hand held spirometer)
  - Core endurance by McGill tests

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Modified Qigong Breathing Exercise
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06763718
