CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05028101
Title: The Impact of Functional Medicine On Wound Healing From Delayed Autologous Breast Reconstruction
Official Title: The Impact of Functional Medicine On Wound Healing From Delayed Autologous Breast Reconstruction - A Feasibility Study
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 7
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will examine if a functional medicine approach, delivered as an adjunct to standard of care, is feasible, safe, clinically beneficial and cost-effective for patients undergoing autologous breast reconstruction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Autologous microsurgical breast reconstruction is associated with a protracted recovery and a significant amount of opioid utilization. Many institutions have "Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS)" protocols that utilize multi-modality therapy to decrease opioid use, length of stay, hospital costs and expedite recovery. However, nutrition-based interventions used perioperatively are not currently part of ERAS protocols for surgical sub-specialties, including breast surgery despite ample literature that nutrition (with or without supplements) can improve surgical wound healing and other outcomes.

The functional medicine model of care expands upon the conventional medicine model of care by providing a unique operating system that works to reverse illness, promote health and optimize function. A foundation of functional medicine is the use of food as medicine to prevent, treat and reverse chronic disease. Dietary supplements are used as an adjunct to nutrition-based interventions. Dietitians support patients with implementing food plans, and health coaches support patients through lifestyle and behavioral changes focused on sleep, exercise and movement and stress reduction.

This study will examine the feasibility of implementing a functional medicine-based intervention focused on nutrition and lifestyle, and the ability of the intervention to improve wound healing and decrease various post-operative complications in patients undergoing autologous breast reconstruction.

All participants will be asked to attend study visits, complete questionnaires and have their blood drawn. Participants randomized to standard of care plus functional medicine will be asked to also follow a specific food plan, take specific dietary supplements, exercise and engage in stress reduction techniques for 3 months prior to and after surgery. The study duration is 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility defined by percent randomized.
  - Number of in-person visits completed.
  - Number of virtual visits completed.
  - Adherence to recommended dietary intervention.
  - Adherence to recommended lifestyle interventions.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Delayed autologous breast reconstruction
  - BEHAVIORAL: Perioperative Functional Medicine (FM) Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05028101
