CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05774119
Title: Effect of Coffee Consumption on Appetite Traits in Overweight and Obesity
Official Title: Effect of Coffee Consumption on Hunger, Satiety, and Appetite-regulating Hormones in Women With Overweight or Obesity
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The effect of coffee consumption on appetite is not clear, there are studies that show an effect on the regulation of energy intake, reducing hunger and/or increasing satiety. The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the effect of 6 mg/caffeine/kg of body weight on hunger, satiety, dietary intake, biochemical variables and ghrelin and cholecystokinin concentration in overweight and obese women.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Randomized crossover clinical trial to be realized in women between 20 and 40 years of age with overweight or obesity and apparently healthy who reside in the city of Guadalajara, Jalisco.

Their participation involves their attendance to 3 interventions, in the first one it is verified whether or not they meet the inclusion criteria, a clinical history is applied to take information on pathological history, clinical data, nutritional aspects, sociodemographic and lifestyle aspects and anthropometric measurements; then they are randomly assigned to the two types of interventions in the next two subsequent ones.

In the second and third interventions (with an interval of 7 days between them), participants will attend in the follicular phase of their menstrual cycle during the experiments to avoid variability in appetite.

They will arrive at the institute at 8 am after an overnight fast, consume a standard 400 kcal breakfast with a distribution of 55% carbohydrates, 30% lipids and 15% protein. along with 240 ml of coffee with 6 mg/caffeine/kg body weight or the same breakfast, but with 240 ml of water.

On an empty stomach and every 30 min during the 3 h following the consumption of breakfast with the beverage, the participants recorded their level of hunger, fullness, satiety, desire to eat and prospective consumption, desire to eat specific foods: sweet, salty, fatty, tasty, and sed through visual analog scales (VAS).

On an empty stomach, 30 minutes after consuming breakfast with the beverage and after 180 min, a blood sample will be taken from which serum will be obtained for glucose, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, VLDL cholesterol, triglycerides, ghrelin and cholecystokinin determinations.

In the first intervention, participants will be instructed to fill out a 24-hour reminder form to assess dietary intake, and will be asked to record all food and beverages consumed for 3 days prior to the two interventions. Participants will also be instructed to fill out a 24-hour post-breakfast reminder with or without coffee.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in ghrelin concentration
  - Change in cholecystokinin concentration
  - Change in dietary intake
  - Change in appetite feelings
  - Change in desire for specific types of food

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: breakfast with coffee
  - OTHER: breakfast with water

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05774119
