CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02990676
Title: Exploring Computerised Cognitive Training for People With Huntington's Disease
Official Title: Exploring Computerised Cognitive Training for People With Huntington's Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Cognitive impairments, especially deficits of executive function, have been well documented as a core and early feature in Huntington's disease (HD). Cognitive impairments can be considerably burdensome and devastating for people and families affected by HD. Computerised cognitive training interventions that focus on improving executive function present a potentially exciting non-pharmacological treatment option. Novel work conducted in mouse models of HD, has demonstrated that cognitive training, administered from an early stage in the disease, can improve motor performance at an older age, even in the absence of further training in the intervening time. This represents proof of principle in an animal model of HD that cognitive training can improve HD disease symptoms.

Improvements associated with executive function training have also been reported in a clinical setting in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. For example, cognitive training, can improve executive function as people age, and training specifically focused on tasks of executive function has been shown to improve both cognitive and motor outcomes in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, this study is a feasibility study which aims to establish proof of principle for using computerised cognitive training in people with HD. The investigators propose to determine the feasibility, acceptability and gather preliminary evidence of the effectiveness of a cognitive training intervention programme, targeted for people with HD. The investigators will also aim to investigate the most appropriate outcome measures to use in this study and gather feedback on the cognitive training intervention. The investigators will also establish proof of concept via the study of brain structure and function, using MRI scanning techniques.

The computerised cognitive training software and the associated outcome measures will be investigated, taking into account the views of people and families who are affected by HD. A randomised feasibility study of computerised cognitive training for people with HD will then be conducted. Participants who are randomised to the cognitive training intervention group will be asked to complete a cognitive training intervention utilising "HAPPYneuron" software. Participants in the intervention group will be asked to complete the cognitive training programme for a minimum of 30 minutes, 3 times a week for the 12 week study duration. Participants in the control group will not receive any cognitive training and will be asked to continue as normal, however they will have home visits to control for the confounding effect of social interaction. Additional monitoring and prompting for the intervention group, will be conducted via email, text or telephone reminders (as preferred by the participant) and home visits. The motor and cognitive function of participants will be assessed at the beginning and end of the study, using a range of motor and cognitive assessments. Additional cognitive measurements will be recorded as part of the HAPPYneuron programme throughout the cognitive training intervention, such as accuracy and response time measures of particular computer games. MRI scans (optional) will be conducted at the beginning and end of the study to identify any structural changes in the brain that may be associated with the cognitive training intervention. As part of the feasibility and acceptability assessment, participants, family members and carers will be invited to complete a semi-structured interview at the end of the study, if consent is obtained, focusing on using this type of software as a home based therapeutic intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Due to space constraints a more extensive description of the research study can be found in the study protocol.

1. Background and Rationale Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a CAG repeat trinucleotide expansion within the first exon of the huntingtin gene and causes a range of symptoms including motor, cognitive and psychiatric disturbances, which significantly affect daily activities, independence and quality of life, even during the early stages of the disease. Cognitive dysfunctions from early on in the HD disease process have been well documented and can include specific problems with attention, cognitive flexibility and memory. Indeed, difficulty sharing attention between more than one task has been demonstrated to be a specific and core deficit in HD.

   Cognitive training interventions, which focus on executive function, present a potentially exciting non-pharmacological treatment option for neurodegenerative diseases including HD. Studies in HD mice have previously demonstrated executive function impairments, including deficits in attention and subsequent studies have shown that cognitive training can benefit HD mice and prevent the onset of cognitive and motor disease symptoms. This work suggests that an early cognitive training intervention can have significant and long-lasting beneficial effects on HD symptoms. Although further systematic studies in mouse models of HD are required to inform the translational aspects of cognitive training interventions, these results provide important proof of principle evidence that cognitive training can provide benefit in mouse models of HD.

   Studies in human populations suggest that cognitive training, via repeatedly conducting tasks that require specific aspects of executive function such as attention, reasoning and memory, can improve cognitive function as people age. Computerised cognitive training studies have also been conducted in a number of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). These studies have found that computerised cognitive training that can improve cognition in PD and AD. However, a systematic literature review of Europe PubMed Central using the keywords, 'Huntington's disease' and 'cognitive training' or 'cognitive therapy' or 'brain training' or 'executive function training' conducted from the years 1950 to 2015, produced 2 results. A review on cognitive burden in HD and a paper on exercise in a mouse model of HD benefiting cognitive symptoms. Thus, the use of cognitive training in HD is a considerably under researched area and to our knowledge cognitive training is yet to be explored in HD. Therefore, feasibility studies, such as the one proposed in this application are crucial in trialing novel potential therapeutic interventions.

   The outcome measures used to determine patient benefit in cognitive training studies can vary significantly between studies. Furthermore, this is the first time that such an intervention

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants able to complete the feasibility study as measured by retention rate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Computerised cognitive training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02990676
