CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04677218
Title: Prospective Clinical Results of 3 Different Femoral Fixation in ACL Reconstruction
Official Title: Comparison of Clinical Results of Adjustable Femoral Loop With Three Different Techniques in Patients Who Underwent Arthroscopic ACL Reconstruction With Hamstring Autograft: A Prospective Randomised Clinical Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears are one of the most common injuries of the knee. In today's world, due to developing sports industry , the increase in sports traumas of both genders and ages ACL injuries and treatments are given major priority.

The success of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction depends on many factors, including the mechanical properties of the graft, positioning of the proper femoral and tibial tunnel, fixation methods and the postoperative rehabilitation.

The tendon grafts can be fixed on the femoral side using several fixation devices, including cortical suspension devices, cross pins, and interference screws. Femoral fixation via Cortical button in a suture loop provides the highest primary stability, and therefore, has become increasingly popular among orthopaedic surgeons. Adjustable and fixed Femoral cortical loops are commonly used for femoral fixation. In this sudy we aimed to compare clinical and functional outcomes of three different techniques of suspensory femoral fixation in ACL reconstruction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study has been planned as a prospective randomized clinical trial. We used a completely computer-generated list in order to randomize all participants to receive one of two treatments (www.random.org/sequences/).

Anterior Cruciate Ligament tear diagnosis will be made by physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging. Participants who agree to be enrolled to study will be examined one day prior to surgery. Patients are randomly divided into 3 groups, after tibial fixation of the hamstring autograft, 3 different techniques will be used in the femoral fixation phase.

The first group will be without knotting and retensioning the graft. In the second group, The graft will be retensioned after tibial fixation. In the third group femoral loop will be retensioned and knotted after tibial fixation.

All the surgeries will be performed by the same senior surgeon experienced in sports medicine surgery under regional anesthesia with patient in supine position.

All participants will receive a standard postoperative rehabilitation program starting immediately after surgery with closed chain exercises and quadriceps strengthening and walking. The operated lower extremity won't be placed in a brace and patient allowed for full weight walking with a pair of crutches.

Postoperative evaluations will be performed regularly at 12 months postoperatively . To assess knee stability, KT-1000 measurement will be applied to both extremities in each group and clinical scores ( lysholm knee score, IKDC ) will be measured.

Furthermore, to evaluate flexor and extensor muscle group around knee, isokinetic tests will be applied to patients in sitting position to analyse peak torque and total work done values.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Kt-1000 Stability
  - Isokinetic Knee tests

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic ACL reconstruction with retensioned hamstring autograft
  - PROCEDURE: Arthroscopic ACL reconstruction with retensioned and knotted hamstring autograft

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04677218
