CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04413240
Title: Telerehabilitation for Post-stroke Patients
Official Title: Clinical Efficacy and Cost-effectiveness of Telerehabilitation for Post-stroke Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
In the last few years, there has been an increasing shift towards outpatients setting in the care of patients with stroke. Unfortunately, this led to a high percentage of discharged patients who did not receive an adequate amount of rehabilitation, because of some non-clinical factors, such as resource availability, geographical location, age, and personal wealth. To date, there is growing evidence about the role of telerehabilitation as an effective method to deliver rehabilitative treatments to homebound subjects with no moving of therapists or patients. However, the most appropriate organizational models regarding Health Technology Assessment in telerehabilitation procedures still object of debate. On these bases, the aim of this project is to investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of multi-domains telerehabilitation procedures in stroke patients in order to supply the National Health Service with some useful information about the use of telerehabilitation in clinical practice of stroke rehabilitation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the last few years, due to limited resources, stroke patients hospitalization has been progressively shortened with the increasing shift of some rehabilitation procedures towards outpatient settings. This led to a high percentage of discharged patients who doesn't receive an adequate amount of rehabilitation. This was because of some non-clinical factors, such as resources availability, geographical location, age and personal wealth. Unfortunately, the benefits gained during inpatient rehabilitation are often not sustained in the long term. Thus stroke patients progressively decrease their activity level leading to functional deterioration. To face these difficulties, telerehabilitation may be useful to deliver rehabilitative treatments to homebound subjects with no moving of therapists or patients. To date some studies highlighted that rehabilitation delivered from-distance has similar results of face-to-face one, confirming that telerehabilitation may be effectively used to address the growing call for improving home care. Despite these observations, telerehabilitation is still few integrated into outpatients territorial rehabilitative practice. Furthermore, the current literature about telerehabilitation is mainly focused on a single domain of intervention (i.e. motor, cognitive, speech), with scant data about the impact of telerehabilitation on global disability. Finally, the cost-benefit ratio of telerehabilitation, compared to usual territorial rehabilitation or prolonged hospitalization, still objects of debate.

Preliminary Data:

Previous literature about telerehabilitation evidenced an improved upper limb motor function with positive interaction stroke patient-therapist. A previous RCT evidenced similar recovery of motor performances in stroke patients who received telerehabilitation compared to "face to face" treatment. Moreover, was highlighted that patients treated with telerehabilitation were able to have good management of the system and a good relationship with therapists. Recently was showed feasibility and effectiveness of speech telerehabilitation, applied to lexical deficits in chronic stroke patients as well as of cognitive telerehabilitation in people with mild cognitive impairment, with results similar to "face-to-face" treatment.

In a systematic review on motor telerehabilitation, was supported the equivalence of "face to face" and "from a distance" delivery of neuromotor rehabilitation, showing no difference as to the effect of telerehabilitation compared to other rehabilitative interventions in neurological diseases. Furthermore, within the framework of an EU FP7 project focused on Integrated Home Care, was performed a review on home care in stroke patients, evidencing relevant suggestions to plan telerehabilitation trials, in order to observe the expected effectiveness from a multi-domains point of view in clinical, financial and social perspectives.

A multi-domain Health Technology Assessment approach was set up b

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes at the Fugl-Meyer Assessment score between the time frame
  - Changes at the Aachener Aphasia Test score between the time frame
  - Changes at the Oxford Cognitive Screen score between the time frame

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Telerehabilitation
  - OTHER: Conventional rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04413240
