CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05761561
Title: Trial of Exercise and Lifestyle for Women With Ovarian and Endometrial Cancer
Official Title: Trial of Exercise and Lifestyle (TEAL) for Women With Ovarian and Endometrial Cancer
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
An anticipated 200 women with newly diagnosed ovarian and endometrial cancer scheduled to receive chemotherapy (adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery) will be recruited from Smilow Cancer Hospital Network at Yale Cancer Center (YCC) and Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center (SCCC) at University of Miami.

Participants will be randomized to an exercise and medical nutrition intervention arm with weekly counseling sessions throughout chemotherapy, or a control arm.

Study assessments will be conducted at baseline, post-chemotherapy/end of intervention and at 1-year post diagnosis. Women who are prescribed neoadjuvant therapy will have additional assessments prior to surgery.

Data required to calculate the primary endpoint (relative dose intensity of chemotherapy) will be abstracted from the medical record directly following each chemotherapy session.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
200 women with newly diagnosed ovarian or endometrial cancer scheduled to receive chemotherapy (adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery) will be recruited from Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale Cancer Center (YCC) and Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center (SCCC) at University of Miami. If women are interested and eligible, the study team will obtain consent and collect baseline data. Participants will be randomized to an exercise and medical nutrition intervention (18 weeks dependent on length of chemotherapy) or usual care throughout therapy. After the standard 6 cycles of chemotherapy (\~18 weeks), a post-chemotherapy/end of intervention visit will be conducted. Follow-up assessments will be at standard of care visits (12-months post-diagnosis). Data required to calculate the primary endpoint (relative dose intensity of chemotherapy) will be abstracted from the medical record directly following each chemotherapy session.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Chemotherapy completion rate (relative dose intensity)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise and medical nutrition

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05761561
