CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04644718
Title: The Effect of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation and Speech Language Therapy to Improve Language Functioning in Arabic Speakers With Aphasia Post-Stroke
Official Title: The Effect of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation and Speech Language Therapy to Improve Language Functioning in Arabic Speakers With Aphasia Post-Stroke
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The current planned study is a prospective randomized double-blind, sham-controlled, two parallel-groups, polycentric, phase-I superiority type of trial. Right-handed native Arabic-speaking patients with chronic aphasia post-stroke will be recruited from multiple in and outpatient rehabilitation centers in Saudi Arabia. All participants with aphasia that exceeds at least six months post onset with deficits in naming skills due to ischemic lesion or haemorrhage in the left cerebral hemisphere will be included. All participants will complete three consecutive phases: (i) baseline assessment, (ii) interventions (Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) with real tDCS or sham tDCS, and (iii) outcome testing (GACAT test).

The primary hypothesis predicts improvement in naming ability (object naming and action verb naming) and word fluency by combining SLT with anodal-tDCS (intervention group) compared to SLT combined with sham-tDCS (control group). Primary endpoint will be a 6-month follow-up, at which will be expected to show the effects of improvement in the language impairments. The secondary hypothesis predicts that anodal-tDCS will yield beneficial results in secondary outcomes measures compared to sham-tDCS. Secondary endpoint will be immediately post-treatment and a 12-month follow-up, and it will examine the consistency effect of long-term outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The current planned study is a prospective randomized double-blind, sham-controlled, two parallel-groups, polycentric, phase-I superiority type of trial.

Right-handed native Arabic-speaking patients with chronic aphasia post-stroke will be recruited from multiple in and outpatient rehabilitation centers in Saudi Arabia. All participants with aphasia that exceeds at least six months post onset with deficits in naming skills due to ischemic lesion or haemorrhage in the left cerebral hemisphere will be included. Aphasia type and severity will be determined using GACAT. The study protocol has been approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Saudi Arabia (IAU-IRB -2020-03-112). Written consent forms will be obtained from all participants or from their family members. All study procedures will be conducted in accordance with the current version of Declaration of Helsinki.

All participants will complete three consecutive phases: (i) baseline assessment, (ii) interventions (Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) with real tDCS or sham tDCS, and (iii) outcome testing (GACAT test). During the first week, each participant will complete GACAT as the first round of the outcome measures as pre-testing before starting SLT. The participant then will complete six consecutive weeks of SLT accompanied with either real tDCS or sham tDCS. Each session starts with 20 minutes of tDCS followed by the SLT program. Once the combined therapeutic intervention is completed, the participant will complete round 2 of outcome testing GACAT. Aphasia assessments will include full implementation of eight subtests of GACAT, whenever possible. For illiterate individuals with aphasia, four to sex subtests will be implemented. SLT will be customized and tailored to the patients' needs based on baseline assessment. Naming ability will be evaluated during two baseline assessments using GACAT that includes a naming of objects, naming of actions, and word fluency (n = 58). The pictures will be presented in random order on a laptop computer split into six sets with short breaks in between. Patients will be asked to name each picture as accurately as possible. Responses will be recorded and subsequently analyzed based on the ﬁrst valid response. The first up to thirty pictures that will not be named correctly during both assessments will be selected for each patient and trained during therapy (trained items). Those items only comprised non responses, unrelated semantic errors, phonologically unrelated errors and neologisms. Minor articulatory errors due to mild apraxia of speech will not be scored as errors during any of the assessments. The purpose of speech therapy sessions will be to have the participant generate nouns and verbs in written and verbal forms. The remaining pictures, except correct responses, will be used to choose another 30 items (untrained items) and serve to assess transfer effects, these may include: omissions, semantic and p

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - GACAT (Naming noun, Naming action, Word fluency, and Sentence production) are assessing change.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04644718
