CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00957528
Title: Cycled Testosterone Replacement Study
Official Title: The Effects of Cyclic Testosterone Administration on Muscle Function in Older Individuals
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine whether testosterone (male hormone) therapy is effective if administered in a cyclic fashion (periodic dosing) compared to continuous dosing in men aged 60 to 85 years. Effectiveness will be determined based on improvements in body composition, muscle metabolism, muscle strength, and bone metabolism.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Men and women undergo a progressive reduction in lean muscle mass (sarcopenia) with advancing age regardless of their level of physical activity. A 12-yr longitudinal study in healthy sedentary older men showed a correlation between loss of muscle cross-sectional area and muscle strength of the thigh, quadriceps, and flexor muscles. Once weakened, older individuals are prone to falls that prevent independent living and diminish the quality of life. There is a need to develop therapies to counteract losses in skeletal muscle strength with aging. Studies show that exercise and testosterone administration increase skeletal muscle mass and strength in older men. However, the increase in muscle strength by testosterone in older men has not been consistent in all studies. Androgens increase muscle mass by either increasing muscle protein synthesis or inhibiting muscle protein breakdown. This proposal will investigate the hypothesis that cyclic testosterone administration (monthly on/off cycles) will preferentially increase muscle protein synthesis and result in a consistent and greater improvement in muscle strength than continuous testosterone administration.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Basal Muscle Protein Synthesis and Breakdown as Measured by Stable Isotope Metabolic Studies at Baseline and at Five Months
  - Changes in Muscle Strength as Measured by Maximal Voluntary Contraction Tests (Arm Curl) at Baseline, One Month, Two Months, Three Months, Four Months, and at Five Months
  - Changes in Lean Body Mass as Measured by Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 85 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00957528
