CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06946758
Title: The Effects of Aerobic Exercise Combined With Core Stabilisation Training on Functional Capacity, Physical Performance and Fall Risk in Geriatric Individuals With Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Official Title: The Effects of Aerobic Exercise Combined With Core Stabilisation Training on Functional Capacity, Physical Performance and Fall Risk in Geriatric Individuals With Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to evaluate the effects of aerobic exercise combined with core stabilisation training (CSE) in elderly individuals with chronic non-specific low back pain (CNSBP). The effects on functional capacity, quality of life, fall risk, functional status and physical performance will be investigated. Core stabilisation exercises will be applied to both groups. The aerobic exercise intervention group will receive aerobic exercise in addition to core stabilisation exercises. The evaluations will be performed before and after the treatment and the treatment is planned for 3 days a week for 8 weeks. The 6-minute walk test (6MWT) will be used to assess functional capacity, Visual Analogue Scale will be used to assess pain intensity, Oswestry Scale will be used to assess functional status in terms of low back pain, Biodex balance device will be used to assess fall risk, Beck Depression Scale will be used to assess depression, Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale will be used to assess kinesiophobia.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Ageing is associated with a decrease in physiological and functional capacities and quality of life. Guidelines recommend at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity per week and muscle-strengthening activities at least two days per week. With increasing life expectancy, the risk of major health problems affecting the health and well-being of older adults, such as cardiovascular disease and non-communicable diseases related to inactivity, such as diabetes, cognitive decline and poor mental health, is increasing. Considering the problems accompanying low back pain in elderly individuals, regular aerobic exercise at a moderate pace will have a positive effect on quality of life. Aerobic exercises such as walking and swimming can maintain and improve cardiovascular fitness while providing an effective treatment for various chronic and acute diseases ranging from cardiovascular disease to thrombo-embolic stroke, hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, obesity, colon cancer, breast cancer, anxiety and depression . Regular light-paced aerobic exercise is a well-established protective factor for the prevention and treatment of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, stroke, diabetes, as well as some types of cancer such as breast and colon cancer. In the literature, it has been reported that static stabilisation exercises, dynamic exercises, a general exercise programme including a combination of muscle strength, flexibility and aerobic fitness, progressive aerobic exercise and progressive resistance exercise are effective in chronic nonspecific low back pain and that static stabilisation exercises and dynamic exercises are effective on functional status in addition to pain. Although it is generally reported that aerobic exercise is effective in patients with NSBA, there is no clear information in the literature about which exercise methods are more effective in the treatment of NSBA. In addition, many factors such as compliance of the patient population, education, and social status may affect the type of exercise that can be applied. Therefore, it is important to compare the recommended exercise protocols with various exercise programmes.

In this context, the aim of investigators study was to evaluate the effects of aerobic exercises combined with core exercises on functional status and physical performance in geriatric individuals with chronic non-specific low back pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Severity
  - Disability
  - Risk of fall

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core stabilization exercises
  - OTHER: Aerobic Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 84 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06946758
