CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05491577
Title: Factors Associated With an Evolution in the Quality of Life of Diabetic Patients With Chronic, Wound-free Charcot Foot
Official Title: Factors Associated With Quality of Life Outcomes in Diabetic Patients With Chronic Wound-free Charcot Foot
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Charcot foot, characterized by progressive destructive damage to bone, soft tissue and tendons, involving joint dislocation in the ankle and foot, is a complication of diabetes that is still poorly understood by patients and caregivers. The clinical signs are non-specific and it is therefore largely underestimated due to a delay in diagnosis/lack of diagnosis.This study will be on a prospective multicenter cohort of patients with chronic Charcot's foot in France to evaluate the evolution of quality of life at 2 years, as well as predictive factors in order to better identify subjects with the worst outcome among this population.

Our hypothesis is that, in patients with chronic Charcot foot, the deterioration in quality of life over time is primarily related to loss of foot and ankle functionality, foot and ankle deformity and the presence of foot wounds/comorbidities/severe diabetic complications.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease, representing a major public health problem. An estimated 537 million people have diabetes. Charcot foot, also known as neurogenic osteoarthropathy (NAO), is one of the complications of diabetes secondary to diabetic neuropathy. It is characterized by progressive destructive damage to bone, soft tissue and tendons, involving joint dislocation in the ankle and foot. Charcot foot is a complication of diabetes that is still poorly understood by patients and caregivers, with non-specific clinical signs. It is therefore largely underestimated, since it is estimated that there is a delay in diagnosis or a lack of diagnosis in approximately 25% of cases.

The objective of our study is to conduct a prospective multicenter cohort of patients with chronic Charcot's foot in France in order to evaluate the evolution of the quality of life at 2 years, as well as its predictive factors. In this way, we will be better able to identify the subjects with the worst outcome among the chronic Charcot foot population.

Our hypothesis is that the deterioration in quality of life over time in patients with chronic Charcot foot is primarily related to loss of foot and ankle functionality, foot and ankle deformity, the presence of foot wounds and/or comorbidities or severe diabetic complications.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Results of the SF36 questionnaire at inclusion
  - Results of the FAAM-F questionnaire at inclusion
  - Results of the SF36 questionnaire at Month 12
  - Results of the FAAM-F questionnaire at Month 12
  - Results of the SF36 questionnaire at Month 24

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Filling in the SF-36, FAAM-F, PHQ-9, PHQ-2 and the simplified version of the EPICES score questionnaire

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05491577
