CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06306495
Title: Insomnia, Physical Activity Level and Stress Level
Official Title: Examination of Insomnia, Physical Activity Level and Stress Level in University Students
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 473
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Insomnia is a common, acute, intermittent, or chronic complaint of unwanted sleep difficulties characterized by sleep disturbance. Important risk factors leading to insomnia: advanced age, poor health, work stress, shift work, loss of a loved one, divorce, domestic violence, excessive anxiety, repressed personality, perfectionism, neuroticism, alcohol and substance abuse, excessive caffeine intake, excessive smoking, low socio-economic status and low physical activity level. Research shows that college students face more sleep problems than the general public. Factors that disrupt the sleep hygiene of university students; Students' excessive use of computers during lecture and exam periods, exposure to lights and screens for long periods of time, and environmental changes. The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence of insomnia in healthy individuals after the start of face-to-face education in university students after the pandemic period and to determine the physical activity associated with insomnia in this population group. Examining levels and other behavioral factors. The research was conducted on students studying at Istanbul Rumeli University, Haliç University and Yalova University between March 2022 and August 2022. It will be held online via Google Forms with students between the ages of 18-25. Study data will be collected with the International Physical Activity Survey, Demographic Data Form, Sleep Hygiene Index, Distress Tolerance Scale, and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. An application will be made to obtain approval from the Haliç University Non-Interventional Clinical Research Ethics Committee. Informed consent will be obtained from people participating in the research. Statistical analysis of the data will be done with IBM SPSS 23.0 software.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Prevalence of insomnia in university students

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: International Physical Activity Survey

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06306495
