CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04805996
Title: The eHealth Diabetes Remission Trial - Pilot Study
Official Title: The eHealth Diabetes Remission Trial - Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Ten study participants will consume a low-calorie total diet replacement for 12 weeks, have a 6-week food reintroduction phase (week 13-18) and continue with the weight loss maintenance phase until the end of the study (week 19-26). The weight loss goal is 15 kg (or 15% if body weight is bellow 80 kg). The primary study outcome iw weight loss after 6 months and the co-primary outcome is diabetes remission after 6 months (HbA1c \< 48 mmol/mol). During the weight maintenance phase, if weight regain occurs or if HbA1c increases a rescue plan of total diet replacement will be recommended.

The participants will be supplied with the total diet replacement Modifast free of charge. Participants will be supplied with a scale, a finger-stick blood glucose meter and a blood pressure monitor. Participants will be advised to measure body weight, blood glucose and blood pressure every morning. The results are registered in the mobile phone application Telia Health Monitoring and are wirelessly transmitted to the project's physician, nurse and dietician. At the beginning of the food reintroduction phase the participants will receive an activity tracer and will be advised to increase their physical activity. Primary and secondary outcome measures will be estimated at the beginning and after 3 and 6 months. At the end of the study, all participants will take part in an individual semi-structured interview to investigate the participants' experience of diabetes remission and of the eHealth contact with the healthcare provider. After participants have completed the study, they will be followed at least once per year by obtaining data on blood sugar, HbA1c, body weight, blood pressure, medication usage and diabetes complications from the healthcare computer system.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight loss
  - HbA1c

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Diabetes remission using total diet replacement and eHealth contact with the healthcare provider

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04805996
