CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03808519
Title: n3 PUFA and Muscle-disuse Atrophy in Older Women
Official Title: Effects of n3 PUFA Supplementation on the Attenuation of Muscle Disuse Atrophy in Older Women
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will examine the influence of n3 PUFA supplementation on the rate of muscle atrophy in older women undergoing 1 week of unilateral limb immobilization. Assessments in skeletal muscle strength and skeletal muscle volume will also me made before, after and in recovery from immobilization.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Biological aging is associated with the loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength resulting in compromised metabolic function and mobility. Throughout life, individuals will also experience periods of reduced physical activity/muscle disuse that independently lower muscle mass and strength accelerating the aging process. More importantly, older adults (especially older women) that experience periods of muscle disuse are unable to recover muscle mass and strength. The losses in muscle mass with aging and disuse are underpinned by feeding-induced declines in rates of muscle protein synthesis. Thus, strategies to enhance muscle protein synthesis could have clinical implications for those who wish to maintain metabolic health and function during times of muscle disuse.

Supplementation with n3 PUFA-enriched fish oil has been shown to potentiate rates of muscle protein synthesis in response to simulated feeding in both younger and older adults. Fish oil supplementation also has been efficacious in enhancing skeletal muscle strength during a period of resistance exercise training. A previous study from our group demonstrated that younger women supplementing with n3 PUFA-enriched fish oil attenuated declines in skeletal muscle mass and strength during 2 weeks of immobilization. However, no study has examined the impact of fish oil supplementation to enhance muscle protein synthesis and offset declines in muscle mass/strength during a period of immobilization in older women.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Cross-Sectional Area

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: n3 PUFA-enriched fish oil
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 75 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03808519
