CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07025694
Title: Exercise Training Among Children With Cerebral Palsy to Increase Health and Well-being - A Feasibility Study
Official Title: Feasibility Testing of a Homebased Exercise Intervention in Children With Cerebral Palsy Who Are Ambulant - The HOME-EX Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The use of eHealth in children with cerebral palsy (CP) holds promise to increase participation in exercise. eHealth, has shown to increase accessibility to appropriate healthcare professionals as well as reduces time- and energy consuming transportation to/from physical appointments\[5\]. In children with CP reduced transportation to and from appointments, increased access to appropriate healthcare s professionals have shown to increase exercise.

However, the knowledge on how eHealth can support children with CP to participate in exercise is scarce and to the best of our knowledge there are no studies studying eHealth to increase exercise in children with CP. If HOME-EX research project is successful, we will unravel knowledge that will facilitate implementation of prescription of targeted, personalized exercise regimes to children with CP to enhance health and wellbeing and furthermore set a healthy lifestyle.

PURPOSE AND AIMS

The overall goal of the HOME-EX project is to develop, feasibility test, pilot the efficacy and map the conditions for future implement an eHealth application to support participation in exercise at home in children with CP who are ambulant (CP-A). The specific aims are:

Aim 1: From a pre-exciting eHealth-solution develop an application for Android-based tablet supporting exercise in the home of the children with CP-A in co-creation with children, family caregivers, professional caregivers, sports professionals and researchers.

Aim 2: Develop exercise sessions, as online supervised session and pre-video recorded sessions in co-creation with children, family caregivers, professional caregivers, sports professionals and researchers, to be delivered by the eHealth-solution.

Aim 3: To study the feasibility of the delivery of the exercise sessions from the eHealth-solution.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common physical disability in childhood, approximately 1.6/1000 children have CP with affected muscle tone, movement and motor skills, often accompanied by pain, epilepsy and intellectual, communicational and behavioural impairment.

The degree of motor impairment in CP is extremely variable and classified with the 5-level Gross Motor Function Classification System Expanded \& Revised (GMFCS-E\&R). Children with CP-A (GMFCS-E\&R level I-II) can either walk and/ stand independently.

Project management Since children are non-autonomous, the common point of departure for our research is the family; lifestyle changes as well as interventions must be implemented through the family. Feasibility testing aims to analyse clinical, procedural, and methodological uncertainties of the exercise testing and the exercise training interventions designed in co-creation with stakeholders. If no major changes are made to the study design and/or the intervention these children will be included into the piloting phase.

Recruitment In total, 20 children - 10 children with CP-A and 10 who are TD as healthy controls - aged between 10 to 16 years old will be recruited. The children in the two groups will be matched for age, BMI, and physical activity level.

Study 1: Addressing aim 1-2 - Development of an exercise-application Methodology: Workshops to further develop the eHealth app: Four separate workshops will then be conducted to discuss the functions and the setup of communication of the initial prototype, as well as how to deliver the exercise sessions and what they preferably may contain. Workshop 1 will consist of 4-6 children children with CP-A and TD. Workshop 2 will consist of family caregivers. Workshop 3 of professional caregivers as physiotherapists and workshop 4 of sport professionals as personal trainers. The workshops will employ a participatory approach, enabling active contributions from participants and be facilitated by researchers from the research group. After the workshops, the eHealth app will be updated by a technician based on the feedback received.

Study 2: Addressing aim 3 - Feasibility testing of an exercise-application Methodology: Four children in each group, in total eight children, will take part in the feasibility analysis. During the first three weeks will the children be supervised at schedule timepoints through an eHealth solution and during the last three weeks the children follows pre-recorded exercise sessions at a suitable time for the family.

After the first 6 weeks of exercise training procedural, clinical and methodological uncreates will be analysed. Feedback from the participants and their family-caregivers, will be collected through semi-structured interviews to evaluate the feasibility of the exercise training intervention. Depending on the findings during the feasibility testing, the exercise training intervention may change.

DATA ANALYS AND STATISTIC A mixed method approach will be used to meet the aims of the project and collect both quantitative and qualitative data.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Complaiance to the exercise regim

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: A eHealth application on a computer tablet contected to a secure severer with an interface on a computer to deliver exercise interventions.
  - DEVICE: A eHealth application on a computer tablet contected to a secure severer with an interface on a computer to deliver exercise interventions
  - OTHER: Moderate Intensity Continues Training
  - OTHER: High intensity interval training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07025694
