CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03195127
Title: Development of a Rehabilitation Strengthening and Mobility Program for Ventilator Dependent Older Patients
Official Title: Development of a Rehabilitation Strengthening and Mobility Program for Ventilator Dependent Older Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
As the general population ages and technology advances, many who suffer from catastrophic critical illness (i.e. septic shock, respiratory failure, Acute Respiratory Disease Syndrome) survive only to find themselves severely physically debilitated and compromised from a pulmonary standpoint, requiring assistance from a mechanical ventilator in order to breath. Oftentimes, these patients require a long course of physical rehabilitation and ventilator support. These patients frequently remain ventilator dependent for greater than 3 weeks, and are thus referred to as requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV).

Older patients are at significantly higher risk for requiring PMV for reasons that are not entirely clear, but which may include physical deconditioning, impaired cardiopulmonary physiology, and cognitive or behavioral disturbances.

The purpose of this study is two fold: 1. to characterize the functional phenotype of ventilator dependent, and recently ventilated patients with respect to general strength, endurance, balance, and pulmonary functioning and body composition. 2. To pilot test a rehabilitation protocol that targets improving this populations disabilities through exercises focused on improving strength, endurance, balance, and pulmonary functioning.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Screening will occur daily, at which time the subject's medical history and current condition will be reviewed. If they qualify informed consent will be obtained and the subject will undergo baseline tests of function and health.

The subject will be asked to perform simple tasks for baseline testing purposes. These include timed walking, lifting light weights or elastic exercise bands, assessment of handgrip strength, getting up out of a chair, breathing into a machine to test lung function, and answering questionnaires. The order of these tests may vary depending upon the subject's schedule and availability of equipment. It may be necessary to repeat one or more of the tests. Not all tests will be performed on everyone, depending upon one's strength, balance, coordination and endurance.

After the completion of the baseline tests subjects will be randomized into one of two groups. One group will receive a multimodal rehabilitation program (MRP) and usual care and the other will receive usual care physical therapy.

If the subject is randomized to the intervention group, he/she will receive special MRP sessions three times a week, for up to 8 weeks. Each session will last approximately one hour, and will consist of limb strengthening exercises, endurance training, and balance/coordination drills. These exercises and training maneuvers may involve the use of handheld weights, nautilus weight equipment, elastic exercise bands, stationary exercise machines (recumbent exercise cycles, hand ergometer cycles), or treadmills. All sessions will be supervised by a licensed physical therapist, physical trainer, or certified instructor, with a respiratory therapist present, if needed. Sessions will be conducted at the Pulmonary Rehabilitation Gymnasium at the University of Maryland, Midtown Campus (MTC) or in the subjects room at bedside.

If the subject is not randomized to the group receiving the MRP, they will receive the standard therapy program provided by MTC therapy services. To compliment the physical therapy regimen, an optimized nutritional program will be administered according accepted guidelines.

If the subject misses/does not complete a session the training period will be extended to insure completion of the required number of sessions. If the subject is not randomized to the group receiving the MRP, they will receive the standard therapy program provided by MTC therapy services.

After two weeks of additional training, or 6 MRP sessions, the subjects will be re-evaluated with repeat physical activity testing. The subject will be required to complete activities similar to what they performed during your baseline evaluation. Retesting will be conducted regardless of which training regimen the subject received (MRP vs. standard physical therapy). Subjects will then train for an additional 2 weeks followed by repeat testing.

The each subject's participation in the study will be completed 1) after eight weeks of physical therapy, 2) If the subj

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional Assessment: Handgrip
  - Functional Assessment: Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)
  - Functional Assessment: 4 Meter Gait Speed
  - Functional Assessment: 6 Minute Walk Distance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: multimodal physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03195127
