CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06293599
Title: Effect of Scapular Stabilization Exercises Versus Virtual Reality Exercises in Basketball Players With Scapular Dyskinesia
Official Title: Effect of Scapular Stabilization Exercises Versus Virtual Reality Exercises in Basketball Players With Scapular Dyskinesia
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
this study will be conducted to compare virtual reality and scapular stabilizing exercise among basketball player with scapular dyskinesia on scapular muscle performance, rounded shoulder, pain intensity , disability and hand grip strength

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Scapular dyskinesia (SD) is an alteration in the normal position or motion of the scapula during coupled scapulohumeral movements. It is lack of control of static or dynamic positioning of the scapula relative to the thorax. It affects from 64% to 100% of patients with shoulder lesions. Scapular dyskinesia is a major etiological factor in overhead athletes' shoulder problems. Virtual Reality (VR) it allows individuals to interact and train with or within interesting and relatively realistic three-dimensional(3D) environments. VR and its simulated environments are well accepted in entertainment and computer game applications. However, what is not as well recognized is that VR offers the opportunity for intensive repetition of meaningful task-related activities necessary for effective rehabilitation. The scapular stabilization exercise in rehabilitation aims to Restore shoulder function; these exercises are a combination of scapular stabilization exercises, rotator cuff strengthening exercises, range of motion (ROM), proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF), and stretching exercises. Physiotherapy is the mainstay management for several musculoskeletal disorders. sixty basketball athletes with dyskinesea will be assigned randomly to three equal groups; the first will receive Virtual reality exercise and routine exercise, and the second group will receive Stabilization exercise and routine exercise. and finally, the third group will receive routine exercise only for eight weeks

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - agonist antagonist ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: scapular stabilization exercises
  - OTHER: virtual reality exercises
  - OTHER: regular routine exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06293599
