CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03512509
Title: Comparison of Low GI and High GI Potatoes in Relation to Satiety (POSAT)
Official Title: Comparison of Low GI and High GI Potatoes in Relation to Satiety - a Randomised Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The study is a single-blind, randomised crossover study, investigating how a high glycaemic potato affects satiety in humans compared to a low glycaemic potato. This is done to shed further light on the discussion about whether potatoes with a high glycaemic index increases the risk of overweight and obesity and thus indirectly type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The POSAT study follows a single-blinded randomized crossover design. Each subject will have two separate intervention days with at least a six-day washout period in between. On the two intervention days the subjects will be randomized into receiving a breakfast containing isocaloric amounts of either low or high GI potatoes. VAS will be measured 5 minutes before the meal, immediately after the meal is consumed and in intervals of 30 minutes thereafter until 2,5 hours after the initial meal. After this the subjects will be served a standardized homogenous ad libitum meal. The amount of food consumed will be registered. The subjects will be asked to fast for 8-10 hours prior to the trial days and abstain from vigorous physical activity and alcohol consumption for 2 days prior to each trial day. The trial will be conducted over a total of 8 days with 5-6 study subjects pr. trial day. The trial days will be spread out over a total of 2 weeks to allow for a 1-week washout period between trial days for each subject.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Subjective satiety evaluation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low glycaemic potato
  - OTHER: High glycaemic potato

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03512509
