CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06494163
Title: Exercise Training in Women With Heart Disease 2
Official Title: Exercise Training in Women With Heart Disease: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 172
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This study will compare the effects of two different types of training on exercise capacity in women with coronary heart disease (CHD). Participants will be randomized into either the virtual high-intensity interval training (HIIT) or the virtual moderate-to-vigorous intensity continuous training (MICT). After randomization, patients will exercise twice a week, for 12 weeks. The sessions will be conducted virtually. Patients will undergo a maximal exercise test, cardiometabolic indicators (height (cm), body mass (kg), body composition (%), waist circumference (cm) and, resting blood pressure) and complete questionnaires about quality of life, mental health, self-determined motivation, self-efficacy and enjoyment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart disease is a leading cause of death for women. Women who suffer a heart attack are more likely than men to be inactive, have lower fitness, and die in the next year; patients also report poor mental health and quality of life (QoL), and have a greater risk of cardiovascular disease risk factors. This clinical research project is concerned about women with heart disease and how to improve their fitness, mental health, and QoL using a different kind of exercise. Currently, moderate-to-vigorous intensity continuous training, MICT, is the most frequently prescribed for women with heart disease. Unfortunately, this exercise tends to be a burden and is time-consuming. The study aims to test if high-intensity interval training (HIIT, alternating periods of hard exercise and rest) is better than MICT at improving fitness, mental health, QoL, and exercise dedication in women with heart disease. The investigators will recruit 104 women with heart disease. The investigators will first assess the health measures outlined above and then randomly assign people to MICT or HIIT. Both groups will attend virtual exercise sessions 2 days/week for 12 weeks. The MICT group will perform Zumba/movement-based exercise for 35 minutes at an intensity level of 70-85% of their maximal effort. The HIIT group will perform Zumba/movement-based exercise for 25-minutes: this will consist of 4 periods of exercising for 4-minutes at an intensity level of 85-95% of their maximal effort, separated by 3 minutes of rest between each period. The investigators will assess the health measures again after 12 and 26 weeks. The scores for people in the two groups will then be compared. HIIT has never been evaluated as an alternative for MICT in a large women-only group with heart disease. If this clinical trial shows that HIIT helps these women improve their physical and psychosocial health over usual practice, then health care professionals caring for women with heart disease will have an alternative, effective treatment option to provide women in need.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Exercise capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06494163
