CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06960525
Title: Joint Mobilization vs. Strengthening Exercises on Cervical Proprioception for Nonspecific Neck Pain
Official Title: Comparison of Joint Mobilization vs. Strengthening Exercises for Improving Cervical Proprioception in Individuals With Nonspecific Neck Pain: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial aims to compare the effects of cervical joint mobilization versus cervical strengthening exercises in patients with chronic neck pain. The study will assess neck proprioception, pain intensity, cervical muscle strength, range of motion, and neck disability.

The main question it aims to answer is:

Which treatment is superior, or do they have equal effects after the first session and after the 12th session?

Participants will:

Receive either cervical joint mobilization or cervical strengthening exercises for 12 sessions.

Do not perform any physical therapy treatment outside the trial. Visit the clinic three times per week for treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Neck pain refers to a type of generalized neck discomfort characterized by mechanical features. This condition is a widespread issue, causing significant levels of pain, disability, and can lead to economical strain. Patients suffering from neck pain often experience functional impairments, including weak neck muscles and impaired proprioception. Strengthening exercises and cervical joint mobilization offer effective relief of pain and improve disability. Exploring the superiority of these techniques in improving cervical proprioception to prevent recurrence is still a vague topic. Therefore, this study will investigate the effect of Maitland joint mobilization versus cervical strengthening exercises in patients with nonspecific chronic neck pain on neck proprioception, pain intensity, cervical muscles strength, range of motion and neck disability. This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trial with a parallel-group design. Twenty-six participants will be allocated randomly to one of two groups. Group one (Mobilization) will have cervical joint mobilization according to Maitland approach. Group two (Exercises) will perform craniocervical, cervical and axioscapular muscles strengthening exercises. Treatment will be provided for 12 sessions. Both groups will receive standardized care, including patient education and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Active cervical movement sense
  - Cervical joint position error

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cervical joint mobilization
  - OTHER: cervical strengthening exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06960525
