CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02805907
Title: Efficacy of Calcifediol Supplementation in Asthma Control in Asthmatic Patients With Vitamin D Deficiency (ACViD)
Official Title: Efficacy of Calcifediol Supplementation in Asthma Control in Asthmatic Patients With Vitamin D Deficiency (ACViD)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Introduction: There are many cross-sectional studies in children and adults indicating that low vitamin D levels in asthmatic patients are correlated with poorer asthma control, poorer lung function, decreased response to glucocorticoids and more frequent exacerbations. Moreover, as there is a significant group of asthmatic patients having insufficient control of their disease, despite high doses of inhaled corticosteroids, we have investigated new treatment alternatives, which include vitamin

Objective: To determine the efficacy of vitamin D supplementation in asthmatic patients with vitamin D deficiency in degree of asthma control.

Materials and methods: A prospective, controlled, randomised, triple-blind study was conducted with a follow-up of 6 months. The patients recruited were over 18 years of age with a medical diagnosis of bronchial asthma and serum 25(OH)D3 levels \< 30 ng/ml. Patients were excluded if they had a smoking habit ≥ 10 pack-years, taking vitamin D supplements, kidney disease (creat. \> 2 mg/dl), hypercalcaemia (corrected with proteins \> 10.5 mg/dl), a repeat episodes of renal colic, any gastrointestinal disease that might interfere with vitamin D absorption, or severe psychosocial problems, or were pregnant or breast-feeding. The randomisation process assigned patients to one of two groups: a group that received vitamin D (in the form of calcifediol (Hidroferol®) in 16,000-IU ampoules taken weekly by the oral route) and another group that received placebo in a presentation with an identical appearance and the same administration regimen. Demographic, clinical, spirometry and laboratory endpoints were collected. The primary endpoint was degree of asthma control as determined by the internationally validated Asthma Control Test (ACT). The secondary endpoints were asthma exacerbations, dose of inhaled corticosteroids and quality of life as measured using the Mini-AQLQ (Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Asthma Control Measured With Asthma Control Test (ACT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Calcifediol
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02805907
