CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04570917
Title: Online Education Intervention to Reduce Ageism Among Undergraduate Students
Official Title: Effectiveness of an Online Educational Intervention to Reduce Ageism in Undergraduate Students in an Entry-level Nutrition Class
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Ageism is common is healthcare workers, and that results in negative outcomes for elderly patients. This randomized controlled trial is to determine if age bias could be changed by an online learning activity in undergraduate students in an entry-level nutrition class.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms is to determine the effect of an online educational intervention developed to reduce ageism in undergraduate students enrolled in an entry-level Nutrition class. Eligible study participants will be randomized into either the "Intervention group" (INT) or the "Control group" (CON). The two groups will have different learning material delivered online via Blackboard (Learning Management System/LMS). These include a collection of short videos developed by the researchers, as well as relevant videos available on the web. Participants in the INT group will learn about aging and ageism, while the CON group will learn about diversity and cultural competence. Sociodemographic data, percieved risk of COVID-19, preventative behaviors related ot COVID-19 will be collected using a questionnaire at baseline. Ageism will be assessed using standard questionnaires. Data collection will be done at three time points: Pre-intervention, immediate post intervention and 2-weeks post-intervention. Difference between groups for pre-post intervention changes will be assessed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference between groups for pre-and post intervention changes in the score of Fraboni's Scale for Ageism
  - Difference between groups for pre- and 2-weeks post intervention changes in the score of Fraboni's Scale for Ageism
  - Difference between groups for pre-post intervention changes in benevolent subscores of the Ambivalent ageism scale
  - Difference between groups for pre and 2-weeks post intervention changes in benevolent subscores of the Ambivalent ageism scale Higher score indicates more benevolent bias.
  - Difference between groups for pre-post intervention changes in hostile subscores of the Ambivalent ageism scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Online educational intervention to reduce ageism
  - BEHAVIORAL: Online educational intervention to enhance cultural competance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04570917
