CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06171191
Title: Move ARound And Get Active: an Intervention to Optimize 24-hour Movement Behaviours in Preschoolers
Official Title: Move ARound And Get Active: an Intervention to Optimize 24-hour Movement Behaviours in Preschoolers
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
In 2019, the World Health Organization established new guidelines for physical activity, sedentary screen time, and sleep for children under 5 years old. Unfortunately, only a few (6%) of preschoolers in Flanders, Belgium, adhere to these guidelines. The aim of this study is to test a health program developed to optimize 24-hour behaviors in preschoolers and encourage more children to follow the guidelines. The program was created using the Intervention Mapping Protocol in collaboration with parents. It consists of seven sessions for parents and preschoolers, providing strategies to encourage compliance with the guidelines. The program's effectiveness will be evaluated through a randomized controlled trial, with the intervention group attending the sessions and the control group receiving the intervention materials at the end of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) established new guidelines for physical activity, sedentary screen behavior, and sleep in children under 5 years old (WHO, 2019). Unfortunately, only a few (6%) preschoolers in Flanders, Belgium, adhere to these guidelines (De Craemer et al., 2018). The objective of this study is to test a health program developed to optimize 24-hour behaviors in preschoolers and encourage more children to adhere to the guidelines. The program was developed using the Intervention Mapping Protocol, in collaboration with parents (Bartholomew, 2011). The program consists of seven sessions for parents and preschoolers, providing strategies to encourage adherence to the guidelines through parenting skills within the framework of self-determination theory (Di Pasquale et al., 2018). The program will be evaluated through a randomized controlled trial. The intervention group will attend the sessions, while the control group will receive the intervention materials at the end of the study.

Aims:

The primary aim is to analyze the intervention effect on 24-hour movement behaviors:

1. Do more preschoolers comply with the World Health Organization 24-hour movement behavior guidelines?
2. Is there an optimal change in the 24-hour composition of preschoolers (i.e., more physical activity, less screen time, and/or more sufficient sleep relative to each other)?

   The secondary aims are:
3. To analyze the intervention effect on parenting within the self-determination theory: Do parents provide more structure, autonomy support, and positive involvement?
4. Process evaluation of the intervention: Describing fidelity, dose delivered, dose received, reach, and context based on Saunders et al. (2005).

   Patient Recruitment:

   \- Group of interest: parents and preschoolers aged 2.5-6 years.

   \- Recruitment through care providers

   \- Information dissemination through flyers and personal interaction with parents. Active informed consent is required for participation, by signing a informed consent form.

   \- Participants are assigned to the intervention or control group based on location. Participants recruited via schools at location X and hospital Y are assigned to the intervention group, while those recruited via schools at location A and hospital B are assigned to the control group.

   \- Sample size: max. 200 parent-child dyads

   Data Collection:

   \- Measurements are conducted before, after, and 3 months after the end of the sessions in both the intervention and control groups.

   \- Measurements include height, weight, waist and hip circumference of the preschoolers, ActiGraph GT3X+ activity monitoring for both child and parent, a diary filled out by parents to support the activity monitor, and a questionnaire on demographic data and parent-related factors (e.g., parenting skills).

   \- At the end of each session, parents in the intervention group complete a process evaluation questionnaire based on the framework o

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 24-hour movement behaviour: physical activity, sedentary behaviour and sleep

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Move-ARound And Get Active

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Months to 6 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06171191
