CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01816451
Title: Physiologic Adaptations to Interval and Continuous Running at Low Volume and Vigorous Intensity Over 14-Weeks.
Official Title: Physiological Responses to Constant-load (Continuous) vs. Variable-intensity (Interval) During 14 Weeks of Supervised Aerobic Exercise on Active Men.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study was to verify physiological responses to constant-load (continuous) vs. variable-intensity (interval) during 14 weeks of aerobic exercise on active men. The hypothesis was that would be differences in physiological variables on distinct modes of execution performed on the treadmill over a period of 14 weeks of training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Initially there were thirty five subjects, but due factors outside the present study, three individuals were excluded from the program. Two individuals during maximal exercise test (VO2) showed clinical impairment test being interrupted by the doctor and the third individual presented a plantar fasciitis in the early familiarization. Thirty two healthy and active males volunteered to participate in the study. All subjects exercised habitually, with at least 1 year experience aerobic training. The Human Ethics Committee of Rio de Janeiro Federal University approved this study (no 58659/02471312.8.0000.5257).The subjects performed a total of nine visits to the laboratory of the Brazilian Navy at City of Rio de Janeiro for physical tests on different days, except between visits I-II and VII-III. The interval between visits was one week between visits II-III-IV and VIII-IX, six weeks between the first day of training and visits V, four weeks between V-VI-VIII. All subjects from interval and continuous groups performed a total of 46 sessions of supervised running program.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Relative Maximal Oxygen Uptake
  - Absolute Maximal Oxygen Uptake
  - Total Time Reaching on Maximal Test (tVO2max)
  - Heart Rate on Maximal Test
  - Blood Lactate Concentrations on Maximal Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: running training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 32 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01816451
