CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03749278
Title: Latina Friends Motivating the Soul (ALMA)
Official Title: Latina Friends Motivating the Soul (ALMA): A Delayed Intervention Control Trial of Program to Reduce Mental Health Disparities in Latina Immigrant Women
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Latina immigrant women are particularly vulnerable to depression and anxiety due to the social and economic stressors they face, including high levels of poverty, low levels of education, family obligations, exposure to violence, and limited access to community resources. ALMA aims to prevent and reduce depression and anxiety among Latina immigrant women. Women attend 8 weekly sessions in a group format to teach and encourage women to use coping strategies to reduce depression and anxiety. The intervention aims to increase participants' social ties and the social support they receive from other Latina immigrant women. The program also helps decrease the stigma associated with mental health and connects women to mental health services when needed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study aims to test the efficacy of the Latina Friends Motivating the Soul (ALMA) intervention in a delayed intervention control trial. ALMA is an 8-week program offered in a group format to teach women new coping strategies and enhance their social ties and social support to prevent and reduce their depression and anxiety. Aim 2 is to determine the efficacy of the ALMA intervention to reduce depressive and anxiety symptoms using a delayed intervention control study design. The investigators will recruit women from community-based organizations serving Latino immigrants to participate in the program, which will be offered in community settings. The investigators will assess process outcomes of recruitment, retention, fidelity, and participant satisfaction through observations and in-depth interviews with participants. The investigators will assess the efficacy of the intervention by comparing changes in women's depressive and anxiety symptoms in the intervention and attention control groups at four time points (baseline, 3-month follow-up, 6-month follow-up, and 9-month follow-up). Aim 3 is to assess the potential impact of the intervention on both individual (stigma, stress, coping strategies) and interpersonal (social support, social ties) factors, and whether the impact of the intervention is mediated by these factors. The research team includes investigators in psychology, medicine, social work and public health, as well as community-based organizations serving Latina immigrants. The study uses rigorous methods to test an innovative program that integrates both culturally relevant and evidenced-based strategies to address significant mental health disparities in a high-risk and underserved population. Findings will help inform future research and practice. Given the growth of the Latino population, identifying interventions that reduce mental health disparities among Mexican immigrant women can have a significant public health impact.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Depressive Symptoms
  - Anxiety Symptoms

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Latina Friends Motivating the Soul (ALMA)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03749278
