CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05029544
Title: Dynamic Taping in Symptomatic Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy
Official Title: Comparison of Effects of Kinesio Taping and Dynamic Taping Added to a Rehabilitation Programme for Patients With Symptomatic Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy: A Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
This study was conducted to compare the efficacy of two different therapeutic bands in symptomatic rotator cuff tendinopathy. One of the tapes was kinesio tape and the other was dynamic tape. The study was in a parallel group randomized controlled trial design.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was planned to compare the effectiveness of dynamic taping and kinesio taping combined with a rehabilitation program on the symptomatic shoulder in patients with symptomatic rotator cuff tendinopathy (RCT). The study was carried out on 60 patients who applied to Muğla Training and Research Hospital Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation outpatient clinic with symptoms of RCT. The patients were divided into 3 groups by randomization method. Dynamic taping was applied to the symptomatic shoulder in the first group and kinesio taping was performed in the second group. The third group was the control group and no taping was done. A standard rehabilitation program was applied for the individuals in the whole group. Evaluations were made before and after treatment (6 weeks). Evaluation parameters were acromiohumeral distance (primary outcome), shoulder joint range of motion, muscle strength, proprioception measurements, and function evaluations. The acromiohumeral distance was measured by the radiologist, and all other measurements and treatments were performed by the physiotherapist. Standard goniometer was used for shoulder joint range of motion measurement, manual muscle dynamometer was used for muscle strength measurement, and digital inclinometer was used for proprioception measurement. Timed arm-shoulder function test was performed for function evaluation. The arm, shoulder, and hand disability (DASH) questionnaire and the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) were used for the self-function report. The data obtained from the research will be analyzed using the SPSS program. Statistical significance level will be accepted as p\<0.05. In the statistical difference analysis between groups, one-way ANOVA test will be used for parametric data and Kruskal-Wallis test will be used for non-parametric data.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acromiohumeral Distance (AHD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dynamic taping
  - OTHER: Kinesio taping
  - OTHER: Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05029544
