CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01250821
Title: Gonadotrophin Dosage Using a Threshold Nomogram for Ovulation Induction in WHO Group II Anovulatory Infertility
Official Title: Gonadotrophin Dosage Using a Threshold Nomogram for Ovulation Induction in WHO Group II Anovulatory Infertility
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Ovulation disorders are a common cause of infertility in women. Most of these women can be classified as World Health Organization (WHO) Group II anovulatory patients as they have irregular or absent menstrual cycles but normal serum concentrations of follicle stimulation hormone (FSH) and estradiol.

The purpose of this study is to optimize the low-dose-step-up protocol traditionally used for ovulation induction with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in women with anovulatory infertility WHO Group II.

Previous studies have established that menstrual cycle history, mean ovarian volume and BMI are significant predictors of FSH threshold dose in women with anovulatory infertility WHO Group II undergoing ovulation induction (Nyboe Andersen et al., 2008). A FSH dosage nomogram has been constructed based on these variables.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical use of the nomogram in order to test the use of the variables to determine whether an individualized starting dose of FSH can be used for ovulation induction in anovulatory patients.

It is the hypothesis that an individualized starting dose of gonadotrophin will minimize the disadvantages of the treatment and that the stimulation period of the individualized nomogram-based treatment will be 25% shorter than observed in the standard protocol.

The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients who reach the criteria for HCG-administration within 14 days of Menopur stimulation. The results of the study will be compared with the data obtained in the Menopur Ovulation Induction Trial (Platteau et al., 2006).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The proportion of patients who reach the criteria for HCG-administration within 14 days of FSH stimulation.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Menopur

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 39 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01250821
