CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02563015
Title: Can Correction of Low Vitamin D Status in Infancy Program for a Leaner Body Composition?
Official Title: Novel Functional Outcomes of Vitamin D in Infancy; Can Correction of Low Vitamin D Status Program for a Leaner Body Composition Phenotype?
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 139
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
One in four infants are born with low amounts of vitamin D stored in their body. This study is designed to test whether improving vitamin D status quickly after birth helps infants to build muscle and to normalize growth. This is important since the investigators have noticed in previous work that infants with low vitamin D have higher body weight relative to body length later on and that those who develop very good stores quickly have a leaner body type. Therefore, in this study infants with low stores early after birth will be given either the regular amount of supplementation or a higher amount to more rapidly build up the vitamin stores in the body. Infants in both groups will be measured for muscle and fat mass at standardized ages during the first year of life and into the toddler years. The information will inform health care professionals and parents of the importance of establishing good vitamin D stores early in life. Vitamin D supplementation is a modifiable factor that is already recommended for all term born infants. Knowing how much is needed in infants born with low stores has not been tested in a controlled manner in Canada.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary Trial Objective: To test whether rapid correction of vitamin D status early in the neonatal period results in greater lean mass in infancy.

It is hypothesized that neonates with low vitamin D status and provided a vitamin D supplement of 400 IU/d will have lower accretion of lean mass by 3 mo of age and thereafter by 12 months compared to infants given 1000 IU/d for the trial; and that this difference would be sustained up to 3 years after the trial at the post-trial follow-up phase.

Secondary Trial Objectives are designed a priori to test:

1. Whether correction of low vitamin D status early in infancy using 1000 IU/d of vitamin D normalizes body composition (lean, fat, bone mass) and biomarkers across infancy; and for the follow-up (also referred to follow-on) study up to 3 y of age;
2. Epigenetic mechanisms related to vitamin D metabolism and body composition that clarify how improving vitamin D status with 1000 IU/d of supplementation regulates the musculoskeletal system.

Tertiary Objective: outside of the trial, establish a healthy reference group with good neonatal vitamin D stores (\>50 nmol/L 25(OH)D) and given 400 IU vitamin D/d with all of the same measurements as the trial since these are not all available (e.g. IGF-1, IGFBP3 using same assays).

The primary end-point is 12 months of age for the trial. The post-trial follow-up (also known as follow-on) study is up to 3 years with data obtained at 2 and 3 years of age.

The secondary outcomes include other variables: body composition including whole body fat mass, whole body bone mineral content, lumbar spine bone mineral content and density along with biomarkers related to vitamin D status, growth and bone.

Neonates from hospitals in the greater Montreal area will be studied. Neonates will be screened for low vitamin D status within 48 h of birth for 25(OH)D to enable rapid entry into study groups. Those with serum 25(OH)D \<50 nmol/L will be randomized to 400 or 1000 IU/d until 1 y of age. Those with 25(OH)D \>50 nmol/L will be provided standard of care (400 IU/d) and form a reference group.

Treatment period: Trial is 1 week to 12 months of age; follow-up to 3 years of age.

Frequency and duration of follow up: 1 week (baseline), 3, 6 and 12 months of age for the trial; then for the follow-on (also referred to as follow-up study) 2 and 3 years of age for the follow-up visits.

At baseline (1 wk), 3, 6, 12 for the trial plus post-trial at 24 and 36 mo of age, infants will be seen at our research unit for measurement of anthropometry, body composition and bone as well as blood sampling, skin pigmentation and surveys for diet, developmental milestones, activity and demographic information.

Anthropometry - All measurements in infancy will be obtained nude and for 24 to 36 mo the child wearing standardized light clothing, dry diaper and no shoes. Weight will be taken using an electronic scale with a dynamic weighing program (Mettler-Toledo Inc., Switzerland). Length (0.1 cm) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lean mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cholecalciferol
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Reference 400

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 1 Week
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02563015
