CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07192094
Title: A Reinforced Mindfulness-Based Intervention to Reduce Problematic Drinking Among Hispanic Emerging Adults
Official Title: A Reinforced Mindfulness-Based Intervention to Reduce Problematic Drinking Among Hispanic Emerging Adults: Feasibility and Acceptability
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study is a trial to evaluate a mindfulness program designed for Hispanic young adults. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: (1) an in-person, 8-week mindfulness program (one 1.5-hour session per week at FIU's MMC campus), or (2) an assessment-only control group. Regardless of group assignment. Participants will be asked to complete online surveys at baseline, after an 8-week period, and again one month later. They will also be asked to provide a fingerpick blood sample and have their heart rate and blood pressure measured at four timepoints: baseline, 1 month, 2 months, and 3 months after baseline. Participation will involve up to 16 hours over approximately 14 weeks. This includes time for completing baseline assessments, participating in the 8-week intervention (if assigned), and completing post-program and follow-up assessments. There are no serious risks of participating in this study, but some of the questions during the assessments, interview, or the fingerpick may cause you discomfort. The main benefit from participating in this clinical trial is that participants may experience personal benefits from learning mindfulness techniques.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary objective of this Randomized Control Trial (RCT) will be to maximize the ecological validity of a cultural, and developmental adaptation of the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) program for Hispanic (self-identified) emerging adult (EA) participants (ages 18-25 years old).

The study team will recruit individuals (n=120, 60 Intervention, 60 Control ) from the target population, Hispanic EA (18-25) all of whom will meet the following eligibility criteria: self-identified Hispanic, 18-25 years old, engaged in 2 or more occasions of heavy episodic drinking occasions (HED) (4/5 drinks in one sitting for females/males) during the previous 30-days, and are actively enrolled at FIU as a student.

The intervention will consist of eight weekly 1.5-hour group sessions led by a trained facilitator at FIU's MMC campus and participants will be randomly assigned (1:1 allocation) to either the active Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction intervention group (n=60) or to an assessment-only control group (n=60).

Procedures for data collection, compensation, and biomarkers will be as follows: Participants who enroll in the full RCT will be compensated with gift cards for their time and effort in completing data collection activities at designated timepoints -. baseline, 1-month post-baseline, post-intervention (approximately 2 months post-baseline), and 1-month follow-up (approximately 3 months post-baseline).

Biomarker collection will include a fingerprick blood sample to test for the alcohol biomarker phosphatidylethanol (PEth), as well as assessments of heart rate variability (HRV) and blood pressure (BP) as physiological indicators of stress.

To enhance engagement and reinforce attendance, an evidence-based fixed escalating Contingency Management schedule will be implemented at the conclusion of each mindfulness session. The sessions will be recorded, transcribed, and coded for appropriate developmental and cultural content by the research team. The risks associated with participation are minimal, but can include discomfort from assessments, biomarker collections, and potential breach of confidentially but these are minimal and typical routine procedures. Anticipated benefits include participant enjoyment of the sessions, engagement in self-study, learning mindfulness techniques for managing stress, and potential positive outcomes from the intervention.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acceptability
  - Feasibility - Retention
  - Feasibility - Attendance (intervention group only)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Sessions - 8 Week Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07192094
