CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04757441
Title: Effects of ELDOA on Hamstring Tightness
Official Title: Effects of ELDOA on Hamstring Tightness in Individuals With Non-Specific Low Back Pain.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to find the effects of ELDOA in increasing hamstring length in patients with nonspecific low back pain.This research will bring awareness about the concept of ELDOA exercises among clinicians and people to understand its benefits for treating back pain issues. Further, it will provide an important addition to the evidence-based treatment intervention of ELDOA

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is the most commonly reported musculoskeletal condition, associated with injury and disability in adults worldwide. It is the leading cause of activity limitation and work absence throughout much of the world . Over 70% to 80% people experience low back pain somewhat once in their lives . Low back pain affects people of all ages, from children to the elderly, but it is more prevalent in young adults. Low back pain can lead to decrease in lumbar range of motion, change in gait pattern, and change of rhythm in the pelvis, limitations that can restrict social activities. Approximately more than 85% low back pain cases are categorized as non specific low back pain. Non-specific low back pain is defined as low back pain not attributable to a recognizable, known specific pathology (e.g, infection, tumor, osteoporosis, fracture, structural deformity, inflammatory disorder, radicular syndrome, or cauda equina syndrome) Hamstrings muscle is a postural muscle and as it is biarticular, it has tendency to shorten even under normal circumstances . Hamstrings are more prone to adaptive shortening than all other muscles of body .prevalence and incidences of Hamstrings tightness in non-specific low back pain individuals is high due to limited activity and lack of regular exercise . The hamstrings length is an essential component in the basic movements of the human body like walking and running . It is composed of three separate muscles; include semitendinosus, semimembranosus and biceps femoris which are present in the posterior part of thigh and help in the flexion of knee and extension of hip joint . Due to the attachment of hamstring muscles to the ischial tuberosity, the tightness of the hamstring produces posterior pelvic tilt which stops the flexion of hips during forward bending so reducing the lordosis of the lumbar spine. It may impair spinal loading and alter the Lumbar Pelvic Rhythm which will generate more strain on the lumbar segment giving rise to low back pain.

ELDOA stands for elongation Longitudinaux avec Decoaption Osteo-Articulaire, or LOADS (Longitudinal Osteo-Articular Decoaption Stretching). A system of exercises and movements that uses the center of gravity and locates a target area of the spine that needs to be either mobilized or re-aligned by placing and maintaining tension on the fascia, was developed by Guy Voyer in Europe more than 30 years ago . The purpose of ELDOA is to help manage stress and create space in the vertebral joints, allowing muscles to move freely. The results of these stretches include joint mobility, increased absorption of fluid within the discs of the spine, flexibility, improved muscle tone, postural alignment, body-mind connection, and coordination. The tension and release created by these stretches help normalize the posture.

In March-June 2019, a quasi- experimental study of 34 participants was conducted on Elongation Longitudinaux Avec Decoaption Osteo-Articulaire (ELDOA) in Lumbar Disc Protr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sit and Reach Test
  - Straight Leg Raise Passive Knee Extension Test (PKE)
  - The Oswestry Disability Index (ODI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group A: Conventional Treatment + Elongation Longitudinaux Decoaption of Osteo-Articulaire
  - OTHER: Group B: Conventional treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04757441
