CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03871712
Title: Effectiveness of Motivational Interviewing on Return to Work in People on Sick Leave Due to Musculoskeletal Disorders
Official Title: Return to Work for People With Musculoskeletal Disorders: A Randomized Controlled Trial of the Effectiveness of Usual Case Management Compared to Usual Case Management Plus Motivational Interviewing or Stratified Vocational Advice Intervention. The MI-NAV Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 450
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Musculoskeletal disorders are the main causes for sickness absence and disability benefits in Norway and the leading causes of disability worldwide. There is strong evidence that long-term sickness absence due to musculoskeletal disorders provides a poor prognosis, both in terms of work-related disability, physical and mental health, and health related quality-of-life. To assist people return to work a range of vocational rehabilitation programs exist, but the initiatives have not been able to reduce the number of people who are on sick leave due to musculoskeletal disorders. In Norway, The Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV) case-workers have taken such approaches in use, primarily by teaching their employees with user contact in how to use Motivational Interviewing (MI). However, the evidence on the effectiveness of MI on return to work is highly uncertain. The objectives of this project are to compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of usual case management alone with usual case management plus MI or usual case management plus stratified vocational advice intervention (SVAI), on RTW among people on sick leave due to musculoskeletal (MSK) disorders. All musculoskeletal diagnoses will be included. A multi-arm randomised controlled trial with 150 participants in each group will be conducted within the NAV system in Norway to evaluate these research questions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The main objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of usual case management plus motivational interviewing (MI), provided by trained Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV) case-workers, and usual case management plus a Stratified Vocational Advice Intervention (SVAI), including principles of MI and vocational advice provided by trained physiotherapists, compared to usual case management alone on return to work among people on sick leave due to a musculoskeletal disorder. A multi-arm randomised controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted in order to respond to the following specific research questions:

RQ 1a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management alone in reducing sickness absence days at 6 months follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 1b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management alone in reducing sickness absence days at 6 months follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 2a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management alone in reducing sickness absence days at 12 months follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 2b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management alone in reducing sickness absence days at 12 months follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 3a Is there a difference between usual case management plus MI and usual case management alone in time until sustained RTW during 12 months follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 3b Is there a difference between usual case management plus SVAI and usual case management alone in time until sustained RTW during 12 months of follow-up among individuals who have been on sick leave for \>7 weeks due to a musculoskeletal disorder?

RQ 4a Is there a difference in the proportions of participants who receive sick leave benefits each month during 12 months of follow-up between usual case management plus MI compared to usual case management alone?

RQ 4b Is there a difference in the proportion of individuals who receive sick leave benefits each month during 12 months of follow-up between usual case management plus SVAI compared to usual case management alone?

RQ 5a Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 6 months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave with musculoskeletal disorders who receive usual case management plus MI compared to those who receive usual case management alone?

RQ 5b Is there a difference in cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and cost-benefit during 6 months of follow-up between individuals on sick leave wit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sickness absence days

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Motivational interview
  - BEHAVIORAL: Stratified vocational advice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 67 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03871712
