CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04948450
Title: A Multidomain Intervention Program for Older People With Dementia
Official Title: A Multidomain Intervention Program for Older People With Dementia: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This is a pilot study to assess the feasibility of a multidomain intervention for older people with dementia in nursing homes. Participants will be randomized into two equal groups, to receive either an intensive multidomain intervention (intervention group) or regular health advice (control group). The intervention will include physical, cognitive, and social interventions and management of metabolic and vascular risk factors. We hypothesize that the multidomain intervention will be feasible in Vietnam, and participants who receive the intervention will show improvement in cognitive function, quality of life, behaviors, functional ability, sleep, and in reduction of falls, and death rate compared to those in the control group during the 6 months intervention period

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a two-armed, multicenter, randomized controlled pilot study, based in 3 nursing homes in Hanoi, Vietnam.

The study PI and/or researchers in the research team will contact adults aged 60 years and older in the nursing homes to introduce the study. If they are interested in participating, the study PI and/or researchers in the research team will screen them for their eligibility. If they meet the inclusion criteria and are interested in participating, written informed consent will be obtained.

Participants who agreed to participate in the study will be randomized into two equal groups, to receive either an intensive multidomain intervention (intervention group) or regular health advice (control group).

Participants in both the intervention and the control groups will be treated for dementia according to the recommendations of the Vietnam Alzheimer's Disease and Neurocognitive Disorders Association.

All participants will meet the study physician to have an examination at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. At each examination, participants will undergo a physical examination, anthropometry (weight, hip and waist circumference), blood pressure determination, pulse rate and rhythm, risks of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases (smoking, drinking, hypertension, coronary artery disease, dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, diabetes) and assess blood test results (lipid profile, HbA1c, and fasting glucose if patients have diabetes). Results will be provided to participants and their doctors.

In addition to what is given to both groups, participants in the intervention group will receive four intervention components: (1) physical activity intervention; (2) cognitive intervention; (3) social intervention; and (4) management of metabolic and vascular risk factors. Physical activity and cognitive stimulation interventions will be performed at separate sessions.

All outcome measures will be administered at baseline, 6 months

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adherence
  - Retention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive stimulation intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Social intervention
  - OTHER: Management of metabolic and vascular risk factors

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04948450
