CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02347566
Title: Physical Activity Enhancing Programme in COPD
Official Title: The Efficacy of a Physical Activity Enhancing Programme Using Activity Monitors With Set Targets and Feedback for Enhancing Physical Activity Levels in Patients With COPD Attending Pulmonary Rehabilitation.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 46
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease are characterised by a sedentary lifestyle. This contributes to increase the number of hospitalizations and mortality. Changing this lifestyle is a major objective of the management of these patients. Pulmonary rehabilitation helps patients to increase their fitness, but modifying a longstanding sedentary habit is more difficult to achieve. This project aims at modifying patients' long term physical activity with a physical activity coaching programme. This will help patients to transform the benefits of pulmonary rehabilitation into a healthier active lifestyle and contribute to reduce hospitalizations, increase quality of life and survival.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study Design:

For logistical purposes, the study is divided into two work packages (WP): 1) Pilot study of DirectLife activity monitor in the daily routine of patients with COPD (WP1), which is a cross-sectional study; 2) Physical activity enhancing programme - main project (WP2), which is a randomized controlled trial. Both studies will be performed at Leith's Community Treatment Centre (LCTC) and its satellites (Midlothian Community Hospital (Bonnyrigg) \& St Johns Hospital (Livingston) - Edinburgh). Only patients with COPD referred to pulmonary rehabilitation at LCTC and its satellites will be recruited for this study. The standard care treatment (exercise training) is exactly the same in all sites, and it is delivered by the same team of physiotherapists.At the satellite units it would still be the direct care that approach the participants. The recruiting procedure will be the same as that of the original study.

Written and signed consent will be taken prior to the inclusion of each patient. The study will explain the protocol and all the procedures they may undergo during study period before they sign the informed consent. With at least 24 hours in advance and before considering patients to take part in the study, we will send them the patient information sheet explaining the project and all the procedures involved.

WP1: This WP aims at establishing the best wearing position of the DirectLife activity monitor in 20 patients with COPD in their daily routine at home. As the DirectLife was only validated in healthy subjects, this is an important step to understand how this device works in daily routine, which is the best position to wear it, and also how feasible it is to use in patients with COPD.

This WP will be conducted prior to the beginning of WP2 and participants will sign a consent form to participate in the study. Twenty COPD patients will undertake the following assessments: pulmonary function (spirometry), exercise capacity (ISWT and ESWT), quality of life (CRQ), dyspnoea sensation (MRC scale) and physical activity in daily life.

Patients will wear simultaneously three different DirectLife devices in three different body places (on the hip, in the front pocket and on the neck) and a fourth physical activity monitor (Actigraph GT3x) which was recently shown as a valid and accurate device to measure daily PAL in patients with COPD.

Patients will wear all four activity monitors (three DirectLife and one Actigraph GT3x) simultaneously in their daily routine, for a period of at least 10 hours/day during the evaluation period of one week. After this monitoring period, they will answer a simple questionnaire about the feasibility of using DirectLife in day-to-day including questions such as: which position(s) they considered as the best position to wear DirectLife, how easy was to put it on and whether the use of DirectLife interfered or not in their daily routine. At the end of this WP we will be able to establish the best position 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Physical Activity in Daily Life (PADL) levels at 12 weeks.
  - Change from Baseline in Physical Activity in Daily Life (PADL) levels at 24 weeks.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity enhancing programme
  - OTHER: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 95 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02347566
