CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05596500
Title: Blueberry-protein Supplementation and Exercise
Official Title: Influence of Vitero Supplementation (Rice-Pea-Blueberry Sport Gel Formulation) on Exercise-Induced Oxinflammation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study is the human clinical trial component of an SBIR grant with Sinnovatek (funded). Cyclists (n=20) will consume a blueberry-protein, blueberry, or placebo supplement for 2 weeks prior to cycling for 2.5 h at high intensity. Washout periods (2 weeks) will separate the 3 trials, and the cyclists will crossover (randomized) to one of the two others supplements for 2 weeks, and then engage in additional 2.5 h cycling bouts. Blood and urine samples will be collected pre- and post-supplementation for each of the 3 trials. Blood samples will also be collected immediately after and 1.5h- and 24h-post-exercise. Blood samples will be analyzed for inflammation and oxidative stress outcomes. Urine samples will be analyzed for blueberry gut-derived phenolics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PURPOSE: To investigate the influence of 2-weeks blueberry, blueberry-protein, versus placebo gel supplementation (randomized, crossover) on oxinflammation markers and blueberry gut-derived phenolics after 2.5 h intensive cycling exercise in 20 subjects.

HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that 2-weeks blueberry or blueberry-protein polyphenol (500 mg/day) versus placebo gel supplementation will attenuate post-exercise increases in inflammation and oxidative stress biomarkers.

RESEARCH PROCEDURES The research procedures will be conducted at the Human Performance Laboratory (Room 1201, Plants for Human Health Institute Building, 600 Laureate Way), operated by Appalachian State University at the North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) in Kannapolis, NC. Subjects will come to the lab for orientation/baseline testing with pre-supplementation blood sample collections, three 2.5 h cycling sessions, and additional lab visits to provide 1-day 7:00 am recovery blood samples) (thus 9 total lab visits). The total amount of time subjects will be asked to volunteer for this study is about 20 hours at the Human Performance Laboratory (over a 10-week period).

Orientation/Baseline Testing (Lab Visit #1) Two weeks prior to the 2.5 h cycling session, subjects will report to the Human Performance Laboratory at approximately 7:00-8:00 am. A blood sample will be collected in an overnight fasted state to coincide with the same time of the day for the post-supplementation blood draw. Study participants will be tested for maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) during a graded, cycle ergometer test with the Cosmed CPET metabolic device (Cosmed, Rome, Italy). Body composition will be measured with the seca BIA and Bod Pod body composition analyzer (Life Measurement, Concord, CA). Demographic and training histories will be acquired with questionnaires. Gel blueberry, blueberry protein, or placebo supplements will be supplied. 3-day food records will be supplied with thorough instructions. Participants will be given two 24-h urine collection kits with thorough written and oral instruction on collection procedures. The first 24-h urine collection bottle will be collected during the 24-h period immediately after lab visit #1 and turned in the next morning. Supplementation will start right after the urine is turned in. The second 24-h urine collection bottle will be collected during the 24-h period immediately prior to lab visit #2. Subjects will collect every drop of urine in the collection bottle for 24 hours.

2-Week Supplementation Periods Study participants will be randomized to Vitero (rice-pea-blueberry) gel, blueberry gel, and placebo gel trials, with supplements ingested daily for 2-weeks prior to participation in the first 2.5 h cycling session. After a 2-week washout period, participants will repeat all procedures two more times using the counterbalanced supplements.

Vitero (500 mg total blueberry polyphenols per day) or placebo (containing all proximate matched ingredients exc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Plasma concentrations of inflammasome ASC oligomers

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Blueberry-protein gel
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Blueberry gel
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05596500
