CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06803186
Title: High Power Laser on Suboccipital Myoelectrical Activities and Quality of Life in Patients With Cervicogenic Headache
Official Title: Effect of High Power Laser Therapy on Myoelectrical Activities of Suboccipital Muscles and Quality of Life in Patients With Cervicogenic Headache
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The study will be conducted:

To investigate the effect of high-power laser on myoelectrical activities of suboccipital muscles in patients with cervicogenic headache.

* To investigate the effect of high-power laser on pain in patients with cervicogenic headache.
* To investigate the effect of high-power laser on quality of life in patients with cervicogenic headache.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cervicogenic headache is a classification of headache in which pain is referred from the cervical spine. This category of headache is typically chronic, presented as unilateral cephalgia, spreading over the occipital, temporal, and frontal regions and is believed to be caused by musculoskeletal dysfunction of the neck.

In high-power laser therapy (HPLT) there is an increase in mitochondrial oxidative reaction and adenosine phosphate (photobiology effect). The pain-releasing effect of HPLT is provided by reducing the transmission of painful stimuli and increased morphine mimetic factors. It has rapidly induced photochemical and photothermal effects, increasing blood flow, cell metabolism, and vascular permeability.

In a recent study on exercise for cervicogenic headache, Subjects reported significant decreases in the frequency, intensity, and duration of their headaches.

To our knowledge there is no study was found to investigate the effect of high-power laser therapy (HPLT) on myoelectrical activities of suboccipital muscles, pain and functional activities in patients with cervicogenic headache.

So, this study aimed to determine the effect of high power laser therapy (HPLT) on myoelectrical activities of suboccipital muscles , pain and quality of life in patients with cervicogenic headache.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Myoelectrical activity of suboccipital muscle
  - Neck Disability Index (NDI)
  - Quality of life (QoL) assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: High-power laser therapy
  - DEVICE: Placebo (PL) high power laser
  - OTHER: Conventional physical therapy program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06803186
