CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05969197
Title: Effects of Match Play Exercises and Plyometric Training on Explosive Power, Agility and Functional Performance
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Match Play Exercises and Plyometric Training on Explosive Power, Agility and Functional Performance in Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Technique is the most important part of football for scoring goal and in defense of the goal lower limbs are the most important part of the player to be focused on as moving with the ball and training method is important in training football players for their matches. Use of training method in football players can either be a match play training or plyometric training. Plyometric training is considered an effective tool for increasing tendon stiffness. Plyometric training produces improvements in jump performance and lower body strength performance. A training program for young football players, using minimum equipment and effort, can result in improved player performance and a reduction in the risk of a possible overuse injury, reflected by an improvement in lower limb range of motion. Match play training patterns are mostly followed by the coaches to enhance the performance and plyometric are used for the efficient training programs.

This study will be a randomized clinical trial conducted at Pakistan sports board in Lahore. The study will be completed within the time duration of Six months. Non probability convenient sampling technique will be used to collect the data. The sample size of 15 participants each group will be taken in this study to find the effects of match play exercise versus plyometric on explosive power, Agility and functional performance in football players. Football players will be divided into 2 groups Group A will be given the match play training and Group B will be given plyometric trainings and at the end of the 6 week the results will be checked on power, agility and fictional performance. Power: (MRC scale) , Agility: Comprehensive Agility Measurement Tool (CAMT), Functional Performance: The Functional Movement Scale (FMS) tools will be used to measure the difference between the training pattern of 6 weeks which is more effective for the football players. The data will be collected using the SPSS 24. In descriptive statistics Frequency tables, pie charts, bar charts will be used to show summary of group measurements measured over time... The objective of this study is to Determine Comparative Effects of Match play training and plyometric training on Explosive power, Agility and Functional performance in football players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To Compare the Effects Of Match Play Exercises And Plyometric Training On Explosive Power, Agility And Functional Performance In Football Players Randomized clinical Trials will be used. Non-probability convenient sampling technique will be used Data will be collected from Pakistan Sports Board, Lahore

DATA COLLECTION TOOL

1. POWER Vertical Jump Tests
2. AGILITY Illinois Agility Test
3. The Functional Movement Scale (FMS)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Power
  - Agility
  - The Functional Movement Scale (FMS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Match Play Training
  - OTHER: Plyometric Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 28 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05969197
