CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05532436
Title: The Effect of Breath Exercise on Patients' Post-Operative Anxiety Level, Sleep and Recovery Quality
Official Title: The Effect of Breath Exercise on Post-Operative Anxiety Level, Sleep and Recovery Quality in Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy Surgery:A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 115
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
This study was conducted to determine the effect of breath exercise on post-operative anxiety level, sleep and recovery quality after laparoscopic cholecystectomy surger. This was a randomized controlled experimental study. The sample comprised 115 patients who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (control:57; experimental:58). One day before the operation, the participants in the experimental group were given breathing exercise training, and they were applied 5 times a day for 10 repetitions until the 30th day after the operation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Surgical interventions are one of the most important experiences in an individual's life and are used to improve the quality of life, to treat diseases and to improve health. Cholelithiasis is one of the most common surgical procedures that can be treated with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Although laparoscopic surgery is a minimally invasive surgical procedure, it is expected that patients who will receive general anesthesia have an increased level of anxiety, feel pain and disrupt their sleep patterns.

The body's stress response is an expected process in coping with the problems that may develop in the post-operative period, adapting to the new situation and accelerating the recovery. However, when stressors and the response to these stressors are excessive and continuous, the healing process is adversely affected. It has been reported in the literature that patients with high anxiety levels before and after surgical intervention have a higher rate of medical complications and adversely affect wound healing.

Sleep-related problems are one of the specific consequences of the stress response to surgery.

In the literature, it has been stated that patients experience sleep problems after surgical intervention and their sleep quality is adversely affected. This situation may negatively affect the quality of life of patients, as well as increase the rate of morbidity and mortality. On the other hand, the good sleep quality of the patients affects the healing process positively and ensures early budding. In this context, well-planned patient education and nursing care management before surgery will be effective in increasing the sleep pattern and quality of patients.

Oxygenation of the traumatized tissues must be sufficient for wound healing in the postoperative incisional area. This oxygen requirement is met by effective ventilation. However, after surgery, patients have difficulty in breathing deeply due to reasons such as pain and limitation of movement. Studies have shown that the practice of planned breathing exercises reduces stress in patients in the pre- and post-operative period, provides calming, and has a positive effect on the level of pain and wound healing. In this respect, planned patient education and care to be given to patients before surgery is very effective in preventing complications related to surgical intervention.

One of the basic duties of surgical nurses is to teach and apply deep breathing and coughing exercises to the patient in pre-operative patient education. It is very important to explain the importance of these exercises to the patient and the effects of performing them at regular intervals on the quality of recovery. However, studies have drawn attention to the fact that the rates of teaching and applying deep breathing exercises to patients are not at the desired level.

Non-pharmacological applications have been widely used in recent years to improve the quality of recovery of patients after laparoscopic chole

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)
  - The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI)
  - The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI)
  - The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI)
  - The State Anxiety Inventory (SAI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Breath Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05532436
