CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03854461
Title: The Efficacy of Individualized Dietary Advice in Improving Diet Quality and Cardiovascular Health
Official Title: The Efficacy of Individualized Dietary Advice in Improving Diet Quality and Cardiovascular Health
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 162
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
This study is a a randomized controlled parallel group dietary intervention conducted over six months in participants at high risk of cardiovascular disease living in Ireland (North and South) to evaluate the efficacy of individualized dietary advice incorporating biomarker profiles in improving diet quality and cardiometabolic outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design: a randomized controlled parallel group dietary intervention will be conducted over six months in participants at high risk of CVD living in Ireland (North and South) to evaluate the efficacy of individualized dietary advice incorporating biomarker profiles in improving diet quality and cardiometabolic outcomes.

Population and recruitment

Population characteristics: Participants will be at high risk (\>20% over 10 years) of developing CVD. Established recruitment mechanisms, used in several previous and ongoing dietary intervention studies, from general practices, hospital outpatient clinics, and from the general population (via press release, radio interviews, poster placement) will be utilized.Recruitment will take place over an 18 month period.

Inclusion criteria: Participants will be considered eligible to enroll in the study if they are overweight (BMI \>27 and ≤ 45 kg/m2), have low Prime Diet Quality Score (PDQS \<15)27 and a combination of risk factors which places them at high total risk (estimated multifactorial CVD risk ≥ 20% over ten years) of developing atherosclerotic CVD for the first time.

Exclusion criteria: Participants will be ineligible to enroll in the study if they have established diabetes mellitus, CVD or a medical condition or dietary restriction(s) that would substantially limit their ability to complete the study requirements, have an excessive alcohol consumption (\>28 Units/week for men or \>21 Units/week for women), have a low predicted likelihood to change dietary habits or are unable to provide informed consent.

Randomization: A personal health and medical history questionnaire, together with Joint British Societies CVD risk prediction charts and an assessment of participant's baseline PDQS using a 42-item questionnaire will be used to assess eligibility. This questionnaire is validated in the US, but will be validated in the Irish population. Those eligible and willing to take part will give informed written consent, and will be randomized (randomization scheme generated using www.randomization.com with random block sizes and research staff administering the randomization or conducting endpoint assessment blinded) to either an education only intervention or individually tailored food marker-based dietary advice.

The intervention will take place over a six month period. Participants will be interviewed towards the end of the intervention (for those in individually tailored support arm), or at drop-out (for all participants who drop out), to elicit their views on the intervention.

Dietary intervention: Participants will be randomized to one of two groups:

1. Control - participants will be given written educational material to encourage dietary change towards a better quality diet. Educational material will be adapted from resources used in previous dietary intervention studies.
2. Personalized dietary advice - participants will also be given the educational material, but will be encouraged to mak

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in Mean Change in Prime Diet Quality Score Between Groups Between Months 0 and 6

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Personalised dietary advice and educational material
  - BEHAVIORAL: Educational material

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03854461
