CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03913780
Title: Impact of the Aerobic Exercise Versus Exercise of Force on the Hemodynamic, Lipidic, Anthropometric and Psychological Variables of Patients With Cardiac Failure
Official Title: 
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 920
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Introduction and objectives: At the global level, cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of mortality. Currently, rehabilitation programs are shown as an effective treatment to mitigate the effects of heart failure. The main objective is to compare the effects of aerobic exercise and strength in patients with heart failure after a cardiovascular rehabilitation program.

Methods and materials: Randomized controlled trial over a period of 3 years with patients with heart failure distributed in 3 groups (Aerobic exercise, aerobic exercise plus upper limb -MMSS- training, aerobic exercise plus training of lower limb -MMII-). Blood samples were taken to determine blood glucose levels and lipid profile. In addition, tests for aerobic capacity, maximum heart rate, anthropometry, depression, anxiety, clinical and hemodynamic parameters. The tests were performed before and after 24 training sessions, 60 min, 3 times a week for two months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
MATERIALS AND METHODS

This research for the group number 1 was retrospective and for groups 2 and 3 it was a randomized controlled trial with a basic probabilistic sampling by means of a table of random numbers, whose order was randomized through the Microsoft Excel 16.0 program, being the group experimental 1 at the end with 253 participants (aerobic exercise without strength training), 256 participants in experimental group 2 (aerobic exercise + strength training in the upper extremities) and control group with 255 (aerobic exercise + strength training for the lower extremities). The present investigation was carried out in a period of 3 years (April 2016-2019) that contains the following attributes:

Characteristics of the participants The participants contained similar characteristics from the point of view of: ejection fraction, functional class, glucose, lipid profile, muscle percentage, fat and BMI (body mass index), abdominal circumference, overweight, obesity, prevalence of diabetes, arterial hypertension (HTA), kidney disease, cardiovascular risk factors and cardiovascular surgical procedure for their respective analysis. In addition, all participants presented "High risk" according to the stratification proposed by the American Association of Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation. Highlighting that for group 1 their research methodology was retrospective through the collection of data from medical records of the year 2000 and groups 2 and 3 were interventions with methodology of randomized clinical trial between the years 2016 to 2019.

Criteria for inclusion in the study The patients had to be post-operative of cardiovascular surgery that go to a phase II cardiac rehabilitation program, which at the time had to sign an informed consent endorsed by the ethics and research committee of the institution. Likewise, it was necessary for participants to have heart failure with ejection fraction greater than 35%; do not have any inconvenience when doing the questionnaires, tests and measures that the investigation demands, and a commitment to go 3 times a week for RCV.

Exclusion criteria Patients who had severe pain in the lower limbs, unstable angina, heart rate \>120 bpm (beats per minute) at rest, systolic blood pressure \>190 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure \>120 mmHg were discarded. Similarly, patients who had a positive contraindication item for cardiac rehabilitation were not admitted in the study. In addition, the participant had the option of being able to withdraw from the research when he wished or to show hemodynamic instability without improving during any test or during the intervention process.

Anthropometric measurement In all the participants the following data were obtained: Family and personal antecedents using a self-created questionnaire. Likewise, anthropometric measures (weight, height, body mass index, abdominal circumference, fat and muscle percentage) using standardized techniques in the Colombian population.

The weight,

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in ejection fraction after 24 training sessions (%)
  - Changes in the Body weight after 24 training sessions (Kg)
  - Changes in the Body Mass Index after 24 training sessions (%)
  - Changes in the Abdominal circumference after 24 training sessions (cm)
  - Changes in the Fat percentage after 24 training sessions (%)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise more force

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03913780
