CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00641810
Title: The Effect of Caffeine Reduction on Snoring and Quality of Life
Official Title: The Effect of Caffeine Reduction on Snoring and Quality of Life
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Snoring is a problem for many people, often disturbing energy level, quality of sleep, and the relationship with a bed partner. Two observational studies that have indicated a relationship between the consumption of caffeine and snoring. The objective of this study will be to observe the degree of snoring and quality of sleep when caffeine intake is reduced over a period of four weeks. This will be a prospective, before-and-after study of a behavioral intervention.

This study will engage thirty adults who report snoring, drink two cups of coffee or more per day (or an equivalent amount of caffeine), and have a consistent bed partner who can report on snoring severity. Both subject and partner will be asked to fill out a diary each day. The subjects will record the type of caffeine consumed, time at which each beverage was ingested, the total minutes of physical exercise, any caffeine withdrawal symptoms, quality of sleep, and energy in the morning. The partner (reporter) will rate his or her own sleep quality and energy in the morning, as well as the snoring level of the subject. Beginning the second week of the study, the subject will reduce caffeine intake to half the baseline consumption, and on the third week, will eliminate caffeine altogether.

At the end of each week, the participants will be asked to mail their diaries in to the researchers and start a new series of entries. The study team will also call each week to answer any questions or concerns of the subject and reporter, and encourage continued reporting. When six weeks have elapsed following the completion of the last diary, the investigators will make a final call to the participants to record their current level of snoring, quality of sleep, and daily energy level.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Snoring

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Caffeine reduction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00641810
