CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06223776
Title: Effects of Sleep Restrictions on Maximal Strength, Muscle Power, and Strength Endurance in Resistance-trained Women.
Official Title: Effects of One Night's Acute Sleep Restrictions on Maximal Strength, Muscle Power, and Strength Endurance in Resistance-trained Women.
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The study aims to see how acute sleep restriction will affect women resistance trainers. Above all, the investigators will be interested in observing the relationship between shorter sleep and athletic performance, as well as other important aspects, such as their level of motivation to exercise, how much pain participants felt during exercise and how demanding they found exercise. The investigators assume that differences in subjective measures (such as pain levels, motivation and mood) will be most apparent.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants would take part in two identical experimental sessions under two sleep conditions:

with sleep restrictions (SR), where will experience acute sleep restriction the night before the test session (i.e., 3 h of early sleep restriction versus normal sleep); with the control condition (CON), where participants will follow their habitual sleep-wake routines.

Every session would separated by a 1-week interval. The average sleep duration (CON) is going to be estimated by using actigraphy Motionwatch 8 for 5 days (from Monday to Friday).

Female athletes will receive accelerometers one day before experimental sessions. Participants will be asked to wear them on their non-dominant wrists from 8 p.m. to the next morning (experimental sessions day).

The participants would complete the morning session with a battery of physical tests, measuring several components of specific physical performance capacity and cognitive function.

During the experimental sessions, participants would be at the luteal or follicular phases excluding the period of bleeding (4-5 days) and the time immediately before planned bleeding (3 days before), because this can have a bad influence on sleep.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal strength bench press test
  - Muscle endurance test in bench press
  - Explosive bench press exercise
  - Countermovement jump

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Sleep restriction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06223776
