CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06124248
Title: Effectiveness of the RISE Intervention
Official Title: RISE Intervention: Heading to Sustainable Movement Behavioural Change in People with Stroke
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Study aim:

Primarily, to investigate the effectiveness of the RISE blended behaviour change intervention in people with a first stroke to prevent major adverse cardiovascular events (i.e., recurrent stroke or TIA, acute coronary events and cardiovascular death, MACE) after 1 year follow-up compared to standard care, and cost-effectiveness. For this aim, 376 persons are enrolled in the experimental group and 376 in the control group. Considering loss to follow up, it is expected that around 950-1000 patients need to be included during baseline measurement in total.

Additionally, to determine the effectiveness of the RISE intervention on reducing sedentary behaviour after discharge from acute hospital care in community dwelling people with a first-ever stroke, who have a sedentary movement behavioural pattern (so called 'sedentary prolongers' and 'sedentary movers') in comparison to usual care, at the end of the intervention period (T1). For this aim, 59 persons are enrolled in the experimental group and 59 in the control group. Considering loss to follow up, it is expected that around 197 patients need to be included during baseline measurement in total.

Who can participate? People aged over 18, who return home after acute care with a first-ever stroke, who are independent in walking with or without a walking aid, will be included in the RISE intervention study.

What does the study involve? In this clinical randomized controlled trial, participants with first-ever stroke and a sedentary movement pattern will be included and randomly assigned to either the experimental group who will receive RISE intervention and usual care or the control group who will receive usual care. Primary and secondary outcome will be measured at baseline, post-treatment and six, nine and 12 months post-randomisation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: People who have suffered a stroke are at high risk of functional decline, recurrent stroke and premature mortality. High amounts of sedentary behaviour, accumulated in prolonged bouts and low amounts of moderate to vigorous physical activity increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. Based on earlier research it is expected that a healthier balance in the 24h activity pattern (sedentary time, physical activity and sleep) reduces the risk of a second cardiovascular event. To support patients with stroke to strike the balance in their 24h activity pattern, a behavioural change coaching intervention focusing on reducing and interrupting their sedentary time was designed. A pilot study has been performed, and the RISE intervention seems feasible in reducing sedentary behaviour in people after stroke.

Objective: To determine the effectiveness of the RISE intervention on preventing major adverse cardiovascular effects (MACE), after discharge from acute hospital care in community dwelling people after first-ever stroke, who have a sedentary movement behavioural pattern. In addition, the effects on 24h activity pattern, cost-effectiveness, and usability of the RISE intervention will be investigated.

Study design: In this clinical randomized controlled trial, participants with first-ever stroke and a sedentary movement pattern will be included and randomly assigned to either the experimental group who will receive RISE intervention and usual care or the control group who will receive usual care. Primary and secondary outcomes will be measured at baseline, post-treatment (four months), and six, nine, and 12 months post-randomisation.

Study population: People aged over 18, who return home after acute care with a first-ever stroke, who are independent in walking with or without a walking aid, will be included in the RISE intervention study.

Intervention (if applicable): Participants will receive the RISE intervention, a 15-weeks blended behavioural intervention, where a primary care physiotherapist coaches participants on striking the balance in their 24h activity pattern, with a focus on reducing and interrupting their sedentary time. This will subsequently lead to an increase in physical activity. Next to that, insights into their personal sleep pattern, sleep hygiene rules and advices will be provided. Primary care physiotherapists coach people with a first-ever stroke in their home setting by using behaviour change techniques and the RISE eCoaching system. The RISE eCoaching system consists of 1) an activity monitor, 2) a smartphone application that provides real-time feedback and contains e-learning modules, 3) a monitoring dashboard for the physiotherapist. Participants receive participatory support from someone from their social network (e.g., partner or close friend) who joins them in the intervention (see image 1).

Participants in the control group receive usual care, according to hospital specific guidelines.

Main study parameter

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: RISE intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06124248
