CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03173495
Title: Effects of Exercise on Fructose-induced Postprandial Lipemia
Official Title: Effects of Exercise on Fructose-induced Postprandial Lipemia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs) are the leading causes of death in the world and in Brazil. In 2001, 12.45 million deaths on the globe (21% of the total) were caused by some CVD.

The composition of modern man's diet has changed drastically with the industrialization of food, resulting in the transition from a diet rich in fibers and complex carbohydrates to one with a high content of sugars and fats. Since the current dietary pattern is characterized by the consumption of three or more meals a day, containing a quantity of fat in the range of 20 to 70 g, individuals spend a large part of the day in the postprandial state, with continuous fluctuation of lipemia Over 18 hours. Food intake (postprandial state) is the dynamic, unstable response of the body that refers to rapid hormonal and lipoprotein remodeling. It is well established in the literature that high-fat meals (lipid overload) cause an increase in plasma triglycerides. Hypertriglyceridemia and / or elevated triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (LRT) (chylomicrons, VLDL and their remnants) in the postprandial state induces endothelial dysfunction via increased oxidative stress and is an independent risk factor for CVDs. Therefore, Postprandial Lipemia (PPL) is counted as an early marker of atherosclerotic process, metabolic abnormalities and endothelial dysfunction.

High-carbohydrate (CHO) diets may promote increased LDL-c, TG, VLDL and HDL-c reduction, as well as PPL, generating a lipid profile associated with an increased risk of CVDs. This effect appears to be more pronounced with the inclusion of simple carbohydrates (mono and disaccharides), although it also occurs with diets rich in complex carbohydrates (polysaccharides).

High fructose diets (HFDs) are a known model of induction of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia and DM2 in primates and humans. The chronic effect of fructose consumption has been well studied in the last decades due to its connection with obesity, resistance to insulin, accumulation of visceral fat and dyslipidemia.

As the consumption of fructose is progressively increasing in society and its chronic exposure can generate a phenotypic effect of dyslipidemia and, consequently, the increased risk of CVDs, prevention and treatment strategies should be seen as an important public health issue . Thus, the objective of this study is to understand the effects of exercise on fat metabolism, since there is a lack of robust evidence about the possible cardioprotective and hypolipemic role of the same on HFD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs) are the leading causes of death in the world and in Brazil. In 2001, 12.45 million deaths on the globe (21% of the total) were caused by some CVD.

Different studies agree that CVDs can be prevented by reducing risk factors, such as: smoking, inadequate diet (high in fat, simple carbohydrates and salt), physical inactivity, obesity, diabetes mellitus (DM), high levels of Lipids in the blood (dyslipidemia) and hyperglycemia even in the absence of a diagnosis of DM.

The composition of modern man's diet has changed drastically with the industrialization of food, resulting in the transition from a diet rich in fibers and complex carbohydrates to one with a high content of sugars and fats. Since the current dietary pattern is characterized by the consumption of three or more meals a day, containing a quantity of fat in the range of 20 to 70 g, individuals spend a large part of the day in the postprandial state, with continuous fluctuation of lipemia Over 18 hours.

Food intake (postprandial state) is the dynamic, unstable response of the body that refers to rapid hormonal and lipoprotein remodeling. It is well established in the literature that high-fat meals (lipid overload) cause an increase in plasma triglycerides. Hypertriglyceridemia and / or elevated triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (LRT) (chylomicrons, VLDL and their remnants) in the postprandial state induces endothelial dysfunction via increased oxidative stress and is an independent risk factor for CVDs. Therefore, Postprandial Lipemia (PPL) is counted as an early marker of atherosclerotic process, metabolic abnormalities and endothelial dysfunction.

High-carbohydrate (CHO) diets may promote increased LDL-c, TG, VLDL and HDL-c reduction, as well as PPL, generating a lipid profile associated with an increased risk of CVDs. This effect appears to be more pronounced with the inclusion of simple carbohydrates (mono and disaccharides), although it also occurs with diets rich in complex carbohydrates (polysaccharides).

High fructose diets (HFDs) are a known model of induction of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia and DM2 in primates and humans. The chronic effect of fructose consumption has been well studied in the last decades due to its connection with obesity, resistance to insulin, accumulation of visceral fat and dyslipidemia.

Due to the increase in fructose consumption from beverages and processed foods, changes in lifestyle, mainly related to diet and exercise, should be seen as a means of prevention and first form of treatment of CVDs and changes in lipid metabolism.

Acute and chronic aerobic exercise seems to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and CVD by reducing lipemia (improvement of TG, CT, LDL-c and HDL-c) and endothelial function. In addition, the exercise when performed the previous day has the ability to prevent the increase of PPL after a hyperlipidic meal, regardless of body mass. This effect may be considered a cardiometabolic protect

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Triglycerides
  - VLDL

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: FRUCTOSE
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: DEXTROSE
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: EXERCISE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03173495
