CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04958499
Title: Effectiveness of Bio-Healthy Park on Adult
Official Title: Physical and Psychological Effectiveness of Bio-Healthy Park on Adult
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Bio-healthy parks are an alternative for practicing physical activity outdoors and free of charge. However, there is no research that analyzes the effect of a planned training program in these parks. There are two types of parks under development, with and without externally added resistance. Therefore, general objective of this project are to evaluate the effect of 8 weeks of targeted training in bio-healthy parks on body composition, bone mineral density, blood pressure, strength, functional capacity, sarcopenia, sagittal disposition of the spine, quality of life, life satisfaction and Mediterranean diet adherence in adults and older adults. The present project will be developed through a randomized controlled trial, with 1 experimental and 1 control group, with pre-test and post-test, with intra-group and inter-group analysis for each of the dependent variables of the study. It will be measure body composition, bone mineral density, blood pressure, upper limb strength, lower limb strength, functional capacity, sarcopenia, sagittal disposition of the spine, Health-related quality of life, satisfaction with life and Mediterranean diet adherence. Experimental group will receive the exercise program on bio-healthy park machine with a frequency of 2 sessions per week of 55 minutes for 8 weeks. The control group will not perform any intervention program following their usual activity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aging process is associated with physiological, psychological and functional deterioration. It has been demonstrated that the practice of physical activity can prevent, slow or reduce this deterioration. Bio-healthy parks are an alternative for practicing physical activity outdoors and free of charge. However, there is no research that analyzes the effect of a planned training program in these parks. There are two types of parks under development, with and without externally added resistance.

Therefore, the objectives of this project are to evaluate the effect of 8 weeks of targeted training in bio-healthy parks, with a frequency of 2 sessions per week on body composition, bone mineral density, blood pressure, strength, functional capacity, sarcopenia, sagittal disposition of the spine, quality of life, life satisfaction and mediterranean diet satisfaction in adults and older adults.

The present project will be developed through a randomized controlled trial, with 1 experimental and 1 control group, with pre-test and post-test, with intra-group and inter-group analysis for each of the dependent variables of the study.

The inclusion criteria are: (a) not having participated in a structured exercise program for at least 1 year, (b) being older than 50 years of age, and (c) being physically independent. The exclusion criteria are: (a) having musculoskeletal injuries or limitations that could affect the health and physical performance of the person; (b) being under medical prescription for taking medications that could influence physical performance; (c) not regularly attending the proposed sessions.

Body composition and bone mineral density will be assessed by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA).

Blood pressure by means of an automatic device (Colin BP 880, Inc., Tampa, FL). Strength by manual dynamometry (TKK 5401; Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) and maximal isometric strength of knee extension and biceps flexion.

Functional capacity will be assessed by means of the Chari stand test, gait speed, time up and go test and Short physical performance battery (SPPB), Sarcopenia will be assessed taking into account the reference values established for muscle quality (hand grip strength and chair stand test), muscle quantity (DEXA fat-free mass) and functional competence (gait speed, time up and go test, SPPB and 400 meter walk) established by the European Consensus (EWGSOP2).

The Spinal Mouse device (Switzerland) will be used to assess the sagittal disposition of the spine (thoracic curve, lumbar curve and pelvic tilt) in standing and relaxed sitting. This technique is non-invasive.

Health-related quality of life and satisfaction with life will be assessed by means of the SF36 and The Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWL) questionnaires.

Mediterranean diet adherence will be assess with a Mediterranean diet adherence questionaire.

Experimental group 1 will receive the exercise program on bio-healthy machinery with a frequency of 2 sessions per week

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle quality sarcopenia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Bio-healthy Park

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04958499
