CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03471143
Title: Study of IV VTS-270 for Infantile Liver Disease Associated With Niemann-Pick Disease, Type C
Official Title: Phase 1/2a Study of 2-Hydroxypropyl-Beta-Cyclodextrin Therapy for Infantile Liver Disease Associated With Niemann-Pick Disease, Type C
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Niemann-Pick disease, type C (NPC) is a lethal, autosomal recessive, lysosomal storage disorder characterized by neurodegeneration in early childhood and death in adolescence. NPC results from mutation of either the Niemann-Pick C1 disease (NPC1) (\~95% of cases) or NPC2 genes. NPC is characterized by the endolysosomal storage of unesterified cholesterol and lipids in both the central nervous system and peripheral tissues such as the liver. Individuals with NPC demonstrate progressive central nervous system decline including inability to coordinate balance, gait, extremity and eye movements. Acute liver disease in the newborn/infant period is frequently observed, but subsequently resolves. However, chronic, sub-clinical liver disease persists. Intrathecal 2-Hydroxypropyl-β-Cyclodextrin (HP-β-CD, VTS-270), also known as adrabetadex, has proven effective in reducing the signs and prolonging life in animal models and Phase 1/2a data support efficacy in NPC1 patients. Adrabetadex (VTS-270) also has been shown to be effective in treating liver disease in the NPC1 cat.

This Phase 1/2a, open-label, multiple ascending dose trial will evaluate whether adrabetadex (VTS-270) administered intravenously is effective in treating acute liver disease in NPC1 infants.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the first phase of the study, infants will be treated for a total of 6 weeks, treated twice weekly. Infants will be admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) for the first week of treatment. Procedures during the first week of the study will include blood draws for genetic testing, clinical and research blood draws, urine collection, abdominal ultrasound, peripheral inserted central catheter (PICC) placement, hearing screening, and the first two IV adrabetadex (VTS-270) infusions through the PICC line. Weeks 2-6 will occur on an outpatient basis. During week 2-6, the infant will receive 2 doses per week of adrabetadex (VTS-270) with blood draws and urine collection during weeks 2, 4, and 6. PICC line will be removed after final infusion.

Subjects who demonstrate significant reduction either in the glycine-conjugated trihydroxycholanic acid biomarker or serum bilirubin (direct bilirubin or direct bilirubin: total bilirubin ratio) will be allowed to crossover into the second phase of the study, an open label phase of six months duration in which IV adrabetadex (VTS-270) will be administered monthly for a total of six doses. Month 1-6 procedures will occur on an outpatient basis. Procedures during the second phase include a monthly intravenous line placement. After each monthly visit, the intravenous line will be removed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Efficacy of Adrabetadex (VTS-270) to Reduce Plasma Levels of a Conjugated Bile Acid, Known as 5α-cholanic Acid-3β, 5α, 6β-triol N-(Carboxymethyl)-Amide

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: VTS-270

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 6 Months
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03471143
