CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06418425
Title: Exercise Program and Protein Intake Counselling for Frailty Prevention in Singapore
Official Title: EPPIC Trial: Exercise Program and Protein Intake Counselling for Frailty Prevention in Singapore
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized controlled trial that is designed to study the effectiveness of home-based exercise program and high dietary protein counselling in preventing frailty among elderly in Singapore primary care setting.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators are studying the elderly population who have prefrailty (Fried Frailty). Participants include those who are: a) Aged 65 to 100 years old b) screened CFS 3-4. Patients will be approached via phone call by care coordinators, as part of the routine care. As part of the routine care to our chronic patients, care coordinators identify eligible patients for annual screening to update personal particulars/ cancer screening and vaccination statuses as per the Healthier SG program before patient's chronic disease appointment. Also as part of the routine care, care coordinators will screen for CFS 3 and 4 patients over the phone. Patients who fulfil CFS 3 and 4 will be arranged to have a physical consultation with care coordinators on their day of prescheduled visit in the clinic. Patients meeting the eligibility criteria for the study, will be approached by the care coordinator to ask for research interest. If interested in participating, patients will be referred to the research team member for recruitment and consent will be taken. Participants will then be randomly assigned to "intervention" or "usuALCARe" parallel arms. Randomisation of participants will be done on 1:1 allocation to intervention or usuALCARe by a simple randomisation procedure. Participants randomly assigned to the usuALCARe group will receive normal primary care, including dietitian and physiotherapy services if needed. Intervention participants will receive the described intervention on top of usuALCARe. Intervention participants will be taught specific resistance and balance exercises and participants will receive a leaflet with pictorial guide on the home based exercise regime. The participants will be advised to consume adequate protein and participants will also receive another leaflet on protein consumption as part of a balanced diet. At the 3 month and 12 month mark, participants in the intervention group will see the care coordinator who will assess compliance and re-enforce the exercise regime and dietary protein intake counselling, and check for any difficulties faced.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Repeated Chair Rise Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: counselling on home-based exercise program and dietary protein intake

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06418425
