CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07113249
Title: The Effects of Foam Rolling on Ankle Dorsiflexion, Ankle Stability, and Athletic Performance in Rhythmic Gymnasts
Official Title: The Effects of Foam Rolling During the Warm-Up Phase on Range of Motion, Ankle Stability and Leaping Performance in Young Elite Rhythmic Gymnasts
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Rhythmic Gymnastics is an Olympic discipline featuring individual or team competition. Regardless of the type of competition, athletes undergo rigorous training focused on enhancing their coordination, joint range of motion, and jump height. Each rhythmic gymnast voluntarily underwent testing at their own gym after reading and signing the informed consent document. During the first session, general information was collected on all participants (age, weight, and height), followed by an assessment of athletic performance and joint mobility parameters. For the jump performance parameters, the Counter Movement Jump test (CMJ) was used through an optical detecting system. An inertial sensor was used to measure joint mobility, while a pressure platform was used to measure ankle stability, using a single-leg jump protocol. Subsequently, participants were randomly divided into two groups: an experimental group (EG) and a control group (CG). The EG performed three sets, each lasting 60 seconds, with a 30-second break between sets for two times for week for 3 weeks. During each FR session, a complete sequential movement was always performed, starting from the gastrocnemius muscles and ending with the soleus muscle. At the end of the three weeks, all measurements were repeated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Counter Movement Jump (CMJ)
  - Ankle Dorsiflexion ROM
  - Ankle Stability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Foam Rolling (FR)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07113249
