CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05310474
Title: Does an Active Range of Motion Monitor Improve Outcomes/Decrease Cost for Patients Undergoing Total Knee Arthroplasty?
Official Title: Does an Active Range of Motion Monitor Improve Outcomes and Decrease Cost for Patients Undergoing Total Knee Arthroplasty?
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to study the efficacy of a remote range of motion monitor, the Knee Glider, alongside a patient engagement platform, Force Therapeutics, on clinical improvements and cost following primary TKA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to study the efficacy of a remote range of motion monitor, the Knee Glider, alongside a patient engagement platform, Force Therapeutics, on clinical improvements and cost following primary TKA. Patients will be given the opportunity to participate, and enrolled and consented participants will be treated and followed by physicians from OSI Orthopedic \& Sports Medicine. Upon consent, patients will be randomized to receive the active range of motion monitor (the knee glider) two weeks prior to surgery, near day of surgery to use postoperatively, or standard of care (no knee glider). All patients enrolled in the study will have access to Force Therapeutics, patient engagement and outcome collection system utilized by OSI Orthopedic \& Sports Medicine. Enrolled subjects will be followed from the time of consent, through 6 months following surgery. Patients who are randomized into groups receiving the knee glider will receive the knee glider for up to 4 weeks following surgery, and compliance will be monitored. The hypothesis of this study is that patients who utilize an active range of motion monitor (the knee glider) will have improved clinical outcomes over patients receiving standard of care.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Baseline Patient Characteristics
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS Jr.)
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS Jr.)
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS Jr.)
  - Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS Jr.)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Knee Glider

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05310474
