CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05462483
Title: Heat Application to Quadriceps Effect on Pain After a Total Knee Arthroplasty
Official Title: Heat Application to thEQuadriceps Musculature and Its Effect on Pain Following a Total Knee Arthroplasty
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 117
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this study is to explore an under-researched aspect of recovery. Typically, post-operative care after a knee arthroplasty consists of compression (stockings), medications, rest, ice, elevation, physical therapy, and wound care. All of these treatments perform their role well, however, medications such opiates run the risk of addiction. An additional method of pain management such as heat application to the surrounding musculature warrants exploration.

The goal of this study is to reduce the amount of pain, and improve thEQuality of life in post-operative patients. Pain, stiffness, symptoms, quality of life and function of the knee will be evaluated utilizing patient-reported measures and range of motion. Patients will be assessed using the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome survey (KOOS Jr), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and PROMIS. Patients will be given these surveys during their two and six week check-in with the surgeon. In addition to these patient-reported measures, the investigators will also be tracking range of motion (ROM) and opioid usage. The data will then be collected via the patient's electronic health record, or by the researcher directly. The treatment group will be given a written order to apply heat to thEQuadriceps at leasT3 times per day for 10-15 minutes each. This can be done in four hour increments or when patients symptoms begin to worsen. The patient will receive a rice sock for heat application. The control group will not be withheld from heat application, but will not be instructed to do so. The control group will instead follow the current standard of care as advised by the physician.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of Pain experienced at 2 and 6 week check-ins
  - Change of Pain experienced at 2 and 6 week check-ins
  - Change of Pain experienced at 2 and 6 week check-ins
  - Change in stiffness experienced at 2 and 6 week check-ins
  - Change in stiffness experienced at 2 and 6 week check-ins

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Rice Sock and Instructions to heat thEQuadriceps.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05462483
