CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06896123
Title: Dance Well Therapy: a Study for Evaluating Efficacy, Safety, and Feasibility
Official Title: Studio Sulla Fattibilità e Sul Potenziale Riabilitativo Dell'Esperienza Artistica di Dance Well Nei Pazienti Affetti da Malattia di Parkinson
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
A new and in-teresting complementary approach for rehabilitation of parkinsonian patients is represented by "Dance Well", which is an artistic, multisensory dance intervention based on art and music. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy, feasibility, and safety of a 4-week Dance Well (DW) program in PD patients in early-medium disease stages.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background/Objectives: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder re-sponsible for both motor and non-motor disturbances impairing the motor behaviour. This com-plexity needs for integrated, multidisciplinary and comprehensive models of care. A new and in-teresting complementary approach is represented by "Dance Well," i.e., an artistic, multisensory dance intervention based on art and music. This pilot study aims to evaluate the efficacy, feasibility, and safety of a 4-week Dance Well (DW) program in PD patients in early-medium disease stages. Methods: Twenty-four PD patients (H\&Y ≤ 3; MoCA score ≥ 13.8) were enrolled and randomly allocated into two groups, both with a twice per week frequency and lasting 4 weeks: one group underwent the DW program, while the other underwent conventional physiotherapy (CPT). De-mographic, biometric, and clinical data were collected. To study the treatment effect, motor (Unified PD Rating Scale-III, Timed-up and Go Test, Berg Balance Scale, 6-Minute Walk Test, and Falls Efficacy Scale), cognitive (Corsi Supra Span Test, Trial Making Test A and B-A), and affective (Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, Apathy Evaluation Scale) outcome measures were as-sessed, before and after rehabilitation program. To study the treatment compliance and safety, number of dropouts and any adverse events (such as injuries and falls) were recorded.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - UPDRS III

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dance Well: an artistic, multisensory dance intervention based on art and music
  - BEHAVIORAL: Conventional motor therapy group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06896123
