CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04827888
Title: Effect of BMI on Postoperative Morbidities of Orthopaedic Procedures
Official Title: The Effect Of BMI On Thirty-day Postoperative Morbidities And Mortality For The Most Common Orthopaedic Procedures
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 76189
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Obesity is associated with poor surgical outcome and complications. The literature does not provide a comprehensive view on the effect of body mass index (BMI) on perioperative outcomes in orthopedic surgeries. Therefore, we aim to determine the effect of BMI on 30-day perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing the first 25 most commonly performed orthopedic surgeries using a retrospective cohort study design. The knowledge of the effect of BMI on orthopedic surgeries will improve the knowledge of surgeons about the expected morbidities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Obesity is associated with poor surgical outcome and complications. The literature does not provide a comprehensive view on the effect of body mass index (BMI) on perioperative outcomes in orthopedic surgeries. Therefore, we aim to determine the procedure specific, independent-effect of BMI on 30-day perioperative outcomes in patients undergoing the first 25 most commonly performed orthopedic surgeries.

The study is a retrospective cohort study. The subjects will be the individuals undergoing one of first 25 most commonly performed orthopedic surgeries, whose information is derived form the de-identified patients' data collected through the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) database. The primary outcome will be composite post-operative morbidity. Specific morbidities will also be evaluated including cardiovascular, vascular and renal complications, length-of-stay (LOS), and the need for re-intervention and readmission, as well as 30-day mortality. Descriptive statistics and multivariable regression models will assess the independent-effect of BMI on outcomes.

The knowledge of the effect of BMI on orthopedic surgeries will improve the knowledge of surgeons about the expected morbidities. The surgeon will be able to better counsel obese patients and devise a better surgical plan to prevent or deal with the expected outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Composite morbidity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Orthopaedic surgery

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04827888
