CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06488144
Title: Rehabilitation for Arthritis of The Knee: mainTaining Improvement for Veterans
Official Title: A Remotely - Applied Behaviorally- Designed Intervention Incorporating Gamification, Social Incentives, and Health Coaching to Improve Durability of Physical Therapy for Knee Osteoarthritis (ReAKTIV)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 254
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aims are to determine whether 1) an incentive based on behaviorally-enhanced gamification and social incentives and 2) health coaching can promote adherence to exercise and physical activity after physical therapy for osteoarthritis of the knee (KOA). The research design is a randomized clinical trial with factorial design

This randomized clinical trial of 254 patients using a factorial design will leverage a clinical trial platform developed through the University of Pennsylvania that allows for the remotely capture important patient-reported outcomes and other interaction through a participant's smart phone. The investigators will randomize participants to receive social incentives with gamification to promote adherence to prescribed exercises as well as maintenance of greater levels of physical activity and compare to controls that receive a Fitbit but no additional incentive. Participants may also be randomized to receive a health coach. The investigators will utilize mobile applications for smart phones and wearable activity trackers through the Way-to-Health platform and assess, in real time, the impact of the interventions on patient-reported function and pain (as measured by the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score) as well as physical activity. Participants will be followed for 2 years, with a total of 5 in-person visits.

Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is one of the most prevalent and disabling conditions among Veterans and accounts for high morbidity and high costs for the VA. Importantly, while physical therapy is valuable for patients with KOA, lack of adherence to home exercises and low overall physical activity limit the durability of response. The current proposal aims to address two important knowledge gaps in the management of KOA in order to improve pain and function.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a high-priority problem among the aging population, and in particular, among Veterans. Few interventions have been shown effective in the long-term management of symptoms. Current guidelines for non-operative KOA management include strong recommendations for exercise delivered through standard physical therapy (PT) and the promotion of greater physical activity. Standard physical therapy (PT) interventions characterized by 6-8 week of supervised exercises (e.g., strengthening peri-articular tissues) and mobility trening (e.g., improving biomechanics and movement patterns) are safe and effective at improving and facilitating mobility, activity participation, and overall quality of life. While PT is a recognized and necessary aspect of KOA care, its clinical benefits are often short-lived and begin to decline following PT due to poor long-term adherence - leading physicians to increasingly rely on the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and opioids over time. The lack of effective strategies to sustain the clinical benefits achieved in PT for individuals with KOA remains a critical gap.

The investigators aim to study two interventions designed based on their ability to address 5 key theories for maintaining behaviors that are supported by the literature. Specifically, the proposed study will evaluate a remote and behaviorally-designed intervention in combination with health coaching to influence long-term behavioral change after standard-of-care PT. The behavioral intervention utilizes tools such as goal setting, gamification (the use of game design elements), loss aversion, monitoring, and social incentives, to 1) increase motivation, 2) improve self-monitoring and self-regulation, 3) provide psychological and physical resources, 4) influence the development of healthy long-term habits, and 5) a provide supportive environment with social support. The behavioral intervention will be studied combined with health coaching with a focus on the same goals but through motivational interviewing to address personal, environmental, and social barriers. The investigators aim to clearly quantify the value of each as well as their value when used in combination.

The investigators has already utilized concepts from behavioral economics (a scientific field aiming to understand how to motivate individuals) to develop remotely-applied interventions that incorporate the concepts of gamification, social incentives, and loss aversion to promote improvements in physical activity using an innolvative web-based platform. The investigators SPiRE-funded pilot study "Marching On for Veterans with Osteoarthritis of the Knee" demonstrated excellent feasibility, rapid recruitment, improvements in reported symptoms, and high patient satisfaction. The multi-site study is actively enrolling Veterans and is ahead of schedule.

The investigators propose to fill important knowledge gaps in this area with a large, pragmatic clinical trial. In this

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - KOOS (Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health coach
  - BEHAVIORAL: Remote Incentive Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06488144
