CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02503007
Title: Effects of 14-days of HMB-free Acid on Changes in Muscle During 4-days of Survival trening
Official Title: The Effects of 14-days of HMB-Free Acid on Changes in Muscle Architecture, Blood Markers of Muscle Damage and Performance During 4-Days of Survival trening
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: HMB supplementation

SUMMARY:
Sustained high-intensity activity, such as survival trening with little nourishment available, can result in a loss of muscle performance. This study will examine the effects of a nutritional supplement to maintain muscle and muscle performance during this period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sustained high intensity activity that is often accompanied by sleep and nutrient deprivation is a common characteristic of survival trening. Survival trening is a requirement in the preparation of pilots, where they learn evasion and survival skills that they may need to avoid capture in a situation in which they have bailed from their plane. The physiological stresses associated with the nature of these operations often results in significant decrements in lean body mass, muscle size and muscle endurance and power. During a sudden evacuation from the aircraft the pilot only takes a small survival bag. There is a limit to what can possibly be put in this bag. However, the ability to provide a dietary supplement specifically targeting muscle may provide an important resource for maintaining muscle mass and performance. Thus, the purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of 14 days of HMB-FA ingestion on maintaining muscle architecture and muscle performance during 4-days of survival trening. In addition, anabolic and catabolic markers of stress, inflammation and muscle damage will be assessed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: HMB-FA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 27 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02503007
