CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03708055
Title: Weight Bearing Exercise in Preventing Frailty in Stage I-IIIA Breast Cancer Survivors
Official Title: Prevention of Frailty in Breast Cancer Survivors: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 27
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This trial studies how well weight bearing exercise works in preventing frailty in stage I-IIIA breast cancer survivors. Weight bearing exercise, including muscle-strengthening, aerobic, flexibility, and balance exercises, can decrease fat and increase muscle, which may lead to reduced frailty.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Demonstrate reproducibility of forearm muscle activation and subcutaneous fat measures in a healthy convenience sample/population (N= 10).

II. Demonstrate that measures of muscle activation and signal attenuation by subcutaneous fat mass can be conducted in a systematic and reproducible fashion in breast cancer survivors prior to and following weight bearing exercise training.

III. In a cross sectional analysis, describe the level of lean muscle mass, muscle activation, strength, insulin resistance, inflammatory cytokines and growth factors, and inter-individual variability in breast cancer survivors prior to training.

IV. Describe the level of lean muscle mass, muscle activation, strength, insulin resistance, inflammatory cytokines (such as IL-6, CRP and others), and growth factors (such as myostatin, IGF-1, IGFBP-3 and others) in breast cancer survivors following weight bearing exercise training.

V. Evaluate the influence of genetic variability on response to prescribed training in breast cancer survivors.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo a weight bearing exercise program in a group 2 days a week and at home 5 days a week for 8 weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Reproducibility of muscle activation by subcutaneous fat mass measures.
  - Amount of lean muscle as determined by using both appendicular lean mass/height2 method and the residuals model from the Health ABC Study.
  - Reproducibility of signal attenuation using electromyography (EMG)
  - Level of strength as measured by 8-12 repetition maximum (RM) and by hand grip dynamometer.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 37 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03708055
