CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07197190
Title: Hybrid Autologous Breast Augmentation in Mastopexy With Internal BRA Fixation; Using Local Breast Tissues and Fat Grafting
Official Title: Hybrid Autologous Breast Augmentation in Mastopexy With Internal BRA Fixation; Using Local Breast Tissues and Fat Grafting
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The breast is a very important organ for women's self-esteem and is regarded as a symbol of femininity. Deviations from normal size, shape, and symmetry are interpreted as unattractive and a sign of aging. Far from posing merely a cosmetic problem, such deviations deeply disturb both the patient's perception of her body and her emotional balance.

The first breast surgeries started as early as the 6th century, yet the aesthetic breast surgeries and specifically mastopexy techniques were first recorded in the 19th century in parallel with the evolution of reduction mammaplasty. Most of these techniques involved suspension targeting breast mound elevation.

Breast ptosis refers to the downward displacement of the nipple-areola complex (NAC) below the inframammary fold (IMF), commonly due to aging, pregnancy, weight fluctuations, and genetics. It's caused by loss of skin elasticity, stretching of Cooper's ligaments, parenchymal involution, and genetic factors. The degree of ptosis can be categorized by the Regnault classification, which assesses the breast according to the relative position of the nipple to the inframammary fold (IMF):

Grade 1: Mild ptosis - The nipple is at the level of the IMF. Grade 2: Moderate ptosis - The nipple is below the level of the IMF but is not the most dependent part of the breast.

Grade 3: Severe ptosis - The nipple is below the IMF and is the most dependent part of the breast.

Pseudoptosis designates a breast configuration in which the nipple is located above or at the level of the IMF, most of the breast is well below the IMF, and the nipple-to-IMF distance is often greater than 6 cm.

Mastopexy procedures are similar and traditionally derived from reduction procedures, involving skin resection with no or minimal parenchymal resection. There are three main surgical goals that should be attained to correct breast ptosis and give a firm aesthetic breast shape. These include nipple areola complex (NAC) elevation, skin envelope excess management and breast reshaping. Breast flaps and parenchymal shaping manoeuvres can help auto augmentation correct any shape defects, Hence come the idea of autogenous internal bra mastopexy technique.

The term 'internal bra' refers to a range of techniques that aim to stabilise the position of the breast and improve longevity of surgical results. They can be categorised into 5 groups: mesh techniques, acellular dermal matrix (ADMs) techniques, suture techniques, dermal flap techniques, and muscle techniques. In this study, the investigators address one of the dermal flap techniques. Dermal flaps have two key advantages compared to meshes and ADMs, the first of which is that they are low cost due to their autologous nature The fact that they utilise the patient's own tissue also means they are not associated with an increased risk of infection or immunological reaction, which is their second main advantage.

There are many different types of pedicled flaps in mastopexy as medial, superior and superomedial flaps. But in this study, the investigators use the superior pedicelled flap with inferior dermal flap described by Liacyr Ribeiro.

This flap can be better mobilized than any of the other flaps, and the breast and the flap move together. The flap does not heal to pectoralis fascia; rather, the anterior surface of the flap heals to the posterior surface of the pedicle. Later, if the patient decides to have an implant, there is still a good plane between the pectoralis fascia and the inferior flap. This plane could be filled by sub pectoral fascia fat grafting.

Autologous augmentation mastopexy may seem the most suitable technique for ptotic small sized breasts. But it has some drawbacks on the long term, such as upper pole hollowness. This issue can also be addressed by upper pole fullness by fat grafting.

So, in this research, the investigators do autologous internal bra mastopexy with fat grafting in two planes: Sub- fascial level for augmentation and subcutaneous level for upper pole fullness. The investigators assess the result by taking pre and post operative breast measurements and photographs. The investigators also assess participants' satisfaction level and possible complication.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
\*Aim of work: To achieve breast autologous internal BRA mastopexy in grade 2 and 3 breast ptosis using, auto-augmentation with tissue rearrangement, sub pectoral fascia fat grafting and upper pole lipofilling. And 6-month long follow-up to observe participants' satisfaction level, measurements and complications.

\*Patients and Methods: A primary prospective randomized control trial. Inclusion criteria

1- Female patient. 2- Grade 2 or 3 breast ptosis according to Regnault classification. 3- Age is between 18 years and 50 years old. 4- Small and medium sized breast. Exclusion criteria

1. Age is below 18 years and above 50 years.
2. Pregnant or breast-feeding patient.
3. Large sized breast.
4. Grade 1 breast ptosis or pseudoptosis according to Regnault classification.
5. Patients are currenting under treatment of breast cancer.

   * Patient Sheet

     1. Pre-operative data:

        Personal History: Name, age, sex, Job, Marital status, co-morbidities and smoking.

        Preoperative investigations: blood count, coagulation profile, basic metabolic panel and mammograms.
     2. Examination:

        \- It included body mass index, abdominal examination (site of liposuction for fat grafting) and breast examination.
        * Breast measurements while standing in a lateral position include

<!-- -->

1. Suprasternal notch to nipple (SN-N)
2. Inframammary fold distance.
3. Base width
4. Areola diameter
5. Inter-nipple distance.
6. nipple to inframammary fold (N-IMF).
7. Upper pole projection.
8. Lateral maximum projection.
9. Humerus length. Finally, circumference measurements were obtained at three different levels: upper pole, level of maximum projection and at the level of IMF.

   \- Preoperative photographs were taken for each patient in anterior, oblique and lateral views. 2\*Operative data: Markings
   * The preoperative drawings proceed with the patient in standing position.
   * The surgical procedure is done using an inverted-T approach preserving a superior pedicle for the blood supply of the nipple-areola complex (NAC).

<!-- -->

1. The sternal notch with the mid sternal line, the inframammary crease line and the mid breast line.
2. The new nipple position is located on the mid breast line at the level of the inframammary fold on the anterior surface of the breast.
3. The mid breast line is marked from the clavicle to the nipple and then continued from the inframammary crease down the lower thoracic wall.
4. Then, by moving the breast gently with the hand medially and laterally the new position of the nipple is connected by drawing a vertical line to the mid breast line at the level of the inframammary fold marking. The more the breast is moved either laterally or medially, the wider the angle of the inverted V becomes, this is directly correlated with the amount of resected skin.
5. On both lines of the inverted V drawing two marks are set on each line, the first about 5cm from the new NAC position, and the second one another 6cm 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Photpgraphs
  - Breast measurements.
  - Patient statisification level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Autologous augmentation mastopexy with subpectoral lipofilling and upper and medial pole fat grafting.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07197190
