CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05460949
Title: William trening Versus Hold Relax Stretching of Iliopsoas Muscle
Official Title: Effects of William trening Versus Hold Relax Stretching of Iliopsoas Muscle in Females With Hyperlordosis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Hyper lordosis is a condition in which there is an excessive spine curvature in the lower back. Hyper lordosis is a very common symptom. It occurs in high-income, middle-income, and low-income countries and all age groups from children to the elderly population Only a small proportion of people have a well understood pathological cause-eg, a vertebral fracture, malignancy, or infection. People with physically demanding jobs, physical and mental comorbidities, smokers, and obese individuals are at greatest risk of reporting low back pain.Hyper lordosis creates a characteristic C-shaped curve in the lower back, or lumbar region, where the spine curves inward just above the buttocks. It often occurs as a result of poor posture or a lack of exercise. Hyperlordosis can cause muscle tightening and stiffness in the lower back. It can also damage the spine and soft tissues in the lumbar region. Hyperlordosis leads to excessive curvature of the spine in the lower back, causing the abdomen and buttocks to appear more prominent in profile view. People with hyperlordosis may experience mild to severe lower back pain, which may worsen with movement.

Various conservative treatments are used to treat hyperlordosis and low back pain due to hyperlordosis. Most commonly used are the manual therapy techniques that employ William's protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle at lumbar spine. This study will be randomized control trial used to compare the effects of William protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle in subjects with hyperlordosis and low back pain. Subjects meeting the predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria will be divided into two groups using lottery method. Pre assessment will be done using LUMBAR SPINEQUESTIONNAIRE as subjective measurements and NPRS as objective measurements. Subjects in one group will be treated using William's protocol and the other one will be treated with hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle. Each subject will receive 08 treatment sessions with 02 treatment sessions per week. Post treatment reading for NPRS and lumbar spinEQuestionnaire will be recorded after every week.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hyper lordosis is a condition in which there is an excessive spine curvature in the lower back. Hyper lordosis is a very common symptom. It occurs in high-income, middle-income, and low-income countries and all age groups from children to the elderly population Only a small proportion of people have a well understood pathological cause-eg, a vertebral fracture, malignancy, or infection. People with physically demanding jobs, physical and mental comorbidities, smokers, and obese individuals are at greatest risk of reporting low back pain.Hyper lordosis creates a characteristic C-shaped curve in the lower back, or lumbar region, where the spine curves inward just above the buttocks. It often occurs as a result of poor posture or a lack of exercise. Hyperlordosis can cause muscle tightening and stiffness in the lower back. It can also damage the spine and soft tissues in the lumbar region. Hyperlordosis leads to excessive curvature of the spine in the lower back, causing the abdomen and buttocks to appear more prominent in profile view. People with hyperlordosis may experience mild to severe lower back pain, which may worsen with movement.

Various conservative treatments are used to treat hyperlordosis and low back pain due to hyperlordosis. Most commonly used are the manual therapy techniques that employ William's protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle at lumbar spine. This study will be randomized control trial used to compare the effects of William protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle in subjects with hyperlordosis and low back pain. Subjects meeting the predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria will be divided into two groups using lottery method. Pre assessment will be done using LUMBAR SPINEQUESTIONNAIRE as subjective measurements and NPRS as objective measurements. Subjects in one group will be treated using William's protocol and the other one will be treated with hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle. Each subject will receive 08 treatment sessions with 02 treatment sessions per week. Post treatment reading for NPRS and lumbar spinEQuestionnaire will be recorded after every week.Various conservative treatments are used to treat hyperlordosis and low back pain due to hyperlordosis. Most commonly used are the manual therapy techniques that employ William's protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle at lumbar spine. This study will be randomized control trial used to compare the effects of William protocol and hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle in subjects with hyperlordosis and low back pain. Subjects meeting the predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria will be divided into two groups using lottery method. Pre assessment will be done using LUMBAR SPINEQUESTIONNAIRE as subjective measurements and NPRS as objective measurements. Subjects in one group will be treated using William's protocol and the other one will be treated with hold relax stretching of iliopsoas muscle. Ea

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - pain assessment
  - lordatic angle
  - low back pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: HOLD RELAX STRETCHING OF ILIOPSOAS
  - OTHER: WILLIAM'S PROTOCOL

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05460949
