CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03234322
Title: The Impact of a Diabetes Risk Prediction Model in Primary Care.
Official Title: A Cluster Randomized Trial to Investigate the Impact of a Type 2 Diabetes Risk Prediction Model on Change in Physical Activity Within Routine Health Checks in Primary Care.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 315
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Little evidence exists on the impact of diabetes risk scores, e.g. on physicians and patient's behavior, perceived risk of persons, shared-decision making and particularly on patient´s health. The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of a non-invasive diabetes risk prediction model in the primary health care setting as component of routine health checks on change in physical activity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetes risk scores are predictive models to estimate the probability for an individual to develop diabetes within a defined time period. In the last years, many diabetes risk prediction models were developed worldwide. It has been proposed that using diabetes risk scores as first step of diabetes screening is more practical than blood glucose tests as the latter are time consuming and costly. Given the rapid development of diabetes risk scores and a simultaneous reluctance of primary care physicians (PCPs) to implement diabetes risk scores in everyday practice, there is an urgent need to expand our knowledge of the impact of diabetes risk scores in the primary health care setting. Thus, the aim of the study is to investigate the impact of a non-invasive risk prediction model in the primary health care setting as component of routine health checks on change in physical activity.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference of participant's physical activity at twelve months after the routine health check between the groups.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: external validated risk prediction model

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03234322
