CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00894270
Title: Comparison of Vehicle Delivery Depth Using the NovoFine® 5 mm Needle With or Without a Skin Fold and Inserted at Either 45 or 90 Degrees
Official Title: Comparison of Vehicle Delivery Depth Using the NovoFine® 5 mm Needle With or Without a Skin Fold and Inserted at Either 45 or 90 Degrees
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus are required to inject insulin daily. The injection technique should reliably deposit insulin into subcutaneous fat while minimizing inadvertent delivery into either the skin or the underlying muscle, both of which are associated with suboptimal outcomes. The use of shorter, thinner needles reduces the incidence of intramuscular delivery and is associated with reduced discomfort, but increases the risks of both shallow (intradermal) delivery and of loss of insulin through backflow to the skin surface.

In the current study, 240 subjects (children and adults) will receive multiple injections of small volumes of sterile air in the thigh and abdomen using 5 mm Novofine® needles, to simulate insulin injections performed at the two sites using various injection techniques (perpendicular or angled needle, with or without skin fold). Ultrasound visualisation of the injected air will allow determination of the incidence of intradermal or intramuscular delivery using the various delivery methods in the trial. In addition, adult subjects will receive injections of a liquid test medium in order to determine the incidence and extent of backflow. Qualitative data on perceived discomfort and information on body composition will also be collected. This investigation will form the basis for recommendations regarding preferred injection technique where 5 mm needles are used.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale:

The injection techniques used with children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus should reliably deposit insulin into subcutaneous fat while minimizing inadvertent intramuscular (IM) insulin injections. Surprisingly, injection technique varies among centres, tends to be protocol driven and is usually dependent on needle length. The recommended injection procedure for diabetic children in our centre include a lifted or pinched skin fold either on the abdomen, thigh or buttocks with perpendicular injection of 8 mm syringes and angled injection of 12.7 mm syringes. However both 8 and 12.7 mm needles, have been associated with frequent IM injections with rates of 38% and 86% respectively, reported using a perpendicular insertion (1, 2). IM injection of regular, NPH and glargine insulin has been associated with more rapid insulin release, variability in glycaemic control and an increased risk of hypoglycaemia (3-5).

The risk of IM insulin deposition is known to be related to a number of variables including younger age, male sex, lower body mass index (BMI), injection technique (angle of insertion and a lifted or pinched skinfold), and needle length (1, 2, 6-8). Reducing the length of the insulin needle reduces the incidence of IM injections, however the use of 5 mm insulin needles may result in insulin being administered too superficially in the dermal layer (9, 10). The consequence of intradermal insulin deposition is largely unknown, but may lead to increased insulin leakage, increased injection pain, and an increased immune response (10). Little information is known about skin thickness, although it does vary with age, obesity and puberty (personal observations).

Smaller, thinner needles are also associated with reduced pain and discomfort. However they may cause greater insulin loss after the injection. This latter issue may also reflect the injection technique used with anecdotal evidence suggesting angled techniques may reduce insulin loss.

Objectives:

Primary Objective: To locate and compare simulated insulin injections in children, adolescents and adults with diabetes given with 5 mm needle using a 45 degree and 90 degree injection angle, with and without skin fold in order to provide injection guidelines.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To study the thickness of dermis in abdomen and thigh in children, adolescents and adults with normal weight and over weight/obese.
2. To evaluate the distance from skin surface to muscle fascia (abdomen/thigh) with and without compression of the skin in children, adolescents and adults with normal weight and over weight/obese.
3. To quantify the amount of backflow of the test medium to the skin surface in adults and investigate whether there is a substantial clinically relevant difference among various techniques.
4. To assess comfort and ease of injection technique

This trial is a single-centre and open-label phase IV trial. The investigation will be performed in three visits. Patients s

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Assess the safety and effectiveness of 5 mm needles using either thigh or abdomen and either a pinched or unpinched skin fold.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Sterile air injection
  - PROCEDURE: Placebo injection
  - DEVICE: Novofine needle

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00894270
