CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03564652
Title: Nutritional Support for Lactating Women and Azithromycin to Infants - Mumta Lactating Women Trial
Official Title: Nutritional Support for Lactating Women and Azithromycin to Infants to Improve Growth Outcomes in Peri-urban Slums of Karachi, Pakistan - Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 957
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
A community-based, randomized control, assessor blinded trial in peri-urban settings of Karachi, Pakistan to study the impact of Lipid-based Nutritional Supplement for Pregnant and Lactating women which is balanced energy-protein (BEP) dietary supplement, a locally produced ready-to-use nutritional product for lactating women (LW) and single prophylaxis dose of Azithromycin for infants, on growth of infants over the period of six months since birth compared to current standard of care. LW and her infant will be enrolled in the trial within 168 hours of the birth and LW will be randomized in either of the arm:

1. Arm A: 'Control Arm', LW will only receive standard of care which comprises of standard nutritional counseling, key messages of exclusive breastfeeding, essential newborn and infant care and immunization.
2. Arm B: 'Nutritional supplement only', LW randomized will recieve nutrition supplement product for next 6 months to be consumed in a dose of 2 sachets of 75 grams per day. Further, LW will also receive standard of care which comprises of standard nutritional counseling, key messages of exclusive breastfeeding, essential newborn and infant care and immunization.
3. Arm C: ''Nutritional supplement plus Azithromycin', LW randomized will receive nutritional supplement product for next 6 months to be consumed in a dose of 2 sachets of 75 grams per day. Further, the infant of LW will receive a single dose of Azithromycin (20mg/kilogram) at day 42 of age. Further, LW will also receive standard of care which comprises of standard nutritional counseling, key messages of exclusive breastfeeding, essential newborn and infant care and immunization.

Study aim is to assess the efficacy of nutritional product in a proposed dose to lactating women for at least 6 months of lactation, alone or in combination of single dose of Azithromycin as 20mg/kg to infants at 42 days of age on lenght velocity as primary, and weight velocity as secondary outcome.

Participants will receive nutrition counseling along with guidance related to exclusive breastfeeding and further assessment will be done to assess breast milk composition, Haemoglobin, Ferritin and Transferrin receptor, and inflammatory biomarkers, as secondary outcomes. Further, this study will also look at the comparison of length-for-age, weight-for-length, and weight-for-age Z scores as other secondary outcome at 6 months of age among three arms.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Length velocity at 6 months of infant's age

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Balanced energy-protein (BEP)
  - DRUG: Azithromycin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 49 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03564652
