CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05929027
Title: Self-Administered Gaming and Exercise at Home (SAGEH)
Official Title: Self-Administered Gaming and Exercise at Home (SAGEH)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aims at comparing manual function outcomes between the standard of care and additional self-administered hand therapy after stroke. Strokes are common neurological injuries, and although rates of survival have increased in recent decades, survivors often continue to experience deficiencies in hand dexterity and bimanual function. Most motor recovery takes place within the first 3 months after a stroke. This initial period is necessary for stabilizing the patient but also provides different opportunities to foster motor recovery. Functional gains, including instances after the post-acute period, have been observed after regular and frequent (high dosage) therapy, suggesting that recovery is likely influenced by practice-driven sensorimotor learning. These findings motivate the implementation of daily therapeutic regimes beyond post-stroke hospitalization and basic motor function, aiming instead at addressing overlooked deficiencies in manipulation and bimanual coordination. While some hand therapy is often provided during outpatient therapy visits (the standard of care), self-administered sessions play a large role in implementing additional daily therapy. As a result, the investigators are interested in both the implementation of self-administered regimes and measuring clinical outcomes with and without self-administered therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary goal of this study is to determine if adding self-administered, daily hand therapy to standard of care improves post-stroke clinical outcomes. The investigators will investigate two distinct approaches to implement self-administered therapy and observe how the participants fare to the standard outpatient visits-a total of 3 experimental groups. The first approach consists of daily exercise routines; the second approach consists of using a novel, portable, electronic device that was intentionally designed to address the difficult problem of hand rehabilitation. Specifically, the device combines hand therapy with video game-like tasks. Both post-stroke approaches will be partially supervised by an occupational therapist via short telemedicine sessions, in the context of standard-of-care telemedicine clinic (JSTTEP - described below) to promote safety and proper form during the exercises or device utilization.

The primary outcome is a standardized, post-intervention functional hand metric. This pilot study will include both measurement of improvements with respect to a baseline, and comparison between groups, using the therapist-provided therapy sessions as control and gold standard.

The investigators will recruit 60 adult stroke survivors. The total will be divided into three matched groups. Two of the groups (G1 and G2, 20 participants each) will receive therapy-based interventions in addition to the standard of care, and the remaining control group (CG, 20 participants) will receive the standard of care and no additional therapy.

Current standard of care regarding stroke inpatients requires admission to Johns Hopkins Comprehensive Stroke Center. At discharge, depending upon the stroke severity, patients can either be discharged to a facility or to home. This study is specifically targeting patients discharged to home.

Importantly, patients going home are followed in the Joint Stroke Transitional Technology-Enhanced Program (JSTTEP). JSTTEP is the standard of care, inter-disciplinary, telemedicine program that operates during the first month after stroke to facilitate the patient's transition from hospital to home. Each shared visit includes a physician and therapist evaluation and combined treatment plan. A single multidisciplinary online group education session is completed within 1 month after stoke hospitalization and is open to patients and care partners.

Stroke patients who are being discharged home from the Johns Hopkins Comprehensive Stroke Center via JSTTEP are eligible for participation in this study. A consecutive series of patients who meet inclusion criteria will be approached for consent to participate in this study. Inclusion (or exclusion) will be determined using the criteria described in the Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria Section, using a HIPAA Privacy Authorization Form. Upon consenting to participate in the study, each participant will undergo a Baseline Assessment visit, while still an inpatient, composed of a g

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in finger dexterity as assessed by the nine-hole peg test (9PHT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: NoNo
  - BEHAVIORAL: occupational therapy - self directed

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05929027
