CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04946994
Title: Relationship of Exercise, Sleep, and Inflammation Markers in People Living With HIV
Official Title: Relationship of Formal Exercise Interventions, Sleep, and Inflammation Markers in People Living With HIV
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 53
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this randomized clinical trial is to characterize the effects of two exercise interventions, high-intensity interval trening (HIIT) and continuous moderate-intensity exercise (CME), on sleep and inflammation in older people living with HIV (PWH). This study is a sub-study associated with The High Intensity Exercise Study to Attenuate Limitations and tren Habits in Older Adults with HIV (HEALTH-HIV; NCT04550676). The investigators propose the following aims: Aim 1. Compare the effectiveness of HIIT and CME exercise interventions on sleep in older PWH. Aim 2. Quantify inflammation markers associated with sleep quality (self-report surveys) in older PWH at baseline, between (week 8) and after exercise interventions (HIIT and CME) (week 16). The investigators hypothesize HIIT will lead to greater improvement in sleep quality (duration and quality) compared to CME and older PWH who experience poor sleep quality and the CME intervention will have increased inflammation markers compared to older PWH who experience better sleep quality and the HIIT intervention. The intervention is being delivered by research personnel at the University of Washington associated with the HEALTH-HIV study (NCT04550676). Data for this study will only be collected at the University of Washington site of the HEALTH-HIV study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
An estimated 50% of people living with HIV (PWH) in the United States are 50 years and older. Although HIV antiretroviral therapy is effective, older PWH are diagnosed with comorbidities at an earlier age, which contributes to poorer health outcomes, including poor sleep quality. Sleep quality is a modifiable behavior in PWH. Higher levels of specific systemic inflammation markers are associated with poor sleep quality in the general population as well as PWH. Less physical activity is also associated with increased inflammation. The collective or interacting impact of low levels of physical activity and inflammation on poor sleep quality may be stronger than either independent factor; therefore, it is vital to examine the potentially causal pathway between physical activity, sleep, and inflammation in order to help mitigate poor sleep quality. HIIT is safe and has higher efficacy in improvinGHealth outcomes compared to CME in those with chronic illness (i.e., coronary artery disease, diabetes), yet little is known about the effects of HIIT on sleep in people living with HIV. The primary outcome measures include: change in sleep quality and patterns of sleep from week 0 to 16 of the intervention and change in inflammation markers from week 0 to 8 and week 0 to 16 of the intervention. Our primary sleep quality outcomes will be the sleep fragmentation index, sleep efficiency, and mean sleep duration for sleep quantity. All three will be based on actigraphy. The primary inflammation markers of interest are interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, IL-13, IFN-y, C-reactive protein (CRP) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α due to prior association with sleep quality, other inflammation markers, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8 and IL-12p70 will be exploratory to identify potential pathways of sleep impairments.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep quality
  - Sleep fragmentation index
  - Sleep efficiency
  - Mean sleep duration
  - Interleukin inflammation markers

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HIIT
  - BEHAVIORAL: CME

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04946994
