CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06574165
Title: Relationships of Affect and Neuroinflammation With Clinical Pain in Veterans With Fibromyalgia
Official Title: Relationships of Affect and Neuroinflammation With Clinical Pain in Veterans With Fibromyalgia
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic pain condition that disproportionately impacts Veterans. Individuals diagnosed with FM patients experience lower self-esteem and positive affect, as well as greater levels of depression, anxiety, negative affect, and pain catastrophizing. Among those experiencing FM, clinical and experimental pain are associated with specific dispositional trait profiles, which are indexed by levels of negative affect and positive affect. Neuroinflammation and inflammation also play a role in FM- related affect and pain. Recent studies that have highlighted neuroinflammation and inflammation as physiological mechanisms associated with changes in dysregulated affect and chronic pain. Veterans with FM can ameliorate dispositional traits-i.e., increasing positive affect and reducing negative affect-by participating in exercise. However, a gap exists regarding how to optimally engage Veterans with FM in an exercise program. Thus, to fully take advantage of all potential therapeutic benefits of exercise for FM, there is a critical need to identify those factors underlying exercise engagement for FM pain management. The purpose for this study is to 1) determine associations of dispositional trait styles, neuroinflammation, and inflammation with pain outcomes in Veterans with FM; and 2) develop and design a Veteran-informed exercise program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators propose to recruit 30 Veterans with FM and 30 Veterans without FM who will undergo magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging (MRSI) scans, pain assessments, and semi-structured interviews. The participants will undergo a 6-week moderate intensity continuous training exercise intervention and follow-up MRSI scans, pain assessments, and semi-structured interviews. The investigators central hypothesis is that dispositional trait styles, neuroinflammation, and inflammation will be associated with pain outcomes and exercise will induce beneficial anti-inflammatory changes. The research objective of this proposal is two-fold: 1) to acquire data on the associations between dispositional trait styles, neuroinflammation, inflammation, and pain in Veterans with FM and 2) to develop a Veteran-informed exercise program with potential to modify dispositional trait styles, neuroinflammation, inflammation, and pain in Veterans with FM.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Dispositional Trait Styles
  - Feasibility
  - Clinical Pain Severity
  - Pain Threshold
  - Temporal Summation of Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Intensity Continuous Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06574165
