CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07205133
Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial Comparing Whole Body Vibration Therapy With Usual Care and Usual Care to Improve Muscle Health in Older Adults
Official Title: Effectiveness of Whole Body Vibration Therapy and Usual Care Compared to Usual Care in Improving Muscle Mass, Strength and Function in Older Adults
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This study is a randomized controlled trial where participants would be randomly assigned to one of 2 groups. One group would receive Whole body vibration therapy and usual care and the other group only usual care. Measurements of muscle mass, strength and function would be taken before the interventions, and at 2 other points after interventions. Differences in the outcomes between the two groups would be analysed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: The prevalence of Frailty and Sarcopenia is increasing with increasing proportion of older adults in the population. While screening for frailty and sarcopenia has become more common, frailty interventions are still developing. Effective interventions include resistance exercise programs that are progressive and sustained. However, take up rate and adherence to these programs are low due to many barriers like time, cost and convenience to the older adult. Many older adults who are frail may be unable to adhere to exercise programs due to cognitive impairment and tolerability. An alternative modality, Whole Body Vibration Training (WBVT), has emerged with evidence in improving muscle strength and function which may be easier to complete and a safe alternative.

Aim: Our study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a novel progressive 4-week, thrice-weekly WBVT intervention and usual care compared to usual care in improving muscle mass, strength and function in the pre-frail and mildly frail older adult.

Methods: 20 participants would be randomly allocated to each arm. The primary outcome is the between-group difference in change in maximal isometric knee-extension strength from baseline to 2 weeks post-intervention. Secondary outcomes include Appendicular Skeletal Mass Index (ASMI), hand grip strength (HGS), gait speed (GS), 5 timed chair stands, Quality of life (EQ-5D-5L) and physical activity level using the Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE). Other secondary outcomes include falls rate during the study, 1-year unplanned emergency department visits, hospitalizations as well as all-cause mortality. The measurements would be done at 3 points, namely pre-intervention (baseline), 2 weeks post-intervention and at 3 months. Qualitative data would include participant surveys and semi-structured interviews to assess feasibility, accessibility and future implementation.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isometric Knee Extension Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Whole Body Vibration Training
  - OTHER: Otago Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07205133
