CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00490100
Title: Treatment for Growth Failure in Patients With X-Linked Severe Combined Immunodeficiency: Phase 2 Study of insulin-Like Growth Factor-1
Official Title: Treatment for Growth Failure in Patients With X-Linked Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (XSCID): A Phase 2 Study Assessing Safety and Clinical Response to Treatment With insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1)
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE1, PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) to treat patients with X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID). Those who have XSCID lack white blood cells that protect their bodies from invasion by all types of germs. IGF-1 is the main hormone responsible for the body's growth and metabolism. As a medication, IGF-1 is Increlex\[(Trademark)\] (mecasermin),

Patients ages 2 to 20 who have not yet begun puberty, have a diagnosis of XSCID, and are shorter than the 3rd percentile for their age may be eligible for this study. This study will last about 3 years, and patients' visits will be scheduled at 3-month intervals. Patients will have a physical history and exam, X-rays, electrocardiogram, blood tests, and body measurements.

Patients will take estradiol orally for 2 days, to help avoid false results of growth hormone (GH) levels in blood samples. Then provocation testing is done, with two tests back to back. It determines blood levels of GH and the body's response to testing with drugs called arginine and clonidine. Patients are admitted to the pediatric inpatient unit and will have an intravenous (IV) line placed in the arm. Arginine is given by IV over 30 minutes, and blood samples are taken. Right after arginine testing, the clonidine tablet is given. The IGF-1 generation test is then done to see if the body makes IGF-1 as a product in response to injections of GH for 5 consecutive days. This test does not require that patients are inpatients, but after Day 8, patients must be admitted to the pediatric unit to have blood sampling, start Increlex injections, and start close monitoring of blood sugar levels. They will learn how to do a self-injection and follow other advice. They will complete records about the injection site, symptoms, and side effects-keeping records for at least the first 2 days after going home, with each dose change, and as needed. Patients stick their fingertip and place a small drop of blood on a blood sugar monitoring strip. The strip is put into a glucometer-a small hand-held device to measure the blood sugar level. Patients will be instructed to always have a source of sugar available in case blood sugar is too low.

...

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a Phase 2 protocol evaluating the safety and efficacy of standard dose insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) for the treatment of growth failure in patients diagnosed with X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID). This condition is a fatal inherited immunodeficiency caused by defects in the common cytokine receptor gamma chain (gc), a subunit shared by many cytokine receptors. The common gamma subunit signals through the Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway, a complex intracellular signaling pathway used by many cytokines and growth factors, including growth hormone (GH). Studies have suggested that the gc defect may result in hyporesponsiveness to GH. This is supported by a report of GH hyporesponsiveness in an XSCID child that was successfully ameliorated following immune reconstitution using bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Haplo-identical BMTs for XSCID children often achieve only partial immune reconstitution, and many BMT recipients experience ongoing problems with growth failure, achieving heights well below 2 standard deviations for their chronological age. It is possible that in these partially corrected conditions, administration of IGF-1, a substance the body produces downstream in response to GH, may achieve an improved growth response.

This study proposes to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Increlex(Trademark) (recombinant human IGF-1) for the treatment of patients with XSCID who have growth failure (children with heights less than 3rd percentile for age). Increlex(Trademark) is a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for treatment of growth hormone non-responsiveness in the general population of children with growth hormone hyporesponsiveness or primary IGF-1 deficiencies. The scientific objectives are to determine safety and to assess the efficacy of using subcutaneous IGF-1 in XSCID patients with growth failure. The long-term goal of this study is to establish improved treatment regimens for growth failure in children with XSCID.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Safety of Study Drug
  - Change in Growth Rate on Study Drug

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Increlex

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 20 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00490100
