CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06986356
Title: Spoonable - Overnight Recovery
Official Title: The Effects of a Commercially Available High Protein Spoonable on Overnight Recovery From Exercise Training in 18-45 Year-old Male and Females
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 28
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The key research objective is to examine the effects of a high protein spoonable yoghurt on overnight recovery of muscle function, 12 hours following an exercise session in 18-45-year-old males and females, compared to a control group receiving flavoured waterbased placebo jelly. An additional aim of the study is to explore the effects of the test product vs placebo on muscle function, readiness to exercise and performance in a repeat bout of exercise training at 24 hours following initial exercise training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a single-blind, randomised, parallel group design. It involves six visits to the laboratory in total; Visit 1) pre-screening and consent; visit 2) questionnaires, anthropometrics, and familiarisation; Visit 3) baseline measures; Visit 4) exercise intervention (exercise session 1); Visit 5) post-exercise morning measures, and Visit 6) exercise intervention (exercise session 2). Participants will be randomised into one of two groups that will receive the following;

1. Test product: High protein spoonable yoghurt (1 serving = 45 g protein comprising 3 yoghurt pots totalling 480 g) (Danone Nutricia).
2. Control product 2: flavoured water-based placebo jelly (1 serving = 0 g protein comprising 3 jelly pots totalling 480 g).

A follow-up communication via telephone will be conducted within 7 days of completion of the final session to ensure there are no adverse effects of participation.

A detailed overview of the research activity that will take place in each session is provided below:

Visit 1: Pre-screening Volunteers will receive information on the study, and they will be familiarised with the requirements for participation and provide written informed consent. Subjects will be requested to complete 3-day food and exercise diaries, comprising of 1 weekend day, 1 rest day, and 1 exercise day within a week of the trial. This will be handed in on Visit 2. Subjects' body height, body mass, body composition, and BMI will be measured.

Visit 2: Familiarisation with the dependent measures and exercise training Volunteers will refrain from physical activity and alcohol consumption 24 hours before each visit and caffeine 12 hours before each visit. Study staff will review physical activity and food diary questionnaires and if eligibility criteria are met, volunteers will continue the trial. Measure of volunteers' body mass, stature and body composition will then be recorded. Next, volunteers will be familiarised with the dependent measures and exercise training session that will be conducted.

Visit 3: Baseline Measures Volunteers will report to the laboratory in the PM in a fed (2-3 hours post prandial) and hydrated state, where baseline measurements of all dependent variables will be taken. Which will include muscle soreness via a visual analogue scale, muscle pain pressure threshold via algometry. Measures of muscle function including Counter Movement Jump (CMJ), Reactive Strength Index (RSI) and Isometric Maximal Voluntary Contraction (iMVC). A venous blood sample will be taken to measure creatine kinase and high sensitivity C-reactive protein.

Following this, volunteers will receive standardised meals for the day of the exercise trial. Standardised meals will provide:

* Total energy (kcals) = BMR (derived via Harris-Benedict) x 1.5 (PAL). Assuming participants will be largely sedentary apart from the exercise session.
* Protein 1g/kg body weight for both groups.
* Carbohydrate - Provide 50% of total energy
* Fat - Remainder of total en

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Function (Maximal voluntary contraction)
  - Muscle Function (Jump Height)
  - Muscle Function (Reactive Strength Index)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Test product: Yoghurt
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06986356
