CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06424847
Title: Effects of a Lifestyle and Sleep Intervention in Non-exercising Adults
Official Title: Effects of a Lifestyle and Sleep Intervention Program on Quality of Life and Physical Activity Levels in Non-exercising Adults, SPIRAL+ Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 201
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Background. Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of premature mortality and disability accounting for one third of all deaths worldwide with considerable impacts on economics and on quality of life. Recent studies suggest that a lifestyle intervention might have a role in the reduction of CDV risk. Lifestyle intervention programs typically combine physical activity, diet and behavior modification components. Poor sleep health is highly prevalent in the general population and contributes to increased risk of several noncommunicable diseases. However, sleep is rarely addressed in lifestyle intervention programs in primary prevention. Given the high prevalence of poor sleep health in people without a diagnosed sleep disorder, and the associated health consequences, there is a clear need for broad-reaching, effective interventions to improve sleep quality in subclinical populations.

Aims. The main objective of this study is to compare a lifestyle intervention program including a sleep intervention compared to a lifestyle intervention program alone on the health-related quality of life (measured by the EQ-5D-5L) and physical activity levels of non-exercising adults.

Methods. Non-exercising adults (n=201) will be recruited in the community via advertisement or their primary care doctor and then randomized to one of the following 3 groups : lifestyle intervention, lifestyle and sleep intervention or standard care. The lifestyle intervention includes a physical activity component (physical activity initiation visit and 6 months of supervised physical activity, once weekly), a diet component (consultation with a dietician and 3 group sessions). The sleep intervention includes individualized face-to-face sessions aimed at improving and optimizing sleep hygiene.

At baseline and after 6 and 12 months, quality of life, physical activity levels, cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors will be evaluated.

Perspectives. This study should determine whether adding a sleep intervention dimension to a lifestyle intervention program provides significant benefits in terms of quality of life and physical activity levels. Based on this study, the modalities of real-life lifestyle intervention programs could be reconsidered in order to provide optimal primary prevention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Steps per day
  - Health-related quality of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle intervention (physical activity and diet)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle (physical activity and diet) and Sleep intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health education intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06424847
