CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04006925
Title: Treatment of REM Sleep Behavior Disorder (RBD) With Sodium Oxybate
Official Title: Sodium Oxybate in Treatment-Resistant REM Sleep Behavior Disorder (RBD): A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study is the first clinical trial using sodium oxybate for the treatment of REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD). Sodium oxybate is a drug approved by FDA for the treatment of narcolepsy which has been used "off label" to treat patients with severe RBD. This drug has shown to be effective and well tolerated in patients with RBD (Shneerson, 2009; Liebenthal, 2016; Moghadam, 2017).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a condition resulting in violent dream-enactment during sleep which affects millions of individuals in the United States, however therapies for RBD are limited and cause significant side effects. As a result, despite using a combination of drugs, a large number of patients with RBD continue to act out violent dreams causing severe self-injuries or injuries to their bed partners. Prior studies and our experience have shown that sodium oxybate can be effective in these cases of treatment-resistant RBD. This study would therefore evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of sodium oxybate in this patient population.

This study is an 8-week trial comparing sodium oxybate versus placebo randomly assigned to patients with treatment-resistant RBD, i.e. individuals who have insufficiently responded or tolerated melatonin and clonazepam. The study uses a double-blind design (participants, staff, and investigators will not know which drug between active drug and placebo is given to participants), and will measure treatment efficacy based on patients, partners and clinicians report, and objective outcomes based on in-home actigraphy and in-lab polysomnography before and after intervention.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of RBD Episodes in One Month (Per Patient RBD Log)
  - Number of Severe of RBD Episodes in One Month (Per Patient RBD Log)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Sodium Oxybate
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04006925
