CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06010784
Title: 'Food, Fun, Fresh, Family' Program for Healthy Eating and Growth for Elementary-age Children.
Official Title: FUEL: Food, fUn, frEsh, famiLy Program. Improving Children's Diet Through Afterschool Program and Family Support.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 119
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The goal of this community-based randomized trial in elementary-aged children and a caregiver (parent/guardian) is to test the effect of providing families with produce and grocery store gift cards (family support) in conjunction with an after-school program for physical activity and healthy eating on improving children's overall diet, in comparison to the child only attending the after-school program without the family support.

Participating families will:

* receive weekly produce bags delivered to their home, recipes, and gift cards to a local grocery store (family support)
* the child will attend the after-school program during the school year

Researchers will compare the child's diet and eating scores with those in the after-school program alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Children in grades 1 to 5 and enrolled in after-school program offered by the Boys \& Girls Clubs of Austin Area (BGCAA) in selected schools, together with their caregiver (a parent/guardian), will be randomized into one of the two arms:

* Intervention group will receive, for 4 wks, 10 lbs of produce delivered weekly at home and one USD 20 gift card sent bi-weekly (total USD 40). Then, for 15 wks, the caregiver will receive every other week an electronic interactive health goals reminder survey to complete, for which they receive USD10 if completed. The goal sheets are optional activities.
* Control group will receive $120 as grocery store e-gift cards at the end of the study.

Regardless of the allocation arm, the child will attend the BGCAA's afterschool program as part of their family's association with the organization. The program runs daily, and the children are encouraged to attend at least 2x/wk. The "Coordinated Approach to Child Health" (CATCH) program will be delivered as part of the BGCAA program 2x/week.

Primary question: Does a 19-week after-school evidence-based program on nutrition education and physical activity for elementary-aged children improve overall child diet better when resources to encourage healthy eating are also provided to caregivers than when such resources are not provided?

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Child's fruit and vegetable intake as measured by the Texas School Physical Activity and Nutrition (TX SPAN) 2019-2020 dietary assessment questions
  - Child's overall diet quality as assessed by SPAN Healthy Eating Index (SHEI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family support
  - BEHAVIORAL: BGCAA's after-school program with CATCH curriculum

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 11 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06010784
