CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01802671
Title: Efficacy Study of Cognitive Behavioural Treatment With Support on Communication and Information Technologies for the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: Cognitive Behavioural Treatment With Support on Communication and Information Technologies for the Management of Chronic Low Back Pain: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to investigate the short- and long-term efficacy of a Cognitive Behavioural Treatment program for chronic low back pain supported by information and communication technologies

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Psychological treatments have been successful in the treatment of chronic low back pain (CLBP). However the effect sizes are still modest and there is room for improvement. A way to progress in this line is enhancing treatment adherence and self-management by means of information and communication technologies (ICT). The objective of this study is to investigate the short- and long-term efficacy of a Cognitive Behavioural Treatment (CBT) group program for CLBP supported versus non-supported by ICTs. A secondary objective is to evaluate the influence of relevant variables in treatment response. Possible barriers in the implementation of CBT with and without ICT will be also investigated.

Methods: A randomized controlled trail with 180 CLBP patients recruited in specialized care will be conducted. Participants will be randomly assigned to three conditions: Control group (CG), Cognitive Behavioural program (CBT), and CBT supported by ICTs (CBT + ICT). Participants belonging to the three conditions will receive a conventional rehabilitation program (back school). The CBT group program will last six sessions. The CBT + ICT will use the Internet and SMS in order to practice the therapeutic strategies between sessions and in the follow-ups in their homes. Primary outcome variables are self-reported disability and pain intensity. Assessment will be carried out by blinded assessors in five moments: pre-treatment, post-treatment and 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up. The influence of catastrophizing, fear-avoidance beliefs, anxiety and depression in response to treatment in the primary outcomes will be also analysed.

Discussion This study will show data of the possible benefits of the use of ICTs in the improvement of CBT for the treatment of CLBP

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Disability: Change in the Roland-Morris Questionnaire
  - Change in Pain measured by Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation treatment and information
  - BEHAVIORAL: cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: cognitive behaviour therapy supported by ICT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01802671
