CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04534829
Title: Fluoroscopic vs Ultrasound Guided Sacroiliac (SI) Joint Radiofrequency Ablation
Official Title: Efficacy of Fluoroscopic Versus Ultrasound Guided Sacroiliac Joint Radiofrequency Ablation: A Randomized Control Trial
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The sacroiliac joint (SIJ) is estimated to be the source of low mechanical back pain in 10-27% of patients. When conservative measures for treating SIJ pain fail (physiotherapy, exercise, analgesic medications, chiropractic manipulation, etc.) radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a treatment option in carefully selected patients. RFA uses a radiofrequency generator to create a thermal lesion, with the aim of ablating the nerves that innervate the SIJ complex. Studies have confirmed that SIJ RFA can provide significant relief for patients with SIJ pain. The current gold standard is the use of fluoroscopic (x-ray guidance) to visualize bony landmarks in order to create an accurate thermal lesion along the lateral sacral crest; where the nerves that innervate the SIJ complex reside. Recent literature has proposed a technique for an ultrasound-guided approach to achieve an RFA lesion in patients with SIJ pain. It is proposed that with ultrasound-guidance, versus fluoroscopic-guidance, the interventionalist is able to perform fewer needle passes for the procedure, as well as fewer thermal lesions, thereby achieving shorter performance times. The proposed study serves as a non-inferiority randomized controlled trial to assess the effectiveness of ultrasound-guided versus fluoroscopy-guided RFA for the treatment of SIJ pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Current practice for SIJ pain that is refractory to conservative treatment, is the use of RFA of the posterior sacral network under fluoroscopic-guidance. There is high variability regarding the long-term benefits of this procedure. To date, there have been no clinical studies evaluating the effectiveness of US-guided RFA procedures for SIJ pain. A study performed in 2017 attempted to determine the effectiveness of US-guided sacral LBBs compared to fluoroscopic-guidance (gold standard in current practice). The results were in favour of an US-guided approach. Compared with fluoroscopy, US-guided sacral lateral branch blocks required a shorter performance time, fewer needle passes, and was associated with a lower incidence of vascular breach. Furthermore, with an US-guided procedure, the patient is no longer exposed to ionizing radiation.With an improved understanding of SIJ sensory innervation, as well as technical improvements in RFA electrodes, it is postulated that RFA under ultrasound-guidance will lead to non-inferior clinical outcomes, as well as shorter performance time and reduced costs compared with the current practice of fluoroscopic-guidance.

The objectives of the current study are the following:

1. To evaluate the efficacy of US-guided posterior sacral network SIJ RFA compared to fluoroscopy-guided SIJ RFA.
2. To compare the post-procedure pain/flare-up and duration required to achieve full recovery for each approach.
3. To perform a cost effectiveness analysis comparing ultrasound and fluoroscopy-guided SIJ RFA.
4. To determine the safety of US-guided SIJ RFA by tracking intra-operative and post-procedure complications.

Research Method/Procedures:

The proposed study is a single-blind, single-center randomized controlled trial. Patients who present with pain thought to be originating from the SIJ will be screened for study participation with fluoroscopy-guided sacral LBBs. If a patient has an initial successful sacral LBB (defined as 70% reduction in pain), or has prior successful SIJ RFA, they will be approached for consent to be contacted for study participation by a member of the HealthPointe team; specifically, patients who consent to be contacted for study participation, will have their charts reviewed by independent assessors for inclusion and exclusion criteria. If a patient meets the inclusion criteria (listed below), they will be contacted by a HealthPointe team member, specifically a nurse or care manager, for study participation. If the patient expresses an interest with the initial contact, they will be subsequently contacted by a study sub-investigator.

Upon obtaining written consent for study participation, patients will be randomized into one of two groups; US-guided SIJ RFA or fluoroscopy-guided SIJ RFA (current gold-standard). Upon being randomized to either group they will then undergo a second confirmatory sacral LBB under their respective image guidance to confirm candidacy for RFA. If this second, confirmator

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain reduction: change from baseline pain scores
  - Function and quality of life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Fluoroscopic-guided Radiofrequency Ablation
  - PROCEDURE: Ultrasound-guided Radiofrequency Ablation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04534829
