CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07419503
Title: 010Fit'R - Healthy Lifestyle Interventions for Children With Overweight
Official Title: 010 Fit'R 2025-2027: Approach for Children (4-12 Years Old) With Overweight
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1000
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Overweight is a leading risk factor for non-communicable diseases. In the Netherlands, about 11% of children aged 4-12 years are overweight. The causes of childhood overweight are multifaceted, involving (epi)genetic, environmental, socioeconomic, and behavioral factors. The societal consequences are far-reaching, including lower academic performance, reduced quality of life and a greater risk of developing obesity in adulthood.

Lifestyle interventions with diet and physical activity components have been shown to effectively reduce childhood overweight. The "010 Fit'R - Rotterdam approach for children with overweight" targets children between 4 and 12 years old and their parents. The program consists of multicomponent interventions addressing various lifestyle aspects, such as physical activity, nutrition, motor skills and healthy behaviours aiming to foster sustainable lifestyle changes. Providers were invited by the municipality of Rotterdam to develop interventions within the policy framework of 010 Fit'R. 12 providers were selected by the municipality based on the selection criteria (quality of the program; experience with the activities and target group; demonstrable connection with the area; connection with the target group; recruitment strategy; costs) and distributed over different neighbourhoods. This study evaluates the healthy lifestyle interventions involved in 010 Fit'R in terms of effectiveness and implementation outcomes.

Quantitative data includes self-reported questionnaires, administrative data, a motor skill performance assessment and height and weight measurements to determine Body Mass Index (BMI). Data will be collected through self-reported questionnaires filled in by the parents of children who participate in 010 Fit'R. Additionally, children will be assessed on motor skills by providers of healthy lifestyle interventions involved in 010 Fit'R. Moreover, weight and height will be measured by the provider following standardized procedures. The parental questionnaire, motor skills and BMI will be assessed pre and post intervention. Administrative data includes data reported by providers on implementation outcomes, for example, data regarding enrolment and retention.

Qualitative data includes documentary evidence of each healthy lifestyle intervention involved in 010 Fit'R to assess 'effective components' of interventions. In addition, two workshops with providers and/or practitioners of interventions will be held to map the context, working elements and outcomes.

Focus groups (FGs) and semi-structured interviews are used to gather information from parents, children and providers and/or practitioners regarding implementation outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - PROMIS - assessed by a questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: 010 Fit'R intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07419503
