CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00248105
Title: Improving Motivation for Physical Activity in Arthritis Clinical Trial
Official Title: Physical Activity in Persons With Arthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 889
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Arthritis is a major cause of disability. Of the nearly 70 million persons in the US with arthritis and/or chronic joint symptoms, nearly 8 million are disabled because of their arthritis. Knee osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are two of its most common and disabling forms. Despite evidence that physical activity can improve functional and health related quality of life (HRQOL) outcomes and lower health care costs, the proportion of the US population engaging in the recommended amount of physical activity is low and even lower among those with arthritis. Moreover, there is considerable variation in clinicians' promotion of physical activity for arthritis clients. Care providers infrequently ask clients about their physical activity behavior and report feeling unprepared to promote physical activity.

This application studies the effects of a behavioral intervention aimed at promoting physical activity, including lifestyle physical activity, on arthritis-specific and generic HRQOL outcomes. The proposed physical activity management program (PAM) is based on a chronic care model in which allied health professionals promote patient self-management activities outside of traditional physician office encounters. The program is an individualized counseling and referral intervention, conducted by physical activity managers, directed by a theory-based comprehensive assessment of individual patient barriers and strengths related to physical activity performance. The specific aims of this randomized, controlled trial of 480 clients with RA and knee OA followed for 24 months are to test the effectiveness of physical activity management combined with physician physical activity promotion (PAM group) compared to physician physical activity promotion only (control group) in improving arthritis-specific and generic HRQOL, observed measures of function, and objectively measured and self-reported physical activity levels. In addition, exploratory analyses will be done to assess whether the improvements in HRQOL and physical activity performance associated with the PAM program are mediated by increases in physical activity levels and theory-based motivational variables, respectively. This study is intended to generate feasible methods by which health care providers and health care systems can increase physical activity levels in clients with arthritis and to result in widely applicable strategies for health behavior change.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Design Overview This five-year study is a randomized controlled trial of 480 clients with arthritis conducted at three sites on the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine campus, the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago Arthritis Center (RIC-AC), the Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation Rheumatology Division Ambulatory Center (NMFF-Rheum), and the NMFF General Internal Medicine Ambulatory Center (NMFF-GIM). After a 6 month startup period, two hundred forty clients with RA (120 from RIC-AC and 120 from NMFF-Rheum) and 240 clients with knee OA (120 from RIC-AC, 60 from NMFF-Rheum, and 60 from NMFF-GIM) will be recruited over a 24 month period, and each subject will be followed for 24 months. Randomization will be stratified by diagnosis, site, and disease-specific physical functional status. Half the clients will be randomized to the PAM intervention and half to the control intervention.

Independent variables include demographic characteristics, arthritis severity and comorbid conditions, and other IMCHB model variables: motivation (self-regulation efficacy), cognitive appraisal (perceived competency), and affective response (mental health). Outcomes measured by blinded interviewers/assessors include self-reported and objective measures of physical activity, self-reported measures of disease specific and generic health-related quality of life, and observed measures of physical function. All independent variables and outcomes are measured at baseline and nearly all independent variables and all outcomes are measured at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months of follow-up. The primary analysis tests the effectiveness of PAM compared to control groups in improving disease-specific health related quality of life (HRQOL). Secondary analyses test 1) the effectiveness of PAM compared to control groups in improving generic HRQOL, 2) the effectiveness of PAM compared to control groups in improving observed measures of function and cardiovascular fitness, 3) the effectiveness of PAM compared to control groups in increasing physical activity performance, 4) whether PAM's effectiveness in improving HRQOL is mediated by it's ability to increase physical activity and 5) whether PAM's effectiveness in improving physical activity performance is mediated by changes in theory-based motivation variables.

Description and justification of the study population Given that there are more than 100 different forms of arthritis (defined here as any chronic condition affecting the joints and surrounding tissues), we have chosen clients with two well-defined and pathophysiologically distinct diseases to study, knee osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Knee OA is a prototype of a chronic degenerative arthropathy that has a high prevalence and is associated with a great amount of disability. RA is a prototype of the most common chronic inflammatory arthropathy, again associated with a high rate of disability. We expect that if the PAM program is effec

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Physical Activity Management

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00248105
