CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03750682
Title: ENGAGE for Brain Health
Official Title: ENhancing Independence Using Group-Based Community Interventions for Healthy AGing Elders: The ENGAGE for Brain Health Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Age-related cognitive decline has a profound impact on the daily functioning of older adults, their families and healthcare systems. Despite its significant personal, societal and economic impact, no pharmacologic therapies presently exist to mitigate age-related cognitive decline. As the population of older adults continues to rapidly increase, the implementation of effective and scalable low-cost interventions that may maintain the cognitive independence of broad populations of older persons are now of urgent public health priority.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
ENGAGE-B is a single blind, parallel-group, community-based randomized controlled pilot study. The overall objective of the study is to build on our recently completed ENGAGE pilot study and further examine and characterize the feasibility and effectiveness of translating the LIFE study physical activity intervention (PA) into a real-world community-based senior center setting. ENGAGE-B will target the recruitment of older adults with subjective memory complaints and slow gait (motoric cognitive risk syndrome (MCR)). Participants with MCR will be randomized to a 24-week PA intervention (n = 20) or to a healthy aging education control intervention (HE) (n = 20). ENGAGE-B will also test a highly practical and scalable innovation for the delivery of exercise programming for at-risk older adults in the community setting. An existing community-based senior center employee ("Community Health Promoter"), without a formal background in exercise physiology, will be trained by the study investigators to deliver the PA intervention among older adults with MCR. The primary feasibility outcomes will be assessed by quantifying intervention adherence and the occurrence of adverse events across the PA and HE intervention arms. Secondary and exploratory outcomes will include the comparative evaluation of specific domains of cognitive performance (executive function, global cognition, working memory, computerized cognitive testing and complex walking tasks), non-invasive functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) derived measures of prefrontal brain activation, mobility, accelerometry-derived estimates of physical activity, depression, quality of life and costs associated with delivering the respective interventions. Results from this proposed pilot study are intended as the basis for a larger and more definitive pragmatic trial in older adults. If successful this pilot work will serve as an exciting preliminary model to potentially target and mitigate the loss of cognitive independence across a variety of community-based locations.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measuring the safety of a 6 month PA or HE intervention in a community setting in older adults with MCR
  - Measuring the success (feasibility) of integrating clinical exercise programs into real-world community-based settings.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical Activity (PA) Intervention
  - OTHER: Healthy Aging Education (HE) Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 89 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03750682
