CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04848532
Title: Problematic Decision-Making and Adolescent Weight Loss
Official Title: Does Aberrant Decision Making Prevent Success in Adolescent Behavioral Weight Loss Treatment?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates the associations between baseline decision-making processes, engagement in problematic dietary practices, and post-intervention weight loss outcomes among adolescents. Results from the study will provide specific direction for what components should comprise future decision-making interventions for adolescents with overweight/obesity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adolescent overweight and obesity (AOB; i.e., a body mass index (BMI) greater than 85th percentile for age, height, and gender) affects 34.5% of adolescents. Over 80% of obese adolescents will become obese adults and experience increased risk of cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, gallbladder disease, and some forms of cancer. Because of contraindications and hesitations to pursue psychopharmacology or bariatric surgery, behavioral interventions are the first-line treatment for AOB. Unfortunately, adolescent outcomes from pediatric behavioral obesity treatments are poor. In fact, the modal weight loss in behavioral interventions is less than a single BMI point, and many participants lose no weight at all. Outcomes in adolescents are worse than those found in younger children and adults. Notably, the vast majority of existing interventions tested in adolescents are designed for younger children, which may preclude an adolescent's success in these interventions. Successful behavioral AOB interventions may require augmentations that address developmental concerns unique to adolescence. For example, research has shown that, in contrast to younger children, many adolescents are making their own food decisions and are thus more likely to engage in problematic eating behaviors during treatment. As a necessary step towards developing specialized interventions for AOB, it is critical to understand the underlying mechanisms of continued engagement in problematic eating behaviors during AOB interventions.

Three types of problematic eating behaviors are strongly linked (cross-sectionally and longitudinally) with AOB. First, reward-driven overeating (i.e., frequently eating energy-dense foods) results in excess calorie intake, which, in turn, produces adiposity during childhood and adolescence. Second, loss-of-control eating (LOC; the experience of not being able to stop eating once started) is an exceptionally strong predictor of excess weight gain, i.e., an additional 2.4kg per year compared to peers without LOC. Third, rigid dietary restriction involves skipping meals and cutting out food groups for the purposes of weight regulation, but instead results in intense feelings of deprivation. As a result, rigid dietary restriction has the paradoxical effect of calorie overconsumption, excess weight gain, and poor outcomes from pediatric obesity treatment. Taken together, findings indicate that elucidating the drivers of these three problematic eating behaviors is critical to improving AOB treatment outcomes.

An aberrant decision-making framework represents an attractive paradigm for understanding the above-described problematic eating behaviors, especially given that they all run counter to adolescents' intentions and well-being. There are several aberrant decision-making processes endemic to the adolescent developmental period. Three of these processes in particular appear to be directly linked to the three problematic eating behaviors described above.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent of 95 percentile BMI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weight loss treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04848532
