CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06105788
Title: Upper and Lower Extremity Exercise and Exercise-Induced Hypoalgesia in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Comparing Effects of Upper Extremity Versus Lower Extremity Exercise on Exercise-Induced Hypoalgesia in People With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Pilot Cross-over Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of the study is to explore the effects of arm exercise (UE, arm ergometer) vs. leg exercise (LE, cycling ergometer) on exercise-induced hypoalgesia (EIH), central pain mechanisms and knee pain in people with knee osteoarthritis (OA). Furthermore, we will explore relations of socioeconomic status, racial discrimination, acculturative stress, and autonomic function to exercise effects on EIH, central pain mechanisms, and knee pain. This will be a pilot randomized cross-over study where all participants undergo Day 1 (baseline assessments), Day 2 (UE or LE), and Day 3 (UE or LE).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a pilot randomized cross-over study. Major exclusion criteria will be conditions that have risks with exercise or affect pain assessments. Once enrolled, all participants will undergo 3 laboratory visits, each separated at least by a week as a wash-out period: day 1, baseline assessment; day 2, randomized to either upper extremity exercise (UEE) (i.e., arm ergometer) or knee exercise (KE) (i.e., cycling ergometer); and day 3, UEE or KE alternative to the exercise on day 2. UEE will be an arm-ergometer and KE will be a cycle-ergometer in which participants will undergo the first 5 minutes at an intensity of 50% heart rate reserve (HRR)(warm-up period), followed by 20 minutes at 70% HRR. Heart rate will be monitored during the exercise.

On day 1, we will collect participant characteristics data. We will also collect data related to race/ethnicity, racial discrimination, acculturative stress, physical activity level, heart rate variability (HRV) parameters (measures of autonomic function). Further, participants will undergo knee pain assessment with a 20-meter walk, quantitative sensory testing (QST) measures of pressure pain threshold (PPT), temporal summation (TS), and conditioned pain modulation (CPM) as surrogate measures of central pain mechanisms.

On Days 2 and 3 we will collect knee pain, QST, and EIH data before and immediately after the exercise.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in pressure pain thresholds (Measure of exercise-induced hypoalgesia)
  - Mechanical temporal summation
  - Conditioned pain modulation
  - Knee pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06105788
