CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06845995
Title: Effects of a Synbiotic Supplement on Metabolic & Cognitive Outcomes Among Older Adults
Official Title: The Effects of a Synbiotic Supplement on Metabolic & Cognitive Outcomes and Vitamin D Receptor Variants on Bone Health Among Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the effects of a prebiotic and probiotic supplement on metabolic, cognitive, and muscle health in older adults.

Participants in the study will be older adults who will receive a prebiotic and probiotic supplement containing different strains of Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium longum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, and Lactobacillus gasseri. The study will collect data at baseline and after 3 months of supplementation to compare the effects on metabolic, cognitive, and muscle health. Additionally, genetic variants associated with vitamin D deficiency and muscle phenotypes will be identified in this population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objective one of this research is to determine if there are significant differences in metabolic and muscle health including anthropometrics, biochemical, and muscle quality indices using a prebiotic and probiotic supplement containing different strains of Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium longum, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, and Lactobacillus gasseri in older adults.

There are many physiological changes that occur with aging, which include alterations in the gut microbiota. Gut dysbiosis has also been associated with aging as well as immunity and metabolic alterations such as cardiovascular disease, low-grade inflammation and frailty (Badal et al., 2020). Some studies have shown that probiotics can be a potential therapy to restore the balance of healthy human intestinal function and gut bacterial composition of the gut microbiota because they contain microorganisms naturally found in the human microfiora (Lee et al., 2020). The gut microbiota and its associations with aging are related to clinical and metabolic improvements (Badal et al., 2020). Probiotics and functional foods may have a beneficial effect on the gut by increasing the levels of bifidobacteria or modifying subpopulations of lactobacilli (Ale \& Binetti, 2021). The gut microbiota is very important to human metabolism because of its' contribution of enzymes that are not encoded by the human genome, for example, the breakdown of polysaccharides, polyphenols, and synthesis of vitamins (Rowland et al., 2018). It is important to identify the effect that environmental factors, dietary factors (pre and probiotics, etc.), and their combined effect on metabolic and muscle health such as body composition, blood parameters, and muscle quality. Literature shows the benefits of synbiotic (pre and probiotic formula) on several cardiovascular risk factors including lipid and glycemic metabolic parameters in elderly patients (Cicero et al.,2021). However, the optimal timing for supplementation, duration of treatment, as well as the type and dose of the prebiotic and synbiotic to be used needs to be contemplated (Ale \& Binetti., 2021).

• Objective two will be to identify variant genes associated with vitamin D deficiency and muscle phenotypes among older adults. Genetic variants for vitamin D deficiency have not been thoroughly studied in older adults. Significant associations have been identified between VDR polymorphism and muscle performance phenotypes although results were conflicting (Pratt et al., 2020). Several allelic variations have been described in the VDR gene, including restriction fragment length polymorphisms, such as Fok1 (C/T) (rs10735810/rs2228570) and Bsm1 (A/G) (rs1544410) (Berry \& Hypponen, 2011). This will study the effect of genetic variations on the nutritional requirements of an individual and can provide some prediction to help with prevention as well as contribute to personalized dietary management (Crovesy \& Rosado, 2019). It could also lead to improved clarif

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fecal samples (bacterial diversity)
  - Fecal samples (transcriptomics)
  - Serum Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)
  - Serum Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)
  - Serum Noradrenaline/Norepinephrine

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Synbiotic supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06845995
