CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02977624
Title: A Telerehabilitation Intervention to Improve Activity and Participation Among Adults Following Acquired Brain Injury
Official Title: Effectiveness of a Telerehabilitation Intervention to Improve Activity and Participation Among Adults Following Acquired Brain Injury
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Objectives - To evaluate the effectiveness of an telerehabilitation intervention program among acquired brain injury (ABI) survivors in the chronic phase. The aim of the intervention is to improve the transition from rehabilitation units to community dwelling and facilitate activity and participation in life roles in the community.

Working hypothesis - The telerehabilitation based program for ABI survivors will be effective in:

1. Improving function in activities of daily living, participation in occupations and health related quality of life.
2. Reducing the need for outpatient clinic and rehabilitation services.
3. The intervention achievements will be maintained in 3-month follow-up

Methodology - Participants: ABI survivors will be selected from patients who are referred to the outpatient or home-based rehabilitation unit of Maccabi health services. Following completion of out-patient occupational therapy treatment in the rehabilitation centers the participants will be randomly assigned into two groups: The treatment group will receive the intervention program in addition to standard care, and the waitlist control group will receive standard care only.

Outcome measures:

1. The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM)
2. The Performance Quality Rating Scale (PQRS)
3. Mayo-Portland Adaptability Inventory (MPAI-4)
4. The Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX)
5. The New General Self-Efficacy Scale (NGSE)
6. The Zarit Caregiver Burden Scale short version

Procedure: The intervention program includes up to 20 video sessions over 3 months between an occupational therapist and the participant. The virtual meetings will be conducted using The Cognitive Orientation to daily Occupational Performance approach. The meetings will focus on problem solving for daily life situations and on the ability to implement the discussed strategies for a variety of activities. Participants will be evaluated at baseline, after the intervention, and after 6 months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The intervention program includes up to 20 video sessions over 3 months between an occupational therapist and the participant. The virtual meetings will be conducted using The Cognitive Orientation to daily Occupational Performance approach. The meetings will focus on problem solving for daily life situations and on the ability to implement the discussed strategies for a variety of activities. Participants will be evaluated at baseline, after the intervention, and after 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM)
  - The Performance Quality Rating Scale (PQRS)
  - The Mayo-Portland Adaptability Inventory (MPAI-4)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: The Cognitive Orientation to daily Occupational Performance

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02977624
