CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06606132
Title: Effects of Immersive Virtual Reality on Quality of Life, Stress, Anxiety, Depression and Grip Strength in Fibromyalgia: A Pilot Study
Official Title: Effects of Immersive Virtual Reality on Quality of Life, Stress, Anxiety, Depression and Grip Strength in Fibromyalgia: A Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this pilot study is to determine the effectiveness of an exercise program based on virtual reality on the impact on quality of life, stress, anxiety, depression and grip strength in people with fibromyalgia. The main questions that are intended to be answered are:

Does therapeutic exercise complemented with immersive virtual reality reduce the impact on quality of life, stress, anxiety and depression and grip strength in people with Fibromyalgia?

The investigators will conduct a pilot study with pre- and post-treatment evaluations. This treatment will consist of 12 sessions of aerobic exercise plus exercise with immersive virtual reality.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic rheumatic disorder characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain, mood problems, and cognitive impairment with a worldwide prevalence ranging from 2 to 4%, affecting mainly women in a 9:1 ratio and with the age of most significant impact between 25 and 50 years. Patients with FM have an impaired quality of life and frequently seek medical attention, which is reflected in significant healthcare costs. It is estimated that the annual number of medical consultations for FM is almost double that of healthy individuals. Although the exact etiology is not yet fully understood, it has been described that people have a genetic predisposition that, together with physical and emotional factors, including the chronicity of a neuromusculoskeletal injury, can trigger it.

The diverse symptomatology of FM makes it challenging to diagnose. Patients often report a feeling of muscle weakness and fatigue, which can diminish their ability to maintain adequate strength for daily tasks. The altered pain perception that characterizes FM can make even simple tasks such as gripping difficult, as pain and discomfort tend to intensify with repetitive or prolonged use of the hand and forearm muscles. Several studies have reported a generalized decrease in muscle strength, noting that this decrease is inversely related to symptom severity. Psychologically, people with FM are characterized by the presence of negative emotions associated with a state of generalized distress. This state of psychological distress can be accompanied by cognitive and emotional disturbances that can considerably affect the quality of life of patients and even the severity of the syndrome. Constant preoccupation with pain management and uncertainty about the future are both associated with additional symptoms, such as difficulty sleeping and fatigue. The above creates a vicious circle in which stress contributes to physical discomfort, and physical discomfort favors stress. In this context, several authors suggest that there may be reduced levels of resilience and effective coping strategies that may generate low self-efficacy and inefficient modulation of nociceptive stimuli, leading to a bidirectional relationship between the presence of pain and psychoemotional symptoms. On the other hand, these psycho-cognitive mechanisms may be influenced by nociplastic and inflammatory alterations, which would contribute to a reciprocal etiopathogenesis between central and peripheral mechanisms, making treatment more difficult.

The 2017 European guideline recommendations for FM propose a multimodal therapeutic approach that can be tailored to the individual patient\&#39;s characteristics and contributes to reducing symptom severity and improving quality of life, allowing the person to learn to live as well as possible with their disease. This approach starts with non-pharmacological measures such as health education, physical therapy, and psychotherapy, followed by pharmacol

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Impact of Fibromyalgia on Quality of Life

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06606132
