CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00756015
Title: Post-op Rehabilitation's Influence on Tendon Healing & Clinical Outcomes Following Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair
Official Title: Healing After Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: A Prospective, Randomized Trial of Early Range of Motion Versus Immobilization
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to better understand the influence of post-operative rehabilitation on the rate of tendon healing and clinical outcomes following arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. There are two schools of thought on what type of therapy program is most beneficial following surgical cuff repair. However there has been little data available to compare them. Therefore, the investigators would like to compare these two standard plans of care so that the investigators may better define the safety and efficacy of early mobilization of the shoulder versus keeping the shoulder immobilized following surgical management.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Rotator cuff disease is the leading cause of shoulder pain and disability. Previous studies regarding the epidemiology of rotator cuff disease have demonstrated a high incidence of age- related cuff tears, approximately 50% of individuals over the age of 55 years 1-3. Failure of conservative treatment often leads to surgical repair of the torn rotator cuff tendons. Indeed, rotator cuff repair is one of the most common surgical procedures currently performed in the shoulder with approximately 200,000 Americans undergoing this surgery yearly. We estimate that the Shoulder and Elbow Service at Washington University performs approximately 400 rotator cuff repairs per year.

One of the primary concerns following repair of the rotator cuff is healing of the repaired tendon. Although pain relief and improved shoulder function are predictable following rotator cuff repair, the rate of healing of the tendon repair has been much less consistent. In most instances, the repaired tissue is degenerative, 4, 5 possesses a poor blood supply 6 and, therefore, a limited ability to heal following repair. The rates of healing of the repaired cuff tendons have ranged from 6% to 80% across multiple studies depending on a variety of patient, tendon tear and surgery related factors 7-13. The major factors that have been identified to effect healing after rotator cuff repair include patient age, the size of the tear and the strength of the repair construct 8, 9, 12. To this point, there has been little data regarding the potential influence of postoperative rehabilitation of the shoulder on the structural integrity of rotator cuff repairs.

The Shoulder and Elbow Service at Washington University has had extensive experience in studying various factors related to not only the progression of rotator cuff disease, but also tendon healing and outcomes of treatment 8, 14-16. A strength of our research team has been the collaborative experience developed with musculoskeletal radiologists at the Mallinkrodt Institute using high-resolution ultrasound to examine the integrity of the rotator cuff. Extensive data with ultrasound at this institution has validated it as a highly accurate means of identifying and quantifying rotator cuff tears in both the preoperative and postoperative settings 17-20. High-resolution ultrasound, in the hands of experienced musculoskeletal radiologists, has been proven to be more accurate than magnetic resonance imaging in assessing the integrity of the rotator cuff in the postoperative setting 19. With this modality, we have been able to study the outcomes and tendon healing rates following repair of the rotator cuff using conventional arthroscopic repair techniques 8. Recent data, from this institution, has also been completed examining the clinical outcomes and repair integrity following newer arthroscopic techniques (double-row rotator cuff repairs) in three separate patient populations: partial thickness cuff tears, full thickness cuff

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinical evaluation of Shoulder function and strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Early Motion Protocol
  - OTHER: Immobilization

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00756015
