CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02467075
Title: Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled CIN Trial
Official Title: Phase IV Randomized Double-Blinded Placebo-Controlled Noninferiority Study of the Effect of Intravenous Low-Osmolality Iodinated Contrast Material On Renal Function in Postoperative Adults With Stage IIIb or Stage IV Chronic Kidney Disease
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
This double-blinded placebo-controlled study will examine the incidence and significance of contrast-induced acute kidney injury following IV iodine-based contrast material administration in subjects with stage IIIB or stage IV chronic kidney disease.

Subjects will be scheduled for clinically indicated CT of the abdomen and/or pelvis to evaluate for suspected intra-abdominal infection. Subjects will be randomized to receive either weight-based low-osmolality iodinated contrast material or saline. The primary outcome measure will be the incidence of stage II AKI by AKIN (Acute Kidney Injury Network) criteria.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This double-blinded placebo-controlled non-inferiority study will examine the incidence and significance of contrast-induced acute kidney injury following intravenous iodine-based contrast material administration in subjects with stage IIIB or stage IV chronic kidney disease.

Subjects will be scheduled for clinically indicated CT of the abdomen and/or pelvis to evaluate for suspected intra-abdominal infection. Subjects will be randomized to receive either weight-based low-osmolality iodinated contrast material or saline. The primary outcome measure will be the incidence of stage II AKI by AKIN criteria.

Secondary outcome measures will include AKI by other definitions (stage I AKI, traditional CI-AKI definition), hospital length of stay, 30-day readmission rate, number of additional percutaneous interventions within 30 days, number of additional CT examinations within 30 days, and 30-day mortality rate. All subjects will receive a minimum of 1 mL/kg/hr (max: 125 mL/hr) of volume expansion for at least three hours before and after the CT..

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Participants With Stage II AKI (Acute Kidney Injury)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Iopamidol 300 (Contrast)
  - DRUG: Placebo (Normal Saline)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02467075
