CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03328468
Title: Development of Upper Limb Motor Scale to Measure Quality of Movement and Body Awareness in Stroke
Official Title: Development of Upper Limb Motor Scale "Awareness of Functional Tasks With Arm and Hand in Stroke"
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 41
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
For the breathing intervention, participants completed two experimental sessions at least two weeks apart. The experimental sessions were randomized between the slow-breathing condition (6 breaths/min) or the control breathing condition (12 breaths/min). Breathing interventions were 15 minutes in length and completed with the assistance of the breathing app, Breathe Deep (Mineev, Bizi Apps LLC).

The breathing intervention is currently completed.

The reliability and validity study of AFAS is ongoing. This is a one-time visit for participants in which participants will undergo screening of sensation and movement as well as fill in some questionnaires.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All participants had two visits for the breathing exercise. The only planned intervention was the breathing exercise, which is now concluded.

The protocol for the breathing intervention was as follows: The breathing protocol lasted 15 minutes. It was a guided breathing awareness session with a registered nurse (PhD student) who is also trained in integrative therapies and yoga instruction.

In parallel, during one of the visits the reliability and validity of a new scale for stroke to measure quality of movement and body awareness is tested.

This part is still ongoing and thus this becomes a one-time visit.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Reliability of a new scale for stroke: Awareness of Functional Tasks with Arm and Hand in Stroke (AFAS scale)
  - Validity a new motor scale for upper extremity Upper Limb Motor Scale in people with stroke (AFAS scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Breathing Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03328468
