CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06330194
Title: Next Generation Advanced insulin Delivery System in Adults With Diabetes and Advanced Renal Disease
Official Title: Glucose Control With a Next Generation Advanced insulin Delivery System in Adults With Diabetes and Advanced Renal Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The goal of this this randomized, clinical trial is to test an automated insulin delivery system (AID) in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who are on hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, or have advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD).

The main objective is:

• To test if the AID is superior in regulating blood sugar levels compared with usual care in patients with advanced renal disease

Secondary objectives are:

• To evaluate the impact on life quality, incidence of low blood sugar, and if the treatment is feasible in this population

Participants will be randomized to receive either eight weeks with the AID System (780G from Medtronic) or eight weeks of Control (usual care) with cross over at the end of the first eight weeks.

Researchers will compare blood sugar levels between the AID group and the Control group to determine if the AID system is superior in regulating blood sugar levels.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Dialysis patients with diabetes have a very short life expectancy likely caused by a high incidence of co-morbidities combined with an increased risk of hypoglycaemia and poor glycaemic control. In the past decades various diabetes technologies have revolutionised treatment, primarily in type 1 diabetes, but have also shown effect in type 2 diabetes. The Automated insulin Delivery (AID) system combines continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) with an insulin pump that automatically infuse short-acting insulin subcutaneously and has shown remarkable results in improving glucose levels. We hypothesise that the AID system can lead to a substantial improvement in glycaemic control for patients receiving haemodialysis (HD), peritoneal dialysis (PD) and patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage 3b to 5 (not on dialysis).

The primary objective is to determine if the AID system is superior in regulating glucose levels, in people living with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, receiving HD, PD or having advanced CKD, compared with usual care. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the impact on life quality, incidence of hypoglycaemia and if this treatment is feasible for this population

This prospective, open-label, two-stage randomized-crossover study is conducted at the Department of Nephrology, Rigshospitalet Copenhagen and Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen. The study is performed in collaboration with six Australian centres (St Vincent's Melbourne, Royal Melbourne, Austin, Cairns Base, Flinders, and Canberra Hospitals).

A total of 15 participants will be recruited in Copenhagen, with participants evenly distributed across the three disease categories (HD, PD, and advanced CKD). Data collected from Copenhagen will be pooled with data obtained from the Australian centers.

Participants entering the study will have a four-to-six-week run-in phase with diabetes education (carbohydrate counting, inserting of CGM etc). Training will consist of three sessions of 2-4 hours with a dedicated diabetes nurse. During the run-in phase three weeks of unblinded CGM will be performed to assess baseline glucose levels. All participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive either eight weeks with the AID System (780G from Medtronic) or eight weeks of control (usual care) with cross over at the end of the first eight weeks.

The trial will be conducted in compliance with the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines, and written informed consent will be obtained before any trial activities are performed. The project including a plan for the handling of personal information will be approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency before initiation. If necessary, the Danish Medicines Agency and the responsible GCP unit will be granted access to journals, documents, and other materials relevant to the project. All participants will be assigned with a subject number and will be recorded on data sheets. Only tubes will appear with subject number and trial ID. Information on full name and 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent time in sensor glucose target range (3.9-10.0 mmol/L)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: 2nd Generation Automated insulin Delivery (AID) system

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06330194
