CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02872480
Title: Acute Concussion Therapy Intervention Training in Healthy and Concussed Participants
Official Title: The Effect of ACTIVE Training in Improving Clinical Outcomes in Healthy and Acutely Concussed College-aged Participants
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Healthy (non-injured) and concussed college-aged participants will complete two testing sessions that include (1) clinical symptom, balance, and cognitive evaluations and (2) a progressive exercise session to establish symptom exacerbation or maximal exercise capacity. Individuals randomized to the control group will receive no intervention between sessions, while individuals randomized to the intervention group will complete 30 minutes of stationary bike exercise at least 3 days/week.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Healthy and concussed participants will be randomized to ACTIVE training (intervention) or control (no intervention) groups. Participants, regardless of group assignment, will receive clinical symptom, balance, and cognitive evaluations as well as a progressive exercise assessment at study outset. Concussed participants will enroll into the study within three days of injury and study participation will termination following 24 consecutive hours with no reported concussive symptoms. Healthy participants will have arbitrary start dates and will terminate the study 10-14 days later to approximate the general length of concussion recovery and, therefore, make the time between session in the healthy and concussed cohorts as equivalent as possible. Participants in the intervention group will complete stationary cycle ergometer workouts for 30 mins at least 3 days per week between testing sessions. Healthy participants will complete six ACTIVE training sessions, while concussed participants will complete ACTIVE training at least three days per week until asymptomatic. Concussed control participants will follow physician guidelines for rest and activity, while healthy control participants will be asked to follow their typical routines for rest and activity. Participants will repeat the identical testing session assessments prior to study termination.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Average Days to Recovery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: ACTIVE Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02872480
