CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05573321
Title: The Effect of Blood Flow Restriction (Bfr) Exercise on Acute Systemic Myokine Levels in Healthy Trained Men
Official Title: Effect of Blood Flow Restriction Exercise on Acute Systemic Irisin, Myostatin and Decorin Levels
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to measure and compare acute systemic irisin, myostatin and decorin levels after a single session of blood flow restricted resistance exercise and resistance exercise without blood flow restriction in healthy, trained male participants aged 18-35 years. For this purpose, a total of 22 people will be included in the study. Participants will be randomly allocated to 2 exercise groups as resistance exercise with blood flow restriction (BFR-RE) and resistance exercise without blood flow restriction (HL-RE) and will be subjected to cross-over. In the HL-RE intervention, the exercise will be performed with a loading of 80% of 1 RM, with 4 sets x 7 repetitions, with 60 seconds of rest between sets. In the BFR-RE intervention, the exercise will be done as a set of 30 repetitions with a loading of 30% of 1 RM and an additional 3 sets x 15 repetitions, with 30 seconds rest between sets. Total exercise volumes were tried to be equalized and skeletal muscle hypertrophy was selected in accordance with exercise guidelines. In both groups, bilateral leg extension exercise will be performed using the leg extension machine for resistance exercise. In the blood flow restriction group (BFR-RE), the cuff will be placed in the proximal region of the thigh bilaterally, inflated to a pressure equivalent to 50% of the estimated arterial occlusion pressure (AOP), and leg extension exercise will be performed under this condition. In the BFR-RE group, the blood flow restriction time will be between 5-10 minutes. Exercise sessions will be conducted under supervision. Venous blood samples will be collected from the arm antecubital region of the participants just before the exercise session, immediately after the exercise, and 1 hour after the exercise. Plasma irisin, myostatin and decorin levels will be measured from the samples taken. It is well known that resistance exercise is important in maintaining and increasing muscle mass (hypertrophy). Studies have shown the involvement of certain myokines in skeletal muscle hypertrophy, although few studies have been conducted on the systemic response of myokines to BFR-RE that may play a potential role in hypertrophy. Therefore, the planned study aimed to reveal the similarities or differences in the systemic myokine response between BFR-RE and HL-RE.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Resistance exercise is a type of exercise classically used to increase skeletal muscle hypertrophy and muscle strength. Resistance training is an important component of training in most sports, and it also plays a role in injury prevention and rehabilitation. In dynamic resistance exercise, the intensity is usually determined by measuring the maximum weight that can be lifted only once (one repetition maximum, 1RM). The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) recommends more than 70% of 1RM to increase muscle mass (high load resistance exercise, HL-RE). High-intensity loads recommended by the ACSM may not be a suitable option for populations with sarcopenia, the elderly with chronic health conditions, or those with injuries that cannot tolerate heavy load, as they create excessive mechanical stress on the tissues during exercise and pose a potential risk of injury. There is increasing evidence that the use of blood flow restriction (BFR), also known as occlusion or Kaatsu training, with low-load resistance exercise (\<50% 1RM) provides hypertrophic gains. This training method (BFR RE) is an exercise method performed by placing an inflatable cuff on the proximal part of the extremity (arm or leg) to restrict blood flow and restricting venous return distal to the obstruction without obstructing arterial flow. As publications using this method increase, interest in BFR-RE has increased to increase skeletal muscle hypertrophy and strength in athletes, the elderly, or clinical populations (such as cerebrovascular, cardiac, neuromuscular diseases, obesity). Standard hypertrophy exercise parameters consist of 1-3 total sets, 8-12 repetitions for sets, and 1-2 minutes rest between sets, with a loading of 70-85% of 1RM in beginner-intermediate levels. BFR-RE, on the other hand, consists of a loading interval of 20-40% of 1RM, a set of 30 repetitions, followed by 3 additional sets of 15 repetitions, with 30 seconds of rest between sets. Despite this difference in exercise protocols, both approaches provide skeletal muscle hypertrophy. Studies show that low-load-high-rep resistance exercises, when performed until fatigue, cause skeletal muscle hypertrophy similar to high-load-low-rep resistance exercises. In addition, BFR-RE is superior to unrestricted low-load resistance exercise in terms of skeletal muscle hypertrophy when the exercise volume is equalized. According to a meta-analysis, BFR-RE has been shown to induce increases in muscle mass comparable to HL-RE regardless of absolute occlusion pressure, cuff width, and method of generating occlusion pressure. Although the potent hypertrophic effects of BFR-RE have been demonstrated by numerous studies, the underlying mechanisms responsible for such effects are not well defined. Although the potent hypertrophic effects of BFR-RE have been demonstrated by numerous studies, the underlying mechanisms responsible for such effects are not well defined. Metabolic stress (accumulation of metabolites as a resul

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in irisin concentrations
  - change in myostatin concentrations
  - change in decorin concentrations

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: BFR-RE
  - OTHER: HL-RE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05573321
