CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05162729
Title: Working Memory and Social-emotional Training for Preschoolers at Risk of ADHD
Official Title: Working Memory Training for Preschoolers at Risk of ADHD and Training Effects on Time Perception, ADHD Symptoms, and Academic Performance
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 79
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The study aims to explore the effectiveness of working memory training and social emotional training for young children with ADHD in Hong Kong. This study will contribute to the current understanding of the alternative treatments for ADHD, and hopefully help to mobilize more resources to be dedicated to the support of children with ADHD. The programme includes the following components:

Children participating in this study will be randomly allocated into experimental group - recieving working memory training, active control group - receiving social-emotional training, and waitlist control group. All participants will complete a 5-week online training using a digital device at home, three times a week, each training session lasts for about 15 minutes.

Moreover, children's cognitive abilities and academic performance will be assessed prior to the intervention, and immediately after the 5-week training. Each assessment session lasts for about 45 minutes. Parents will also be asked to fill out a questionnaire on children's behaviours at home and school prior to and after the 5-week program. It takes about no more than 10 minutes. All assessments will be conducted at the laboratory at the University of Hong Kong.

Children's working memory, time perception, ADHD symptoms, and early academic performance will be measured before and after training, and the between-group performance will be compared to examine the training effects.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - verbal working memory (CMS- digit span)
  - verbal working memory(CMS-digit span)
  - non-verbal working memory(CMS - picture location)
  - nonverbal working memory(CMS - picture location)
  - Time perception: time discrimination

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Game-like online working memory training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Game-like online social emotional training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 6 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05162729
