CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04087330
Title: Whole-body Vibration in Spastic Hemiplegic Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: Effects of Whole-body Vibration on Spasticity, Balance and Mobility in Spastic Hemiplegic Cerebral Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
To target spasticity, balance and mobility whole body vibration exercises along with selected physical therapy is given to experimental group. Control group will receive only selected physical therapy that includes sstretching exercises, gait training, ffacilitation of postural reactions, ffacilitation of standing and weight shift and facilitation of standing balance by using a balance board.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral palsy is the most common childhood disabilities affecting individual's posture and movement. Cerebral palsy is a disorder that causes activity limitations attributed to non-progressive disturbances of the foetal or infant brain that may also affect sensation, perception, cognition, communication, and behavior. Cerebral palsy (CP) results from damage to the developing central nervous system while in utero, during delivery, or during the first two years of life.

The most common movement disorder in Cerebral palsy is a spastic paresis, defined as a posture and movement-dependent tone regulation disorder.The most common signs of the disorder are spasticity, rigidity, muscle weakness, ataxia, balance and movement disorders. Compared to the typically developed children, these children have impaired sensation and increased muscle tone therefore they have trouble voluntarily controlling their muscles. Cerebral Palsy can be grouped based on the motor effects it has on the individual, these can include spastic Cerebral palsy or non-spastic Cerebral palsy. Spastic Cerebral Palsy is the most common type and is associated with tight or contracted muscles.

Cerebral Palsy is more prevalent in more deprived socio-economic populations. Cerebral palsy is a disease that globally has a prevalence of 2 to 3 cases per 1,000 live born neonates. An increase in the prevalence of CP was also seen in low birth weight survivors from the Mersey region of the United Kingdom for the same period. Pilot studies of severe mental retardation conducted in selected populations in Pakistan and India have reported extraordinarily high prevalence estimates in the range of 12-24 /1,000 Spasticity may be defined as a motor disorder characterised by a velocity-dependent exaggeration of stretch reflexes resulting from abnormal intraspinal processing of primary afferent input. The impaired sensation and increase in tone leads to wide range in movement dysfunction. About seventy to eighty percent of children with Cerebral Palsy demonstrate spastic clinical features. Many children with cerebral palsy (CP) have poor walking abilities and manipulation skills. One contributing factor to their problems with gait and reaching movement is poor balance control. Balance control is important as it helps a child to recover from unexpected balance disturbances.Currently, there are many options for the management of spasticity, balance disturbances and risk of fall that includes physical modalities, oral pharmacologic agents, peripheral injectables, intrathecal agents, and surgical interventions, however mostly physical therapy is commonly preferable treatment that includes stretching, NDT, Proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitations,strength training and gait training.

Dynamic mechanical loading of the skeleton is an arduous task and troublesome to induce in children who suffer from severe cerebral palsy. The lack of dynamic weight bearing in this population predisposes them to reduced bone m

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Modified Ashworth
  - 6-Minute walking test (6MWT)
  - Paediatric Balance Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group 1 Experimental group
  - OTHER: Group 2 Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 13 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04087330
