CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04904926
Title: Investigating Loss of Neuromuscular Junction Transmission Fidelity in Older Adults
Official Title: Investigating Loss of Neuromuscular Junction Transmission Fidelity in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenia is a condition characterised by age-related loss of muscle mass and function. Factors affecting the strength of muscle contraction independent of mass, such as neuromuscular junction (NMJ) transmission, are increasingly suspected as important contributors to the development of age-related physical disability. The group of investigators leading the current study, have recently demonstrated NMJ transmission deficits in aged mice, but whether this translates in older human individuals is not known

The primary aim is to assess whether clinically meaningfull muscle weakness is associated with NMJ transmission deficits in older human individuals with clinically meaningfull muscle weakness.

The secondary aim is to assess whether NMJ transmission deficits correlate with different measures of functional capacity to inform future trials of the most appropriate choice of tests.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study is a cross-sectional pilot study and will be led by investigators:

1. Professor Brian Clark, PhD, Ohio University
2. Professor William David Arnold, MD, Ohio State University

Up to 16 older (\>70 yrs.) individuals and 8 healthy younger (18-50 yrs.) individuals will be included in this cross-sectional pilot study. To assess whether clinically meaningfull muscle weakness is associated with NMJ transmission failure, results from single fiber EMG analyses and repetitive nerve stimulation in older individuals with clinically meaningfull muscle weakness will be compared to those obtained in older adults without muscle weakness and with healthy young individuals. To assess whether NMJ transmission deficits correlates with different measures of functional capacity, a series of different functional tests will be performed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Single Fiber Electromyography (sfEMG)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04904926
