CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06549933
Title: The Effect of Cryostimulation on Inflammation and Motor Functions. The Study Was Conducted to Determine the Effect of Five Days of Whole-body Cryostimulation (PBC) on Reducing Inflammation and Improving Motor Skills in Soccer Players
Official Title: The Influence of Cryostimulation on Reducing Inflammation and Improving Motor Skills in Football Player
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study was to determine the effect of a 5-day PBC on reducing inflammation and improving motor skills in soccer players during the initial phase of the training period.

The five-day cryostimulation applied did not significantly affect the profile of inflammatory markers in soccer players. However, a reduction in visuo-motor reaction time (RT) was registered in PBC-treated soccer players, suggesting the potential benefits of this method in improving motor skills.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cryostimulation is one of the methods of post-exercise recovery, involving short-term (3 min) exposure of the body to extremely low temperatures, oscillating between -100°C and -190°C. The purpose of this therapy is to reduce inflammation, reduce physical and mental fatigue and use it as a passive form of preparing the body for further exercise as part of the training process.

The study was conducted to determine the effect of five days of whole-body cryostimulation (PBC) on reducing inflammation and improving motor skills in soccer players. A group of 24 football players was randomly divided into a test group (PBC; -140°C ± 20°C, 3 min, 5 days) and a control group (CON). Before the cryostimulation session, both groups were subjected to visual-motor ability tests, which were repeated on the last day of the study. Blood samples were collected at four time points (P0-1 day, P1-3 day, P2-5 day, P3-2 days after the test). Levels of creatine kinase (CK), tumor necrosis factor (TNFα), interleukins (IL-6, IL-10), testosterone (T) and cortisol (C) were determined in the samples.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - IL-6 (Interleukin-6)
  - TNF-alpha (Tumor necrosis factor-alpha)
  - IL-10 (Interleukin-10)
  - CK (creatine kinase)
  - Cortisol

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Criostymulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 36 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06549933
