CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04564430
Title: Clonidine for Tourniquet-related Pain in Children
Official Title: Clonidine for Tourniquet-related Pain in Children: A Pilot Study
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study is designed as a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, clinical trial with two parallel groups.

This study investigates the association between a single dose of the drug, Clonidine, and the total amount of opioid administered under and 24 hours after surgery in children undergoing orthopedic limb surgery with the use of tourniquet.

The investigators hypothesize that administration of clonidine to children undergoing limb surgery with the use of inflatable tourniquets would reduce post-procedural pain.

This study is a pilot to obtain an effect size. Based on this the investigators will calculate a sample size for the main trial enabling us to reach a power of 0.8 with a significans level of 0.05.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pediatric upper and lower limb surgery often requires fine tissue handling. The prevention of blood flow to a limb allows surgical procedures to be performed with improved accuracy, safety, and speed. Surgical tourniquets, compressing devices used to control venous and arterial circulation to an extremity, enable the surgeons to work in a bloodless operative field.

Tourniquet related complications comprise severe pain during and after the procedure.

In infants and children, surgical procedures are performed under general anaesthesia (GA), comprising standard analgesics and anesthesia maintenance drugs. If an inflatable tourniquet is used, supplementary opioid analgesics are often required to relieve postoperative pain. This clinical observation is in accordance with previously reported data. In adult patients, surgical extremity procedures requiring tourniquets are well known to be painful. As a consequence, infants and children are subjected to prolonged stays in the recovery department. Mobilization and referral to a more child friendly environment might be delayed.

Many interventions and different medications have been tried in order to improve postoperative analgesia in pediatric patients. Amongst these Clonidine, primarily an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist. Clonidine stimulates alpha-2 adrenoceptors in the brain stem, thus activating inhibitory neurons, resulting in reduced sympathetic outflow from the CNS.

In several studies' clonidine administered orally or rectally before anesthesia has shown to reduce opioid use and diminish level of pain. Additionally, clonidine reduces the occurrence of postoperative agitation. As an adjuvant to central or peripheral nerve blocks, clonidine effectively prolongs analgesia. The efficacy of clonidine has also been investigated in clinical studies with pediatric ADHD patients Tourette's syndrome and stuttering. The efficacy of Clonidine in these conditions has not been demonstrated.

Clonidine is a taste- and smell less fluid, completely opaque. Although clonidine has been widely studied in the pediatric population, the main outcome of investigations has been emergence delirium. In existing literature, the means of administration vary from intravenous, rectal, epidural or oral dosing. Intravenous single-bolus dosages range from 1.5 - 4 mcg/kg. One recent study included almost 400 patients and administered 3mcg/kg bodyweight without the occurrence of any severe events. Based on these results the investigators chose to administer 3mcg/kg bodyweight as a single bolus in our current study.

All outcomes are objective measures (mg/kg bodyweight, time endurance) or validated evaluation scales (FLACC/VAS score, PAED scale).

Morphine is widely used for postoperative pain relief, the intravenous administration being the most potent. However, morphine is known to have several side effects (prolonged sedation, nausea and vomiting, refusal of oral intake and concomitant dehydration) and may be dangerous for certain

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Total morphine T24

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Catapresan
  - OTHER: Saline

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Months to 15 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04564430
