CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05675514
Title: Investigation of the Effectiveness of Myofascial Release Technique in Young Basketball Players
Official Title: Investigation of the Effectiveness of Myofascial Release Technique on Performance Parameters and Injury Risk in Young Basketball: A Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
In this study, it is aimed to remove the limitations that cause asymmetry and weak connections in functional movement patterns with myofascial relaxation method to be applied to certain muscles and to remove the obstacles in front of the power factor as a result of its application, to reach the highest efficiency of the athlete's performance and to reduce the risk of injury in the musculoskeletal system.Study; It was planned as a control group (n:30) and an intervention group (n:30). Apart from routine training, the intervention group will be treated twice a week for 6 weeks before the training. On the other hand, no application will be made to the control group other than routine training. The evaluations are; It will be done at the beginning of the study and after the 6-week period.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be randomly divided into two groups and it is planned to include 30 people in each group.

After evaluations (demographic information, functional movement screening test (FMS), t agility test, vertical jump test, muscle strength test, muscle viscoelasticity and star balance test) were made at the beginning of the study in the intervention group (n=30), twice a week for 6 weeks. Myofascial release technique will be performed before the training. Final evaluations will be made 6 weeks after starting the intervention.

The control group (n=30) was excluded from the routine training period for 6 weeks after evaluations (demographic information, functional movement screening test (FMS), T agility test, vertical jump test, muscle strength test, muscle viscoelasticity and star balance test) were made at the beginning of the study. No action will be taken. At the end of 6 weeks, evaluations will be made again.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional Movement Screen (FMS)
  - Vertical Jump Test ( the app My Jump 2)
  - Star Excursion Balance Test
  - Muscle Strength Test
  - Agility T Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Myofascial Release Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 16 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05675514
