CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01661764
Title: Fish Oil Supplementation, Nutrigenomics and Colorectal Cancer Prevention
Official Title: Fatty Acid Desaturase Activity, Fish Oil and Colorectal Cancer Prevention
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 141
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death within the United States. Animal models and observational studies have suggested that marine-derived n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids \[PUFA\] such as eicosapentanoic acid \[EPA\] and docosahexanoic acid \[DHA\] may reduce the risk of colorectal cancer. In addition, it may be the relative proportion of n-3 to n-6 PUFAs that best determines the chemopreventive effects of fish oils. This ratio is important because the n-6 PUFA, arachidonic acid (ARA), is converted via the cyclo-oxygenase (COX) pathway to prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), an inflammatory eicosanoid overproduced in colorectal neoplasms while EPA is converted to the anti-inflammatory prostaglandin E3 (PGE3). While the ratio of n-6 to n-3 PUFAs can be altered through dietary changes, genetic factors may also influence this ratio. Recent genetic studies have demonstrated that much of the tissue levels of ARA is determined by differences in a gene called fatty acid desaturase 1 (FADS1). FADS1 is the rate-limiting enzyme in the conversion of linoleic acid, the most commonly consumed PUFA in the Western diet, to ARA, and one particular genetic variant caller rs174537 is associated with lower fatty acid desaturase activity and subsequently lower tissue levels of ARA.

The study hypothesis is that individuals with genetically determined lower activity of FADS1 will derive greater benefit from fish oil supplementation than individuals with higher FADS1 activity because of lower tissue levels of ARA and subsequently a more favorable n-6 to n-3 PUFA ratio. To test this hypothesis the investigators will recruit 150 participants with recently identified adenomatous polyps and conduct a 6-month double blind 3 X 2 factorial randomized controlled trial. The first factor will be FADS1 genotype (GG, GT, and TT) and the second factor will be fish oil supplementation (fish oil versus placebo). The primary outcome will be the change in rectal epithelial cell growth and cell death. Secondary outcomes will include rectal epithelial cell expression of genes important in PGE2 production, rectal cell production of PGE2 and PGE3, rectal mucosal tissue levels of fatty acids, and changes in biomarkers of inflammation (C-reactive protein), adipokines (leptin, adiponectin), and markers of insulin sensitivity.

The specific aims include: 1) to determine the efficacy of fish oil supplements on rectal epithelial cell proliferation indexes and markers of rectal crypt apoptosis, and 2) to determine the effect of genetically-determined fatty acid desaturase 1 activity on fish oil supplementation for colorectal cancer chemoprevention. The investigators long-term objectives are to determine genetic factors that might influence the efficacy of fish oil supplementation in order to conduct a more definitive adenoma recurrence trial using marine-derived n-3 PUFAs. The investigators anticipate that fish oil will have anti-neoplastic effect and individuals with low FADS1 activity will have a greater response compared to individuals with high FADS1 activity

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1.Rationale and Specific Aims

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer and the second most frequent cause of cancer related mortality in the United States. Animal and human studies have suggested that the marine-derived n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), eicosapentanoic acid (EPA) and docosahexanoic acid (DHA), have cancer inhibitory properties while conversely, n-6 PUFAs such as arachidonic acid (ARA) may promote tumorigenesis. The mechanism behind these opposing effects is likely due to differences in the biological activity of their eicosanoids end products and their effects on chronic inflammation. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a pro-inflammatory eicosanoid that is aberrantly produced in both colorectal adenomas and cancer and is derived from ARA via the cyclo-oxygenase pathway. EPA is converted through the same pathway into prostaglandin E3, which has 4 to 7- fold less prostaglandin E receptor affinity, is less inflammatory, and may even be pro-apoptotic compared to PGE2. As such, it may be the ratio of ARA to EPA and DHA rather than the absolute levels of marine-derived n-3 PUFAs that contribute most towards their antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects.

The ratio of ARA to EPA + DHA can be manipulated through fish oil supplementation, however; genetic factors may play a key role on determining this ratio. Recent genome-wide association and haplotype studies have demonstrated that up to 28% of the additive variance in tissue levels of ARA is explained by variants in a single gene, fatty acid desaturase 1 (FADS1). FADS1 is the rate-limiting enzyme in the conversion of linoleic acid (LA), the most commonly consumed PUFA, to ARA, and homozygotes for the T allele (population frequency of 13%, HapMap -CEU) in rs174537 have lower fatty acid desaturase activity and subsequently lower tissue levels of ARA. While EPA can be produced in vivo from α-linolenic acid, in humans, this process is extremely inefficient and most tissue level EPA derives directly from dietary consumption of fatty fish. Thus, high activity of FAD1 and subsequently increased tissue levels of ARA may offset some of the potential benefits of dietary supplementation with fish oil. To date, no previously published studies have investigated how genetic variants that influence fatty acid desaturase activity might modify the beneficial effects of fish oil supplementation.

The investigators hypothesis is that the individuals with genetically determined lower activity of FADS1 will derive greater benefit from fish oil supplementation than individuals with higher FADS1 activity because of lower tissue levels of ARA and subsequently a more favorable ARA to EPA + DHA ratio. To test this hypothesis the investigators will recruit 150 participants with recently identified adenomatous polyps and conduct a 6-month double blind 3 X 2 factorial randomized controlled trial. The first factor will be the rs174537 genotype (GG, GT, and TT) in the FADS1 gene and the second fac

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rectal Epithelial Cell Proliferation
  - Rectal Epithelial Cell Apoptosis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Eicosapentanoic acid and docosahexanoic acid
  - DRUG: Oleic Acid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 79 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01661764
