CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05706389
Title: Does Alpha-ketoglutarate Supplementation Lower BiologicaL agE in Middle- Aged Adults?
Official Title: Does Alpha-ketoglutarate Supplementation Lower BiologicaL agE in Middle- Aged Adults?
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Geroscience is an emerging interdisciplinary field of study in gerontological sciences. With emphasis on understanding the mechanistic drivers of aging, it seeks translational approaches that could eventually be applied to improve human healthspan and delay age-associated chronic diseases. Contrary to popular opinion that aging is irreversible, advances in geroscience research have demonstrated that aging is modifiable and inhibiting or activating specific molecular pathways can improve healthspan and extend lifespan in model organisms. Advocates of geroscience take the view that age-related chronic diseases are best treated by slowing the aging process, rather than using the prevailing disease-centric approach of addressing each disease alone. Thus, the concept is that biological aging, rather than chronological aging, is amenable to intervention.

In this regard, geroscientists are at the forefront of longevity medicine in rigorously testing novel supplements, drugs and other prophylactics that can enhance healthspan. Some of these interventions involve repurposing existing drugs such as rapamycin, a well-known immunosuppressant, at different dosing regimens to specifically target biological hallmarks of aging.

This study will investigate the effects of alpha-ketoglutarate (AKG), an endogenous metabolite, on biomarkers of aging in middle-aged residents of Singapore.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Recent growing understanding on mechanisms of aging as gradual changes in body systems through several cellular and molecular levels has raised research interests in the biology of aging. There are seven established overlapping processes of aging: oxidative stress, macromolecular damage, epigenetic changes, abnormal metabolism, impaired proteostasis, decline in stem cell functions and inflammation. These overlapping changes over the lifetime affect the onset of age-related diseases and possibly the aging process itself. However, lifestyle and pharmacologic interventions can modify the deterioration of aging pathways. AKG is a generally regarded as safe (GRAS) micronutrient and has shown great potential in extending healthspan. Here, we aim to study the role of AKG in the modulation of aging.

The aim is to evaluate the anti-aging function of AKG and determine whether AKG can modulate biological pathways of aging in middle-aged adults in Singapore. Our hypothesis is that AKG will affect DNA methylation which will be associated with the change in blood biomarkers of aging and change in physiological function. It allows us to study the longitudinal effects of AKG on clinical and biological outcomes.

This is a 6-month double-blinded, placebo-controlled longitudinal interventional study on middle-aged participants to study the effect of AKG on biomarkers of aging, with another 3 months of post-intervention follow-up. The total duration of participation in this study is 9 months.

The rationale for this study design is to study the long-term effect of 1 g AKG in middle-aged adults. Our study design of 6 months of intervention (1 g AKG vs placebo) will allow us to understand the effect of AKG treatment on DNA methylation, and another 3 months of post-intervention follow-up will help us understand if there is any long-term effect of AKG. In order to minimize recruitment bias, our study design is double-blinded.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in blood DNA methylation status, years

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ca-AKG

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05706389
