CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00138983
Title: Prevention of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis in Rheumatic Diseases: Alendronate Versus Alfacalcidol.
Official Title: Prevention of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis in Patients With Rheumatic Diseases. The STOP-Study: a Randomized Placebo Controlled Trial With Alendronate Versus Alfacalcidol.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine wich treatment is the most effective in prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in patients with rheumatic diseases. The STOP-study: a randomized placebo controlled trial with alendronate versus alfacalcidol.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Treatment with glucocorticoids (GCs) is associated with bone loss initiated already early in therapy, causing increased (vertebral) fracture risk. Bone loss is caused by inhibition of bone formation by GCs. Active vitamin D analogues like alfacalcidol directly stimulate osteoblasts leading to an increase in bone formation. Bisphosphonates like alendronate induce apoptosis of osteoclasts leading to inhibition of bone resorption.

We performed a randomized, double-placebo, double-blind clinical trial of 18 months duration in patients with a rheumatic disease, starting GCs in a dosage of 7.5 mg prednisone equivalent daily or higher. Two hundred one patients were allocated to receive either alendronate 10 mg and alfacalcidol-placebo daily or alfacalcidol 1 microgram and alendronate-placebo daily. Primary outcome was change in bone mineral density of the lumbar spine in 18 months, secondary outcome incidence of (symptomatic) morphometric vertebral deformities.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percent change in bone mineral density of the lumbar spine (lumbar vertebrae 2 to 4) at 18 months.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Alendronate versus alfacalcidol (1-alpha OH vitamin D)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00138983
