CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06827171
Title: Impact of LLL and Aerobic Exercise on Peripheral Arterial Outcomes in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Impact of Low-level Laser and Aerobic Exercise on Peripheral Arterial Outcomes in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Diabetes is one of the fastest-growing diseases worldwide, It has Devastating macrovascular complications (cardiovascular disease) and microvascular complications (such as diabetic kidney disease, diabetic retinopathy, and neuropathy) In Egypt, factors in patients that affect diabetic control include the patient's education and occupation and smoking status. Physical exercise is important for diabetes control. Metformin and investigation availability have a positive association with diabetes control.

Diabetes mellitus increases the risk and accelerates the course of peripheral artery disease, making patients more susceptible to ischemic events and infections and delaying tissue healing. The current understanding of pathogenic mechanisms is mainly based on the negative influence of diabetes mellitus on atherosclerotic disease and inflammation (Fadini et al., 2020).) An early diagnosis of peripheral arterial diseases PAD and correctly identifying patients with Chronic limb-threatening ischemia CLTI are crucial in patients with diabetes to improve outcomes.

Several treatment strategies can be subdivided into lifestyle modification, medical management, endovascular therapies, and surgical interventions for the treatment of PAD.

Exercise training improves walking ability, distances, physical function, and vitality. Physical activity by supervised exercise is recommended in first-line therapy for intermittent claudication by SVS, ESVS, and AHA (Treat-Jacobson et al., 219) More specifically, a supervised exercise program consists of walking a minimum of three times per week (30-60 min/session) for at least 12 weeks Therapeutic laser treatment, also known as low-level laser therapy (LLLT), offers numerous benefits. It is non-surgical, promotes tissue healing, and reduces edema, inflammation, and pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The participants will be submitted into two equal groups in numbers:

Group A (Study group) n=20 will receive a low-level laser (scanning laser) combined with an aerobic exercise program for 12 weeks (3 sessions/ week).

Group B (control group) n=20: Who will receive aerobic exercise for 12 weeks (3sessions/week) All patients with their prescribed medications (hypoglycemic, antiplatelet, anticoagulants, antihypertensive, vasodilators, analgesics)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - body mass index
  - peak systolic velocities (PSV)
  - Ankle-Brachial Index (ABI) %
  - The visual analog scale (VAS) questionnaire for pain
  - The Edinburgh Claudication Questionnaire (ECQ)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: aerobic exercise + low-level laser therapy
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06827171
