CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01376986
Title: Activation of Young Men - Population-Based Randomised Controlled Trial
Official Title: Activation of Young Men - Population-Based Randomised Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 507
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to investigate different novel IC technologies for promoting physical activity and health and preventing obesity in young men. The purpose is to provide new evidence-based knowledge on the effectiveness of an ICT-based physical activation and to identify factors predicting a positive response.

Specific objectives

* to identify the factors associated with physical activity and physical activity relationship in young men
* to develop an interactive method, based on peer networks, aimed at activating young men with use of their own skills, participation and modern ICT
* to assess the effectiveness of the chosen activation on the physical activity, weight, fitness, health, and relationship towards physical activity among young men

The study population consists of all conscription aged men in the Oulu area in 2011-2013 (n=4000). Conscription-aged men provide a large, population based representative sample of young men. In Finland military service is mandatory and annually all 18-year old men are called for military service. In the call-ups fitness for service is determined based on medical examination.

All those who are determined fit for service or who are granted postponement due to obesity will be invited for the activation intervention study. Those with severe obesity are exempted from service, but will also participate in the trial. After the call-up, the men will be randomised to an intervention group and a control group. The primary outcome variable is change in physical activity.

The study will be conducted during 2011-2015. The study includes technology development (ICT platform), collection of cross-sectional data at the call-ups, and a 6-month physical activity intervention (a randomized controlled trial) implemented between the call-up and start of military service. Game mechanics are integrated into the ICT platform to increase user engagement and participation.

Physical activity, fitness (aerobic and muscular), body composition,lifestyle and psychological and physical health will be followed. In addition, the subjects' entry into military service and its course will be followed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - physical activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: physical, psychological and social activation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 18 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01376986
