CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03468868
Title: Comparative Effectiveness Study Telerehab Versus Conventional
Official Title: Comparative Effectiveness Study of an Exercise Intervention Delivered Via Telerehabilitation and Conventional Mode of Delivery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 379
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study aims to compare the effectiveness of an exercise program delivered in a conventional facility-based format versus a telerehabilitation format, which takes place in the home. Exercise can improve mobility and perhaps decrease the rate and extent of disability in people with MS. Evidence shows that traditional, facility-based exercise training may help people with MS consistently participate in exercise or to exercise at a higher, more intense level. Despite this evidence, lack of access to facility-based exercise programs may make it difficult for people with MS to engage in exercise.Telerehabilitation (telerehab) has great potential to overcome challenges associated with facility-based programs. Telerehab can include videoconferencing, remote monitoring of signs and activity, and dissemination of specialized and individualized information via electronic mechanisms, such as smartphones and computers. Both facility-based and telerehab exercise training have yielded positive results in people with MS, but have not been compared head-to-head. The current study will fill this gap in the evidence base and compare the outcomes of delivering the same exercise interventions in a facility or in the home/community using a telerehab approach. The interventions are designed to be identical in content, with the only difference being the mode of training delivery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Funded by Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI), this four-year, multi-site study aims to compare the effectiveness of a 16-week telerehabilitation (telerehab) exercise program and a facility-based exercise program on Multiple Sclerosis (MS) outcomes. The research study design is a two-stage randomized choice design aimed at non-inferiority.

Four hundred participants with MS who have ambulatory difficulties will be recruited from nine sites. First level randomization will assign participants to one of two groups - Choice or Random. The participants in Choice will be able to choose in which program they wish to participate (telerehab or facility-based). Individuals in the Random group, will be further randomized to either the telerehab or facility-based program. The research protocol and associated tools will be reviewed and approved by all relevant Research Review Committees before any research takes place. The study will comply with best practices in human subjects' research including following HIPAA guidelines and using strict informed consent procedures. Clinical reported outcome measures and patient reported outcome measures will be administered at baseline, immediately post-intervention (at 16 weeks), and at 12 months post-intervention. Patient reported outcomes will also be administered at 2 months and 6 months after the start of the intervention.

Dr. Deborah Backus is the principal investigator (PI) and Prof. Robert Motl is the co-Principal Investigator supported by collaborating co-Investigators at the Cleveland Clinic Mellen Center, Ohio; Marquette University, Wisconsin; University of Colorado, Denver; University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; the University of Georgia; the Tanner Center for Multiple Sclerosis, Birmingham Alabama; Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; and the iConquerMS outcomes data collaborative (Accelerated Cure Project for MS). Shepherd Center is the primary and coordinating site for all study activities under Dr. Backus. University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) under the leadership of Prof. Motl will oversee delivery of the training programs, and statistical analysis under the direction of Dr. Gary Cutter.

This study will yield important data regarding the comparative impact of exercise programs on MS outcomes and provide information to people with MS, health providers, payers, exercise partners, and policy makers about how people with MS who have ambulatory difficulties can safely and effectively exercise.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Timed 25 Foot Walk Test (T25FWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise program for people with MS

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03468868
