CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07086846
Title: Effect of Myofascial Release Versus Acupressure on Carpal Tunnel Syndrome in Postnatal Period
Official Title: Effect of Myofascial Release Versus Acupressure on Carpal Tunnel Syndrome in Postnatal Period
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
This study will be conducted to compare the effect of myofascial release and acupressure on postnatal carpal tunnel syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Various factors, such as an increase in body mass index (BMI), hormones (relaxin), fluid redistribution, and maternal age, are involved in the etiology of pregnancy related carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). In terms of prognosis, although it has been reported that pregnancy related CTS generally regresses completely spontaneously or with conservative treatment methods after birth, residual symptoms and neurophysiological findings that require surgical decompression up to a year after birth have also been reported.

In clinical practice guidelines, conservative treatment is recommended for mild and moderate cases, while a surgical approach is recommended for patients with severe CTS . Some clinical conditions such as hormonal alteration and edema for menopause and pregnancy due to alteration of the fluid balance in the body.

Myofascial release is considered a safe, non-invasive, and simple method for decreasing pain intensity and numbness sensation severity and for improving hand function in pregnant women with CTS.

Acupressure is the supportive therapies based on Chinese medicine. Pressure is applied to the affected areas without the use of needles. PC7 or the Daling point is especially considered when managing CTS; it was found to cause an increase of endomorpin-1, beta-endorphin, serotonin, dopamine, and enkephalin levels in the brain tissues and plasma. Acupressure was found to be more effective compared to the placebo and splints re- garding the functional status and nerve conduction studies.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Sensory conduction velocity
  - Sensory distal latency
  - Median nerve amplitude

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Night splint
  - OTHER: Myofascial release technique
  - OTHER: Acupressure
  - OTHER: Home advice

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07086846
