CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05036447
Title: Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1 and Resistance Exercise
Official Title: Recovery After Moderate-Heavy Resistance Exercise in Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1-patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the response after one bout of moderate-heavy resistance exercise in patients suffering from Myotonic Dystrophy type 1. There is still doubt about if these patients could benefit from resistance exercise, or if this mode of exercise is detrimental to their mobility and health. We aim to monitor the subjects during the recovery phase and investigate recovery in several ways.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an autosomal, dominantly inherited, muscular disease and the most common muscular dystrophy amongst adults. The disease is characterized by progressive myopathy and myotonia, first evident in the distal parts of the body: calves and forearms, further progressing towards proximal parts. A recent review by Voet and co-workers (2013) concludes that exercise is safe for DM1-patients, and based on our current knowledge, DM1-patients should be able to gain positive adaptations from exercise. However, the physiological outcomes of an exercise stimulus are not well studied in this population and because of alterations in important Ca2+ handling systems the recovery processes might be significantly different from healthy muscles.

The aim of this study is to investigate the acute responses to moderate-heavy resistance exercise in DM1-patients. We aim to establish a timeline for recovery of muscle strength, measured as maximal voluntary contraction. In line with this, we want to investigate if any muscular damage has occurred with both direct and indirect measures, and possible mechanisms leading to muscle damage, i.e. impaired Ca2+ handling.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Moderate-Heavy Resistance Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05036447
