CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03236532
Title: Effect of Supplementation With Glutamine and Exercise in Women With HIV/AIDS
Official Title: Impact of Physical Exercise Associated With Glutamine Supplementation in Health Indicators of People Living With HIV/AIDS
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study aimed to investigate the effect of an exercise session with weights associated with glutamine dipeptide (GLD) supplementation on cognitive function of people living with HIV/ AIDS. The sample consisted of 10 HIV+ women, who used the Antiretroviral Therapy Highly Active. The participants were randomized in a double-blind procedure to receive seven days of supplementation GLD or placebo (PLA). At the end of this first period, the participants held a workout with weights with cognitive assessments before and immediately after the session. To evaluate oxidative stress markers blood samples were collected before and 1 hour and 2 hours after the session.Then the participants rested for 7 days for the initial stocks of glutamine return to baseline levels (washout). Following was realized the crossing of the groups, so those who had received the GLD in the first week spent extra for 7 days with PLA and vice versa, and then they repeated evaluations and exercise session. The exercise session consisted of seven resistance exercises involving different muscle groups, with three sets of 8-12 repetitions with an interval of 90 seconds between sets and 120 seconds between the exercises. Stroop test was used to cognitive assessments, which aims to assess selective attention and inhibitory control over the color of conflict and word, and the N-back test, responsible for evaluating the central executive component of working memory by stimuli visual. Oxidative stress markers (TBARS, FOX, GSH, GSSG, AOPP) were analyzed in plasma samples.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of a short period of supplementation with glutamine dipeptide (GDP) in the acute responses to resistance training on people living with HIV/AIDS i the following healthy indicators: executive functions, stress oxidative markers, cardiovascular functions, inflammatory markers and biochemical markers.

Participants 14 women diagnosed with HIV+ participated in this study. As inclusion criteria, they should be over 18 years old; they should have regularly been using the Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) for more than six months; they should have a stabilized clinical picture and viral load; they should not have participated in physical training programs during the preceding six months; they should not show acute or chronic inflammations that could affect the practice of physical exercise; they should not have psychiatric disorders; and they should not be pregnant.

The individuals who met the inclusion criteria received clinical evaluation by the infectious physician responsible for the treatment based on the history of each patient, the laboratory tests and the clinical picture.

The study was approved by the Standing Committee on Ethical Research with Humans of the State University of Maringá - PR - Brazil. The volunteers signed the Free Informed Consent Form, after being informed about the study proposal and the procedures they would be submitted to.

During the study period, four participants were not able to attend all the evaluations and were excluded from the final analysis. Therefore, 10 women participated in all the procedures and were part of the final sample of the study.

Experimental design The study had a total duration of five weeks divided into two phases. The first phase lasted two weeks and was characterized by the familiarization with the exercises that would be done in the second phase. This protocol consisted of four sessions of exercises, every 48 hours, which submitted the individuals to the same procedures that would be done in the second phase. Four familiarization sessions were chosen, one of which was aimed at learning the exercises without the insertion of loads. Then, the participants could rest for a week before starting the second phase.

The second phase consisted of three stages; each of them lasted one week. In the first stage, the participants were initially randomly separated in a double-blind way in order to ingest either the GDP (Condition 1) or maltodextrin as a placebo (Condition 2) for seven days. On the seventh and last day of supplementation, they were submitted to the resistance training session. Before the exercise session the cognitive tests were applied, blood samples were collected for analysis of biochemical, inflammatory and oxidative stress markers. Immediately after the exercise session the cognitive tests were repeated. Blood samples were also collected 1 and 2 hours after the exercise training. Cardiovascular functions were monitorated during 1 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The effect of a short period of supplementation with glutamine dipeptide in the cognitive responses after a resistance training session of women with HIV/AIDS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Glutamine and exercise
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin and exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03236532
