CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06530589
Title: Effects of Tupler's Technique on the Management of Diastasis Rectus Abdominis.
Official Title: Effects of Tupler's Technique on the Management of Diastasis Rectus Abdominis in Post-Partum Females.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Diastasis Rectus Abdominis is the condition in which two abdominal muscles rectus abdominis separated and cause widening and thinning of Linea alba. The Tupler's Technique is Evidence Based intervention for the management of Diastasis Rectus Abdominis. The purpose of this study is to see the Effectiveness of Tupler's Technique on the Management of Diastasis Rectus Abdomins in Post-Partum Females.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Literature suggest that during pregnancy due to hormonal changes such as increased in Relaxin, estrogen and progesterone level and also increased in the size of uterus affect the aponeurosis connection of abdominal muscles and due to these changes Diastasis Rectus Abdominis is common during pregnancy especially in third trimester and in the post-partum period. we can measure diastasis rectus abdominis by different methods such as palpatory, caliper and ultrasound. The condition can be mild (two fingers gap), moderate (two to three fingers gap) and severe (more than three fingers gap). The separation of greater than 2cm is considered as Diastasis Rectus Abdominis.

In this study effectiveness of Tupler's Technique will be assessed in post-partum diastasis rectus abdominis patients. Patients will have to wear diastasis rehab splints and then perform tupler's technique exercises. The mechanism behind this is when patients wear splint the splint will keep the connective tissues in narrow position for better healing and strengthening of muscles will be done by Tuper's Technique exercises and Diastasis of Rectus Abdominis willl be treated.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Digital nylon caliper to measure inter-recti Distance
  - Oswestry low bac pain disability Questionnaire
  - Numeric Pain rating scale
  - Maternal post-partum quality of life instrument (MPQOL-I)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Tupler's Technique
  - OTHER: Traditional Exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06530589
