CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00692367
Title: Physical Activity Following Surgery Induced Weight Loss
Official Title: Physical Activity Following Surgery Induced Weight Loss
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 128
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The primary objective of this study will be to determine the effects of physical activity in patients during substantial surgery-induced weight loss.

A randomized controlled physical activity intervention trial in a group of patients undergoing bariatric surgery for weight loss. The study will involve two sites with an active bariatric surgery program, which have a strong track record of bariatric surgery research. The study will include 160-200 subjects. Changes in the primary outcome variables will be determined in previous gastric bypass patients as a result of 6 months of moderate physical activity compared to an educational control group not engaged structured exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The primary objective of this study will be to determine the effects of physical activity in patients during substantial surgery-induced weight loss. We propose to employ a randomized controlled physical activity intervention trial in a group of patients undergoing bariatric surgery for weight loss. The study will involve two sites with an active bariatric surgery program, which have a strong track record of bariatric surgery research.

Recruitment goals are 160-200 gastric bypass patients who will undergo 6 months of moderate physical activity compared to an educational control group not engaged structured exercise. Subjects will be included if their BMI is less than 55 kg/m2 prior to surgery and they are located relatively close to centers for intervention sessions. At baseline (3 months following surgery) and 6 months later (9 months following surgery), subjects will have a CT scan, IV glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) and muscle biopsy (\~8 hour visit). They will be scheduled for separate visits for a test of physical fitness (VO2max) and general body composition (DXA scan)(\~2 hour visit), and a 15-min sub-maximal exercise session.

1. Physical activity group: Subjects will be progressed to 4-5 days per week, 30-45 min per session (120-180 min per week) of moderate intensity exercise.
2. Control (educational) group: Subjects will receive their usual care following surgery that includes information on physical activity. They will also be asked to participate in monthly health education sessions.

We will promote this study as one that will help determine whether physical activity may be beneficial in addition to their weight loss.

Aim 1: insulin resistance and metabolic risk factors. Approach: To address Aim 1, we will determine 6-month changes in insulin sensitivity in subjects after 3-month initial weight loss from bariatric surgery. As outlined above, we will employ a randomized controlled physical activity intervention trial in which half of the subjects will be entered into a physical activity group, while the other half will participate in monthly health education sessions (control). By randomizing these groups three months after initial weight loss, both groups should begin the intervention with similar baseline characteristics (e.g. insulin sensitivity, body weight, physical fitness, etc.). We are not attempting to determine the effect of the weight loss per se on insulin sensitivity. However, we realize that the amount of weight loss could potentially have a major confounding influence on detecting changes in insulin sensitivity between the two groups. Thus, we will examine the degree of weight loss as a covariate in our analyses.

Aim 2: Intramyocellular lipids and body composition. Approach: We will examine pre to post intervention, changes in intramyocellular lipid determined with percutaneous biopsies, as well as abdominal and intermuscular adipose tissue determined by CT imaging.

Aim 3: Mitochondria content, function and fat oxid

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - insulin sensitivity, intramyocellular lipid, total body fat, total lean mass

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical Activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00692367
