CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02054624
Title: Rural Lifestyle Eating and Activity Program (Rural LEAP)
Official Title: Rural Lifestyle Eating and Activity Program
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 631
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research study is to learn about ways to help adults with obesity from rural areas manage their weight and increase their physical activity. An important goal of the study is to find out what type of follow-up program for weight management is necessary to help adults with obesity keep from regaining lost weight. The study will also look at the ways that long-term weight-loss treatments affect blood pressure, blood fats (lipids), blood sugar, and physical fitness.

The participant are being asked to be in this research study because increased weight and obesity are major health problems in the United States. The participant's weight and height fall in the obese category. Adults with obesity have an increased risk of developing health problems such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and heart disease. The rates of being overweight and obese are higher in rural areas of the United States than in urban and suburban areas of the country.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
If the participant agrees to participate, a number of tests will be performed to see if the participant is eligible to take part in the study. If so, these tests will be repeated after 4 months of treatment, and again after 22 months. Participants will be asked to complete a number of questionnaires. baseline, 4 months of treatment, and again after 10, 16, and 22 months. The different tests and measures are listed below.

Questionnaires, Height, Weight, Waist Measurement, Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Electrocardiogram, Blood Sample (2 tablespoons), Urine Sample, and a Urine Pregnancy test for females, 400 Meter Walking Test

Randomization

A member of the research team will contact participants by telephone or by mail if they eligible to take part in the study. Participants are randomly assigned to one of three groups. Random assignment is like rolling dice to decide which group a person is assigned to.

The three groups are described below:

Group A: 4 months of weight loss treatment plus 12 months of follow-up contact by telephone. The follow-up telephone contacts in Group A will involve group discussion with a trained staff member and other participants.

Group B: 4 months of weight loss treatment plus 12 months of follow-up contacts by telephone. The follow-up telephone contacts in Group B will involve individual, one-on-one discussion with a trained staff member.

Group C: 4 months of weight loss treatment plus 12 months of follow-up contacts by mail and e-mail.

Weight Loss Treatments

The weight-loss treatments in this study will include two phases. Phase 1 will last 4 months. Phase 2 will last 12 more months. Everybody in Groups A, B, and C will have the same Phase 1 weight-loss treatment program for 4 months. However, the type of Phase 2 follow-up program that participants receive will depend on whether they are assigned to Group A, B, or C.

Phase 1 Treatment

During this time, participants will meet each week with a group leader and a group of about 10 other adults. The meetings will take place at the Cooperative Extension Office. The group leader will be a Family and Consumer Sciences Agent who has had special training in nutrition education or a staff member who has had special training in weight-management. The group meetings will last about 90 minutes per week. All group meeting will be audio recorded so that the researchers can determine if the treatment was delivered as planned.

There are four major goals for the group sessions.

1. Participants will learn about nutrition, physical activity, and safe methods to lose weight. To help accomplish this goal, participants will be asked to keep a daily habit log on which participants will record everything they eat and drink each day. Participants will also be given a pedometer. A pedometer is a small device about the size of a pager that keeps track of how many steps the participant takes each day. Participants will be asked to wear the pedometer each day, and write down on thier habit

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in body weight (kg) from month 4 to month 22

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Health education control
  - BEHAVIORAL: Individual
  - BEHAVIORAL: All Groups

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02054624
