CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02702804
Title: High Intensity Interval Training for People With Mild Multiple Sclerosis: A Feasibility Study
Official Title: High Intensity Interval Training for People With Mild Multiple Sclerosis: A Feasibility Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Exercise has been shown to improve quality of life in people with multiple sclerosis but most exercise programmes are carried out at low to moderate intensities. The next stage in the management of the condition is to establish if people with mild Multiple Sclerosis can exercise, safely and effectively at a higher intensity. High intensity interval training (HIIT) involves repeated bursts of hard exercise interspersed with periods of rest. High intensity interval trainingcould be a time efficient and safe option for people with Multiple Sclerosis. Potential improvements are; cardiovascular fitness, resistance to fatigue, balance, quality of life and attitude to physical exercise.

Participants will attend two sessions per week for 6 weeks. Each session will involve 6-10 sets of 60 seconds of high intensity cycling followed by 60 seconds rest. Potential participants must have a clinical diagnosis of Mulitple Sclerosis for more than 3 months, an EDSS score of less than 2.5, aged 18-65, and had no more than one relapse in the last 2 years.

From this study the investigators hope to discover if High Intensity Interval Training is a safe and enjoyable form of physical activity for people with mild Multiple Sclerosis. This will then hopefully lead to further large research trials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Multiple Sclerosis is an autoimmune disease that is typically progressive and involves damage to the nerve cells in the central nervous system. Living with multiple sclerosis can be a difficult experience both physically and psychologically. Some of the most common symptoms for people with MS include excessive fatigue, limb weakness, motor abnormalities and sexual dysfunction with symptoms dependant on the central nervous system pathology. Multiple Sclerosis is the most common cause of disability in young to middle aged adults in the developing world. The relatively high incidence rates and longitudinal nature of the condition has a large economic impact on the health care system, people with Multiple Sclerosis and their families. Treatments are now able to better manage the condition but there is still no cure and the fundamental cause is still unknown, so symptom management and maintenance of function is crucial. Exercise and rehabilitation are increasingly being looked at to allow patients to better manage their condition and assist people with multiple sclerosis to self-manage their care.

For many years people with multiple sclerosis have limited their activity levels to in order to not exasperate their symptoms. Since then research has shown that supervised exercise (aerobic and strength) training can be beneficial for people with mild to moderate multiple sclerosis. Current evidence now suggests that exercise may actually go even further than improving function and better managing symptoms in multiple sclerosis, but may actually have a disease modifying effect, suggesting that guidance for long-term prescription is imperative.

High intensity interval training (HIIT) describes exercise that is characterised by short bursts of vigorous effort followed by periods of rest or low intensity exercise. High intensity interval trainingis an extremely variable mode of exercise with sessions altered by intensity, duration and number of intervals as well as the duration and activity chosen during the rest period. High intensity interval training has been shown to be an effective alternative to traditional endurance training so often used in exercise interventions. It has also been suggested that High intensity interval trainingis more enjoyable than moderate intensity exercise. These findings are important because lack of time and lack of enjoyment are two of the most commonly quoted barriers to regular activity.

The project utilises a pre-experimental one-group pre-test - post-test design. The participants will be assessed at baseline, followed by an intervention and then measured again at follow up.Patients will be purposively recruited from the multiple sclerosis clinic at the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield. Potential participants will be identified by consultant neurologists to the research assistant from clinic lists/patient records. Patients who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be given/sent a recruitment letter and p

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants recruited to the study who adhere to high intensity interval training intervention
  - Number of participants with treatment related adverse events as recorded by the research team

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Intensity Interval Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02702804
