CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06783218
Title: An Integrative Study of the Role of Microbiome, Metabolome, Transcriptome and Chronobiology in the Context of Type 2 Diabetes.
Official Title: An Integrative Study of the Role of the Microbiome, Metabolome, Transcriptome and Chronobiology in the Context of Type 2 Diabetes.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The goal of this descriptive clinical study is to investigate daily oscillations in glycaemic control between healthy adults and adults with excess weight and who have early-stage prediabetes or T2D and are not taking medications for glycaemic control. The study also explores how these differences relate to changes in daily patterns in oral microbiome and metabolome, circadian markers, and lifestyle factors such as eating, physical activity, light exposure and appetite.

The main questions to answer are:

1. Do adults with excess weight and prediabetes/T2D exhibit a disruption of the circadian system compared to healthy individuals? If so, are these disruptions manifested in hormone levels, gene expression, microbiota composition and function, metabolite levels and appetite regulation?
2. Does chrono-disruption contribute to the dysregulation of glucose metabolism and responses to lifestyle factors in individuals with excess weight and prediabetes/T2D?

Researchers will compare two groups:

* Healthy adults with normal weight.
* Adults with excess weight (overweight or obesity) with prediabetes/T2D who are not on diabetes medications.

The study will involve both semi-controlled settings (where food intake and physical activity are controlled) and free-living conditions.

Participants will:

* Wear devices: Use a continuous glucose monitor and a circadian monitoring device for 14 days.
* Attend clinical visits: Visit the Nutritional Intervention Unit (NIU) 4 times for body composition measurements, sample collection (blood, saliva a faeces) and to answer questionnaires. .
* Participate in a 12.5-hours clinical visit day in the NIU under semi-controlled conditions, with the purpose of collecting blood samples before and after breakfast and saliva samples every 4 hours, covering a full 24-hour cycle.
* Keep track of daily habits: Maintain their usual lifestyle while keeping a food diary and recording appetite related feelings.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Compelling evidence suggests that type 2 diabetes (T2D) can often be prevented by adopting healthy lifestyle. However, current standard recommendations may not fully account for individual differences, limiting their effectiveness. Factors such as genetics and daily lifestyle patterns influence how individuals respond to these recommendations. For example, disrupted sleep patterns or irregular eating schedules can make it difficult to maintain healthy habits, ultimately affecting blood glucose control. Such disruptions are associated with disturbances in the body's internal clock, also known as circadian rhythms. In this sense, chrono-disruption (i.e., disruption of circadian rhythms) has been shown to impair glucose metabolism. Individuals at high risk of T2D are characterized by loss of diurnal rhythmicity in the insulin oscillatory pattern. Similarly, recent studies suggest that disruptions in daily fluctuations of hormone levels, gene expression, microbiota composition, and metabolite profiles are associated with poorer blood glucose control.

The present project relies on the hypothesis that individuals with excess weight and drug-naïve prediabetes or type 2 diabetes, compared to healthy individuals, exhibit a disruption of the circadian system. This is manifested by loss in daily oscillations and altered oscillatory patterns across multiple physiological processes, including hormone production, gene expression, microbiota composition and function, and metabolite composition and secretion. Chrono disruption contributes to the dysregulation of glucose metabolism, changes in appetite regulation and response to external cues and, consequently, impaired glycaemic control in this population.

The Kronodiabet study is a 2-week observational study with two parallel study groups, matched by age and gender, according to the following conditions: adults with overweight or obesity and impaired glucose metabolism (drug-naive prediabetes or type 2 diabetes); and adults with normal weight and no alterations in glucose metabolism.

Experimental design: Each participant, once recruited, will attend the NIU at the Center for Nutrition Research of the University of Navarra on 4 occasions. At visit 1 (V1), participants will come to the NIU and will be fitted with a continuous glucose monitoring sensor and a circadian monitoring device, which will be worn during the main study visit (V2) and the following 12 ± 2 full days (field period phase) and body composition will be analysed through dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). At this visit (V1), participants will bring a stool sample collected no later than 48 hours prior to arrival at the NIU. In visit 2 (V2), lasting 12 hours and 30 minutes, participants will arrive to the NIU (where the entire visit will take place) after at least 8 hours of fasting. During this visit, participants will be provided with the meals to be consumed throughout the day and blood draws and completion of questionnaires will be car

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage coefficient of variation of intra-day glucose levels (%CV)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06783218
