CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05365945
Title: Trunk Stabilization Exercises Affect the Activity of the Upper Limb
Official Title: The Use of Armeo®Spring Device to Assess the Effect of Trunk Stabilization Exercises on the Functional Capabilities of the Upper Limb - an Observational Study of Patients After Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study was to analyze the effect of trunk stabilization exercises on coordinated movement of the affected upper limb in patients after stroke, using the Armoe®Spring device and the "wall" and "abacus" functional tests. The study group had physiotherapy based on the NDT Bobath concept and the control group used classic exercises.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Almost half of the stroke patients report impaired function of the upper limb and hand. Stability of the trunk is required for the proper movement of the body, including the legs and arms. The aim of the study was to analyze the effect of trunk stabilization exercises on coordinated movement of the affected upper limb in patients after stroke, using the Armoe®Spring device and the "wall" and "abacus" functional tests. Material and method: this is a randomized, double-blinded study. The research was carried out in the Rehabilitation Clinic on a group of 60 stroke patients who were randomly assigned to groups differing in the rehabilitation program. The study group had physiotherapy based on the NDT Bobath concept and the control group used classic exercises. The importance of the trunk for upper limb coordination was assessed on the Armeo®Spring device using three evaluation programs: "perpendicular hunting"; "horizontal hunting"; "reaction time" and two proprietary tests: "wall" and "abacus".

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Reaction time - time [s]
  - "Vertical Fishing"
  - "Horizontal Fishing "
  - "WALL" test
  - "ABACUS" test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: NDT Bobath therapy
  - OTHER: The classic exercises.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05365945
