CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04610255
Title: Dynamic Myofascial Release in Patients With Non-specific Neck Pain.
Official Title: Effects of Dynamic Myofascial Release in Patients With Non-specific Neck Pain.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Dynamic myofascial release is similar to joint mobilization (active physiological movements) to increase ROM with the myofascial release for fascia release. It differs from myofascial release in a way that it is a dynamic approach in which the patient is actively involved. In 2019 study was conducted on the effects of Dynamic myofascial release showing significant increase in all trunk ROMs and functional reach test in patients with chronic non-specific low back pain.

To summarize, this study will going to see the effectiveness of dynamic myofascial release by addressing both fascia and active physiological movements and see the response of patient's pain level, cervical ROM, improvement in the ability to manage in activities of daily life. Furthermore this study helps to find out its effectiveness and its clinical importance in treating patients with neck pain, considering its significance of engaging multiple structures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Neck pain is one of the most common and painful musculoskeletal conditions. For the majority of the neck disorders there is an absence of an identifiable underlying disease or abnormal anatomical structure. As a consequence they are classified as 'non-specific'. The natural course of nonspecific neck pain remains unclear. While it is often self-limiting within a few weeks of onset, it can severely limit daily functioning, induce substantial medical consumption and result in prolonged sick leave and disability. As a consequence it places a heavy burden on individuals, employers and health care services." Non-specific neck pain, also referred to as mechanical neck pain, is diagnosed as cervical pain with or without radiation without a known pathological basis as the underlying cause of the complaints.Overall analysis revealed evidence that middle age and then adults, female gender, high job demands, low social or work support, being an ex-smoker, a history of low back disorders and a history of neck disorders predicts the future onset of neck pain.

In recent years, several studies have emerged about myofascial pain syndrome among patients suffering from neck pain. Myofascial pain syndrome is the presentation of sensory, motor, and autonomic symptoms caused by Myofascial trigger points . In 2014 study concluded that the most prevalent active myofascial trigger points in the trapezius muscles were identified in 93.75% of the subjects, in the levator scapulae in 82.14%, and in the multifidi in 77.68% of the subjects. Myofascial trigger points in the splenius cervicis reached a prevalence of 62.5% .

Myofascial release is a widely employed manual therapy treatment that involves specifically guided low load, long duration mechanical forces to manipulate the myofascial complex, intended to restore optimal length, decrease pain, and improve function. Myofascial release when used in conjunction with conventional treatment is said to be effective to provide immediate relief of pain and tissue tenderness.

Myofascial release generally involves slow, sustained pressure applied to restricted fascial layers either directly (direct MFR technique) or indirectly (indirect MFR technique). Direct Myofascial release technique is thought to work directly over the restricted fascia: practitioners use knuckles or elbow or other tools to slowly sink into the fascia, and the pressure applied is a few kilograms of force to contact the restricted fascia, apply tension, or stretch the fascia. Indirect Myofascial release involves a gentle stretch guided along the path of least resistance until free movement is achieved.

In 2018 study concluded in a study to see the effects of Myofascial release in patients with neck pain that both Myofascial release and Physical therapy multimodal programs provide improvement of pain in patients with neck pain. However, Myofascial release could be better than a Physical therapy multimodal program that includes Ultrasound , TENS, and massage

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric pain rating scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Assigned Interventions
  - OTHER: Dynamic myofascial release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04610255
