CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03848546
Title: Stimulating Fiber Intake Via Personalized Dietary Advice
Official Title: Vezel-UP:Stimulating Fiber Intake Via Personalized Dietary Advice
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 106
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Dietary fibers are linked to improved health and prevention of diseases such as obesity, stroke, hypertension, diabetes and colorectal cancer. Moreover, fibers play a crucial role in improving and maintaining gut health, by increasing stool weight,stool frequency and improvement of stool consistency. Currently, very few adults meet the recommendation of 30 (females) or 40 (males) grams per day. Personalized dietary advice may be the solution to increase dietary fiber intake in large populations.

The objective is to investigate if a personalized dietary advice is more effective in increasing dietary fiber intake in the Dutch population than the general advice that is currently provided by the Netherlands Nutrition center and the Dutch Digestive Foundation (MLDS).Second objective is to assess the effect of increased fiber intake on stool pattern, perceived well-being and consumer behavior parameters and the role of psychological factors in the effectiveness of personalized dietary advice on dietary fiber intake.

Study design: A 4.5-month (6 weeks intervention + follow-up after 3 months) single-blind randomized controlled trial with two groups: the intervention group, which receives personalized dietary advice (PDA), and the control group, which only receives the general dietary advice. Primary study parameters/outcome of the study: Primary endpoint is dietary fiber intake, which will be assessed using an Food Frequency Questionnaire and 24hr recalls.

Fecal microbiota composition and metabolite levels will be used as an objective marker for fiber intake. Secondary study parameters/outcome of the study (if applicable):

Secondary parameters include stool pattern, well-being, hunger, satiety and body weight. Furthermore, psychological measurements will give insight into why the PDA was (not) effective.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is performed in healthy adults, older than 18 years, with no gastro-intestinal complaints. The intervention group receives personalized dietary advice (PDA) based on their current food pattern, preferences and selfregulation capacity. The PDA aims to compute high-fiber alternatives for products that subjects currently use and that are close to their current eating behavior, to help increase dietary fiber intake. This PDA will be provided using an online webportal. The control group only receives a general dietary advice, e.g. (a) flyer(s) containing information on fibers from the Netherlands Nutrition Center and the MLDS. The intervention group will also receive this general advice next to the PDA.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in dietary fiber intake
  - change in Short Chain Fatty acid level
  - change in Microbiota composition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: PDA
  - OTHER: Control (no intervention)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03848546
