CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01997762
Title: Can Resveratrol Improve insulin Sensitivity and Preserve Beta Cell Function Following Gestational Diabetes?
Official Title: Can Resveratrol Improve insulin Sensitivity and Preserve Beta Cell Function Following Gestational Diabetes?
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine if resveratrol supplementation preserves beta cell function and insulin sensitivity in post-partum women following a first diagnosis of gestational diabetes. We hypothesize that daily supplementation with resveratrol will preserve beta cell function and insulin sensitivity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Our primary aim is to perform a randomized controlled trial of resveratrol for the improvement of insulin sensitivity and the preservation of beta cell function in post-partum women following a first diagnosis of gestational diabetes. Our long-term goal is to test resveratrol for the secondary prevention of gestational diabetes and type 2 diabetes. We have developed six conditions that should be satisfied by the study to justify project expansion. Therefore, we will be testinGHypotheses and computing estimates for the following six outcomes: (1) recruitment numbers, (2) adherence to study treatment, (3) adherence to study visits, (4) insulin sensitivity measured at 12 months post-partum, (5) beta cell function measured at 12 months post-partum, and (6) adverse events.

The study is aromasingle-site, parallel, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. The study population consists of women recruited during pregnancy who had a confirmed first diagnosis of gestational diabetes, who do not have either diabetes or pre-diabetes when re-tested 3 months post-partum, and who have stopped breastfeeding by 9 months post-partum. They study intervention is resveratrol (or identical placebo) twice daily for a total of 12 weeks from 9 months to 12 months post-partum. Our planned sample size is 112 women based on the hypothesis testing and estimation considerations for the six above-mentioned outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in beta cell function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Resveratrol
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01997762
