CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05517070
Title: Vitamin D Deficiency and Body Composition in the Patients With Hemophilia
Official Title: Association of Vitamin D Deficiency, Sarcopenia, Body Composition, Osteoporosis and Hemophilic Arthropathy in the Patients With Hemophilia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Hemophilia is associated with osteoporosis and increased prevalence of low bone mineral density (BMD). Many clinical risk factors have been reported, such as hemophilic arthropathy, reduced physical activity, decreased sun exposure, hepatitis C virus infections, vitamin D deficiency, and low body mass index (BMI). There is no data on the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency and low BMD in hemophilia patients in Taiwan or Asia. To the best of our knowledge, no previous studies have reported the prevalence of sarcopenia and correlation with osteoporosis in hemophilia adult patients. The purpose of this study will evaluate the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency, low BMD, sarcopenia and body composition in a cohort of patients with hemophilia in Taiwan.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hemophilia is associated with osteoporosis and increased prevalence of low bone mineral density (BMD). Soucek et al. reported sarcopenia and low trabecular BMD at the radius in the boys with hemophilia by CT.The severity of hemophilic arthropathy associated with lower BMD, muscle atrophy and obesity has been shown by some studies.

This is a single-center, cross-sectional, observational study. All participants will sign informed consent that fully disclosed the risks and benefits of study participation. The study will be performed at the Hemophilia Care and Research Center. Sixty adult patients (age ≥ 20) with hemophilia and 20 healthy subjects will be enrolled for scanning of the lean tissue, appendicular skeletal muscle mass (ASM), fat mass, lumbar spine and hip BMD by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and assess serum vitamin D level. We will collect other clinically relevant information, including age, body mass index (BMI), hemophilia type and severity, inhibitor titer, Pettersson score by x-ray, HJHS, handgrip strength, history of HCV or HIV infection and history of fracture.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Vitamin D

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05517070
