CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03187444
Title: Cardiovascular Risk and Chronic Inflammatory Rheumatism
Official Title: Cardiovascular Risk and Chronic Inflammatory Rheumatism
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Chronic inflammatory rheumatism and inflammation can increase the risk of cardiovascular problems. Indeed, these diseases can increase the risk of myocardial infarction. The objective of this project is a better understanding and preventing the risk of cardiovascular problems in chronic inflammatory rheumatism through the study on the long-term flexibility of the arteries, blood markers of cardiovascular risk and muscle mass.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
All patients over 18 years, with rheumatoid arthritis treated for the first time with conventional anti-TNF therapy, Abatacept, Tocilizumab, Rituximab or patients with spondyloarthritis treated for the first time with NSAIDs that may be associated with conventional background treatments for peripheral or biological (anti-TNF, Usketinumab) may be included. However, they must be subject to a Social Security scheme and will only be able to participate in the research if they give their consent in writing after receiving full information.

In addition to the usual visit and after verification of the criteria of inclusion and signature of consent, arterial stiffness and endothelial function measurement are performed at M0, M6, M12 and every year and also at each change of treatment, By measuring the pulse wave velocity and by determining the Alx by the SphygmoCor XCEL (AtCor Medical Pty Ltd, based in Australia (CE 0120). Cardiac Frequency at rest will be evaluated at M0, M6, M12, every year and also at each change of treatment, by the realization of an electrocardiogram. The intima-media thickness (EIM) of the carotid will be evaluated every 5 years According to the recommendation. EIM is a non-invasive ultrasound technique in which an ultrasound probe is placed opposite the right primitive carotid artery by convention. A measurement of endothelial function will be performed at M0, M6, M12 and then every year in patients

A study of regional myocardial function by high-resolution echocardiography-STI will be carried out at M0, M6, M12 and then every year in non-hypertensive patients, without diabetes, without a cardiovascular history.

A Serum / plasma / urine bank will be constituted at M0, M6, M12, every year and also at each change of treatment to determine the markers of cardiovascular risk. The plasma bank will be used for the determination of nitric oxide.

A study of the body composition dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and pQCT allowing to evaluate lean mass, fat mass and bone mineral mass will be carried out at M0, then every year and also at each change of treatment M6 assessment of lean mass and fat mass only). When DXA is examined, a lateral incidence measurement of the rachis will be performed to calculate an arterial calcification score.

Muscle strength will be measured by hydraulic hand dynamometer Jamar (Kinetec company) at M0, M6, M12 then every year and also at each change of treatment. Physical performances will be evaluated by a 6-minute walking test, 10 meters walking speed and "Timed up-and-go test" stool test, which combines both coordination mechanisms, proprioception and muscular strength of lower limbs than M0, M6, M12 and then every year and also with each change of treatment.

The physical activity and physical inactivity of the patient and food habits will be assessed by the GPAQ (Global Physical Activity Questionnaire), FFQ and a Food questionnaire to M0, M6, M12 and every year and also to each change of treatment 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline of the arterial Stiffness
  - Change from baseline of resting heart rate
  - Change from baseline of endothelial function
  - Change from baseline of intima-media thickness and carotid and femoral atheroma
  - Change from baseline of autonomic nervous system activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Examinations

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03187444
