CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04758793
Title: Muscles in Liver Diseases
Official Title: Muscles in Liver Diseases
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 260
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Cirrhosis is the 11th leading cause of death in the world. The progression to cirrhosis occurs as a result of chronic hepatic injury, related to excessive alcohol consumption, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, chronic viral infection. Cirrhosis is accompanied by symptoms that profoundly affect the quality of life of patients.

Sarcopenia, or decrease in muscle capacity through loss of muscle mass, is associated with liver disease. Patients with liver disease and sarcopenia have increased morbidity, and higher pre- and post-liver transplant mortality than patients without sarcopenia. The mechanism responsible for the development of sarcopenia in liver disease remains largely misunderstood, as do the mechanisms by which sarcopenia appears to promote complications of liver disease.

This study, carried out on a prospective cohort of patients with liver disease, aims at understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in sarcopenia and its consequences.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cirrhosis is the 11th leading cause of death in the world. The progression to cirrhosis occurs as a result of chronic hepatic injury, related to excessive alcohol consumption, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, and chronic viral infection. Cirrhosis is accompanied by symptoms that profoundly affect the quality of life of patients.

Sarcopenia, or decrease in muscle capacity through loss of muscle mass, is associated with liver disease. Patients with liver disease and sarcopenia have increased morbidity, and higher pre- and post-liver transplant mortality than patients without sarcopenia. The mechanism responsible for the development of sarcopenia in liver disease remains largely misunderstood, as do the mechanisms by which sarcopenia appears to promote complications of liver disease.

This study, carried out on a prospective cohort of patients with stable liver disease, aims at understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in sarcopenia and its consequences.

After checking the inclusion criteria, all eligible patients treated at Beaujon Hospital (Clichy) will be invited to participate in the study. After inclusion, clinical and laboratory features (hepatic assessment) will be collected and the blood samples will be taken.

During the surgery, a muscle biopsy will be performed on the incision area. No follow-up is planned.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - describe the muscle changes that occur during liver disease.
  - describe the muscle changes that occur during liver disease.
  - describe the muscle changes that occur during liver disease.
  - describe the muscle changes that occur during liver disease.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: blood samples
  - OTHER: biopsy of abdominal paroie

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04758793
