CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04257916
Title: Manual Therapy, Kinesiotape and Strength Training in Soccer Players With Recurrent Ankle Sprains
Official Title: Effectiveness of Manual Therapy, Kinesiotape and Strength Training in Improving the Range of Ankle Movement, Stability, Strength and Pain in Soccer Players With Recurrent Ankle Sprains
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Introduction. The ankle sprain is one of the most prevalent injuries in soccer players. The muscle strength deficit is one of the variables that can most influence the development of a sprain. It has been indicated how the Kinesiotape and the myofascial direct induction technique can improve functionality.

Aim. To verify the effectiveness of the KinesioTape and the myofascial technique combined with strength training, in the reduction of pain, Rom increase, stability and strength in subjects who suffered ankle sprains.

Study design. Randomized, multicentric clinical study with follow-up. Methods. A random assignment of the subjects recruited in two study groups will be carried out: experimental and control group. The treatment will last 4 weeks, with 2 weekly sessions, of 50-60 minutes. The intervention includes the application of kinesiotape and myofascial treatment with strength training. The study variables will be pain (VAS), mobility (goniometer), stability (ProKin balance) and strength (MicroFet). A descriptive statistical analysis will be carried out calculating the main statistical characteristics. By means of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test the distribution of the normality of the sample will be assessed. With the t-student test for related samples we will calculate the difference of means between the evaluations made in both groups. With an ANOVA of repeated measures we will calculate the intra and intersubject effect. The calculation of the effect size will be done with the Cohen formula.

Expected results. Improvement in stability, increase in range of motion, decrease in pain and increase in strength.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline ankle range of motion after treatment and at 1 month

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental
  - OTHER: Manual therapy group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04257916
