CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06020846
Title: Effect of Soleus Pushup Exercise in Type 2 Diabetes Patients
Official Title: Comparison of the Immediate Effects of Soleus Pushup Exercise and Treadmill Walk on Blood Glucose Levels in Type 2 Diabetes Population.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The aim of this research is to compare the immediate effects of one hour Soleus Pushup Exercise and treadmill walk in Type 2 Diabetic population on blood glucose level. Randomized controlled trials done at Railway General Hospital and diabetic centers of Rawalpindi and Islamabad.. The sample size was 66. The subjects were divided in two groups, 33 subjects in Soleus Pushup Exercise group and 33 subjects in treadmill walk group. Study duration was of 6 months. Sampling technique applied was non probability convenience sampling technique. Only 40-60 years diabetic people with clinically diagnosed type 2 Diabetes for upto 10 years were included. Tools used in the study are Glucometer

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetes is on the rise worldwide, with a global prevalence in adults in 2021 being 537 million adults (20-79 years) living with diabetes -one in ten. This number is predicted to rise to 643 million by 2030 and 783 million by 2045. Over 3 in 4 adults with diabetes live in low- and middle-income countries. Although physical activity (PA) is a key element in the prevention and management of type 2 diabetes. Structured interventions combining Physical Activity and modest weight loss have been shown to lower type 2 diabetes risk by up to 58% in high-risk populations. The increase in T2DM prevalence can only partly be attributed to the increasing prevalence of obesity and a sedentary lifestyle. The exercise recommendations for individuals with type 2 diabetes are similar as for the general population, suggesting a minimum of 150 min of moderate-vigorous-intensity aerobic exercise each week. However, the general population doesn't adhere to these guidelines.

The goal of treatment in type 2 diabetes is to achieve and maintain optimal BG, lipid, and blood pressure (BP) levels to prevent or delay chronic complications of diabetes. A fundamental principle in exercise physiology is that a small muscle mass working in isolation can achieve a higher local oxygen consumption (VO2/min per kg) than when recruiting a large muscle mass. The soleus (1% body mass) has a highly pennated architecture favoring greater amounts of muscular work during plantarflexion. It has an exceptionally high physiological cross-sectional area (3-8 times more than most of the 20 other limb muscles studied).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood glucose level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Soleus Pushup Exercise
  - OTHER: treadmill walk group 2

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06020846
