CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04092569
Title: Effectiveness of Pre-medical Consultation Diabetes Self-care Education Programme on Glycemic Control in Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: The Effectiveness of Pre-medical Consultation (PMC) Diabetes Self-care Education Programme on Glycemic Control in Adults With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
This proposed project is a prospective randomized controlled trial to examine the clinical effects of pre-medical consultation structured diabetes self-care education program on intervention group (IG) versus control group (CG) for patients with type 2 diabetes in a specialist outpatient clinic of a regional hospital.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Protocol Revised Date: 23 April 2019

Introduction Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is known as one of the major causes leading to cardiovascular diseases, stroke, diabetes kidney diseases, blindness or non-traumatic lower limb amputations. It is estimated that one in ten people to have diabetes and it has been projected that one in three adults will develop type 2 diabetes by 2050. Similarly, the prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) in Hong Kong is estimated to be one in ten in adult population.

DM is a progressive metabolic disease and necessitates continuous medical care, diabetes self-management education and skills training to prevent or delay development of acute and chronic complications. Educating patients with diabetes in self blood glucose monitoring, healthy eating, regular physical activities, medication adherence, stress management and smoking cessation are important behavioral modifications required in diabetes self-care education. Besides providing education, diabetes nurses provide support and discuss with patients regarding their concerns and worries about diabetes and empower them to live their life positively with diabetes.

The Service Gap

Patients with diabetes with or without cardiovascular or renal comorbidities, are inevitably a burden to healthcare system. In Hong Kong and most other countries, if not all, patients are referred to specialist out-patient clinics (SOPC) for more advanced diabetes management from either general out-patient clinics (GOPC) or private practitioners (GP). Hence, these new case referrals from GOPC or GP are patients already have established DM on oral anti-diabetic drugs and/or insulin injections and with diabetes complications. Nevertheless, they have to wait for a long period of time, approximately one to two years before they could be seen at SOPC.

The role of a diabetes nurse is recognized as providing diabetes education, individualized care, self-care promotion, teaching physical skills and enhancing psychological support. However, majority of DM patients are being first seen at general medical clinics, and only a proportion of them will be referred by case medical practitioner to diabetes nurses for education. In other words, the role of the diabetes nurses is quite 'passive' and the basic education program may fail to cover all newly referred patients.

According to Hospital Authority (HA) report, the waiting time for stable case new case booking in medicine specialist out-patient clinics from October 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018 is the median 94 weeks (= 24 months = 2 years) to the longest 119 weeks (= 30 months = 2.5 years) for first time medical consultation at SOPC. Most of them are with suboptimal glycemic control and/or co-morbidities, such as retinopathy or renal impairment at time of referral made and necessitate earlier medical management. Burden of diabetes on public health care system in Hong Kong is alarming. The number of patients with diabetes increased over 9,000 (31.5%) 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Blood Glycosylated haemoglobin, HbA1c at 6 months
  - Change from Baseline Blood Glycosylated haemoglobin, HbA1c at 9 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Pre-medical consultation structured diabetes self-care education programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04092569
