CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02541136
Title: Neural Changes of Exercise: a Functional MRI Study
Official Title: Neural and Stress Correlates of Resilience in an Exercise-behavioural Programme
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Stress-related disorders have a profound impact on public health. The World Health Organisation (WHO) found major depressive disorder (MDD) to be one of the most important human health problems with a prevalence of about 10%. In the current proposal the aim is to investigate mechanisms of resilience against stress-related disorders and to examine changes in quality of life, health, brain structure and brain function in individuals performing a "resilience" programme. Therefore, the investigators will recruit forty healthy subjects from the hospital staff exposed to "normal" day-to-day stress and not participating already in a fitness programme. Half of the subjects will be randomised to a cognitive behavioural self-experience and exercise programme for 20 weeks carried out by experienced supervisors, coaches and trainers. Clinical psychological and psychiatric examinations will be carried out weekly and a range of sophisticated neuroimaging techniques - high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) and functional MRI (fMRI) - will be conducted before and after the "resilience" program in order to investigate its effectiveness on brain structure and function. The stress system will also be tested by examining cortisol awaking response (CAR) and daily rhythms of cortisol secretion. These techniques are all well established in our laboratories. The proposed research will likely stimulate the development of new prevention strategies for this common and important disorder, and in the future could be applied to other illnesses. Moreover, when successful it could be patented and offered for implementation in the daily routine of median to large companies.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mental disorders are a major cause of long-term disability and are a direct cause of mortality, with approximately 800,000 individuals dying from suicide every year worldwide - a high proportion of them arise from major depressive disorder (MDD). Knowledge of MDD has expanded in recent years by detecting that neuroplasticity may play a core role in the pathophysiology of the disease. Neuroplasticity in this context refers to the brain's ability to change and thus might be the presupposition for building up strategies against mental disorders.

The best-characterized and most studied examples of neuroplasticity are the molecular and cellular adaptations underlying learning and exercise. Exercise improves cognition, has antidepressant effects and was also found to have positive effects on the brain structure as measured with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Further, research in older adults indicates that increased aerobic fitness can be neuroprotective and can enhance brain structure and function. Increase of gray matter volume in parietal and frontal brain regions and corresponding increases of diffusivity in white matter fibres were seen as early as after 2 weeks of training a balancing task.

On the other hand experimental studies found that stress and chronic exposure to high levels of glucocorticoids leads to depressive-like states. These states were accompanied by atrophy and loss of neurons in the adult hippocampus which is a temporal lobe brain region involved in learning, memory and mood regulation. Hippocampal damage, resulting from excessive exposure of the brain to glucocorticoids, leads to impaired feedback inhibition of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by glucocorticoids, causing unrestrained release of the axis - the "Glucocorticoid Cascade Hypothesis". Prolonged stress, or an excess allostatic load, is thus harmful and is probably important in the processes mediating dementias. Efficient stress responses are necessary to cope with changes in the environment and an ability to terminate the stress response is of central importance in the return to homeostasis. Individuals with depression have relatively high cortisol secretory tone with blunted diurnal secretory patterns of cortisol secretion, reflecting poor regulatory feedback in the hippocampus. Higher cortisol stress responses to awakening (CAR), conversely, are found in those who are chronically stressed, depressed or remitted from depression or bipolar disorder, and in adolescents who will later develop depression.

Interestingly, the investigators found that structural changes of the hippocampus, a brain region involved in memory and emotion regulation, become more pronounced when a patient with depression develops a chronic disease course. Recently, they detected that hippocampal volumes from patients with MDD, who carry also a genetic risk-allele (SLC6A4, 5-HTTLPR), were smaller when they had a history of emotional neglect compared to patients who had only the gene

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Resting state functional MRI

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02541136
