CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05744791
Title: Active Play Intervention for Preschoolers
Official Title: The Influence of a Planned Movement and Physical Activity Program on the Physiological and Psychology Parameters in a Pediatric Population
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this randomized clinical trial is to examine the effects of a planned movement in preschool-aged children. The main question is to determine

\* What are the effects of a planned movement program on physical activity, body composition, fundamental motor skills, and time on task in preschool children aged 3-5 years?

Researchers will compare a planned movement program to a control group, where current instruction is implemented.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A majority of preschool children do not participate in the recommended levels of physical activity and are deficient in fundamental motor skills. These deficits may also impact body composition. Preschool teachers serve as the gateway to providing physical activity opportunities at preschool but many fail to do so. As play is developmentally appropriate for preschools and part of many curriculums adding active elements to play may be a feasible solution for teachers to implement physical activity opportunities. This project will evaluate the effect of a planned movement program that incorporates elements of active play on preschoolers' body composition, physical activity, time on task, and fundamental motor skills at week 0, week 12, and week 24. Physical Activity will be assessed throughout the school year with a wrist-worn wearable accelerometer. Body composition will be assessed with a foot-to-foot bioelectrical impedance scale. Fundamental motor skills will be assessed by the Peabody Developmental Motor Scales 2nd Edition and Time on-task will be measured by observing children in their classroom. The outcomes of this study will be used to implement sustainable physical activity programming for preschoolers.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity
  - Body composition
  - Fundamental motor skills
  - Time on Task

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Active Play planned movement program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05744791
