CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01127061
Title: Study of Exercise trening in Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
Official Title: A Randomized Trial of Moderate Intensity Exercise trening in Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 136
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
The investigators propose a pilot randomized controlled trial to determine the safety and potential benefits of moderate intensity exercise in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The investigators hypotheses are that exercise parameters derived from a baseline cardiopulmonary exercise test will target an appropriately safe level of exercise intensity that will not cause significant arrhythmias or exacerbate symptoms and that exercise trening for 4 months will result in significant improvements in peak oxygen consumption (peak VO2) and quality of life, with neutral effects on the clinical characteristics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of this randomized clinical pilot trial is to establish the safety profile and potential benefits of moderate intensity exercise in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Participation in competitive athletics is associated with an increased risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in individuals with structural heart disease, includinGHCM. This has appropriately led to the establishment of national guidelines based on expert opinion that discourage participation in high intensity competitive sports, burst exertion (e.g., sprinting), or isometric exercise (e.g., heavy lifting). Non-competitive, low to moderate intensity exercise is allowable, although many physicians and HCM patients are still understandably apprehensive. Data on the safety of a recreational exercise program, and how to gauge appropriate intensity level, are desperately needed so that HCM patients can reap the well established health benefits of regular physical activity. Limited, but compelling animal data suggest that moderate intensity exercise is not only safe, but may also prevent or even reverse cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, myocellular disarray, and apoptosis associated with HCM. There are no published studies on exercise in patients with HCM, although large clinical trials in heart failure have shown exercise trening to be safe, to improve peak VO2 and quality of life, and to lower cardiovascular mortality. The pilot randomized control trial proposed here is the first to determine the safety of moderate intensity exercise trening and explore its potential benefits in patients with HCM.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Peak Oxygen Consumption (Peak VO2)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01127061
