CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05599607
Title: Clinical Trial to Evaluate Effectiveness of a Probiotic Preparation Administered to Patients With Alopecia Areata
Official Title: Randomized, Double-blind and Placebo-controlled Clinical Study to Evaluate the Effectiveness of a Probiotic Preparation Administered to Patients With Alopecia Areata
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This study is part of a broader project that proposes the characterization of what we call the "Entire-Systemic Axis". It aims to study whether the bacteria present in the human skin microbiota and in the human intestinal microbiota can play a role in the pathophysiology of Alopecia Areata (AA), a fact that has not been studied to date. Based on the supposed relationship between the human microbiota and AA, we have formulated the hypothesis that the dietary supplementation of specific probiotic strains, with functional capacities on mucocutaneous tissue and its adnexa, could benefit patients with AA, acting on the patients' microbiome profile.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This clinical study was designed to be a randomized, double-blind, with parallel-groups, and placebo-controlled with a duration of 24 weeks duration.

The 24 weeks of intervention were structured in 6 face-to-face visits in consultation: visit 1 or initial (week 0), visit 2 (week 4), visit 3 (week 8), visit 4 (week 12), visit 5 (week 16) and visit 6 or end of study (week 24).

Visit 1 or initial (Week 0)

To recruit patients, all those voluntaries who attended the participating centre showing interest in the study with AA diagnosis meeting the criteria indicated in the study protocol were thoroughly informed of the study as well as of the implications of their participation.

Once the informed consent was signed a physician trained for the study conducted the initial interview The researcher proceeded to assign the patient a participant number in the study. According to a previously prepared randomization list, the patient was assigned the treatment received during the study by contacting the randomization centre Likewise, in this initial visit, the clinical history and capillary measurements were made: trichoscopy, plaques counting and photographs. In addition, the patient underwent a blood draw, and a skin sample from the area of plaques as well as sample of faeces was collected.

Finally, following the therapeutic protocol, a local infiltration of corticosteroids was performed and data from the DLQI subjective scale was collected.

The patient was given enough treatment to cover the period until the next scheduled visit according to its assigned code

Intermediate visits 2, 3 and 4 (Weeks 4, 8 and 12 respectively)

In addition to assessing the symptoms of the disease, the infiltration of topical corticosteroids and taking photographs was performed during these visits. The researcher recorded the adverse events reported by the patient (including the start date and in case those adverse events had already been resolved at the time of the visit the end date) as well as the accounting of the remaining product to evaluate treatment compliance in the Case Report Form (CRF).

The patient was given enough treatment to cover the period until the next scheduled visit according to its assigned code.

Intermediate Visit 5 (Week 16)

Besides performing the same procedures as in previous intermediate visits 2, 3 and 4, in this visit capillary measurements were added.

The patient was given enough treatment to cover the period until the next scheduled visit according to its assigned code

Visit 6 or final (Week 24)

During this final visit, the same procedures as in visit 1 were conducted, including capillary measurements and sample collection.

Possible adverse events were recorded, specifying the start and end dates, and the treatment received, if any. In addition, patient's leftover study product was collected

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes from baseline in signs of AA activity visualized by capillary trichoscopy at 16 and 24 weeks
  - Changes from baseline in signs of AA inactivity visualized by capillary trichoscopy at 16 and 24 weeks
  - Changes from baseline in signs of capillary repopulation visualized by capillary trichoscopy at 16 and 24 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Probiotic mixture
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05599607
