CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06584708
Title: Effect of Low-Volume HIT vs. MIC Exercise in Individuals With Increased BMI
Official Title: Effect of Low-Volume High-Intensity Training vs. Moderate Intensity Continuous Exercise on Rate Pressure Product and Functional Capacity in Individuals With Increased BMI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
To compare the effect of low volume high intensity training and moderate intensity continuous exercise on Rate Pressure Product (RPP) and functional capacity. Limited literature available on effectiveness of Low-volume HIIT in comparison of other Aerobic interventions in obese individuals. In our community, people are sedentary and not involved in routine exercise because of increased weight, so Low volume HIIT would be safe and convenient for such individuals to perform. There is also limited studies available on female gender so both genders are included in this study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Some recent studies suggest that the rising interest for the potential of high- intensity interval training (HIIT) to enhance the metabolic health in overweight adults. HIIT has also been found to induce comparatively fast enhancements in overall-body aerobic capacity and muscle mitochondrial markers in individuals with overweight.

The main advantage of HIIT is that low-volume HIIT protocols can involve a shorter time as compared with MICT, and time limitations have been recognized as a generally reported hurdle to daily exercise involvement.

Latest studies propose that's when compared to moderate intensity continuous training (MICT), HIIT has been shown to produce similar and sometimes better improvements in results such as cardiorespiratory fitness in spite of often demanding a smaller amount of time commitment and lesser energy expenditure. On the other hand, low volume HIIT is still undecided whether this form of physical training is superior, equivalent or inferior to more outdated forms of exercise training such as MICT for the management cardio metabolic health.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate Pressure Product
  - Functional Capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low-volume high intensity interval training
  - OTHER: Moderate intensity continuous exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06584708
