CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04076878
Title: Effects of Using the Electrodress Mollii on Spasticity
Official Title: Effects of Using the Electrodress Mollii to Reduce Spasticity and Enhance Functioning After Stroke.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Spasticity is a common manifestation of lesions of central motor pathways, such as after stroke, traumatic brain or spinal cord injury and in cerebral palsy and is associated with increased impairments and disabilities. Spasticity may be associated with pain and contractures, caused by muscle weakness, reduced muscle length and volume that add to the disability.Treatments of spasticity comprise physical therapy, pharmacological agents and surgical treatment. Recently, a systematic review concluded that trenscutaneous, electric nerve stimulation may have beneficial effects on spasticity and activity performance after stroke, which lends support to the new treatment method Mollii, which will be evaluated in this study.The Mollii suit provides electric stimulation through multiple electrodes places in a tight fitting suit. This study relates to the clinical trials performed at the University department of rehabilitation medicine at Danderyd Hospital in Stockholm and comprises an initial study of effects on spasticity ("Mechanical substudy") and a following, exploratory treatment trial ("Clinical substudy") in patients with spasticity after stroke.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Spasticity is a common manifestation of lesions of central motor pathways, such as after stroke, traumatic brain or spinal cord injury and in cerebral palsy and is associated with increased impairments and disabilities. Spasticity may be associated with pain and contractures, caused by muscle weakness, reduced muscle length and volume that add to the disability.Treatments of spasticity comprise physical therapy, pharmacological agents and surgical treatment. Recently, a systematic review concluded that trenscutaneous, electric nerve stimulation may have beneficial effects on spasticity and activity performance after stroke, which lends support to the new treatment method Mollii, which will be evaluated in this study.The MolliIMethod has been developed by Inervetions, which is a small Swedish med-tech company, and represents an innolvative approach for non-invasive electro-stimulation to reduce spasticity and improve motor function. The theoretical background of this treatment method primarily refers to the concept of reciprocal inhibition, i.e. that sensory input from a muscle may inhibit the activation of an antagonistic muscle. Thus, the application of Mollii aims at stimulating a muscle, e.g. the anterior tibial muscle of the lower leg in order to reduce reflex mediated over-activity, i.e. spasticity, in calf muscles by inducing reciprocal inhibition.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mechanism substudy and Clinical substudy: NeuroFlexor

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Mollii

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04076878
