CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07050355
Title: Combining rTMS & Aerobic Exercise to Treat Depression and Improve Post-Stroke Walking
Official Title: Combining rTMS & Aerobic Exercise to Treat Depression and Improve Post-Stroke Walking (RESTORATION)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 96
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Investigators primary aim is to carry out a two-site, randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, phase II trial to systematically examine the potential for aerobic exercise (AEx) to enhance the anti-depressant benefits of rTMS in individuals with post-stroke depression (PSD).

Investigators propose to determine the efficacy of combining two known anti-depressant treatments shown to be effective in non-stroke depression, aerobic exercise (AEx) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), on post-stroke depressive symptoms. This project is based on the idea that depression negatively affects the potential for the brain to adapt in response to treatment such that rehabilitation may not produce the same changes that it does in non-depressed individuals. Investigators believe that effective treatment for PSD will result in a virtuous cycle whereby reducing depression enhances response to rehabilitation, thereby facilitating functional gains. That is, effectively treating depression will enable individuals to better recover from stroke.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This project will determine whether aerobic exercise enhances the anti-depressant benefits rTMS in individuals with PSD through a two-site, prospective, randomized trial. Over a five-year period, 96 subjects (12-60 months post-stroke) will be assigned to complete 12 weeks of treatment with rTMS, treadmill AEx or both (i.e., rTMS+AEx). Treatments will take place three times per week on non-consecutive days. Assessments of depression (HAM-D17) and walking capacity (6MWT) will be performed at two-week intervals throughout treatment as well as 12- and 24-weeks following cessation of treatment, allowing determination of the efficacy (and persistence) of training on these outcomes. Secondary outcomes will include measures of community walking (steps per day) and quality of life (Stroke Impact Scale) collected pre-, mid- and post-training, as well as at the follow-up time points. Last, investigators will explore potential biomarkers of response via assessment of PAS-induced neuroplastic potential and MR imaging to identify changes in cortical grey matter thickness.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Severity of depressive symptoms

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: rTMS
  - BEHAVIORAL: AEx

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07050355
