CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05439239
Title: Effects of Hypoxic Repeated Sprint Training on Performance in Normoxia in Male and Female Athletes
Official Title: Effects of Hypoxic Repeated Sprint Training on Performance in Normoxia in Male and Female Athletes Participating in Team/Racket Sports
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
With the increased participation of women in sports, it is essential to develop gender-tailored training strategies for improving exercise performance. Males and females exhibit gender-specific characteristics and they therefore respond differently to physical exercise. Improving repeated sprint ability (RSA, i.e., ability to perform repeated short duration sprints separated by brief recovery intervals) in women is important for sports performance, as it is a key factor in most team and racket sports. Repeated sprint training in hypoxia is increasingly popular in this field, as it has demonstrated further improvements in sea-level repeated sprint performance than similar training in normoxia. However, these observations are based mainly on male athletes. Whether the effects of hypoxic repeated sprint training on repeated sprint performance in normoxia differ between genders is not yet known, therefore the investigators propose to examine those possible differences in this study.

The aim of this study is to investigate whether the effects of hypoxic repeated sprint training on repeated sprint performance in normoxia differ between males and females who participate in team/racket sports.

Considering the sex-specific characteristics that males and females exhibit, the investigators hypothesize that after 7 weeks of hypoxic repeated sprint training the improvements in repeated sprint ability at sea level will be greater in males than in females.

To answer this question, the investigators will measure the following: body composition (lean body mass); body weight and height; VO2max; blood (estrogen, lactate, hemoglobin, hematocrit); repeated sprint ability (RSA) test; muscle oxygenation (concentrations for oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin, and total hemoglobin/myoglobin); 30-s Wingate test; heart rate (HR); power output; rate of perceived exertion (RPE); visual analogue scale (VAS; pain level in legs).

The investigators will recruit 48 volunteers and they will randomly assign them into the normoxic or hypoxic training group, without giving any information about their group. The volunteers should meet the following inclusion criteria: females (on monophasic oral contraceptive pill) and males, age between 18-40 years, recreationally participating in team/racket sports min 3h/week with at least 2 years of experience prior to the study. Exclusion criteria will be: smoking, exposure to altitude \>1500 m one month before the study, any health conditions or injuries that could compromise the participant's safety during training/testing, prescribed medication, performing repeated sprint training more than once per week.

Males and females, matched for VO2max and sprint performance, will perform repeated sprint training (3 sets during week 1-6, 2 sets during week 7 with 5min active recovery in between, 5 x 10s maximal sprints with 20s active recovery in between) in hypoxia or normoxia 2x/week for 7 weeks. Before and after the training period, the following tests and measurements will be performed: body composition analysis, VO2max test, blood sampling for measuring hemoglobin and estrogen concentrations and hematocrit, determination of hemoglobin mass, RSA test, muscle oxygenation assessment during RSA test, 30-s Wingate test and blood lactate measurements.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A single blind, parallel, gender comparative, randomized controlled trial design will be used and the methodology of this study will be based on a previously applied successful protocol on males. Participants (males and females) will be randomly assigned to either the control group (repeated sprint training in normoxia; RSN) or the intervention group (repeated sprint training group in hypoxia; RSH), resulting in four groups in total (females RSN and RSH; males RSN and RSH). Due to the big number of participants required, the experiment will be split into two studies: RSN will be performed in study 1 and RSH in study 2. The experiment involves 7 weeks (week 1-7) of cycling repeated sprint training in normoxia or hypoxia, 2x/week, and two testing sessions before (week -2/-1, Pre-testing) and after (week 8/9, Post-testing) the training period. During the testing sessions, participants will complete the following exercise performance tests and measurements in normoxia: body composition assessment through DEXA (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) and skinfold measurements, VO2max test, blood sampling at rest to measure hemoglobin and estrogen concentrations and hematocrit, determination of hemoglobin mass, repeated sprint ability (RSA) test and near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measurement for muscle oxygenation, and 30-s Wingate test. Blood lactate will be measured at rest before and immediately after the following exercise performance tests: RSA and Wingate.

Preliminary visit:

During the week before Pre-testing, participants will be assessed for eligibility through a medical screening and completion of questionnaires (medical screening and physical activity/lifestyle questionnaires), after signing the informed consent related to the Pre-screening. If they are eligible and still wish to take part to the study, participants will sign the informed consent related to the study and they will get familiarized with all the experimental procedures.

Supervised training:

Participants will perform 7 weeks of cycling repeated sprint training (2x/week), starting the week after the Pre- testing and finishing the week before the Post-testing. The training sessions will take place in a hypoxic chamber consisting of a compressor, built in the laboratory. Inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2) will be set to 14.6% and 20.9% for RSH and RSN to simulate an altitude of 3000 m and 300 m, respectively. In order to blind subjects to altitude, the compressor system will also be running for RSN but with a normoxic airflow into the chamber. Temperature in the chamber will be maintained constant throughout the training program.

The training sessions will consist of a 10-min warm up at 50% of the VO2max of each participant, followed by 3 sets of 5 x 10-s all-out repeated sprints on the cycle ergometer. The number of sets will decrease to two during week 7. Participants will be instructed to try to reach and maintain maximal power output during each sprint. An active recovery at 30%

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Repeated sprint cycling performance in normoxia in males and females who participate in team or racket sports.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Repeated sprint training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05439239
