CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05093985
Title: Blood Flow Restricted Electrical Stimulation During Immobilisation
Official Title: Investigating the Effect of Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation and Blood Flow Restriction Training on Physiological Deconditioning During Unloading and Retraining
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Following injury or surgery to a limb, it is often immobilised to allow tissue healing. Short periods of disuse cause loss of muscle size and strength and impaired mechanical properties of tendons, which leads to reduced function. Strategies to combat these deconditioning adaptations include neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), however at present its effectiveness is limited. Recent research suggests that the effects of NMES can be augmented with blood flow restriction (BFR). At present, the effect of combining these two techniques on muscle function during limb immobilisation is unknown. Furthermore, the impact of BFR training during retraining following immobilisation is unknown.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Following injury or surgery to a limb, it is often immobilised to allow tissue healing. Short periods of disuse cause loss of muscle size and strength and impaired mechanical properties of tendons, which leads to reduced function. Strategies to combat these deconditioning adaptations include neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), however at present its effectiveness is limited. Recent research suggests that the effects of NMES can be augmented with blood flow restriction (BFR). At present, the effect of combining these two techniques on muscle function during limb immobilisation is unknown. Furthermore, the impact of BFR training during retraining following immobilisation is unknown.

This study will examine the effectiveness and feasibility of a neuromuscular electrical stimulation and blood flow restriction protocol during a 7 day period of immobilisation. Multiple measures across several physiological systems will be obtained.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in maximal isometric strength via Biodex Dynamometer
  - Change in maximal isokinetic strength via Biodex Dynamometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Neuromuscular electrical stimulation with blood flow restriction

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05093985
