CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06051383
Title: Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Due to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Official Title: Building Patient Capability for Managing Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Due to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of conducting self-management interventions on severity of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) for patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).

Research hypothesis:

To fulfill the aim of this study, the following research hypothesis was formulated:

Patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia will suffer less lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) after conducting self-management intervention than before conducting.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research design: Quasi-experimental (pre-posttest) research design was utilized to conduct this study.

This study was conducted at Assiut Urology and Nephrology Hospital. A purposive sample of 60 adult male patients diagnosed with benign prostatic hyperplasia were older than 40 years old, had no other factors influencing their urination, such as prostate cancer.

Patients had been assessed at base line using the following tools:

Tool (I): A structured interview questionnaire. Tool (II): International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS).

Each patient will be assessed before conducting self-management intervention for socio-demographic data, clinical data, and patients' knowledge regarding self-management using the tool I.

Each patient will be assessed for lower urinary tract symptoms before conducting self-management intervention using tool tool II(IPSS).

IPSS is a scoring system used to screen for and diagnose BPH as well as to monitor symptoms and guide decisions about how to manage the disease monitor lower urinary tract symptoms, It includes seven questions, about symptom of BPH.Each question had a range from 0 to 5 for its answer. Maximum score of 35 points. On the basis of total score, the symptoms were categorized into mild (0 -7), moderate (8-19), and severe (20-35).

After 3 months from conducting self-management intervention each patient was reassessed for clinical progression "severity" of lower urinary tract symptoms(LUTS)using (tools II).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Severity of lower urinary tract symptoms of benign prostate hyperplasia.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Self management

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06051383
