CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03839953
Title: Exercise Rehabilitation for Patients With Critical Limb Ischemia After Revascularization
Official Title: Exercise Rehabilitation for Critical Limb Ischemia Patients After Revascularization: Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial Assessing Functional Capacity and Quality of Life After a 12-week Rehabilitation Program Versus Best Medical Therapy
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) affects more than 200 million people worldwide. This disease occurs with narrowing and occlusion of arteries supplying oxygenated blood to the organs and limbs. Symptomatic patients typically experience leg pain with physical activity. More advanced disease states are referred to as critical limb ischemia (CLI), where patients may have leg pain at rest or non-healing wounds. Primary treatment of PAD involves risk factor management; smoking cessation, management of blood pressure, blood cholesterol, diabetes, and exercise prescription. Patients with CLI typically require interventions to reestablish blood supply to their limbs. There is currently minimal understanding of the role for exercise rehabilitation after revascularization procedures in this vulnerable population. This is the first clinical to understand the role of exercise for these patients. We hypothesize that exercise rehabilitation after revascularization will improve quality of life and functional capacity in these patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) refers to narrowing and occlusion of arteries supplying oxygenated blood to non-coronary and non-intracranial circulatory systems. This term is typically used to describe disease in the legs though it also affects upper extremities, renal and mesenteric vessels. Symptomatic patients typically experience leg pain with walking or physical activity which is referred to as intermittent claudication (IC). In more advanced chronic disease states with severely compromised blood flow to the tissues, patients may have leg pain at rest or even non healing wounds that can lead to tissue loss which is defined as critical limb ischemia (CLI).

Risk factor management is critical for PAD patients with the goal of improving symptoms and preventing disease progression. This includes smoking cessation as well as appropriate management for hypertension, dyslipidemia and diabetes. Antiplatelet therapy should be initiated in symptomatic patient or when other risk factors are present. Exercise interventions should be encouraged in all patients with PAD. In patients who have progressed to critical limb ischemia, treatment goals are to relieve pain, heal wounds and prevent limb loss. In addition to risk factor management and medical therapy, these patients require revascularization procedures. Depending on the extent and location of disease, the techniques used may be endovascular/interventional (minimally invasive), surgical, or a hybrid combination of the two.

There has been minimal research examining exercise rehabilitation after revascularization. There are no studies that have focused on exercise rehabilitation exclusively in patients with CLI.

Purpose/Objectives: The aim of this study is to develop a better understanding of the role for supervised exercise rehabilitation programs (SEP) in PAD-CLI patients after revascularization. This pilot study will assess the feasibility for expanding this research to a larger randomized controlled trial.

Study Design:

This is a two-phase, single-center, non-blinded randomized controlled trial.

Objectives:

In phase 1, the investigators will assess feasibility. Specifically, the investigators will assess rate of enrollment, barriers to participation and any methodological challenges that may require changes. If phase 1 of this study shows reasonable rates of enrollment and no methodological challenges, we will proceed to phase 2.

Key objectives for phase 2 are as follows:

1. The primary objective is to show how SEP affects functional capacity and quality of life in patients with PAD-CLI after revascularization.
2. The secondary objective is to show how SEP affects the rate of major adverse limb events (MALE) and improve survival in patients with PAD-CLI after revascularization.

Hypotheses: 1) PAD-CLI patients who have undergone revascularization will have a greater improvement in functional capacity and quality of life compared with patients treated with best medical therapy

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of enrollment
  - Functional Capacity
  - Quality of Life assessed by VascuQuol questionnaire
  - Health status assess by SF-36
  - Barriers or experiences with physical activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Supervised Exercise Program
  - OTHER: Best Medical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03839953
