CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06823882
Title: Practicing Getting Up From the Floor to Reduce Fear of Falling and Improve Floor-Rise Ability in Community-Dwelling Older Adults: A Pilot Study
Official Title: The Impact of Floor-rise Training on Fear of Falling and Independent Floor-rise Ability in Older Adults Living in the Community: A Pilot Cluster Randomised Controlled Trial With Multiple Methods.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 61
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Goal:

This pilot study aims to determine whether practicing getting down to and standing up from the floor reduces fear of falling (FoF) and improves older adults' ability to complete this task. The study compares this to a control group that watches educational videos on the same topic. This practice is referred to as Floor-Rise Training (FRT).

Main Questions:

1. Can a short FRT intervention reduce fear of falling?
2. Can a short FRT intervention improve the ability to rise from kneeling, sitting, and lying positions?
3. Does watching an instructional video on FRT improve fear of falling or floor-rise ability?

Study Design:

Researchers will compare:

* A group receiving 20 minutes of FRT weekly for 5 weeks.
* A control group watching FRT videos followed by discussions over the same period. Changes in floor-rise ability and FoF will be assessed to determine the effectiveness of FRT.

Participants:

Participants will be recruited from five Otago exercise classes (a falls prevention program without FRT) in Renfrewshire. Each class will be randomly assigned to either:

* The FRT intervention group (3 classes).
* The control group (2 classes) watching videos that include an FRT demonstration. Participants will complete questionnaires (to assess FoF) and timed floor-rise tests before and after the intervention. Some may also be invited to focus groups to share their experiences with the intervention, videos and with our recruitment procedures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Falls Efficacy Scale-International (FES-I)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Floor-Rise Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Video Demonstration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06823882
