CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00265486
Title: Can Erythropoietin Protect the Cerebral Blood Flow and Oxygenation During Simulated Dive?
Official Title: Erythropoietin Protect the Cerebral Blood Flow and Oxygenation During Simulated Dive?
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
During facial cooling and especially during breath hold, can mammals - and also humans - elicit a so called dive reflex, causing bradycardia, peripheral vasoconstriction and centralization of blood flow to brain, lungs and heart but the reflex is suppressed by physical activity. The dive reflex can be elicited by breath hold alone and will be more pronounced during simultaneously facial cooling, but not by stimulation of other skin receptors.

The dive reflex has an oxygen conserving effect, because of intense vasoconstriction in both viscera and muscles, and simultaneously with reduction in cardiac output (CO). Therefore plasma lactate will rise, to compensate for the lesser regional blood flow. If one hyperventilates with 100 % oxygen, then the reflex can still be elicited, but it is more pronounced during asphyxia. Experienced sports divers, who has been diving for more than 7-10 years have reduced post apnea acidosis and oxidational stress, but probably also less sensitivity for progressive hypoxia and hypercapnia, because these individuals have a more pronounced dive reflex.

trenscranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) gives a reproducibly value for brain perfusion by continuously non-invasive real-time sampling. aromasingle piezo-electrical trensducer sends and collects ultrasound through the temporal region of the scull, where it is the thinnest. Hereby can the blood flow of arteria cerebri anterior, media (MCA) and posterior and basilaris be estimated.

With TCD it can be shown that the cerebral blood flow rises in MCA in healthy subjects during facial cooling, with normal ventilation, when resting in a supine position without affecting the systemic blood pressure. Single Photon Emission Computerized Tomography (SPECT)-scanning during normo-baric and hyperbaric pressure of professional divers breathing 100 % oxygen has shown to reduce the cerebral blood flow in several regions of the brain.

But it is yet unknown how brain blood flow and metabolism are affected by an "face immersion dive" and simultaneously prolonged physical activity, and hence a rise in lactate under hyperbaric pressure (3 meters), breathing atmospheric air, similar to the circumstances for trened scuba divers work.

Presumably it will cause a fall in brain blood flow and in time cognitive deficits.

Erythropoietin (rhEPO) is a well known drug, used as doping in sports for about 15 years. So far the only known enhancement in athletic achievement by rhEPO is caused by peripheral improvements and especially blood capability to trensport oxygen to the working muscles; this has been documented by a rise in haematocrit. rhEPO has also a neuroprotective effect on neurons in patients with neuron damage caused by cerebral hypoxic ischeamia.

rhEPO work also on a series of cerebral mechanisms, including enhanced motor and spatial learning and more. Enhanced motor learning may improve the professional divers choices during work and may be also physical performance and mechanical efficiency. Intravenous injection of rhEPO will increase rhEPO in cerebrospinal fluids, since rhEPO is capable of crossing blood brain. All together this may indicate that rhEPO, not only works on physical performance, but also has effects on the brain. rhEPO has also an effect on the condition of cancer and dialysis patients, not only explained by merely increased hematocrit.

This project will add new knowledge in the understanding of the mechanisms of clinical use of rhEPO.

The purpose of this study is to investigate, how brain blood flow and metabolism are affected by face immersion dive and simultaneously breath hold during normo-baric and hyperbaric pressure (3 m depth) when breathing atmospheric air in trened sports divers. IL-6, HSP-72, lactate, ammonium and body-temperature will be measured. Brain and muscle oxygenation will be measured by near-infrared spectroscopi (NIRS). Furthermore we will investigate whether a small dose of rhEPO affects mentioned parameters during simulated dive in pressure chamber with facial cooling.

Hypothesis Brain blood flow in trened divers will be diminished during prolonged physical activity during simultaneously face immersion dive and breath hold under hyperbaric pressure.

There will be a release of IL-6 and HSP-72. Pretreatment with a small amount of rhEPO before prolonged physical activity during simulated dive has a protective effect on brain blood flow and oxygenation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

During facial cooling and especially during breath hold, can mammals - and also humans - elicit a so called dive reflex, causing bradycardia, peripheral vasoconstriction and centralization of blood flow to brain, lungs and heart (18 Foster et al 2005), but the reflex is suppressed by physical activity. The dive reflex can be elicited by breath hold alone and will be more pronounced during simultaneously facial cooling, but not by stimulation of other skin receptors (19 Asmussen et al 1968).

Intrapleural pressure and lung volume affects the dive reflex in a way so that the less part of vital capacity being used, the more pronounced bradycardia. This is explained by the fact that the pulmonary stretch receptors are activated less by smaller lung volumes and thereby sending a smaller vagal afferent output.

The dive reflex has an oxygen conserving effect, because of intense vasoconstriction in both viscera and muscles, and simultaneously with reduction in cardiac output (CO). Therefore plasma lactate will rise, to compensate for the lesser regional blood flow. If one hyperventilates with 100 % oxygen, then the reflex can still be elicited, but it is more pronounced during asphyxia. Experienced sports divers, who has been diving for more than 7-10 years have reduced post apnea acidosis and oxidational stress (18 Foster et al 2005), but probably also less sensitivity for progressive hypoxia and hypercapnia, because these individuals have a more pronounced dive reflex.

Persons with sleep apnea are, like trened breath hold divers, exposed for repetitive episodes of hypoxia and hypercapnia during their sleep, of up to 30 to 60 seconds, and they have developed a lesser sensitivity for this. These patients does typically have chronically higher activity of the sympathetic nervous system, higher peripheral resistance and blood pressure (18 Foster et al 2005).

SCUBA Sports divers, who dive more than 100 times a year, especially in cold water have diminished cerebral blood flow and a cognitive deficit (20 Slosman et al 2003). Age and body mass index (BMI) are associated to diminished cerebral blood flow and the cognitive deficit, possibly because, SCUBA divers with higher BMI, have larger pools of nitrogen in their adipose tissues, which then gives smaller non-symptomatic incidences of decompression sickness (20 Slosman et al 2003). But is obvious to assume, that it could be caused by diminished cerebral blood flow, because of the dive reflex.

Also climbing to high altitudes (between 54488 and 8848 m) is shown to give cognitive deficit. Those who had the most pronounced symptoms, where very sensitive to hypoxia by hyperventilation. It was suspected, that hypocapnia because of hyperventilation was causing diminished cerebral blood flow (33 Hornbein TF et al 1989).

trenscranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) gives a reproducibly value for brain perfusion by continuous non-invasive real-time sampling (14 Aslid et al 1982). aromasingle piezo-electri

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  Not specified

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Recombinant human Erythropoietin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00265486
