CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04796532
Title: Home Based or Traditional Class HIIT in Overweight Women.
Official Title: Home Based or Traditional Class HIIT in Overweight Women: Effects on Physical Activity, Body Composition and Cardio Respiratory Fitness. A 3-arm Randomized Control Trial.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The present protocol aims to evaluate the effect of two different 16-week High-intensity interval training (HIIT) programs on daily physical activity, body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, eating behaviour, enjoyment and quality of life in overweight women. Methods: Ninety overweight women (25 - 50 years old) with a body mass index ≥ 25 kg/m2 will be randomly assigned to three groups of 30 participants: a remote home-based HIIT intervention group; a traditional HIIT intervention group; and a non-exercise control group. Both intervention groups will undergo a 16-week progressive HIIT program following the Tabata method. Participants will be assessed at baseline, 4th, 8th, and after 16-week for physical activity, body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, eating behaviour, enjoyment and quality of life. The study will have a 16-week follow-up post intervention. Results: The participant's enrolment will begin in December 2021, and investigators will anticipate the study completion by the mid of 2022. Conclusions: The HIIT programs might have beneficial effects on daily physical activity, body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness and overall quality of life in overweight women. Moreover, it might be a more enjoyable form of exercise, once it is performed faster than other exercise forms. As a beneficial side effect, these healthy behaviours might have a favourable impact on women's eating behaviours. This study results are expected to add health and well-being professionals' evidence-based knowledge to create strategies and design home-based exercise interventions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Methods Trial design: The study will be a 3-arm Randomized Controlled Trial, in which a similar number of participants will be assigned to three groups: a supervised remote home-based HIIT intervention group (Home-HITT), or a presential a supervised traditional HIIT intervention group (Traditional-HIIT), and a non-exercise control group (CG). The study will have a 32-week duration and will be carried out in Portugal. This RCT will be "single-blind".

This study has been designed according to CONSORT statement for clinical trials. This RCT will apply the "intention-to-treat principle".

Dose rationale: The CG participants will maintain their usual physical and dietary activity. Nevertheless, after the 16-week intervention, participants selected to the CG will have the chance to receive the same 16-week HIIT program. Both interventions will consist of a 16-week exercise program with HIIT with a frequency of 3 days/week. The Home-HIIT group participants will attend HIIT workout sessions supervised by a specialised instructor via a videoconference application, while the Traditional-HIIT group participants will attend HIIT workout sessions supervised in person by the same instructor. Every HIIT workout session will have a 10 minutes' warm-up, followed by an 8/12/16/20 minutes of HIIT training and 5 minutes' cool-down. The intervention will have a type of HIIT program called the Tabata method once it can be performed in home-based programs. Tabata training method has been defined as a HIIT with submaximal effort performed at 80-95% of maximal heart rate.

Tabata method uses eight sets of 20 seconds of exercise bouts separated by 10 seconds rest, in 2 to 5 blocks. It seems that this method is demanding for ordinary adults so it will have four stages of physical adaptation.

Before each session, all participants in the intervention groups will receive a class reminder through a short message service (SMS). After each session, all participants will also receive an SMS with positive reinforcement about their exercise session participation. In order to compensate for possible absences, extra classes will be given. The 16 weeks intervention period was chosen because evidence shows that this period is sufficient to evidence changes in PA levels. Guidelines suggest the need to accumulate 75 min/week of vigorous-intensity PA. Despite the guidelines, this exercise protocol will be characterized by progression in both exercise intensity and volume because the investigators will be handling sedentary and overweight women.

The present study will have a follow-up period of 16 weeks. During this period, it is necessary to verify the study variables' evolution.

Selection and Withdrawal of Subjects: Participants in this study will be volunteers recruited through Health Centers Portimão, Lagoa and Lagos (Algarve, Portugal) and through promotional flyers placed in region´s local councils. All the participants will be informed of the procedures of the study before signi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline, between and within groups comparison, in Physical activity.
  - Change from Baseline, between and within groups comparison, in Cardiorespiratory fitness.
  - Change from Baseline, between and within groups comparison, in percentage of fat mass.
  - Change from Baseline, between and within groups comparison, in bone mass.
  - Change from Baseline, between and within groups comparison, in muscle mass.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Home based HIIT
  - OTHER: Traditional HIIT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04796532
