CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07354204
Title: Tart Cherries - The Influence on Acute Adaptation
Official Title: Tart Cherries - The Influence on Acute Adaptation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare recovery and impact on acute adaptation conferred by the RBE following eccentric exercise in healthy, active participants.

The main questions it aimed to answer were whether 7 day supplementation with Vistula tart cherries attenuated:

* muscle function
* inflammation
* soreness

Participants will either consume a spray-dried tart cherry supplement or a calorie-matched placebo-control for 7 days, and complete two bouts of eccentric exercise to the elbow flexors. Participants will perform functional tests, be assessed for their perceptual recovery and markers of inflammation and muscle damage via:

* maximal voluntary contractions
* visual analog scales to assess soreness
* blood samples

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants Twenty-one recreationally active participants (2 females) were recruited for this study; the mean ± SD age, stature and mass were 27 ± 7 years old, 179.5 ± 8.6 cm and 80.86 ± 11.29 kg, respectively. Participants were healthy, non-smoking, with no history of cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, thyroid or renal disease and free from musculoskeletal injuries. Further exclusion criteria stipulated the participants were not to be highly trained or partaking in structured resistance training. Health and training status were determined by a screening questionnaire. Highly trained was defined as completing structured and periodized training and developing towards (within 20%) of maximal or nearly maximal norms within their given sport. Participants were asked to refrain from all exercise five days prior to, and for the duration of testing. The participants were also asked to maintain their habitual diet and to complete a food log to ascertain polyphenols intake, such as fruits \& vegetables, fruit juices, nuts and seeds, chocolate and coffee/tea. Further, participants were asked to refrain from non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and nutritional supplements, such as ibuprofen, paracetamol, protein, vitamin C and E. This study received ethical approval from Northumbria University Ethics Committee (reference number: 51533 ).

Experimental Design The study was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled design. Participants were subject to block randomisation to one of two groups to consume either the VTC supplement or a placebo, matched for calorific content. Participants were required to come to the lab on a total of nine occasions, which included a familiarisation (visit 1). Bout 1 (visit 2) and Bout 2 (visit 6) were separated by two weeks. Each damaging bout was followed by 3 consecutive days to record dependent measures, which took place at the same time of day (±2h). The loading phase for the supplement ingestion commenced 4 days prior to the first exercise bout, and continued on the day of the exercise, and for 3 days following the exercise bout. No supplement was consumed before or during bout 2 for either group. Lastly, participants were required to fill in a food diary in the 24 h prior to the damaging bout to monitor food and drink intake and enable replication for subsequent sessions.

Damage Protocol An isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex System 4, New York, NY, USA) was set up as recommended by the manufacturer to test the dominant elbow flexors. The participant's position was stabilised using a pelvic strap and two shoulder straps to minimise mechanical assistance from other body parts. The final position of the dynamometer seat and power head were recorded and replicated for each participant's to ensure consistency on subsequent days. Joint position and range of motion was monitored throughout by extracting data from the dynamometer to an analogue-to-digital converter (Micro 1401, Cambridge Electronic Design; CED, Cambridge, UK) t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal Voluntary Contraction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Tart Cherry
  - OTHER: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07354204
