CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04195867
Title: Generation of Biological Samples Positive to Salmeterol for Anti-Doping Control
Official Title: Generation of Biological Samples Positive to Salmeterol for Anti-Doping Control
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Background:

In terms of doping, there is controversy regarding the beneficial effects of β2-agonists like salmeterol on physical performance. Some studies show improvement with salmeterol administered orally, especially related to pulmonary function and muscle contractibility, while other works do not show such ergogenic effects of salmeterol by inhalation.

Supratherapeutic use of salmeterol is prohibited by the World Anti-Doping Agency, but a maximum allowed urine concentration has not been determined.

Urine concentrations of salmeterol are very low when administered at therapeutic doses, often below the lower limit of quantification. Some studies show that urine concentrations of α-hydroxy-salmeterol (the principal salmeterol metabolite) may be higher than those of the original drug. Thus, α-hydroxy-salmeterol might be a more suitable biomarker for detecting fraudulent use of this drug.

Hypothesis:

Inhaled administration of salmeterol in healthy subjects allows obtaining positive urine samples that will be used to identify analytical strategies for doping detection. Salmeterol concentrations and its metabolites (α-hydroxy-salmeterol and others) can be measured in urine.

Objectives:

Primary objective: To generate urine samples positive to salmeterol in order to be analyzed as control samples by anti-doping laboratories.

Secondary objectives: To identify salmeterol metabolites (α-hydroxy-salmeterol and others) in urine.

Methods:

Phase I, open, non-randomized, uncontrolled clinical trial, with a treatment condition (salmeterol) administered daily by inhalation to 6 subjects during 3 consecutive days.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in urine concentration of salmeterol

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Salmeterol Xinafoate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04195867
