CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04467385
Title: Virtual Reality Training With Sensory Integration On The Gross Motor Functions Of Lower Limb
Official Title: Effects Of Virtual Reality Training With Sensory Integration On The Gross Motor Functions Of Lower Limb In Spastic Diplegic Cerebral Palsy.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The objectives of this study are To determine the effect of virtual reality on balance and gross motor functions of the lower limb in spastic diplegic cerebral palsy. To determine the effect of virtual reality with sensory input on balance and gross motor functions of the lower limb in spastic diplegic cerebral palsy. To compare the effects of virtual reality training with and without sensory input on balance and gross motor functions of the lower limb in spastic diplegic CP. Its is a Randomized control trial (RCT) done at Physiotherapy department of Railway General Hospital Rawalpindi and National Institute of rehabilitation Medicine.44 individuals (calculated using epi tool) 22 individuals in each group. Individuals who met the inclusion criteria will be included in this study. All participants will go through randomization and divided into two groups Experimental and Control groups. Pre-intervention assessment is made for both groups. Then intervention will be applied to both groups. estimated time of treatment protocol will be 40 min/day, 1 time / d, 3 times/week for 6 weeks. Subjects will be evaluated at baseline, then 3rd week and 6th-week assessment will be the final

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral Palsy(CP) is a common non-progressive disorder that occurs due to any injury or aberration to the developing central nervous system. It refers to the disorders that stem from primary brain lesion leading to musculoskeletal and nervous abnormalities in the pediatric population. Cerebral palsy has a global incidence of 1-3.5 cases per 1000 live births. The most prevalent type is spastic diplegia which occurs in 30-40% of spastic cerebral palsy. According to motor impairment, it is classified into spastic, dyskinetic and ataxic cerebral palsy. The children with cerebral palsy have very poor control of voluntary muscle activity. Therefore training of selective motor control in children with cerebral palsy is an important part of physiotherapy intervention. Children are often not amenable to the conventional exercise program but studies have demonstrated that children show high interest and stimulation to virtual reality training. Virtual reality is a virtual environment system that enables a person to witness situations and actions similar to real-life. Therapists use Virtual reality systems to create a fascinating environment to gain targeted therapeutic goals. Sensory integration, on the other hand, is a therapeutic approach that involves active therapy and activities involving graded sensory experiences. It provides keen proprioceptive and tactile experiences. Sensory integration therapy usually involves balls, rolls, hammock, trampolines and altering surfaces. Children with spastic diplegia have gross and fine motor, sensory, cognitive impairments. This results in reduced ability to adjust the body and balance it with movements. Postural control demands active sensorimotor control. Exercise with mini-trampoline is designed for balance training to improve static and dynamic balance and postural adjustment in children with spastic diplegia. According to a study in 2016, Virtual reality training can effectively improve the gross motor function of the lower limbs in children with spastic diplegia in comparison to conventional therapy. As claimed by a study in, 2006 VR training in combination with conventional exercise therapy in spastic CP improves exercise compliance and enhance exercise effectiveness. It is a simple and executable approach which can be used by any skilled therapist as an independent treatment method to improve the outcome.

According to a study, sensory integration therapy had a measurable effect in children with spastic diplegic cerebral palsy who suffer from a sensory-motor deficit. A study observed the effects of sensory integration therapy in children with cerebral palsy and concluded that sensory integration therapy has a positive effect on gross motor function in spastic diplegic CP in sitting and standing positions. Whereas, the control group with only home exercise program showed no significant improvement.In 2018 compared the effects of rebound exercises and simple balance training on balance of spastic diplegic c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pediatric Balance Scale (PBS):
  - Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM-88)
  - 2 min walk Test (2MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: VR training + Sensory Integration therapy + conventional therapy
  - OTHER: VR training + conventional therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04467385
