CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01680146
Title: Impact of Fat Co-ingestion With Protein on the Post-prandial Anabolic Response in Elderly Men
Official Title: Impact of Fat Co-ingestion With Protein on the Post-prandial Anabolic Response in Elderly Men (Pro-Fat Study)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Rationale: The progressive loss of skeletal muscle mass with aging, or sarcopenia, has a major impact on our healthcare system due to increased morbidity and greater need for hospitalization and/or institutionalization. One way to prevent skeletal muscle loss is to improve dietary intake of the elderly. It has already been shown that ingestion of dietary protein stimulates muscle protein synthesis and inhibits muscle protein breakdown, resulting in an overall positive net protein balance. However, the impact of fat (as part of the meal) on dietary protein-induced muscle protein synthesis remains largely unknown. Based on previous studies by other research groups, we hypothesize that fat further stimulates the muscle anabolic response to protein ingestion.

Objective: The primary objective of this study is to investigate the effect of a single meal-like amount of protein with or without fat on postprandial muscle protein synthesis rates in healthy elderly men. Furthermore, as a secondary objective, we will assess digestion and absorption kinetics.

Study design: double-blind randomized intervention study Study population: 24 healthy elderly men (55-85 y) Intervention: one group (n=12) will consume a test beverage of 350 mL containing 20 g of intrinsically labeled casein, and the other group (n=12) will consume a beverage of the same volume containing 20 g of casein plus 20 g of fat.

Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint: muscle protein synthesis rates. Secondary endpoint: digestion and absorption kinetics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The progressive loss of skeletal muscle mass with aging, or sarcopenia, has a major impact on our healthcare system due to increased morbidity and greater need for hospitalization and/or institutionalization. The age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass is facilitated by a combination of factors, which include a less than optimal diet and a sedentary lifestyle. These factors contribute to a disruption in the regulation of skeletal muscle protein turnover, leading to an imbalance between muscle protein synthesis (MPS) and degradation. One way to overcome this problem is to improve dietary intake of the elderly. It has been well established that nutrient intake greatly affects protein turnover in skeletal muscle tissue.

Ingestion of dietary protein stimulates MPS rates and inhibits muscle protein breakdown rates, resulting in an overall positive net protein balance in both the young and elderly. However, it is not clear what the impact is of co-ingestion of other macronutrients on digestion and absorption kinetics or MPS rates in the healthy young or the elderly. We have recently conducted a study to examine the impact of carbohydrate co-ingestion on postprandial MPS in the healthy young and old. Indeed, preliminary results show that carbohydrate co-ingestion stimulates protein synthesis.

Interestingly, very little is known about the impact of fat co-ingestion with protein on the stimulation of post-prandial MPS rates. What is noteworthy is that Elliot et al. investigated the effect of whole milk ingestion on net muscle protein balance after resistance exercise using an arteriovenous balance approach. Ingestion of whole milk (containing 50 en% fats) stimulated the post-exercise net uptake of phenylalanine and threonine to a greater extent than ingestion of fat-free milk (containing 6 en% fat). Although, amino acid uptake is indicative of 'muscle anabolism', it is not a direct measure of MPS so no firm conclusions can be deduce from this work. Furthermore, milk also contains a certain amount of carbohydrates (fat-free milk 55 en% and whole milk 30 en%), which does not allow for direct assessment of fat co-ingestion per se.

Certainly, other studies have investigated the effect of long term fatty acid intake, using direct incorporation methods, on the MPS rates. For example, long term omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (n-3 PUFA) supplementation increased feeding-mediated MPS rates in young, middle-aged, and older adults. The mechanism(s) underpinning the enhanced effect of n-3 PUFA supplementation on post-prandial MPS rates to dietary protein are not well defined. It has been speculated that the enhanced feeding-effect of n-3 PUFA on postprandial MPS rates is due to remodeling of the sarcolemma to include a greater n-3 PUFA content, and ultimately enhances insulin's action on muscle protein metabolism. This is clearly a long term effect, but what about the acute effects of fat co-ingestion on postprandial MPS rates? Katsanos et al. found that elev

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - muscle protein synthesis (MPS) rates

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: PRO+FAT
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: PRO

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 85 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01680146
