CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06375681
Title: Effectiveness of Cognitive Training in Older and Younger Adults
Official Title: Examining the Effectiveness of Cognitive Training
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1600
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The proposed study will enroll 1600 participants to examine the effectiveness of cognitive training. Participants will be randomized into different experimental groups and can expect to participate for up to 15 hours of research over 4 to 8 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will first complete two sessions (\~75 minutes each) where they are asked to view visual stimuli (such as black and white lines, letters, simple shapes like triangles, circles, and squares) presented on a computer or television screen and/or listen to auditory stimuli (such as pure tones) presented via headphone or speakers. They will be asked to make some simple judgments about the stimuli (such as indicating whether the stimulus you observed is the same or different from that on a previous trial), and indicate their judgment decision with a button press on a keyboard, a mouse click, or a movement on a touchpad. They will also be asked to complete a set of questionnaires.

After the initial sessions, participants may be asked to complete two sets of 10 sessions (\~20 minutes) of cognitive tasks either at home or in the lab. Each set of sessions should be completed over a period of no more than 15 days. If asked to do these sessions, instructions will be given regarding the tasks to complete in these training sessions (which will be similar to some of the tasks you complete in the first two sessions, \~20 minutes) prior to these sessions.

After completing the first set of 10 sessions, participants will complete, either at home or in the lab, one session (\~75 minutes) of tasks similar to the first sessions. Participants who were not asked to complete the 20-minute sessions will complete another session two weeks after the first two 75-minute sessions in the same location as they completed the two 75-minute sessions.

Then, participants will complete the second set of ten 20-minute sessions, or wait for about two weeks for those not asked to complete the 20-minute sessions of cognitive tasks. After this, participants will complete two other sessions (\~75 minutes) in the same location as they completed the previous two 75-mintue sessions.

Finally, after a couple of weeks, participants will complete their two final testing sessions (\~45 minutes each) in the same location as they completed the previous two 75-mintue sessions.

The total duration of the study will be around 8 hours if not asked to complete the twenty 20-minute sessions, or 15 hours if asked to complete these sessions. The whole experiment runs over the course of 4 to 8 weeks.

\*To maintain scientific integrity, certain details of this study will not be shared until all data has been collected.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in the difference between the proportion of hits minus false alarms for a given level of the N-back task
  - Change in the proportion of correctly reported sequences in the Corsi Complex task
  - Change in the proportion of correctly reported number and letter sets in the Letter-Number task
  - Change in the difference of response time and accuracy in switch trials minus non-switch trials in the Task Switching Task
  - Change in the difference of response time in (i) switch trials minus non-switch trials and (ii) congruent minus incongruent trials in the Flanker Task

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Visual and / or Auditory Cognitive Tasks (1)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Visual and / or Auditory Cognitive Tasks (2)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06375681
