CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05496699
Title: The Comparsion of MCkenzie and Mulligan Exercise in Patients With Non-Specific Neck Pain
Official Title: The Comparsion of MCkenzie and Mulligan Exercise in Patients With Non-Specific Neck Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Non-specific neck pain (NSBA) is defined as pain in the posterior and lateral parts of the neck in the absence of neurological and specific pathologies (fracture, infection, inflammation, etc.) between the superior nuchael line and the 1st thoracic vertebra. The lifetime neck pain rate is approximately 12-70%; Neck pain is the reason for admission in approximately 25% of applications to outpatient clinics of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinic. Neck pain is the most common spinal problem after low back pain, and it is defined as nonspecific neck pain due to its multifactorial etiology. Many conservative treatment methods are used in the treatment of NSBA. These include medical treatments, exercise, massage, acupuncture, neural therapy and physical therapy modalities. The basis of Mulligan's theory is based on a positional error that develops secondarily, causing misplacement of the joint. With the Mulligan mobilization technique, the joint is displaced to normal and positional error is corrected. Restoration of motion is aimed by repositioning the bone. The main indication in this technique is increased pain, stiffness and weakness in movement. The Mulligan mobilization technique is performed by asking for active movement while maintaining a manually applied joint shift. Painless movement is aimed at the joint. According to the general principles of Mulligan treatment, all techniques are applied in a way that does not cause pain and creates an effect that will eliminate the pain in a short time after the application.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The McKenzie approach is an evaluative and therapeutic strategy in the practice of musculoskeletal physiotherapy to manage pain and restore the function of the cervical spine. This approach aims to control cervical disability when used in the early stages such as postural correction and increasing flexibility of adjacent musculotendinous structures. It aims to classify mechanically induced spinal pain into postural, dysfunctional and dysregulation syndromes to centralize and reduce spinal pain. Cervical self-treatment techniques used by McKenzie specialists have been shown to be effective for nonspecific neck pain. The purpose of evaluating patients with cervical-related disorders is to select self-management techniques as directional preference movements that should be repeated to reduce pain and symptoms. When we look at the studies in the literature; It has been reported that Mulligan concept techniques improve pain and disability symptoms in patients with chronic mechanical neck pain at the short- and medium-term effect level. In a study comparing Mulligan and McKenzie practices previously, it was concluded that Mulligan exercise was more effective in improving cervical range of motion than McKenzie exercise in adults with reduced cervical lordosis. In another comparative article, according to the results of the study comparing the two exercise techniques, it was seen that cervical ROM increased in both exercise groups.

However, it was concluded that the Mulligan exercise group showed better results than the Mckenzie group in the early period. Different types of mobilization are used to treat neck pain, but limited studies have been conducted to compare the effectiveness of two different mobilization techniques in the treatment of neck pain.

The aim of the study was that two different exercise programs (mckenzi-mulligan) were used in individuals with non-specific neck pain; to compare their effects on pain, range of motion (ROM) and functional outcomes. It is aimed to compare the effect of Mulligan exercises and Mckenzie exercises on pain reduction, joint range of motion, recovery speed, muscle activation and functional treatment in individuals with non-specific neck pain due to non-specific neck pain due to multifactorial etiology. Considering that there should be a larger number of studies on this subject with the literature review, it is aimed to contribute this study to the literature.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale
  - Neck Disability Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mckenzie Exercises
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mulligan Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05496699
