CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05544175
Title: NEUROMOdulation Pain Therapy in Combination With Intensive Physiotherapy
Official Title: NEUROMOdulation Pain Therapy in Combination With Intensive Physiotherapy on a Neurophysiological Basis Improves Not Only Pain But Also Mobility in Spastic Paraparesis
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 10
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
In this project, the aim is to verify that neuromodulation therapy (spinal cord stimulation) in combination with intensive physiotherapy on a neurophysiological basis will lead to the restoration of mobility of lower limbs.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
So far, posterior spinal cord neurostimulation (NM SCS) has been applied as a standard in patients with the most severe forms of pharmacoresistant neuropathic pain. The most recent research of the last 1-2 years brings clinical findings that, in a mode and modified arrangement, it could even induce rhythmic muscle activity of the lower limbs and help in verticalization and assisted bipedal locomotion.

In this project, the aim is to verify that neuromodulation therapy SCS (spinal cord stimulation) in combination with intensive physiotherapy on a neurophysiological basis will lead to the restoration of mobility of lower limbs.

In the therapy, the neuronal circuits of the lumbosacral region, where the so-called central pattern generators for locomotion are located will be targeted. Neurostimulation of this area will generate motor movement patterns corresponding to the previous mapping of the corresponding muscle groups. These will be supported by intensive physiotherapy on a neurophysiological basis - thanks to it and the facilitation of movement by neurostimulation, global motor patterns will be triggered, and motor programs stored at the subcortical level will be activated. Their memorization and subsequent spontaneous retrieval will facilitate sensorimotor learning techniques.

Current research further shows that neurostimulation stimulates neurons in Rexed laminae 3-5, specifically a group of neurons designated as SC VSX2 and subsequently proprioceptive fibres. Physiotherapy will enhance the effect of neuromodulation by stimulating proprioceptors using soft and neurophysiologically based techniques. Proprioceptive fibres make connections to motoneurons and also ascend through the spinal cord to the brain, and thus reflex motor movements can be triggered. Information about them is carried to the brain by ascending pathways, and thus a free awareness of the movement facilitated by the neurostimulator occurs. All these mechanisms should potentiate plasticity (and lead to the restoration of locomotion.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Muscle strength at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months
  - Change in Spasticity at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months
  - Change from Baseline Timed Up And Go at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months
  - Change from Baseline Berg Balance Scale at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months
  - Change from Baseline The 10 Metre Walk Test at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: NEUROMOdulation pain therapy in combination with intensive physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05544175
