CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03646084
Title: Sleep and Circadian Intervention Program for Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain
Official Title: The Impact of a Sleep and Circadian Intervention Program (SCIP) in Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain (CMP) Rehabilitation: a Feasibility PILOT Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Musculoskeletal pain has become in a major problem related to its prevalence, treatment cost, absenteeism, quality of life impairment, disability and drugs consumption. The difficulty in musculoskeletal pain control ends in the abuse of drugs by these patients, including opioids. This drugs consumption has become a health problem in the United States and around the world related to their increasing abuse mainly between 2002 and 2011 and has had an impact in the numbers of deaths caused by opioids prescription (reaching 16,651 deaths in United States in 2010). Pain is clearly associated with sleep disturbances (50-80% of these patients suffer from a sleep problem), and in turn poor sleep quality leads to increased pain sensitivity. There is evidence showing that improving sleep disturbance co-occurring pain would improve, and some may reduce the use of opioids in specific patients on long-term opioid therapy. In spite of this reciprocal relationship between sleep and pain only few programs take into account the management of sleep disorders as a non-pharmacological measure for pain control. The hypothesis is: "to address sleep and circadian disorders (SCD) using a Sleep and Circadian Intervention Program (SCIP) in patients treated with rehabilitation by chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) optimizes the rehabilitation outcomes and reduces opioids consumption".

Main goal:

The aim of this PILOT study is to evaluate the feasibility of the protocol of the present study that aims to assess the improvement in rehabilitation outcomes and decrease in opioid consumption, through the management of sleep disorders.

Methodology Using a randomised (1:1) controlled feasibility study, 50 men and women will be included to evaluate methodology and identify the potential outcome of the main project. Subjects older than 18 years included in a rehabilitation program by musculoskeletal lumbar pain lasting more than three months will be recruited. Basal Visit (BV): After the signature of informed consent, a medical history, physical exam, evaluation of the pain perception (EQ5D5L), quality of life evaluation (SF36 and FOSQ), mood and anxiety (HADS y PASS20), circadian rhythm study and drugs consumption will be evaluated in both groups. Patients will be randomized to control group (usual rehabilitation program) or intervention group (usual rehabilitation program + sleep circadian intervention program-SCIP). The patient in the SCIP program will received the next intervention: 1) Educational and circadian rhythm intervention: general sleep hygiene recommendation and promotion of daily physical activity. 2) Sleep studies for sleep quality and sleep disorders diagnosis: full polysomnography 3) Sleep questionnaires for another sleep disorders. Based on the results of the studies, patients will be treated according to current guidelines for the management of sleep disorders. 6 month after the SCIP starts patients will be evaluated in the End of Study Visit (EOS) as in the BV and also in their functional improvement and health resources consumption.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hypothesis: to address sleep and circadian disorders (SCD) using a Sleep and Circadian Intervention Program (SCIP) in patients treated with rehabilitation by chronic musculoskeletal pain (CMP) optimizes the rehabilitation outcomes and reduces opioids consumption.

The Main Objective of this PILOT study is to evaluate the feasibility of the protocol of the present study that aims to assess the improvement in rehabilitation outcomes and decrease in opioid consumption, through the management of sleep disorders.

Secondary objectives of the PILOT study:

1. To identify the primary outcome to evaluate the hypothesis. Evaluate relevance and observed change of the main outcome for the main study. It will allow investigators to evaluate the effect size and variability of the SCIP in the opioids consumption in a sample of our population to determine if this is the potential outcome for the main project.
2. To determine the patient inclusion rhythm (recruitment rate) and, if necessary, the reasons for non-recruitment.
3. To determine the follow-up rate and reasons for loss to follow-up.
4. To test the sleep circadian study's methodology in this type of population.
5. To assess the acceptability, implementation and preliminary efficacy of the SCIP.
6. To evaluate adherence and fidelity to the SCIP through recruitment and retention.
7. To determine the data acquisition rate, amount of missing data and reasons for loss.
8. To evaluate the safety of the program.
9. To characterize the effect observed in the intervention in order to properly calculate the sample size necessary for the main study.

Methodology:

Type of study: This study aims to be the pilot project of a large-scale international randomized controlled trial that will include a total of 1.000 patient internationally. In this pilot study, using a randomised (1:1) feasibility study, 50 patients in a rehabilitation program referred to treatment for CMP lumbar pain will be recruited. The pilot study will have a total duration of 18 months (12 months of recruitment + 6 months follow-up) and all the interventions included in the methodology of the main study will be carried out in the participating patients. As a feasibility trial, aspects of feasibility will be determined and estimates of effect size and measured variability will be calculated to inform future planned study. The data for this study will be collected from standard measures administered in their basal visit (BV), immediately prior to the initiation of the SCIP, and 6 months after the initiation of the program (End of study visit-EOS). Randomisation to allocate participants to either intervention or control group will be performed immediately following the baseline assessment, and intervention delivery (SCIP) will begin directly after the BV. Participants will be then reassessed at 6 months after the baseline (EOS) as in the BV and for functional improvement and health resources consumption. Inclusion criteria: 1) Subjects older than 18 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Opioid consumed dose

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Sleep and Circadian Intervention Program (SCIP) plus rehabilitation program
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03646084
