CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05727748
Title: Effects of an Exercise Program With Augmented Reality
Official Title: Effects of a Multimodal Program With Augmented Reality on Cognition, Functional Fitness and Physical Activity in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The objectives of the present research is to observe the effects of a multimodal program with augmented reality on cognition, functional fitness, quality of life, and physical activity in older people.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The present investigation lasted 16 weeks. The first two weeks were for familiarization with the tests and initial assessments. This was followed by the 12-week intervention and final assessments (2 weeks).

The intervention program ran for 12 weeks with 3 sessions per week of 60 minutes each. There were three different groups: a) a control group; b) a multimodal trening group that combined physical trening with cognitive trening; c) a multimodal trening group with augmented reality.

The control group continued their daily activities for 12 weeks and did not participate in any new physical activity program during the study. In the multimodal trening group, the session consisted of four stations where participants simultaneously trened physical aspects (cardiorespiratory fitness, strength, balance, and flexibility) and cognitive aspects (reaction time, memory, decision making, semantics, and processing speed). In the multimodal trening session with augmented reality, the session consisted of 6 stations, 4 stations as in the previous group and 2 stations with augmented reality. These 2 stations used the same components but through the portable exergame platform for the elderly.

During the 12 weeks, the intensity and difficulty of each exercise was increased after each session, depending on the evolution of the participants.

When forming the trening groups, the participants who were not available during the intervention phase were assigned to the control group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MinIMental State Examination (MMSE)
  - Frontal assessment battery (FAB)
  - Deary - Liewald reaction time task
  - Trail Making Test
  - Phonemic and semantic verbal fluency test.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal exercise with augmented reality
  - OTHER: Multimodal exercise
  - OTHER: Control group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05727748
