CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04283214
Title: A Comparison of CPR Outcomes Between Traditional and Endomorphic Manikins With and Without Equipment
Official Title: A Comparison of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Outcomes Between Traditional and Endomorphic Manikins
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The study's research design is a randomized experiment. 50 emergency responders (emergency medical responders, emergency medical technicians, advanced emergency medical technicians, and paramedics) will be recruited for this research. All data collection will take place in Lab 14 of the Benson Bunker Fieldhouse or a professional, confidential location of the participant's choosing.

Prior to CPR performance, participants will be given an informed consent form to sign. The form will be explained in detail by the researcher collecting data. After obtaining informed consent, participants will be asked to fill out a demographic questionnaire to collect information such as age, gender, years of emergency responder experience/employment, and years of CPR certification. Demographic information provided by participants will be utilized in data analysis. The demographics form should take approximately five minutes to complete. Participants will be randomly assigned to the four trials they will partake in and instructed via oral script (one for over and one for under football shoulder pads) to perform four-trials total of three-minute single-rescuer CPR on both a traditional CPR manikin and "Fat Old Fred" (bariatric) CPR manikin. CPR must be performed in accordance with the American Heart Association's 2015 CPR Guidelines and participants will use a CPRmeter 2 device to collect data to determine the quality of CPR components (chest compression depth/recoil, compression rate, CPR compression duration, mean depth, mean rate, and total number of compressions). The entire study session should take 25 to 30 minutes to complete.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Compression depth %
  - Compression rate
  - Chest recoil
  - Compression depth
  - Compression rate %

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04283214
