CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06314321
Title: The Effect of Baduanjin on Shoulder Function in Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: Baduanjin Exercise on Maintenance Hemodialysis Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to examine the effect of 18-month Baduanjin exercise on shoulder joint function in maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients. 60 MHD patients aged 18-75 will included in this study and randomly divided into two groups (intervention group and control group). The intervention group will be led by a professional person and underwent Baduanjin exercise three times a week before hemodialysis. The control group maintained routine treatment and daily activities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to observe the therapeutic effect of Baduanjin on improving shoulder joints in MHD patients. A total of 60 maintenance hemodialysis patients will be included and randomized into an intervention group of 30 cases and a control group of 30 cases. The intervention group underwent a 30 minute Baduanjin exercise under the guidance of a professional doctor before the dialysis day, including a 5-minute warm-up exercise, a 20 minute Baduanjin exercise, and a 5-minute relaxation exercise. The intervention group practice Baduanjin three days a week, while the control group maintain routine treatment and daily activities. Measure the indicators of each group at baseline, months 6, 12, and 18. The evaluation of shoulder joint function is based on the shoulder Constant score (which includes three dimensions: pain, daily living activities, and active range of motion); The quality of life score is based on the SF-12 score, and the emotional score is based on the Anxiety and Depression Scale.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Shoulder joint function score
  - Shoulder joint internal rotation function
  - Muscle strength measurement
  - Area of biceps brachii muscle

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Baduanjin exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06314321
