CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00423917
Title: Fulvestrent and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
Official Title: Phase II Trial of Fulvestrent and Bevacizumab in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer Previously Treated With an Aromatase Inhibitor
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
RATIONALE: Estrogen can cause the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using fulvestrent may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Fulvestrent and bevacizumab may also stop the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of breast cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving fulvestrent together with bevacizumab may be an effective treatment for metastatic breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studyinGHow well giving fulvestrent together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with metastatic breast cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Assess the efficacy of fulvestrent and bevacizumab, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with metastatic breast cancer previously treated with an aromatase inhibitor.

Secondary

* Assess thEQuality of life of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the adverse-event profile in these patients.
* Determine the PFS and overall survival of these patients.
* Determine the confirmed response rate, duration of response, time to treatment failure, and time to first cytotoxic agent in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive fulvestrent intramuscularly on day 1 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to every other course, and at the completion of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-6 months for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 51 patients will be accrued for this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Six-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 6 Months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab
  - DRUG: fulvestrent

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00423917
