CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03509519
Title: Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation and Physical Function in Older Adults
Official Title: Impact of Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation on Physical Function in Older Adults
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this placebo controlled clinical trial is to examine the effects of of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) training on physical activity, muscle function, self-efficacy, and blood markers \[e.g., brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)\] in older adults.

It is hypothesized that 4-weeks of NMES will increase 1) physical activity, 2) muscle function, 3) self-efficacy, and 4) BDNF in older adults.

Sarcopenia is a destructive progressive cycle of impaired physical function resulting in loss of muscle mass, strength, and self-confidence in ability to perform physical activities, compounded by difficulty walking and ultimately reduced physical activity levels for many older adults. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is a common therapeutic modality used to create involuntary muscle contractions as a means to increase muscle strength, and may be an effective treatment for improving muscle function and physical activity levels in older adults with sarcopenia. Thus, it is critical to explore viable and effective alternative therapies to increase physical activity. The goal of the investigators' is to determine the effectiveness of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) at increasing physical activity and related biological, psychological, and muscle function factors. This placebo controlled clinical trial will use a pre-test - post-test randomized experimental design.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Older healthy adults (60 and older) will participate in this study. Participants will undergo 4 weeks of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) training. Participants will be randomized into the one of two groups 1) NMES-millicurrent or 2) NMES microcurrent. Participants will undergo pre- and post-training testing for muscle function, physical function, and psychological variables related to physical activity. Blood samples will also be obtained pre- and post-training.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Physical Activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: NMES-Millicurrent

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03509519
