CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02413151
Title: Exercise Training Following Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy in Patients With Chronic Heart Failure
Official Title: Exercise Training Following Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy in Patients With Chronic Heart Failure
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Cardiac resynchronization therapy(CRT) is recommended to reduce mortality and morbidity in chronic heart failure(CHF) patients New York Heart Association(NYHA) class III-IV who are symptomatic despite optimal medical therapy, with a reduced left ventricular(LV) ejection fraction(LVEF) and prolonged complex QRS. CRT improves the prognosis however, despite the improvement, all major trials have demonstrated that one third of the patients are non-responders to CRT. Three months after the CRT implant, the responders have a significant increase in endothelial function(EntF), a decrease in the LV end-systolic volume, and increase in LVEF, 6 minute walk test(6MWT), improvements in NYHA class and quality of life. It is currently unknown if adding an exercise training(ExT) program following CRT provides better clinical outcomes than CRT alone. Prior studies on CRT and ExT have been preliminary in nature, but suggest small improvements in functional capacity(FC). The correction of endothelial dysfunction is associated with a significant improvement in exercise capacity evidenced by a 26%increase in peak oxygen uptake. These findings are important because CHF patients with the greatest sympathetic activation and the most reduced EntF have the poorest prognosis. Our experience with coronary artery disease patients, and most recently data in patients with CHF show that an ExT program that combines aerobic exercise(AE) and resistance exercise training are more effective than an AE program alone, and the aerobic interval training showed better improvements than continuous endurance training. It is unknown how CHF with more severe functional limitations responds to ExT and, more important, the explanation of the physiological mechanism that can explain the improvements as a consequence of ExT. This lack of scientific information is urgent since this is the group of patients that normally is targeted for CRT. The investigators propose to use a stratified randomized longitudinal study to determine the additional effects of a 6 month ExT in addition to CRT in NYHA stage III-IV HF patients. The aims of the study are:1-to determine whether a long-term ExT program follow the CRT provides better clinical outcomes than CRT alone and 2-To identify the mechanisms of the hypothesize improvement. The results of this project will represent an important contribution by understanding the role of ExT after CRT NYHA stage III-IV heart failure(HF) patients, an understudied population with poor clinical outcome. Understanding the potential mechanisms associated with clinical improvement and outcome is essential for the rehabilitative process to develop new innovative therapies in this high risk population. The investigators will use state-of-art methods including an integrated assessment autonomic nervous system(ANS) and arterial function using 123I-MIBG scintigraphy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Literature Review Generally CHF patients have reduced exercise capacity, with main symptoms of effort intolerance, early fatigue and breathlessness.They also exhibit increased peripheral and central chemosensitivity, impaired sympathovagal balance with sympathetic activity (SA) predominance, and depressed baroreflex n control. Compared with myocardium of healthy controls, the myocardium of patients with chronic LV dysfunction is characterized by a significant reduction of pre-synaptic norepinephrine (NE) uptake and post-synaptic beta adrenoceptor density.There is generalized increased SA in the heart of patients with CHF that might contribute to the remodeling process of the LV. This concept is consistent with the finding that down-regulation of myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density, measured using positron emission tomography with 11C-CGP-12177, soon after acute myocardial infarction (MI) is predictive of the occurrence of LV dilatation at follow-up. Myocardial beta-adrenoceptor density appears reduced in patients with HF due to dilated cardiomyopathy and down-regulation of myocardial beta-adrenoceptor is more pronounced in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who proceed to LV dilation and HF. Therefore, myocardial beta-adrenoceptor down-regulation may be a general nonspecific response to stress and could be due to a locally increased amount of NE in the synaptic cleft. The sustained hyperactivity of the SA observed in HF is the consequence of several mechanisms including increased central sympathetic outflow, altered neuronal NE reuptake, and facilitation of cardiovascular response to sympathetic stimulation by angiotensin II. CRT is an accepted treatment for patients with moderate-to-severe CHF and intraventricular conduction delay. Intraventricular conduction delays, identified by a QRS interval of 120 msec or more on a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), occur in up to a third of patients with severe systolic HF and are associated with dyssynchronous contraction of the LV, leading to impaired emptying and, in some patients, mitral regurgitation. Abnormal atrioventricular coupling (identified by a prolonged PR interval) and interventricular dyssynchrony, identified on an echocardiogram, may also occur. CRT with atrialsynchronized biventricular pacing often improves cardiac performance immediately, by increasing stroke volume (SV) and reducing mitral regurgitation. Randomized trials involving patients with severe HF showed that CRT resulted in a reduction in symptoms and improved FC, a reduction in the number of hospitalizations for worsening HF, and increased survival. ExT in CHF produce meaningful improvements in peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) with an expected average improvement of 17%. This is particularly important since improvement in FC is related to the improvement in neurohormonal activation, peripheral abnormalities and ventilatory function. Submaximal exercise capacity (SubMaxExC) is also improved, as assessed by a significant 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in a Composite Measure of Clinical Status - New York Heart Association Functional Class
  - Changes in Cardiac Function - Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction
  - Changes in Exercise Testing Variables - Maximum Rate of Oxygen Consumption (VO2peak)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise training program
  - DEVICE: Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02413151
