CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00567333
Title: Individualized Chiropractic and Integrative Care for Low Back Pain
Official Title: Individualized Chiropractic and Integrative Care for Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 201
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study proposes to compare two innovative treatment approaches for LBP, both of which focus on delivering individualized care through evidence-based, clinical care pathways.

The primary aim of the project is to determine the relative clinical efficacy of 1) chiropractic care and 2) multidisciplinary, integrative care in 200 patients with sub-acute or chronic LBP, in both the short-term (after 12 weeks) and long-term (after 52 weeks). The primary outcome measure in this study is patient-rated back pain.

Chiropractic care will include therapies within the professional scope of practice. Integrative, multidisciplinary care will include chiropractic, massage therapy, traditional Chinese medicine (including acupuncture), medication, cognitive behavioral therapy, exercise, and patient education.

Secondary aims are to assess between group differences in frequency of symptoms, disability, fear avoidance behavior, self efficacy, general health, improvement, patient satisfaction, work loss, medication use, lumbar dynamic motion, and torso muscle endurance. Patients' and providers' perceptions of treatment will be described using qualitative methods and cost-effectiveness and cost utility will be assessed in the short- and long-term.

This innovative study is an exciting collaboration between an experienced and established team of chiropractic, conventional, and CAM professionals dedicated to advancing the care of pervasive and costly LBP conditions. This trial will provide new and important information for all health care providers and LBP patients, informing decision making and improving care delivery systems.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient-rated back pain.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Chiropractic care
  - OTHER: Multidisciplinary, integrative care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00567333
