CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06766734
Title: The Effect of Ultrasound-Guided Tendon Dry Needling on Pain and Function in Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy
Official Title: The Effect of Ultrasound-Guided Tendon Dry Needling on Pain and Function Added to Therapeutic Ultrasound Therapy in Rotator Cuff Tendinopathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
In this study, we aimed to observe the effect of adding dry needling to therapeutic ultrasound treatment on pain and function in patients with supraspinatus tendinopathy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
One of the common causes of shoulder pain is rotator cuff tendinopathy (RCT). The most affected tendon in RCT is the supraspinatus tendon.

In supraspinatus tendinopathy (SST) various treatment methods are attempted. Conservative treatments are the first-line approach for SST. These include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), hot and cold applications, exercise, manual therapy, therapeutic ultrasound (US) therapy, and subacromial steroid injections. Additionally, treatments such as subacromial platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and prolotherapy have been developed. Surgically, rotator cuff repair or subacromial decompression can be performed. Conservative methods can be effective in reducing pain and improving function. While half of shoulder pain cases resolve within 2-3 months, pain persists for more than 12 months in the other half. When we look at the literature, unfortunately there is no gold standard treatment method for SST. Although tendon dry needling is a new treatment method in the treatment of tendinopathy, there are a few articles in the literature about tendon dry needling.

In this study the demographic data (age, gender, occupation (excessive shoulder use (yes/no)), painful shoulder (right, left), dominant hand (right, left), height, weight, body mass index, duration of pain) of the patients who will participate in the study were recorded. Patients were randomized into 2 groups using a closed-envelope method. The first group received DN twice at 4-week intervals under ultrasound guidance (USG) to the supraspinatus tendon, while the second group received placebo DN to a similar anatomical area by randomly positioning the probe. Both groups underwent a total of 15 sessions of US therapy, 5 times a week for 3 weeks, combined with an exercise program. Tendon DN was performed under sterile conditions using an Esaote MylabFive device with a 5-12 MHz superficial probe for real-time imaging in our clinic. To reduce shoulder pain associated with the procedure, 1 ml of 1% prilocaine was injected before the application. A 0.25x40 mm needle was used for DN. In patients who reported pain reduction, the supraspinatus tendon was scanned from front to back, and DN was applied to the detected lesion area. Patients were allowed to continue daily activities, excluding overhead movements, for two weeks. Range of motion (ROM) and Codman shoulder exercises started the day after the injection. Both groups were given progressive resistance supraspinatus strengthening exercises within the pain threshold along with ROM and Codman exercises during the US therapy period. Patient assessments were conducted before treatment, at 1 month (after 15 sessions of therapeutic US treatment and before the 2nd DN), and at 3 months. Patient evaluation parameters included the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain, the Simple Shoulder Test (SST) for function, and SPADI (Shoulder Pain and Disability Index). The evaluator was kept blinded to the treatments provided.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Tendon Dry Needling
  - PROCEDURE: Sham Tendon Dry Needling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06766734
