CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05178615
Title: Investigation of the Effect of Preoperative Education on Postoperative Outcomes in Total Knee Arthroplasty Patients
Official Title: Investigation of the Effect of Preoperative Education on Postoperative Outcomes in Total Knee Arthroplasty Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Total knee arthroplasty surgery is a common surgical procedure used in the treatment of patients in the end stages of osteoarthritis. Arthroplasty surgery is a process that creates physical and psychological stress on the patient. Preoperative education can reduce anxiety and improve postoperative outcomes. In the studies on education in the literature, it is seen that there are trainings in the form of seminars, trainings made with video recordings, trainings in the form of brochures. Studies in the literature have shown that training given synchronously (live) by a healthcare professional is more effective in reducing anxiety in one-on-one or small-person groups. Less anxiety does not significantly reduce pain levels, but improves patients' ability to cope with pain and increases their perception of preparedness. Together, these two factors can improve patients' overall experience by increasing their sense of control and comfort.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Studies in the literature define pre-operative education as any educational intervention that aims to improve people's knowledge, health behaviors, and health outcomes before surgery. A 2014 Cochrane© review concluded that pre-operative education provides benefits over standard patient care for hip or knee arthroplasty.

The content of pre-operative education varies, but typical educational materials include information on pre-operative processes, actual steps in the surgical procedure, discharge status, post-operative care, possible surgical and non-surgical complications, answers to frequently asked questions, postoperative pain. The training format consists of one-on-one oral communication, patient group sessions, and a video or booklet. Due to the pandemic process, telerehabilitation methods have become widespread recently. Total knee arthroplasty preoperative trainings conducted to date have been shown to be effective in the form of training given to few people or one-on-one conversations. But to minimize the risk of Covid-19, online education seems to make sense. Researches generally focus on the post-surgical period. However, while the studies emphasized the importance of preoperative education, The investigators did not find any synchronous education in the literature.

Patient satisfaction after joint replacement was found to be directly proportional to meeting expectations for functional outcome and pain. Education given in the preoperative period can affect patient satisfaction by influencing attitudes about patient expectations and pain.

Psychological status has also been reported to be associated with functional outcomes in total knee arthroplasty patients. Fear of movement is an important condition that affects the functionality and recovery of the patient. It has been reported that fear of movement (kinesiophobia) affects early postoperative functional outcomes in total knee arthroplasty patients. Postoperative applications have been shown to be effective on kinesiophobia. However, the investigators could not find any study examining the effect of preoperative education on postoperative outcomes.

The aim of the study is to examine the effect of preoperative education intervention on postoperative pain level, pain beliefs, anxiety and depression, satisfaction, kinesiophobia in total knee arthroplasty patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Beliefs Questionnaire
  - Tampa Scale of Kinesiophoby

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: preoperative education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05178615
