CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05562232
Title: The Effect of Creatine Monohydrate on Persistent Post-concussive Symptoms
Official Title: The Effect of Creatine Monohydrate on Persistent Post-concussive Symptoms - a Pilot Study Protocol
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study, is to investigate whether creatine monohydrate as a supplement reduces the number and severity of symptoms in patients with persistent post-concussive symptoms through self-reported post-concussion symptoms questionnaires.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), which throughout the literature is used interchangeably with concussion, is a problem of public concern. It is estimated that between 0.6 % and 1.2 % of the general population will suffer an mTBI each year which equals to 48-96 millions of people on a world scale. Out of these, an estimated 10-30 % of the patients, will suffer from persistent PPCS. These symptoms typically includes headache, poor concentration, memory problems, fatigue, sleep difficulties, dizziness, irritability, feeling nervous or anxious. PPCS has proven to be not only a health problem, but also a socioeconomical problem. Data has showed that salary in Denmark five years after a concussion decreased 4.2 %, with an increased risk of losing ones job. At the moment no single treatment option is available with guaranteed success, and therefore nutritional supplements are a possibility.

The nutritional supplement CrM is one of the most popular ergogenic aids on the market among professional and amateur athletes. It is mostly used in the development of muscle mass, as creatine is primarily located skeletal muscle. Roughly five percent of the body's creatine is distributed in the brain and testicles. As mTBI's also see a change in the metabolism of the brain, creatine supplementation might be beneficial for patients with PPCS. This is further supported by a newly conducted study, that creatine supplementation may reduce the severity of mild concussion in animal models.

Furthermore, as the enzyme Creatine Kinease (CK), which is involved in ATP energy system, also has a brain specific isoform (BB-CK), creatine may be a relevant part of the energy system of the central nervous system (CNS). In addition evidence points towards creatine supplementation can increase cellular energy availability. It has been reported to increase brain phosphocreatine content by as much as 15 %, which in turn improves the metabolic processes of the brain.

CrM has been described to be a potent anti-inflammatory molecule. It has been shown to reduce the cytotoxic effects in oxidatively-injured cells without affecting antioxidant enzyme activities, and has been shown to inhibit reactive oxygen species-induced formation of mitochondrial permeability transition pores in the liver mitochondria of mice. At the same time, concussion seems to increase inflammation in the brain, and this inflammation has been hypothesized to correlate with the symptomatology and duration. And even though research in the area of recovery is still scarce, neuroinflammation seems to play a vital role in the pathophysiology of concussions. This warrants hopes of a decrease in post-concussive symptoms.

Other studies have indicated an improvement of cognitive functions, including fatigue, working memory and mood state. All symptoms related to PPCS. Additionally evidence points towards creatine supplementation can help with chronic fatigue, depression and anxiety. All this points towards CrM being help

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Post-Concussion Symptoms at 7 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Creatine Monohydrate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05562232
