CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06392633
Title: SURGERY VS BOTULINUM TOXIN ON QUALITY OF LIFE IN STROKE PATIENTS: RANDOMIZED TRIAL
Official Title: SURGERY VS BOTULINUM TOXIN ON QUALITY OF LIFE IN STROKE PATIENTS
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
We present a research project in the form of a controlled clinical trial with the aim of analyzing and demonstrating whether the surgical treatment of upper limb spasticity is an effective and efficient measure to improve dependence and quality of life perceived by patients with sequelae of stroke and therefore, should be included in the therapeutic protocols, in which it is not usually contemplated, as a complement or alternative to traditional treatment with botulinum toxin, rehabilitation and occupational therapy.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebrovascular accident (CVA) or "stroke" is the leading cause of permanent disability in adulthood and many patients require lifelong medical treatment and assistance from other people for the development of their daily activities. The repercussion in the family, professional, labor and social fields is enormous, producing a very important economic expense. The usual treatment of spastic upper limb secondary to stroke is rehabilitation, occupational therapy and periodic injection of botulinum toxin, and surgical correction is not usually considered. A two-arm Randomized Clinical Trial \[surgical treatment (n=22) vs. botulinum toxin (n=22)\] is proposed with the aim of investigating the efficacy and efficiency of surgery for upper limb spasticity with respect to treatment with botulinum toxin in patients with established spastic sequelae after stroke.

We will evaluate the effect on functionality and "hygienic" changes; the impact on quality of life, sleep quality, anxiety and depression; as well as on brain activity by Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging, at baseline and at 6 and 12 months follow-up. The health and care costs of the established groups of patients will also be evaluated. This research is framed in the context of chronic diseases, aging and patients with functional and mobility difficulties. The results of this work are expected to have a great impact due to the high prevalence of the disease, the severe disability it causes, and the number of patients who would benefit, in addition to the savings in healthcare resources. The incorporation of surgery into stroke care would change the current treatment paradigm, favoring the formation of multidisciplinary teams for the treatment of the disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quality of life by 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument (SF-36)
  - Quality of life by Newcastle Stroke-Specific Quality of Life Measure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: spastic hand sugery
  - DRUG: Botulinum Toxin A

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06392633
