CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05981560
Title: Effects of Closed Chain Exercise Versus Neuromuscular Training on Chronic Ankle Sprain in Football Players
Official Title: Effects of Closed Chain Exercise Versus Neuromuscular Training on Pain, Range of Motion, and Functional Performance in Football Players With Chronic Ankle Sprain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
A current study will be conducted to determine the effects of closed-chain exercise versus neuromuscular training on pain, range of motion, and functional performance in football players with a chronic ankle sprain. This study will be a clinical trial conducted at the Pakistan sports board in the Lahore district. The study will be completed within the time duration of Six months. Non-probability convenient sampling technique will be used to collect the data. The sample size of 17 participants in each group will be taken in this study to find the effects of closed-chain exercise versus neuromuscular training on pain, range of motion, and functional performance in football players with a chronic ankle sprain. Athletes will be divided into two groups. Group A will be treated with closed-chain exercises and Group B will be with neuromuscular training. Pain (Numeric pain rating scale NPRS), Proprioceptive (balancing on a single leg with the eyes closed, balancing on a wobble board, Dynamic balance (Star Excursion Balance test and Y Balance Test), Functional Ankle Instability (Greek version of the Identification functional ankle instability questionnaire IdFAI), Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CHRONIC ANKLE INSTABILITY) and Ankle Instability Instrument (AII), Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM)-Sport Subscale, Range of Motion ROM (measure Goniometer) will be used as Data collecting tools. Three sessions of treatment per week for 4 weeks will be given. Data will be analyzed on SPSS version 22. In descriptive statistics Frequency tables, pie charts, and bar charts will be used to show the summary of group measurements measured over time.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
To determine the effects of closed-chain exercise versus neuromuscular training on pain, range of motion, and functional performance in football players with a chronic ankle sprain.

The study design will be a Randomized Clinical trial. Non-Probability Convenient Sampling will be used.

the sample size of 34 subjects is calculated.

TOOLS:

1. Pain (Numeric pain rating scale NPRS)
2. Range of Motion ROM (measure Goniometer)
3. Proprioceptive (balancing on a single leg with the eyes closed, balancing on a wobble board)
4. Dynamic balance (Star Excursion Balance test and Y Balance Test)
5. Functional Ankle Instability (Greek version of the Identification functional ankle instability questionnaire IdFAI)
6. Ankle Instability Instrument (AII)
7. Foot and Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM)-Sport Subscale The data will be analyzed using SPSS for Windows software, version 25. Statistical significance will be set at P= 0.05. After assessing the normality of the data by Shapiro wilk test it will be decided whether parametric or non-parametric test will be used within a group or between two groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain (NPRS Scale)
  - Range of Motion (Goniometer)
  - Functional Performance (Special Tests)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Group A - Closed Chain Exercise
  - OTHER: Group B - Neuromuscular Training Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05981560
