CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07443189
Title: Fitness, Ageing, and Bilingualism (FAB): The Benefits of Regular Exercise and Bilingualism for Language Abilities in Healthy Ageing.
Official Title: Fitness, Ageing, and Bilingualism (FAB): The Benefits of Regular Exercise and Bilingualism for Language Abilities in Healthy Ageing.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 233
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
This project investigates the relative benefits of regular physical activity and bilingualism for ameliorating cognitive decline in healthy ageing, with a particular focus on language function. The randomized intervention component tests whether improving fitness via a home-based HIIT program leads to changes in fitness and related cognitive/language outcomes in older adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This project will determine the relative benefits of regular physical activity and bilingualism for the amelioration of cognitive decline in old age. Our project focuses on language because it is a core aspect of human cognition, which has received surprisingly little attention in ageing research given its tremendous impact on well-being. Our own previous research has demonstrated that healthy older adults experience a decline in language function, which is characterized by word finding difficulties, slower and more disfluent sentence production, and slower and less accurate sentence comprehension. Such language problems impact older adults' functioning and can lead to social withdrawal and loneliness. The current project, therefore, investigates how to ameliorate such language problems, as well as other forms of cognitive decline in healthy ageing. Two ameliorating factors that have received a lot of attention are bilingualism and regular physical activity, which have been shown to reduce the structural and functional brain decline associated with healthy ageing and to confer cognitive reserve, i.e. resilient cognitive performance. Currently, however, it has only been established that bilingualism and regular physical activity provide benefits for non-linguistic aspects of cognition, such as executive functioning, working memory, and processing speed. What is currently lacking is knowledge about the effects of exercise on language abilities in healthy ageing. Many language processes are isolated from, and independent of, other cognitive faculties. For example, word finding difficulties are not failures of long-term memory, as word knowledge increases with age, but the ability to successfully access words decreases. We have already demonstrated that fitter older adults experience fewer word finding difficulties than unfit older adults. In the current project, we aim to establish for the first time a causal relationship between physical exercise and ameliorated language decline in healthy ageing. To this end, we will conduct an aerobic exercise intervention and quantify increases in fitness levels and physical changes due to the intervention. We will examine the effects of these changes on language function in mono- and bilingual older adults. Moreover, using neuroimaging, we will investigate the neural changes underlying the benefits of exercise for language. Our study will thus provide new knowledge about how best to maintain language abilities across the lifespan. Furthermore, ameliorating language decline might be even more crucial for bilinguals than monolinguals, as bilingualism, even in young adults, has measurable costs for linguistic processing. Bilinguals have slower and less fluent word retrieval in both languages and more frequent word finding failures than monolinguals. Previous research provides competing accounts of these deficits, attributing them to either competition between languages during production or to the reduced frequency

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Aerobic fitness - VO₂peak
  - Language function - Tip-of-the-tongue (TOT) task
  - Language function - sentence production (speeded picture description)
  - Language function - sentence comprehension (auditory word monitoring)
  - Language function - discourse production (free picture description)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Home-Based HIIT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07443189
