CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01470833
Title: Non-operative Treatment of Acute Achilles Tendon Rupture Using Dynamic Rehabilitation. Influence of Early Weight-bearing Compared With Non-weight-bearing
Official Title: Non-operative Treatment of Acute Achilles Tendon Rupture Using Dynamic Rehabilitation. The Influence of Early Weight-bearing Compared With Non-weight-bearing
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Acute achilles tendon rupture is relatively frequent (11 to 37 per 100,000). There are great social benefits in optimizing treatment and shortening recovery.

There is no consensus concerning the best treatment of acute achilles tendon rupture. Traditionally, surgical treatment is considered superior, but more recent studies show evidence that non-operative treatment with early dynamic rehabilitation gives the same functional outcome with fewer side effects.

Traditionally non-operative treatment involves non-weightbearing for 6 weeks. This is not evidence based rather due to tradition. It is well documented that mechanical load improves tendon healing in general and has no detrimental effect on the healing of operated achilles tendons.

The objective of this randomized study is to compare early weight-bearing with non-weight-bearing following non-operative treatment of acutely ruptured Achilles tendons.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background Acute achilles tendon rupture is relatively frequent (11 to 37 per 100,000) and potentially debilitating. Age distribution is bimodal, with a maximum incidence of sports-related injuries around 40 years of age. This is followed by a second and smaller increase in the incidence 50-60 years of age due to other, non sports-related injuries (1-3). The disease costs millions of dollars in treatment and lost earnings.

There is no consensus on the best treatment of acute achilles tendon rupture. It is the authors' belief that the decision on non-operative or operative treatment significantly differ between the orthopedic surgical departments and individual orthopedic surgeons.

Surgery is traditionally considered superior to conservative treatment due to a lower risk of rerupture of the achilles tendon (4). Despite the fact that surgery has a significantly increased risk of serious side effects such as deep infection (4). The decision of operative treatment is based on studies comparing surgical treatment and early dynamisation with non-operative treatment without dynamisation. Recent studies show increasing evidence that non-operative treatment with early dynamisation of the ankle gives the same functional outcome as operative treatment without significantly increased risk of rerupture (5.6). The same studies show that the overall complication rate is higher with surgery than with non-operative treatment. The surgical complications include infection, nerve damage, adhesion, contracture and cosmetic problems.

Pajala et. al have compared outcome for patients who suffered rerupture with those who suffered a deep wound infection. They conclude that outcome after rerupture without complicating infection is satisfactory, whereas the outcome after deep wound infection is devastating (7). The risk of a debilitating complication is thus greater with surgery than is the case for conservative treatment.

Traditionally non-operative treatment involves non-weightbearing for 6 weeks. This is not evidence based rather due to tradition. Suchak et. al have shown that early weight bearing after surgical treatment of ASR improves health related quality of life in the period after surgery and has no negative effect on tendon healing.(9) It is well documented that mechanical load improves tendon healing (10). Thus it is reasonable to believe that early loading of the tendon under controlled conditions will affect tendon healing beneficially.

Objective of the study Primary purpose The objective of this randomized study is to compare early weight-bearing with non-weight-bearing following non-operative treatment of acutely ruptured Achilles tendons.

All patients are treated with dynamic rehabilitation in a DJO Walker orthosis. Functional outcome is self assessed using Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score (ATRS) and biomechanically by quantification of the stiffness of the achilles tendon and force development at concentric and eccentric work.

Secondary objectiv

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - ATRS (Achilles Tendon Total Rupture Score)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Early weight-bearing

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01470833
