CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05529641
Title: Effects of Diaphragmatic Resistance Training in People With Chronic Neck Pain.
Official Title: Effects of Combined Diaphragmatic Resistance Training and Cervical Stabilization Exercise in People With Chronic Neck Pain.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
With increasing usage of electronic devices and sedentary lifestyle, chronic neck pain has become a more prevalent musculoskeletal disorder around the world. Many impairments have been identified in people with chronic neck pain including pain, muscle weakness, proprioceptive deficits and altered breathing pattern. Diaphragm is the key muscle for inspiration and also plays an important role in spinal stability. Previous studies have found that diaphragm functions are related to the stability of the lumbar spine through the fascial, neural and visceral systems. Diaphragmatic resistance training thus could have some positive effects on reducing pain and disability in people with low back pain. However, to date how diaphragmatic resistance training would affect chronic neck pain is still unknown. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of diaphragmatic resistance training on pain, disability and movement quality in people with chronic neck pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic neck pain has become a more prevalent musculoskeletal disorder in modern society. The prevalence of chronic neck pain in 2021 gradually increases to 45.7%, that results in a large burden of health care. Chronic neck pain leads to neck motion limitation, motor control impairment and unsmooth motion. In addition, faulty breathing pattern has been identified in 83% of people with chronic neck pain. Diaphragm is the most critical muscle for inspiration and also plays an important role in spinal stability that might relate to spinal instability and pain. Studies have proved that effects of diaphragmatic resistance training on reduce pain and improving quality of life in people with low back pain. Diaphragm connects to the lumbar spine and also to the cervical spine through the fascial, neural and visceral system. However, to our best knowledge, the effects of diaphragmatic resistance training in people with chronic neck pain is still unclear. While many studies have demonstrated that cervical stabilization exercises are able to decrease pain and disability and improve movement quality, the effects of combined diaphragmatic resistance training and cervical stabilization exercise in people with chronic neck pain is still unknown. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of 6 weeks of diaphragmatic resistance training in combination with cervical stabilization exercises in people with chronic neck pain. Participants with chronic neck pain will be randomly assigned to either (1) combined diaphragmatic resistance training and cervical stabilization exercise group or (2) cervical stabilization exercise group. Each group will receive the same cervical stabilization exercises while group (1) will receive additional diaphragmatic resistance training as home program. All participants will have 2 evaluation sessions at baseline and after 6-week intervention for pain, disability and movement quality.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity using Visual Analog Scale (VAS)
  - Disability using Neck Disability Index (NDI)
  - Cervical kinematics
  - Muscle activation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Diaphragmatic resistance training
  - OTHER: Cervical stabilization exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05529641
