CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05456620
Title: Effectiveness of Reducing Tendon Compression in the Treatment of Insertional Achilles Tendinopathy
Official Title: Effectiveness of Reducing Tendon Compression in the Treatment of Insertional Achilles Tendinopathy: a Randomised Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Insertional Achilles tendinopathy is a disabling injury that is common in running athletes. Exercise therapy is considered the best treatment option, but there is still no agreement on the modalities. For example, it is thought that compression overload may be a major cause of tendinopathy and should therefore be restricted during rehabilitation. However, this recommendation is based on expert opinion and not on hard scientific evidence. Therefore, this randomised controlled trial (RCT) will investigate whether a therapy that limits the amount of compression of the tendon during a progressive tendon-loading rehabilitation protocol actually has better outcomes in athletes with insertional Achilles tendinopathy.

Athletes with insertional Achilles tendinopathy will be randomised into two treatment groups; (1) an experimental rehabilitation protocol in which the amount of tendon compression is limited and (2) a control rehabilitation protocol in which the amount of tendon compression is not limited and is rather high. Both treatments consist of supervised progressive tendon-loading exercise therapy and patient education. In addition, the experimental group will also receive heel inserts to limit the amount of dorsiflexion during sports or daily activities. At baseline, at 12 weeks (end of intervention) and at 24 weeks (follow-up), pain, functionality, structure and intratendinous pressure will be determined.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Achilles tendinopathy is a debilitating injury that is common among athletes, especially those involved in running sports. Around 30% of all runners exhibit Achilles tendinopathy with an annual incidence of 7-9%. Of these patients, roughly one-third will have insertional Achilles tendinopathy (IAT). Several mechanisms are considered to play a role in the aetiology of Achilles tendinopathy, yet a prominent role seems present for excessive overload. Traditionally, the nature of this overload is thought to be purely tensile. However, the Achilles tendon can also be exposed to compressive loads at the insertion when the tendon wraps around the posterior prominence of the calcaneus during dorsiflexion of the ankle. The formation of fibrocartilage-like tissue, which is typically found in histological examination of tendinopathy, can be considered as an adaptation to this compressive load, driven by the tenocyte's mechanotransduction process. Therefore, it is recommended to reduce the amount of compressive load on the tendon during rehabilitation while exerting sufficient tensile load. However, these recommendations are mainly based on a pilot study and expert opinion. Therefore, this RCT investigates whether a therapy in which the amount of tendon compression is restricted during a progressive tendon-loading rehabilitation protocol actually has better outcomes in terms of pain scores, functionality and structure of the Achilles tendon in athletes with insertional Achilles tendinopathy. Limiting the amount of tendon compression on the Achilles tendon insertion will be achieved by (1) patient education, (2) heel inserts and (3) an adapted exercise regimen.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The change of the Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment-Achilles Questionnaire (VISA-A) score over 12 weeks
  - The change of the Victorian Institute of Sports Assessment-Achilles Questionnaire (VISA-A) score over 24 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise therapy
  - OTHER: Exercise therapy (usual care)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05456620
