CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04903691
Title: Changes in Fitness and Strength in Postoperative Cardiac Patients Undergoing Exercise Therapy: Biological and Functional Mechanisms of Recovery
Official Title: Changes in Fitness and Strength in Postoperative Cardiac Patients Undergoing Exercise Therapy: Biological and Functional Mechanisms of Recovery
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study seeks to determine the biological, physiological and psychological effects of supervised exercise programs in patients surviving open heart surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients who have survived open heart surgery and cleared for exercise by their clinical team will be approached to enter a 12-week exercise program. Patient will consent to train with a personalized program either in strength, functional or aerobic exercise in a supervised setting for 3 sessions per week for a minimum of 12-week period. The aim is to enroll males and females in this arm in 1:1 ratio if possible. A separate cohort of patients entering cardiac rehabilitation (CR) will also be included for comparison. The CR program includes three sessions per week for a maximum of 36 sessions. The enrollment and retention rates in CR will be monitored. In this study, five patients who have undergone cardiac surgery and chosen not to participate in organized exercise program will be included. Participants cardiorespiratory fitness will be measured either using a questionnaire or in person. Through each phase of the study, the change in fitness, strength, biomarkers, body composition, cognition and psychosocial recovery will be monitored. All subjects will undergo detailed assessments in the research lab 2 weeks before and after finishing or exiting exercise program. A short (3-month) and long term (12-month) outcomes including rates of survival, major adverse cardiac events, cognition and cardiac-related hospitalizations will be collected as well during the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in cardiorespiratory fitness
  - Change in strength
  - Change in functional fitness.
  - Change in cognition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cardiac Exercise Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04903691
