CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06496204
Title: Swedish Physical Activity and Fitness Longitudinal Study
Official Title: A Longitudinal Approach to Characterize Loss of Muscle Mass and Function in Ageing Humans
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 429
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Aging means loss of strength, which can affect the ability to lead an active life and be independent. Physical activity can counteract the loss of strength to some extent, but individual differences are large and the mechanisms are partly unknown. The hypothesis is that changes in the innervation and composition of the muscle may explain the individual differences in strength loss. A group of Swedish men and women have participated in this study of physical performance for almost 50 years, since they were 16 years old. The project will improve the understanding of muscle aging. The findings may help to develop strategies to counteract muscle loss and enable healthy aging and to promote physical activity throughout life

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
STUDY MATERIALS: The investigators have finished the latest data collection performed at age 63 in 2021-2022 of the human longitudinal cohort study SPAF-1958. At baseline, in 1974, six geographic areas in Sweden were systematically selected. In each area, one upper secondary school was randomly selected, from which 429 (224 male, and 205 female) pupils in the lowest grade level were randomly selected to be included in the study. The entire cohort was invited for questionnaire and testing at age 16, 34 and 52 and 63 years. DATA COLLECTION: Questionnaire: The questionnaire included questions about lifestyle factors such as physical activity, dietary habits, smoking, alcohol consumption.

The questionnaire also included questions about health, disease, medication, and personal traits. Testing of physical performance: Some tests for physical performance were used at all data collections from 16 to 63 years, including aerobic capacity and muscle static and dynamic strength. Specific tests assessing muscle function in relation to muscle weakness were added to the testing at 63 years. Venous blood was drawn for analysis of standard health variables as well as extended studying of endocrine profile and inflammatory cell profile. The muscle size of two selected muscles on the leg were estimated by ultrasound. Body composition and muscle size were determined in 60 subjects by MR imaging of the whole body. Testing of neurological status: Motor nerve conductions studies (NCS) were performed on the right median and ulnar, and bilaterally on tibial, and peroneal nerves. Sensory NCS were performed on the right median, ulnar, and superficial radial nerves, and bilaterally on the sural and superficial peroneal nerves. Motor and sensory conduction velocities, proximal and distal compound muscle action potentials (CMAP), and sensory nerve action potentials (SNAP) were recorded. For motor unit number estimation (MUNE) m. tibialis anterior (TA) and m. abductor policies brevis (ABP) were tested by electrical stimulation of the median and peroneal nerve, respectively. MUNE was obtained by dividing the size of the maximal CMAP by the size of the mean surface-recorded single motor unit potential (S-MUP). MUNE=Max CMAP (area) / Mean SMUP (area). To define small fibre neuropathy a skin biopsy was collected to measure the density of small fibre epidermal innervation. Skeletal muscle samples were obtained with a Bergström biopsy needle from m. vastus lateralis and were snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen cooled isopentane and stored at -80°C. To maximize the possibility to include high number of neuromuscular transmission junctions (endplates) in the muscle biopsy, the optimal biopsy site was determined by location of maximal twitch response to electrical nerve stimulation. Furthermore, the needle was re-directed after penetration of the skin to cut myofibers as longitudinally as possible. This approach was chosen to optimize the conditions for analyses of the NMJ.

ANALYSES OF S

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Aerobic capacity
  - Skeletal muscle fiber distribution
  - Sargent Jump
  - Muscular endurance

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06496204
