CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04574700
Title: Mobilization Effect on Hamstring Length
Official Title: Effect of Knee Joint Mobilization on Hamstring Muscle Length
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this research is to determine the effect of knee joint mobilization in patients with knee osteoarthritis having hamstring tightness. Tibiofemoral and tibiofibular joint mobilization and knee traction effect on hamstring muscle length and pain. A randomized controlled trial will be done at Benazir Bhutto Hospital Rawalpindi. The sample size is 44. The Participants are divided into two groups, 22 participants in experimental group and 22 in control group. The study duration is 6 months. Sampling technique applied is purposive non probability sampling technique, patients having Minimum 20% hamstring length shorting, NPRS more than 3,both gender of age 40-65,Pain more than 3 months and with mild to moderate knee OA are included. Tools used in this study are Numerical pain rating scale (NPRS), Goniometer and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) scale. Data analyzed through Statistical Package for the Social Science (SPSS)version 23.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Knee Osteoarthritis is a type of joint disease or common rheumatologic disease that result from breakdown of joint cartilage and underlying bone which is characterized by pain, stiffness, and decreased range of motion. Knee OA is more important not only for its high prevalence rate compared with other types of OA but also for its presentation at earlier age groups particularly in younger age groups of obese women. Symptoms of knee OA progress slowly over years. The incidence of knee OA increases by age and further increase with longer lifetime and higher average weight of the population.

Symptoms of knee OA progress slowly over years. Pain and other symptoms of OA may have a profound effect on quality of life affecting both physical function and psychological parameters. Knee OA is not a localized disease of cartilage alone but is considered as a chronic disease of the whole joint, including articular cartilage, meniscus, ligament, and peri-articular muscle that may result from multiple pathophysiological mechanisms. It is painful and disabling disease that affects millions of patients.

Common symptoms are progressive knee stiffness, pain, difficulties in performing activities such as walking, stair climbing, squatting. Reduction in functional capacity associated with muscular imbalance of lower extremity with pain. Muscles act as brace for knee joint, quadriceps muscle weakness and hamstring inhibition effect this bracing. Muscle dysfunction may actually precede and accelerate the cartilage deterioration. Evidence showed muscle dysfunction is involved in pathogenesis of knee OA. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent joint disease and a leading source of chronic pain and disability in the United States. Knee OA accounts for more than 80% of the disease's total burden and affects at least 19% of American adults aged 45 years and older.

Clinical strategies exist for treatment of knee osteoarthritis with aim to reduce symptoms like pain, delay disease progression i.e. pharmacological, physiotherapy and surgical strategies. Patients experience chronic pain that cause reduction in ability to use their joint. Due to prolong inactivity of joint to move through complete range cause muscle shortness along with capsule tightness that leads for further increasing pain and disability. Physical therapy interventions are first line of choice for the treatment of knee OA. Treatment varieties i.e. modalities, therapeutic exercises, manual therapy along with neuromuscular training to improve mechanical environment of knee joint

It is indicated at least 15-30 degree loss of active knee extension with 90 degree of hip ﬂexion account as hamstring shortening. Hamstring muscle tightness and poor flexibility is associated with knee OA. Hamstring flexibility is higher in healthy individual as compared to subjects with knee OA.A statistically significant relationship was found between hamstring tightness and proximal tibiofibular joint grade of arthritis (χ2 test

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hamstring length: (Active Knee Extension Test)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: knee joint mobilization and traction
  - OTHER: Post isometric relaxation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04574700
