CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06356350
Title: Exercise Programs on Gait in Children JIA
Official Title: Effects of Exercise Programs on Gait in Children With Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) is one of the common chronic diseases in childhood. Problems such as weakness or pain may occur in JIA, especially in the joints and the muscles around the trunk. These conditions may lead to abnormal displacement of the center of gravity, deterioration of biomechanics, and muscle imbalance in children with JIA. All these situations can lead to postural imbalance and asymmetrical loading pattern, which we often encounter in children with JIA. Current studies describing various exercise methods effective on postural alignment. However, no study was found in the literature that searching the effects of these exercise methods on gait parameters in children JIA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) is one of the common chronic diseases in childhood. Problems such as weakness or pain may occur in JIA, especially in the joints and the muscles around the trunk. These conditions may lead to abnormal displacement of the center of gravity, deterioration of biomechanics, and muscle imbalance in children with JIA. These conditions may lead to abnormal displacement of the center of gravity, deterioration of biomechanics, and muscle imbalance in children with JIA. All these situations can lead to postural imbalance and asymmetrical loading pattern, which we often encounter in children with JIA. Current studies describing various exercise methods effective on postural alignment. However, no study was found in the literature that searching the effects of these exercise methods on gait parameters in children JIA. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effects of two different exercise programs (core based exercise program against neuromuscular training) on gait parameters in children JIA.

In this study, the participants will be evaluated and then they will be divided into two groups randomly. The first group will be administered as a core based exercise program group and the second one will be undergone as a neuromuscular training group. After the interventions, they will be re-evaluted by the physiotherapist and the outcomes will be recorded.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximum Loading
  - Center of mass displacement
  - Walking speed

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Conventional neuromuscular exercises
  - OTHER: Core based exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06356350
