CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04533776
Title: Support for Adolescents With Celiac Disease
Official Title: Peer-Interaction Group Support in Adolescents With Celiac Disease: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This study was designed as a randomized controlled experimental study to examine the effects of peer-interaction group support in adolescents with celiac disease (CD) in the 13-18 age group on the quality of life, friendship relations, and coping levels of adolescents.

Six peer interactive group sessions were held with one week intervals with adolescents (n = 18) in the study group included in the sample for a period of 3 months. In the sessions, all participants were asked questions about the purpose of the session and a discussion environment was created. No training and counseling were provided to the adolescents in the control group (n = 18). Before and after the peer interactive group support, adolescents in the intervention and control group were asked to complete the quality of life, friendship qualities, and coping scales.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study is a randomized controlled experimental study conducted to examine the effect of peer interactive group support on quality of life, peer relationships and coping (coping) levels in adolescents aged 13-18 years with celiac disease.

The study was conducted on adolescents with a diagnosis of celiac disease in the outpatient clinic of the Department of Child Health of Afyon Kocatepe University in Afyonkarahisar. This change took place after research permissions were obtained. Patients are served in the polyclinic between 09:00 and 17:00 on weekdays. Gastroenterology Specialist, who monitors the patients with Celiac diagnosis, works as a physician. There are no nurses in the polyclinic and individual training is not given to celiac patients according to their needs.

There are 85 patients with a diagnosis of celiac disease in the 0-18 age group who were followed up in the Department of Child Health and Diseases of Afyonkarahisar Health Sciences University, where the study will be conducted. It was determined from the patient records that there were 36 patients with a diagnosis of celiac disease in the 13-18 age group. The universe of the study consisted of patients with a diagnosis of celiac disease in the 13-18 age group who were followed up in the Pediatric Outpatient Clinic of Afyonkarahisar University of Health Sciences.

Data Collection Tools Introductory Information Form, Quality of Life Scale for Children (13-18 age group), Friendship Qualities Scale and Coping Scale for Adolescents prepared by the researcher for data collection.

Introductory Information Form In this form prepared by the researcher, there are 14 questions regarding the demographic characteristics of the mother, father, family and child. After randomization, an introductory information form (before peer interactive group support) was administered to all adolescents in the research and control groups in a classroom of the Pediatric Outpatient Clinic where the study was conducted.

Children's Quality of Life Scale - PedsQL (13-18 age group) The quality of life scale for children was developed by Varni et al. (1999) to measure the quality of life of children and adolescents aged 2-18 years. The internal consistency coefficient (Cronbach's alpha) of the section prepared for children of the scale developed by Varni et al. Was found to be 0.93. Memik et al. (2007) conducted a study on the validity and reliability of the adolescent form of the PedsQL (13-18 years old).

While the World Health Organization defines health, it covers the areas of physical, emotional and social functionality. Scoring is made for these three areas in the scale. In the scale, a fourth area under the name of school functionality is questioned. The psychosocial health total score (PSTP) is calculated by calculating the total score (STP), physical health total score (FSTP), emotional, social and school functionality item scores in the scale.

The Quality of Life Scale for Children (PedsQL) is a scal

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quality of Life Scale
  - Friendship Qualities Scale
  - Coping Scale (KIDCOPE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Celiac Disease Definition, Symptoms and Treatment
  - BEHAVIORAL: Difficulties Due to Celiac Disease
  - BEHAVIORAL: Gluten Free Diet in Celiac Disease
  - BEHAVIORAL: Difficulties Related to Disease in School and Social Life
  - BEHAVIORAL: Celiac Disease and Its Effects on Acamdemic Success Peer Relations

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04533776
