CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03171116
Title: Ghrelin and Obestatin in CKD Children
Official Title: Unacylated Ghrelin and Obestatin as Promising Biomarkers of Protein Energy Wasting in Children With Chronic Kidney Disease: a Cross-sectional Case-control Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 154
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Protein energy wasting (PEW) is a complex syndrome associated with different underlying illnesses and characterized by loss of muscle, with or without loss of fat. It is a highly prevalent condition among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), associated with increased morbidity and mortality.

The pathophysiology of PEW in CKD is multifactorial and not yet completely understood. The potential role in uremic PEW of two of hormones involved in orexigenic/anorexigenic balance, ghrelin and obestatin, both derived from the ghrelin gene (GHRL), has been investigated in adults and, less extensively, in children. Aim of our study was to measure AG, UAG and obestatin concentrations in children with CKD and to assess their potential contribution to the development of pediatric uremic PEW.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a cross-sectional case-control study. Between January 2013 and June 2015 children and adolescents aged 5-20 years, referred to the Pediatric Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplant Unit of Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda - Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico - Milan, Italy were enrolled. Subjects with CKD stages II-V under conservative treatment (CKD-CT), or undergoing hemodialysis treatment (CKD-HD), or being renal transplant recipients (RTx) were included in the study. Data about age, primary renal disease and concomitant medications were collected for each subject.

CKD stages were defined using the K/DOQI criteria of the US National Kidney Foundation.

Control subjects were outpatients of the Pediatric Surgery Unit of the Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda - Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico - Milan, Italy, aged 1-20 years, who underwent a blood sample collection before a surgical intervention for the treatment of minor diseases that did not impair renal or endocrine function (i.e. phimosis, hydrocele, inguinal hernia).

Biochemical and hormonal parameters Blood samples were collected between 7:00 and 8:00 a.m. after an overnight fast, and before dialysis in CKD-HD patients. Routine biochemical parameters \[creatinine, urea\] were measured in all subjects. Glomerular filtration rate was estimated (eGFR) by the Schwartz formula, with k = 0.413, as appropriate for standardized creatinine.

In all subjects, plasma AG and UAG concentrations were measured by the Human Acylated / Unacylated Ghrelin ELISA kit (BioVendor, Laboratorni Medicina a.s., Brno, Czech Republic) according to manufacture procedures, and AG/UAG ratio was calculated. Serum obestatin concentrations were determined using the Human Obestatin ELISA kit (BioVendor, Laboratorni Medicina a.s., Brno, Czech Republic).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - AG concentrations by ELISA kit on plasma samples
  - UAG concentrations by ELISA kit on plasma samples
  - Obestatin concentrations by ELISA kit on serum samples

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: none intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 20 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03171116
