CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04075617
Title: Cessation of Thumb/ Finger Sucking Habit
Official Title: Cessation of Thumb/Finger Sucking Habit in Children Using Electronic Habit Reminder Versus Palatal Crib.Randomized Clinical Pilot Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 22
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to assess the use of electronic habit reminder and palatal crib in the cessation of thumb/finger sucking habit.

Treatment of thumb/finger sucking by extraoral approaches are well accepted by school-age children (Adair, 1999). It was reported in a case study by Krishnappa et al that the use of an extraoral electronic habit reminder is a new method used for cessation of thumb/finger sucking habit in short time and it is more comfortable and acceptable to the child (Krishnappa et al, 2016).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be conducted in, Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University. Diagnosis and patient selection will be at outpatient clinic in the specific days of diagnosis. Impression taking, delivery of appliances and follow up will be at post graduate clinic under supervision of the main and assistant supervisor.

Eligible patients will be randomized to form two groups, Intervention group: Treatment by using electronic habit reminder which will be constructed by taking impression for the thumb/finger using silicon impression material (putty consistency) and pouring it with dental stone. The replica of the finger is used to formulate a custom made cover for it, which consists of stainless steel wires with specific design and acrylic resin this is the first part of the reminder. The second part is in the shape of wrist watch which is connected to the first part by a wire. When the child puts his finger in his mouth the stainless steel wires touch each other and the watch produces alarming sound and counts how many times the alarm goes off. The child should wear the appliance most of the time except during eating and activities.

Control group: Treatment by using palatal crib which will be constructed by taking impression for upper arch with alginate impression material, and then will be sent to the lab for fabrication. Cementation of the appliance and then follow up.

Follow up will be at two weeks and 1, 3, 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cessation of thumb/finger sucking habit

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: electronic habit reminder
  - OTHER: palatal crib

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04075617
