CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05726435
Title: Effects of Soluble Dietary Fiber on Sport Efficiency and Fatigue Delay in Top Basketball Players
Official Title: Effects of Soluble Dietary Fiber on Sport Efficiency and Fatigue Delay in Top Basketball Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Athlete nutrition is becoming an increasingly important factor on the path to achieving top results. Nutrients such as soluble fiber can alter the intestinal microbiota, resulting in metabolites with a positive effect on metabolism. Thus, the fibers become available, an additional source of energy to the host, have an anti-stress effect and delay the feeling of fatigue. The primary goal of the study is to determine the impact of soluble dietary fiber on increasing athletic efficiency, the secondary goal is to determine the impact of fiber on delaying fatigue. Subjects will be randomly divided into experimental and control group. The sample of variables will consist of genome microbiota genome sequencing data, measures to assess morphological characteristics, lower extremity explosive strength tests, and cardiovascular endurance. The statistical package SPSS will be used for data processing. The expected scientific contribution of this research is to expand the scientific knowledge about the importance of dietary fiber in the diet of athletes with the aim of improving sports performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Material, participants, methodology and research plan The material will be soluble fiber NUTRIOSE and placebo. Nutriose, derived from corn, is generally well tolerated and no allergic reactions are known. Participants will be made aware of this in informed consent. If, however, there will be any adverse reactions in participant, participant will withdraw from the study immediately.

The participants will be 14 adult, professional basketball players. The sample of subjects was determined by the size of the group in the same training process in order to exclude the influence of different training processes on the research results. Participants who have used antibiotics in the last 3 months, participants with type 1 and 2 diabetes, and also who have used other ergogenic aids in the last 30 days and still using them are excluded.

Participants will be randomly divided into two groups: the experimental group that will consume the tested fibers and the control group that will consume placebo. Design is a double-blind study where an independent statistician will be entrusted with the randomization of subjects into the two groups.

Sample variables:

Methods: dietary methods, anthropometric methods, fatigue assessment questionnaire and fecal samples analysis.

The sample of variables consists of: fecal sample for intestinal microbiota sequencing, measures to assess morphological characteristics (body height, body weight, triceps skinfold, subscapular skinfold, chest skinfold, abdomen skinfold, suprailiocristal skinfold, thigh skinfold, axillary skinfold, fat percentage calculated by the seven skinfolds algorithm).

Dietary methods will be used to control eating habits and fiber intake prior to testing and to control diet during testing. The methods will be a food diary (three-day) and as an unannounced control of daily food intake once a week will be a 24-hour dietary recalls. The three-day food diary will show diet and average fiber intake just before the start of testing and unannounced control of daily food intake as evidence of unchanged eating habits during the study. All collected dietary data will be processed using Croatian food tables in addition to American tables for all foods whose chemical composition is not available in national tables.

In assessing the athletic performance of basketball players, emphasis will be placed on the explosive power of the lower extremities (concentric and eccentric contractions). Anthropometric methods will use tests to assess vertical explosive power (squat jump, countermovement jump, one legged countermovement jump, maximal countermovement jump, continuous jumps with straight egs, continuous jump with bent legs) with Optojump system and explosive power - sprint (5m, 10m and 20m sprint) with the Powertimer Newtest system. Aerobic endurance tests (BEEP test with sound signal) and anaerobic endurance test (300 m (15x20)) with Powertimer Newtest system will be used to assess cardiovascular endurance. Laboratory me

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rapid microbiota change
  - Altered microbiota composition
  - Effect on the perception of fatigue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Soluble dietary fiber with prebiotic properties
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 22 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05726435
