CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06887257
Title: RECOVER WITH INOCA: A Study of a Cardiac Rehabilitation Program in Patients With Ischemia With Nonobstructive Coronary Artery Disease (INOCA)
Official Title: RECOVER WITH INOCA: A Randomized, Prospective Study of a Cardiac Rehabilitation Program in Patients With Ischemia With Nonobstructive Coronary Artery Disease (INOCA)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a cardiac rehabilitation program (CRP) improves functional capacity in adults with INOCA (ischemia with non obstructive coronary arteries). The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does CRP improves maximal functional capacity (measured by VO2peak) in INOCA patients?
* Does CRP improve as well quality of life, adherence to Mediterranean diet, emotional state, functional independence angina episodes and sleep quality?

Researchers will compare CRP (treatment group) to standard recommendations (control group) to see if CRP works better for INOCA patients

Participants will:

Take part of CRP or standard recommendations for 3 months Visit the clinic in the beginning and in the end of the study for checkups and tests

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A prospective, single-centre, randomized study with patients diagnosed with INOCA to assess their participation in a 3-month telehealth-based holistic cardiac rehabilitation program (CRP). Exclusion criteria were based on contraindications for participating in the telehealth CRP: alarm signs in the stress test (ventricular arrhythmias, hypotensive response, ST segment changes, or symptoms of ischemia), left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) \<40%, or presence of pacemakers/defibrillators. Additionally, patients without a mobile device/tablet/computer with internet access to connect to exercise and educational sessions were excluded. Finally, participants should be stable in terms of angina episodes, defined as the absence of hospitalizations or decompensations in the number of angina episodes, as well as no changes in antianginal medications for 3 months prior to inclusion.

The primary endpoint is the improvement in functional capacity, objectively measured by the change in peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) obtained from cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) after 3 months of CRP (treatment group), compared to standard recommendations (control group). Secondary endpoints are CRP impact on quality of life, adherence to Mediterranean diet, emotional state, functional independence, angina episodes and sleep quality. The investigators selected pure VSA and pure MCA endotypes for the inclusion, to avoid confusion factors and to see if there were different results between both endotypes. A sample of 24 patients was selected to detect a 4.5 ml/kg/min difference in VO2peak.

The study scheme is as follows:

1. Recruitment: INOCA patients (confirmed diagnosis with microcirculation and provocation testing) are referred from ischemic heart disease consultations.
2. Initial Assessment Visit:

   * Part 1: Cardiologist and hemodynamic nurse explain the project, and if the patient agrees to participate, randomization (CRP yes or no) occur, and informed consent is signed. Blood samples are taken for initial assessment (basic profile, haemostasis, lipid profile, and HbA1c). Additionally, scales for quality of life (EuroQol), anxiety and depression (HADS), Mediterranean diet (PREDIMED), weekly exercise volume (IPAQ), functional (Barthel), and angina (SAQ-7) assessments are completed.
   * Part 2: Assessment in the cardiac rehabilitation clinic and initial CPET (cardiopulmonary stress test) testing for all patients. If the patient belongs to the CRP group, an individualized exercise prescription is made for the physiotherapist. If not, general exercise recommendations are provided. In both cases, a final CPET visit is scheduled at 3 months.
3. Cardiac Rehabilitation Program (3-month duration, for the intervention group): 2 individualized exercise sessions per week (via Teams platform) with the physiotherapist, 1 educational session per week via Teams with nursing, and 1 educational session per week via Teams with psychology.
4. Final Visit in Cardiac Rehabil

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal functional capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Telematic cardiac rehabilitation program, that includes exercise, educational and psychological sessions during 3 months
  - OTHER: Standard recommendations

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06887257
