CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06595394
Title: Effect of Combined Exercise Training in Patients With Multiple Sclerosis
Official Title: Investigation of the Effect of Exercise Training in Patient With Sarcopenic Multiple Sclerosis
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The aim of this clinical trial is exercise in sarcopenic MS patients to demonstrate the effectiveness of education. The main questions it aims to answer are: -Can exercise training make a change in muscle thickness in sarcopenic MS patients?

--Does exercise training have an effect on balance in sarcopenic MS patients?

\- Does exercise training have an effect on the risk of falling in sarcopenic MS patients?

Participants will:

They will continue combined exercise applications 3 days a week for 8 weeks. Evaluations will be made before the application and at the end of the 8 weeks. The data will be analyzed afterwards.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A significant decrease in physical performance is observed in MS patients. The reasons for this can be changes in muscle contractile structures and symptoms such as sarcopenia. Sarcopenia is a disorder characterized by loss of skeletal muscle mass and decrease in muscle strength and physical performance. Loss of muscle mass seen outside of old age is defined as secondary sarcopenia. In recent years, studies on neurological disorders and their relationship with sarcopenia have increased. Early diagnosis of sarcopenia in neurological patients and implementation of applications aimed at this are important from an early stage. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of exercise training in sarcopenic MS patients. In the study, participants will be applied a combined exercise program 3 days a week for 8 weeks. Parameters such as muscle thickness, balance, and fall risk will be evaluated before and after physiotherapy application including aerobic exercise, balance exercises, and strengthening exercises.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle thickness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise
  - OTHER: Home program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06595394
