CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06391554
Title: Effects of EDUcation and EXercise Compared to Education Alone on Clinical and Physiological Outcomes in Patients With Hip Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of EDUcation and EXercise Compared to Education Alone on Clinical and Physiological Outcomes in Patients With Hip Osteoarthritis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
The EDUEX trial will determine whether the addition of progressive resistance training (PRT) to a patient education program (EDU) will improve clinical outcomes in patients with hip OA.

In a subsample, the effect of PRT on the articular cartilage and other structures of the hip joint is investigated. In this subsample, a comprehensive assessment of possible mechanisms underlying the effects of exercise on pain and function is undertaken.

The EduEx trial will be a multicentre, stratified (by site), block randomized (allocation 1:1), controlled, parallel-group superiority trial. 150 people with hip OA will be recruited from hospitals, physiotherapy clinics, social media and newspapers. Participants will be randomized to PRT and EDU or EDU alone. All 150 participants will be included in the clinical evaluation study (CLIN). The last 40 participants randomized to PRT+EDU and to EDU, respectively, will also be included in the mechanistic (MECH) evaluation study (n=80), by being asked to participate in additional outcome assessments. The primary endpoint will be the 12 months follow-up for both the CLIN and MECH study, while a secondary endpoint will be the 3-month follow-up.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
DESIGN

The EduEx trial will be a multicentre, stratified (by site), block randomized (allocation 1:1), controlled, parallel-group superiority trial. 150 people with hip OA will be recruited from the Orthopedic Departments at hospitals and from physiotherapy clinics, social media and newspapers. Participants will be randomized to PRT+EDU or EDU.

All 150 participants will be included in the clinical evaluation study (CLIN) while only the last 40 participants randomized to PRT+EDU and EDU, respectively, will also be included in the mechanistic evaluation study (MECH, n=80), by being asked to participate in additional outcome assessments including magnetic resonance imaging of the hip.

The primary endpoint will be the 12 months follow-up for both the CLIN and MECH study, while the secondary endpoint will be the 3-month follow-up.

RANDOMIZATION

After baseline assessment, participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to PRT+EDU or EDU. A computer-generated list of random numbers will be generated in the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) system. The randomization will be stratified by site and block randomized, to ensure equal distribution of allocations among trial sites. Two lists of random numbers will be generated, one for the first 70 participants and one for the last 80 participants recruited, to enable an even distribution of treatment allocation of the 80 participants in the MECH subsample. Treatment allocation will be concealed as one of the principal investigators will use the randomization tool only after the baseline assessment has been performed.

INTERVENTIONS

The PRT and EDU interventions will be conducted either at the collaborating hospital departments or physiotherapy clinics across Denmark.

PRT: Participants allocated to receive PRT will attend 3 months of supervised PRT followed by 9 months of unsupervised PRT with the addition of 8 exercise booster sessions. The PRT program consists of two weekly training sessions (60 min per session) with ≥48 hours of rest between sessions. All supervised PRT sessions will be group-based (up to 5 participants) supervised by one physiotherapist.

EDU: Both treatment arms will attend three EDU sessions provided by a trained physiotherapist involving important disease-specific information. The sessions will address knowledge of OA, treatment options with a specific focus on physical activity recommendations, advice on self-management and more. All three sessions will emphasize on engaging the participants actively and sharing experiences with each other.

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PLAN

The analyses will be based on the between-group difference in change in the primary and secondary outcomes from baseline to the 12 months follow-up, according to the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. Additionally, per protocol analyses will be performed including only participants with high adherence to the EDU sessions (at least 2 sessions attended) and high adherence to the exercise sessions (≥80% of the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes from baseline to 12 month follow-up (primary endpoint) in the Hip Disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) ADL function subscale
  - Changes from baseline to 12-month follow-up (primary endpoint) in the hip articular cartilage of the index hip measured by MRI T2 relaxation time mapping.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: PRT
  - OTHER: EDU

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06391554
