CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06386562
Title: Pilot Study of an Internet-based Parenting Program for Child Disruptive Behavior
Official Title: Step by Step - Pilot Study of an Internet-based Parenting Program for Aggressive, Disruptive Behavior in Children and Adolescents
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this pilot randomized controlled trial is to learn about effects and experiences of an internet-based parenting program for parents of children and adolescents with behavioral problems (e.g., aggressive or defiant behavior).

The main questions the study aims to answer are:

* What are the preliminary effects of the internet-based parenting program?
* What is the level of parents' engagement in the parenting program?
* How do parents perceive the program?

Families will be randomized to a version of an internet-based parenting program with support provided from family guides (psychologists) through chat messages in the program, or to the same internet-based parenting program with additional phone/digital support-meetings. Parents will answer quantitative measurements questions before, during, and after treatment. Parents will also be asked to participate in a qualitative interview after the program. Both within and between group comparisons will be conducted to see if there are trends within each arm and differences between the two types of support.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUND:

Some children with behavior problems (e.g., aggressive and defiant behaviors) are at elevated risk for continued behavioral problems, and for developing more serious forms of antisocial behaviors as well as difficulties with peers, school and mental health issues. Early and effective interventions are needed to reduce the risk of behavioral problems escalating over time.

Parenting programs can be a first intervention for parents with children under 12 years old with oppositional defiant disorder or conduct disorder, or for parents of teenagers with less severe behavioral problems. Several parenting programs that show effectiveness in addressing behavioral problems are based on social learning theory and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT). One aim of parenting programs is to reduce negative interactions between parents and children (e.g., inconsistent, strict, and insensitive parenting) and to increase positive interactions (e.g., engagement, showing support, and encouragement). Examples of evaluated parenting programs for behavioral problems include Family Check-Up (FCU), The Incredible Years, and the Swedish parenting program Comet.

Generally, internet-based interventions have become increasingly available as a treatment option for families. These have the advantage of being easily accessible, possible to go through at a convenient time, reaching people in areas where certain interventions are not available, and can be provided at a low cost. The internet-based models often include some form of support from a therapist/family guide who assists the parents. There are several promising internet-based parenting programs for parents of children with behavioral problems. In Sweden, the internet-based parenting support iComet for parents of children aged 3-12 years with behavior problems has been developed, based on the Swedish face-to-face parenting program Comet, as well as the ParentWeb for parents of teenagers, targeting parents of youth with subclinical levels of behavior problems. However, there are few internet-based parenting programs for parents of school-age children and adolescents with early signs of behavior problems.

PURPOSE AND RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

The purpose of the present project is to conduct a first evaluation of a newly developed, internet-based parenting program based on the FCU and CBT strategies, targeting parents of children between 8-16 years. The aim is to quantitatively explore preliminary effects and qualitatively explore parents' experiences of the program. The aim is also to gain knowledge on whether the support received through the internet-based parenting program and chat support in the program with a family guide (psychologist) is perceived as sufficient, or if additional digital/phone-based meetings with a family guide (psychologist) are more effective and perceived as more helpful.

Research questions are the following:

1. What is the preliminary effect of the internet-based parenting program on chi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean change from baseline in behavior problems on the Disruptive Behavior Disorder scale (oppositional defiant disorder subscale).
  - Mean change from baseline in parenting on the Parenting Children and Adolescents Scale
  - Mean change from baseline in parenting on the Parenting Children and Adolescents Scale: Impact scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family Check-up and Cognitive behavior therapy online: a Swedish internet-based parenting program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family Check-up and Cognitive behavior therapy online: a Swedish internet-based parenting program with additional parental support

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06386562
