CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02645448
Title: Glycemic Responses and of the Autonomic Cardiac Function in Diabetes Type-2 Women Post Resistance Exercise
Official Title: Glycemic Responses and of the Autonomic Cardiac Function in Diabetes Type-2 Women Post Resistance Exercise of Different Intensities
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 12
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to investigate and correlate the glucose responses and VFC 24 hours after resistance exercise (RE) sessions at different intensities in women with type 2 diabetes (DM-2). Twelve women with DM-2 were invited to perform by one week in randomized order, two weeks interventions with experimental sessions: Session Control (CONT) without conducting RE, RE session (40% or 80% of one maximum repetition - 1RM) on day 2 and day 3 was observed the effect of the length of RE session by 11h. After that, initiated the experimental sessions, where after each of the analysis of glucose 24h by continuous monitoring system of glucose was performed, considering breakfast, lunch, dinner and sleep, and analysis performed of the RR series by a period of 48h. During control sessions, the subjects were seated comfortably for 40min and RE sessions, 40%1RM and 80%1RM, were performed in medium circuit 3 sets with 16 and 8 replications and recovery range between 60 exercises and 90seg , respectively, and between the circuits 120sec. It was observed that the concentration of glucose in the period of 24h after the session has been reduced to 40% 1RM vs. CONT and 80%1RM. Hyperglycemia was prevalent in the period 34h of the sessions CONT and 80%1RM, respectively , being different from the session 40%1RM. In postprandial times, shorter hyperglycemia was found in the session to 40% 1RM vs. CONT and 80% 1RM after breakfast, lunch and dinner. At the time of sleep, less time in hyperglycemia was found between sessions of 40% 1RM vs. 80% 1RM. Significant correlations (p \<0.01) were found between glucose 24h with cardiac autonomic RRi variables, HF, LF and reason LF:HF.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was a randomized cross-by blocks in accordance with CONSORT (Schulz et al., 2010).

In total, 12 women with DM-2, between 48 and 60 years old participated in the study, where they were informed of risks, benefits and objectives of the study and signed a consent form Clarified (IC) previously approved by the Ethics Committee and Ethics in Research and Studies (CEDEP) of the Federal University of São Francisco Valley (UNIVASF), Petrolina - PE, Brazil (No. 0005/180814 CEDEP).

Of the participants, 11 were taking oral hypoglycemic medication (metformin \[n = 7\], Sulphonylurea \[n = 1\] Metformin in combination with sulfonylurea \[n = 3\]) and performed only dietary control.

Before the first visit to the UNIVASF Exercise Physiology Laboratory, the participants underwent a resting ECG examination, which could only be submitted to the test of a one maximum repetition (1RM) and meetings after report of normality certified by cardiologist.

On the first visit to the lab, participants responded history about health history, physical activity level and risk stratification. Subsequently were performed anthropometric measurements of waist circumference, abdomen and hip, as well as height and body mass for subsequent calculation of body mass index.

Two weeks before starting the intervention, participants underwent familiarization with the exercise protocol for three alternate days. After 48 hours was performed the 1RM test in the following exercises: bench press on the machine (pectoral and anterior deltoid muscle), extensor chair (quadriceps muscle), Flying (pectoral muscle), flexor chair (muscle biceps femoris, semitendinosus and semimembranosus), Pull High ahead (posterior muscles of the torso and biceps), leg press (quadriceps and gluteus), sitting Remada (posterior muscles of the torso and biceps) in equipment of Evidence® mark (Cachoerinha / RS - Brazil) and Physicus® (Auriflama / SP - Brazil).

After the 1RM test, participants received guidance in relation to food intake and the practice of daily physical activity, and that, 48 hours before the first day of intervention, do not ingest drinks contained alcohol and caffeine.

In the days of the sessions, participants fasted, they went to the lab, where they received a standard breakfast containing 285 kcal, 45g and (180 kcal) carbohydrate, 6 g (24 kcal) of protein and 9 g (81 kcal) of fat. Also they were asked to maintain the same diet during the two-week intervention and record consumption in a food diary, which was later analyzed and calculated by a trained nutritionist, using Microsoft Excel® software and the Brazilian Table of Food Composition.

It was also recommended that the main meals were taken at the same time of day (Breakfast between 7:00 and 7:20h; lunch between 12:00h and 14:00h and Dinner between 18:00h and 20:00h). The energy intake and consumption of daily macronutrients did not differ between sessions as shown in Table 2. During the days of intervention participants were in

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Concentration of glucose and hyperglycemia prevalence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02645448
