CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06866119
Title: Effects of Estrogen on Heart Health in Women With Primary Ovarian Insufficiency
Official Title: Effects of Estrogen Replacement on Cardiometabolic Endpoints in Women With Primary Ovarian Insufficiency
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 45
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The goal of this observational study is to study the effects of treating women with Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI) with estrogen replacement therapy to bolster the evidence backing cardiometabolic preventive care in women with POI. The main question it aims to answer is:

Does 6 months of estrogen replacement therapy for women with POI improved markers of heart health?

Women newly diagnosed with POI (within 6 months) who are planning to start estrogen replacement therapy from their clinical provider will undergo assessment of markers of heart health before and after 6 months of treatment. These markers will also be compared to those obtained from healthy women without POI.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Primary Ovarian Insufficiency (POI) is known to adversely affect bone and CV health. Despite the established role for ERT in bone health and the potential cardioprotection suggested by recent studies, few women with POI receive treatment. In this proposed study, we aim to characterize potential salient short-term benefits of ERT on CV surrogates. We hypothesize that among women newly diagnosed with POI, clinical initiation of ERT with transdermal estrogen will improve cardiometabolic risk surrogates, including endothelial function. This study will enhance the body of evidence underpinning guideline-directed approaches to cardiometabolic preventive health care for women with POI.

For this observational study, women newly diagnosed with POI (within 6 months) who are planning to clinically initiate hormonal replacement with 100mcg transdermal 17beta-estradiol twice weekly and micro-ionized progesterone (either 200mg cyclically or 100mg daily) will undergo assessment of cardiometabolic endpoints before and after 6 months of treatment. For comparison, healthy women without POI matched 1:1 on age, BMI, and PREVENT™ risk score category (low-high risk) will undergo parallel assessments at baseline.

Participants will undergo a medical history, physical exam, anthropomorphic measurements, blood sampling, brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), as a measure of peripheral endothelial function relevant to development of incident CVD, and whole-body DXA to assess body composition. Case participants with POI will participate in two in-person study visits that occur just prior to initiation of ERT and 6-months into treatment. Healthy control participants only participate in a single baseline visit.

The primary endpoint will be brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Secondary endpoints will include measures of metabolic dysregulation (possibly including, but not limited to, hemoglobin A1c, circulating lipid levels, HOMA-IR for insulin resistance and DEXA-derived visceral adipose tissue) and characterization of circulating immune/inflammatory biomarkers (possibly including, but not limited to, CRP and pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Brachial artery Flow Mediated Vasodilation (FMD)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06866119
