CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05701943
Title: Comparison of Home- vs. Gym-based Exercise Delivery Modes
Official Title: Home- vs Gym-based Exercise Delivery Modes of Two Aerobic Training Regimes on Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Arterial Stiffness in Adults With Intellectual and Developmental Disability During the COVID-19 Pandemic
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 17
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Home-based exercise interventions were the only alternatives to attenuate physical deconditioning and ameliorate traditional and emergent cardiovascular risk factors progression during the COVID-19 outbreak. Benefits in physical and psychological health have only been reported in adults without intellectual and developmental disability (IDD).

The purpose of this study is to compare home vs gym-based delivery exercise modes of two 8-week supervised aerobic training regimes on cardiorespiratory fitness and arterial structure and stiffness in adults with IDD.

It is hypothesized that home- and gym- based exercise delivery modes will be equally effective in improving cardiorespiratory fitness and overall arterial heath, although in an intensity dependent manner. A secondary analysis examining changes in blood pressure and body composition will be performed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 40 participants from the project SPORTS4ALL by Ginásio Clube Português (GCP) were recruited to participate in the study. Study advertising took take place through direct invitation by the research team and rehabilitation technicians. The time frame for recruitment of participants take approximately 1 month. Eligible volunteers were invited to an initial meeting with their families/legal guardians, exercise physiologists, and rehabilitation technicians. During this meeting, the procedures of the trial, testing procedures, benefits, risks, and the time required for the study will be explained. In addition, an information sheet about the research and an informed consent form for participants and parent(s)/ legal guardian(s), in accordance with the approval by the Ethical Committee of Faculdade de Motricidade Humana - Universidade de Lisboa, was distributed. Informed written consent were signed by participants and parent(s) legal guardian(s) before allocation. After signing the informed consent, participants or parents/legal guardians were asked to answer the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire for Everyone (PAR-Q+) questionnaire, to assess their readiness to increase their levels of physical activity, and a sociodemographic data questionnaire. During a second visit, all volunteers participated in familiarization sessions before baseline testing at the laboratory. The number of familiarization sessions was repeated until the researchers observed that the participants are confident and able to perform all assessments correctly (1-2 sessions). Of the 36 participants recruited, by the time the mandatory COVID-19 home confinement was declared by the Portuguese government, only 17 participants had completed laboratorial exercise testing. Only these participants were part of the present study.

This study was a randomized controlled trial, where a convenience group of 17 who had completed laboratory exercise tests, were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to an SIT or CAET regime by using a random-block randomization scheme. Participants in both aerobic regimes received a 16-week supervised exercise program performed 3 times a week for 60 min each session. The intervention started with 8 weeks of online training via Google Meets at their homes followed by 1 month of detraining with no exercise sessions besides those made available by the SPORTS4ALL program, and another 8 weeks of on-site training at the gym. During the intervention, adherence to the protocols were assessed with an exercise diary. Assessments were conducted on 4 occasions over a 20-week period: before (M1; 0 weeks) and after (M2; 8 weeks) the home-based intervention; and before (M3; 12 weeks) and after (M4; 20 weeks) the gym-based intervention. During M1, assessments and personal information was obtained. All laboratory tests were conducted by the same researchers during the morning. Participants were asked to refrain from eating for at least 3 h, alcohol for 24 h, caffeine for 8 h, 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Cardiorespiratory Fitness
  - Change in Arterial Stiffness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home-Based
  - BEHAVIORAL: Gym-Based

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05701943
