CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05586724
Title: Micronized Progesterone Versus Norethisterone Acetate in Combination With Estrogen as Menopausal Hormone Therapy
Official Title: Safety of Oral Micronized Progesterone Versus Norethisterone Acetate in Continuous Combination With Oral Estrogen as Menopausal Hormone Therapy - a Double-blind Randomized Study- PROBES Study (Progesterone Breast Endometrial Safety Study)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 520
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
About one third of all women during menopausal transition have significant climacteric symptoms with considerable impact on quality of life. Meta-analysis has shown a beneficial risk profile with menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) for women 50 to 60 years. Still, there is a great need to find safe MHT able to control excessive endometrial stimulation by estrogen without stimulatory effects on the breast by the combination of estrogen/progestogen. Recent observational studies indicate a lower risk for breast cancer using micronized progesterone (mP) combined with estrogen but increased risk of endometrial cancer than by standard MHT. In a randomized trial, the balance between benefits and risks of mP vs. progestogens (norethisterone (NETA)) in combination with estrogen will be explored. For apparent reasons, long-term largescale clinical trials with endometrial and breast cancer as the primary endpoints, are not feasible. However, much knowledge can be obtained using relevant surrogate markers. Mammographic breast density is a strong risk factor for breast cancer, and endometrial hyperplasia is a strong risk factor for endometrial cancer. The primary objective is to compare the effects of one year treatment with mP versus progestogen, in combination with estradiol on mammographic breast density. Furthermore, to evaluate the effect of one year treatment with mP in continuous combination with estradiol on endometrial pathology (hyperplasia and cancer).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms will be randomized (1:1) to double blind treatment with oral mP or NETA in combination with oral estradiol. For the breast part, a power analysis revealed that 91 women/group would be sufficient to detect a significant difference in mammographic breast density between the groups at the 5%-level (two-sided) with 80% power. Considering the estimated rate of discontinuation and incomplete data, the target sample for the breast part is 260 patients. For the endometrial part, it is estimated that two or less women with serious adverse endometrial outcomes would result in an annual incidence of endometrial pathology of 0.67% or less with an upper bound of the one-sided 95% CI of 2.08% or less. Considering the estimated rate of discontinuation and incomplete data in the mP + estradiol group, the target sample for this part of the study is 390 patients. The total number of patients in part 1 and 2 will be 520.

Mammography at baseline and after 12 months of treatment will be assessed by independent radiologists at the Karolinska University Hospital blinded to treatment. In addition to visual judgment, a computer based quantitative assessment will be performed. All mammograms will be anonymous so that the operator will be unaware of the patient's identity and type of treatment. Percentage change in mammographic density will be evaluated and compared between the groups.

Endometrial biopsies at baseline and after 12 months of treatment will be evaluated by two independent pathologists at the Karolinska University Hospital for the incidence of endometrial pathology (hyperplasia or cancer) in the mP + estradiol group. Furthermore, immunostaining of the proliferation marker Ki-67, and other markers related to proliferation and apoptosis will be analyzed and compared between groups.

Different validated self-assessment questionnaires will be used for screening of mood disorders like depression and anxiety, as well as quality of life and menopausal symptoms. The Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) is a tool for screening, diagnosing, and measuring the severity of depression. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is an instrument for detecting states of depression and anxiety in the setting of a hospital or medical outpatient clinic. Health related quality of life is measured using the Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWB). The Women's Health Questionnaire (WHQ) measures menopausal symptoms. The change in scores will be compared between the groups.

Blood lipid profile, serum hormones, growth and metabolic factors, and coagulation factors will be analyzed.

The gut- and vaginal microbiome will be characterized and compared between groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mammographic breast density
  - Endometrial pathology

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Micronized progesterone in continuous combination with oral estrogen
  - DRUG: Norethisterone acetate in continuous combination with oral estrogen

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05586724
