CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03853902
Title: Mindfulness Online for Symptom Alleviation and Improvement in Cancer of the Prostate
Official Title: MOSAIC-P: Mindfulness Online for Symptom Alleviation and Improvement in Cancer of the Prostate
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
In this study, the researchers will examine the effects of a 4-week online mindfulness intervention, compared to a face-to-face mindfulness intervention, to reduce self-reported symptoms of fatigue, anxiety, depression, sleep disturbance, and pain interference in a sample of patients with metastatic prostate cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be recruited from multiple locations, including NorthShore University Health System's Kellogg Cancer Center (KCC) and local community organizations (e.g., UsToo meetings, Cancer Wellness Center). Participating physician researchers will identify their eligible patients from the electronic medical record and will mail them a letter of invitation to learn more about the study and consider enrolling. Each participant will be e-mailed a link to the baseline questionnaire. After baseline completion, participants will be randomized, using an online random number generator, to the online course or face-to-face course. Course orientation for both groups will be held on the same night, but at different times. The separate orientations will be scheduled with a thirty minute break in between, in order to prevent intermixing of the groups and potential dissatisfaction among participants about their assigned group. In the orientation for the online class, participants will become familiar with the online video conferencing program Zoom, be introduced to other group participants, and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week mindfulness course. In the orientation for the face-to-face class, participants will be introduced to other group participants and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week mindfulness course. Participants will meet for approximately 2.5 hours each week for 4 weeks online or face-to-face. In addition, a face to face half day retreat will occur after the third class, in which participants from both face to face and online courses may attend. In the event that a participant unexpectedly misses a class, the instructor will follow-up with them and review the material covered in class. The class instructor may contact participants up to 3 times to review class expectations and teachings prior to or during the 4-week program. Participants will once again be asked to complete the online assessment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in pain interference using the PROMIS Pain Interference questionnaire
  - Change in sleep using the PROMIS Sleep Disturbance questionnaire
  - Change in depression using the PROMIS Depression questionnaire
  - Change in anxiety using the PROMIS Anxiety questionnaire
  - Change in fatigue using the PROMIS Fatigue questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03853902
