CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04077164
Title: Chronic Pain, Couples, & Physical Activity
Official Title: Need Supportive Interpersonal Behaviors and Physical Activity in the Context of Couples and Chronic Pain
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 400
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic pain affects more than 50 million adults in the United States and is estimated to cost the nation more than $560 billion dollars each year. Regular physical activity is widely recognized as essential for maintaining health for all individuals, but is particularly important for individuals with chronic pain (ICPs) as physical activity can prevent further deconditioning and may even improve pain outcomes. Previous literature has shown that certain categories of partner behaviors (e.g., solicitous, punishing, distracting) are associated with different health outcomes for ICPs, and recently researchers have begun examining partner behaviors through the lens of Self-Determination Theory, specifically looking at the effects of autonomy support from a spouse on physical activity among ICPs. Partner autonomy support has been positively associated with physical activity levels and better health outcomes, but no studies to date have explored what factors predict whether or not a partner will use an autonomy supportive interpersonal style (as opposed to a controlling interpersonal style) with the ICP.

Similarly, more research is needed on the mechanisms by which autonomy support promotes positive outcomes for ICPs. Though receiving autonomy support has been linked to increased physical activity and improved mental health, no studies have yet tested the full Self-Determination Theory model as one possible explanation of the link between this form of partner support and desirable health outcomes. In particular, it is important to understand the ICP's perspective on how partner autonomy support influences need satisfaction and autonomous motivation as possible mediators between autonomy support and ICP physical activity. Furthermore, little research has explored other need supportive behaviors or their need frustrating counterparts. The current study will not only provide greater understanding of autonomy support, but will also expand the literature regarding these other need supportive and need thwarting behaviors.

Lastly, given the value of need supportive behaviors from one's partner, it is essential to evaluate how partner perceptions of those need supportive behaviors align with ICP's perceptions of those behaviors. Any need support a partner provides is likely moderated by the ICP's perception of that support.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic pain affects more than 50 million adults in the United States and is estimated to cost the nation more than $560 billion dollars each year. Regular physical activity is widely recognized as essential for maintaining health for all individuals, but is particularly important for individuals with chronic pain (ICPs) as physical activity can prevent further deconditioning and may even improve pain outcomes. Previous literature has shown that certain categories of partner behaviors (e.g., solicitous, punishing, distracting) are associated with different health outcomes for ICPs, and recently researchers have begun examining partner behaviors through the lens of Self-Determination Theory, specifically looking at the effects of autonomy support from a spouse on physical activity among ICPs. Partner autonomy support has been positively associated with physical activity levels and better health outcomes, but no studies to date have explored what factors predict whether or not a partner will use an autonomy supportive interpersonal style (as opposed to a controlling interpersonal style) with the ICP.

Similarly, more research is needed on the mechanisms by which autonomy support promotes positive outcomes for ICPs. Though receiving autonomy support has been linked to increased physical activity and improved mental health, no studies have yet tested the full Self-Determination Theory model as one possible explanation of the link between this form of partner support and desirable health outcomes. In particular, it is important to understand the ICP's perspective on how partner autonomy support influences need satisfaction and autonomous motivation as possible mediators between autonomy support and ICP physical activity. Furthermore, little research has explored other need supportive behaviors or their need frustrating counterparts. The current study will not only provide greater understanding of autonomy support, but will also expand the literature regarding these other need supportive and need thwarting behaviors.

Lastly, given the value of need supportive behaviors from one's partner, it is essential to evaluate how partner perceptions of those need supportive behaviors align with ICP's perceptions of those behaviors. Any need support a partner provides is likely moderated by the ICP's perception of that support.

Self-determination theory (SDT) posits that contextual, perceptual, and individual factors may influence how much an individual uses an autonomy supportive interpersonal style through the mediators of basic psychological need satisfaction and on autonomous motivation.

The present study used path analysis to test a SDT model of the relationships between a contextual factor (autonomy support from health care provider), a perceptual factor (partner's perception of ICP motivation for physical activity), an individual factor (partner catastrophizing about ICP's pain), and the sequential mediators of relationship need satisfaction and autonom

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Physical Activity as Assessed by the Physical Activity Scale for Individuals with Physical Disabilities [PASIPD]
  - Use of Need Supportive Interpersonal Behaviors as Assessed by "Interpersonal Behaviors Questionnaire" (Self-report Version) [IBQ-Self]

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: No intervention, observational only.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04077164
