CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05853484
Title: Home-based Bimodal Lifestyle Intervention in Patients With Liver Cirrhosis Awaiting Orthotopic Liver Transplantation
Official Title: FIT4Cirrhotics@Home: Effects of a Home-based Bimodal Lifestyle Intervention in Patients With Liver Cirrhosis Awaiting Orthotopic Liver Transplantation
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 16
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Chronic liver disease eventually results in liver cirrhosis and is associated with an increasing deterioration in patients' physical fitness. As there is currently limited evidence regarding the effects of a home-based exercise program in patients with liver cirrhosis awaiting OLT, and physical frailty rates are particularly high in this patient population, this group has the investigators specific interest. The primary aim of this study is to assess the effect of a semi-supervised home-based bimodal lifestyle program, consisting of interval and endurance training and peripheral resistance training on aerobic capacity in patients with liver cirrhosis awaiting OLT

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Patients with liver cirrhosis who are on the waiting list for orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) encounter all key components of physical frailty, i.e., decreased functional capacity, impaired aerobic capacity and sarcopenia, which all lead to fatigue, diminished quality of life, increased hospitalization and pre- and post-transplantation morbidity and mortality. An exercise program in combination with nutritional support has proven to improve all key components of physical frailty and quality of life in various surgical patient populations. Although small studies have demonstrated similar positive effects of exercise training in patients on the waiting list for OLT, to date no large studies supported the effects of exercise training and nutritional support on (the longevity of) the increase in aerobic capacity in OLT patients.

Objective: The primary objective of this study is to assess the effect of a semi-supervised home based bimodal lifestyle intervention on aerobic capacity (measured by VO2 at the Ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT) and VO2peak in ml/kg/min) in patients with liver cirrhosis on the waiting list for OLT. Secondary objectives are to evaluate individual patients' responses to the bimodal lifestyle intervention on sarcopenia, anthropometry, functional mobility, quality of life, perceived fatigue, incidence of hepatic encephalopathy, number of unplanned hospital admissions, change in liver frailty index score and change in microbiome composition at six, 12 and 18 weeks, or until transplantation. Finally, the feasibility (participation rate, reasons for non-participation, adherence/compliance, dropout rate, reasons for dropout and adverse event) will be assessed.

Study design: This study is an investigator-initiated, single center, single arm, prospective clinical trial. It will take place at the University Medical Center Groningen, the Netherlands. Eligible patients will participate in the bimodal lifestyle program, which comprises two home-based training periods of six-weeks each (12 weeks training in total, or until transplantation). After 18 weeks (i.e., six weeks after termination of the program) a final assessment will take place to evaluate the longevity of the expected effects of the lifestyle program on predefined study outcomes.

Study population: Adult patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis and screened for OLT, with a VO2 at the VAT ≤13ml/kg/min and/or VO2peak ≤18ml/kg/min will be screened for potential eligibility. Patients with no contraindications to physical exercise training and the ability to work out on a cycle ergometer can participate in the bimodal lifestyle intervention.

Intervention: Patients will participate in a home-based bimodal lifestyle program. The program comprises semi-supervised high intensity interval and endurance training on an advanced cycle ergometer (Lode Corival Home+ , Lode BV, Groningen, The Netherlands), combined with nutritional support consisting of protein, vitamin

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Aerobic capacity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Bimodal lifestyle program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05853484
