CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06688344
Title: Efficacy of Focused Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Official Title: Effectiveness of Focused Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy Applied as an Addition to Conventional Physiotherapy Program After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this clinical trial is to determine the effectiveness of fESWT in rehabilitation after ACL reconstruction. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Is fESWT applied in addition to conventional physiotherapy effective in physiotherapy-related parameters?

Researchers will compare conventional physiotherapy and conventional physiotherapy + fESWT to see if fESWT provides benefits in addition to conventional physiotherapy.

Participants:

They will receive the conventional physiotherapy program 2 days per week. In addition, the intervention group will receive low-intensity fESWT 1 day per week.

Participants' muscle strength, postural balance, range of motion, pain scores and functional status will be assessed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) is a safe, effective and non-invasive treatment option that can be used in different pathologies of the musculoskeletal system. It is based on the production of acoustic waves that interact directly with cells through mechanotransduction and activate the metabolic process that leads to tissue remodeling. ESWT can be classified as focused ESWT (fESWT) and radial ESWT (rESWT). While rESWT has a more superficial effect and reaches the maximum energy at the skin surface and distributes it radially to the tissue, fESWT develops the maximum energy at a focus located deeper in the body tissues. Studies have suggested that ESWT can be applied in combination with physiotherapy in patients affected by musculoskeletal disorders . In the literature, its effectiveness has been investigated in different musculoskeletal problems such as lateral epicondylitis, rotator cuff tendinopathy, Achilles tendinopathy, patellar tendinopathy, greater trochanteric pain syndrome, plantar fasciitis, and the best evidence supporting the use of ESWT has been obtained with low to medium energy levels for tendon disorders and high energy levels for tendon calcification and bone pathologies . The usability of ESWT treatment in knee-related pathologies has been discussed in the literature. In the treatment of ligament injuries such as the medial collateral ligament, fESWT has been shown to be a reliable and safe light energy shock wave treatment for the management of injuries without surgical indications . It has been reported that it is useful for inducing neovascularization in knee tendon injuries, improving blood flow in the bone-tendon junction, and supporting tissue repair. It has been thought that it has chondroprotective, anti-inflammatory, neovascularization, antiapoptotic and tissue regeneration effects on tissues, and therefore can be used in osteoarthritis. Another situation where the effect of ESWT on knee pathologies has been investigated is anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) surgeries. ACL reconstruction surgery aims to restore knee functions by providing the tightest possible repair so that the reconstruction of the torn ligament can be an excellent biological replacement. The functional outcome of this surgery depends on the solid healing of the graft-bone union in the bone tunnel. It is known that if the bone and tendon do not heal together, this may lead to knee pathology in the future. Although the studies on the use of ESWT after ACL surgery are quite limited, more focus has been placed on the effect of ESWT on the graft. Wang et al. applied 1 session of fESWT in operating room conditions during anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction surgery and reported that the patients had higher functional levels compared to the control group at 1 and 2 years. Song et al. included 72 patients who underwent anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and applied ESWT once a week starting from the 2nd postoperative day in addition to the

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee extansor muscle strength
  - postural stability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: fESWT
  - OTHER: Conventional Physiotherapy
  - OTHER: shamfESWT

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06688344
