CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06597084
Title: Anti-epileptogenic Effects of Eslicarbazepine Acetate
Official Title: Prevention of Epilepsy in Stroke Patients at High Risk of Developing Unprovoked Seizures: Anti-epileptogenic Effects of Eslicarbazepine Acetate
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 129
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
This study aims to assess if eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) treatment (started within 96 hours after stroke occurrence and continued for 30 days) changes the incidence of unprovoked seizures (USs) within the first 6 months after randomisation as compared to placebo

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial in patients with acute intracerebral haemorrhage with a Cortical involvement, Age \<65 years, Volume of intracerebral haemorrhage \> 10 ml and Early seizure within 7 days after intracerebral haemorrhage (CAVE) score ≥ 3 or an acute ischaemic stroke with a SeLECT score ≥ 6.

At the first visit (screening/baseline, V1a), patients will undergo several examinations to check eligibility. The next visit (V1b) has to be performed within 96 hours after primary stroke occurrence. After eligibility has been confirmed, patients will be randomised (randomisation ratio 1:1) to treatment with ESL 800 mg (Group A) or placebo (Group B).

Patients will start treatment with the investigational medicinal product (IMP), i.e. ESL or placebo, within 96 hours after primary stroke occurrence at V1b. They will continue treatment until Day 30 after randomisation and then be tapered off. Thereafter, patients will be followed up until 18 months after randomisation. Patients can concomitantly receive antiepileptic therapies, except commercially available ESL or oxcarbazepine, until Day 30.

Concomitant antiepileptic therapies have to be discontinued and down-titration has to be started according to the respective Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). If the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs)/benzodiazepine are not already discontinued before, downtitration must be started on Day 31 at the latest.

If one or more AS(s) occur(s) within 7 days after primary stroke, this will not result in change of IMP dose. Patients having a first US will discontinue IMP treatment and will be treated at the discretion of the investigator until 18 months after randomisation, except with commercially available ESL.

Further visits will be performed 7 days (V2, on-site), 37 days (V3, on-site), 12 weeks (V4, telephone), 26 weeks (V5, on-site), 38 weeks (V6, telephone), 52 weeks (V7, on-site), 64 weeks (V8, telephone) and 78 weeks (End of Trial (EoT) visit, on-site) after V1b.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of Patients Who Experience the First Unprovoked Seizures (US) Within the First 6 Months After Randomisation (Failure Rate)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: ESL 800 mg
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06597084
