CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03325309
Title: Barriers and Facilitators to Cycling for Lumbar Spinal Stenosis
Official Title: Barriers and Facilitators to a Home-based Cycling Program Tailored to Patients' Preferences in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Using Connected Ergometric Bicycles: a 3-month Open Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a home-based cycling program for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis is a feasible and acceptable

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lumbar spinal stenosis is a prevalent and disabling condition in elderly individuals. Lumbar spinal stenosis results in lumbar and/or radicular leg pain when standing and walking, while symptoms regress in lumbar flexion positions and at rest. The inability to stand or walk impairs functioning and health-related quality of life of elders, and has an important healthcare cost. The 2 main treatment options for lumbar spinal stenosis are conservative or surgical. Laminectomy may be more effective on pain and function than conservative therapy. However, the benefit-risk balance of surgery should be considered in this population with numerous co-morbidities, and evidence is inconsistent. Therefore, conservative therapy is usually the first line option to avoid or delay surgery. Data regarding exercise therapy are scarce. Lumbar-flexion-based exercises are usually recommended. A pilot study suggested that lumbar-flexion-based endurance training, namely cycling, could be an effective and safe method to improve pain, function and health-related quality of life in elderly patients with chronic low back pain but barriers to adhering to the program were detected. Investigators aim to assess barriers and facilitators to a 3-month home-based cycling program in lumbar spinal stenosis.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Barriers to home-based cycling
  - Facilitators to home-based cycling

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Home-based cycling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03325309
