CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07306312
Title: Psychological Predictors of Pain and Disability in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain After Manual Therapy
Official Title: Psychological Predictors of Pain and Disability in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain After Manual Therapy
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Low back pain has been reported to cause more disability than any other musculoskeletal health condition worldwide. About eight out of ten people will experience back pain at least once in their lifetime. The parameters that are usually evaluated in a low back pain condition are pain, functional disability and range of motion of the lumbar spine. There are studies that associate psychological conditions (self-efficacy, kinesiophobia, catastrophology, depression, anxiety) with pain and functional disability in patients with low back pain. However, the ability of psychological factors to predict progression after a program of physical therapy or therapeutic methods is not well studied.

The main purpose of this study is to investigate the predictive potential of psychological factors in the improvement of pain and functional disability after a manual therapy physiotherapy program in patients with chronic low back pain. A secondary purpose is to investigate the predictive potential of psychological factors in the improvement of pain and functional disability following a program of Pain Neuroscience Education (PNE) in patients with chronic low back pain. In addition, as a secondary purpose, it will be to investigate the effect of combining manual therapy therapy with PNE compared to manual therapy alone in patients with chronic low back pain.

This study will involve 60 people aged 18-65 with chronic low back pain, who will be randomly divided by lots into 2 groups of 30 people. The 1st group (30 people) will be treated with manual therapy based on Maitland's principles (interview, evaluation, mobilization), without any use of physiotherapy machines, but with the use of personalized exercises. The 2nd group (30 people) will do the same as group 1 and additional volunteers will participate in before, in a training program in Pain Neuroscience Education (PNE). The total number of sessions that each volunteer will receive will be 6, the duration of each session will be about 45 minutes, the frequency of the sessions will be 2 times a week and the total duration of the intervention will be 3 weeks. The associations between psychological states and clinical characteristics (pain, disability and range of motion) will be carried out with the Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficient depending on whether the data are parametric or not. Multiple regression models will also be created with predictive factors for psychological states and a predictive variable for each of the clinical parameters. The significance level will be set to p=0.05.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Sample A total of 60 people with chronic low back pain will participate in the study and will be divided by lot into two groups of 30 people. The statistical calculation of the sample was made in the following way. We have 5 predictive factors (self-efficacy, depression, kinesiophobia, catastrophism and anxiety) and one predictive factor. According to the regression model we will need 10 people for each variable (i.e. 50 people). However, since we will divide the individuals into 2 groups, in order to have statistical strength in the measurements that will be made, we will take 30 people in each group Participants will be taken through convenience sampling. Participation in the survey will be voluntary and all those who take part will sign a consent form, after detailed information through the information form.

Equipment and Materials The equipment that will be used to conduct the study includes: a) a special electric manual therapy bed, adjustable in height, with recline and hole for the face b) two inclinometers to measure the range of motion of the lumbar spine, c) a mechanical algometer for measuring the pain threshold of the lumbar spine, d) specific questionnaires.

Interventions In both intervention groups, manual therapy based on Maitland's principles (interview, evaluation, mobilization) will be applied without the use of physiotherapy machines, but with the use of therapeutic exercise. The physiotherapist who will apply the techniques is a certified therapist of manual therapy Maitland Concept with 8 years of experience in the application of the method. The number of sessions that each volunteer will receive will be 6, the duration of each session will be about 45 minutes, the frequency of sessions will be 2 times a week and the total duration of the intervention will be 3 weeks.

The International Federation of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists (IFOMPT) defines orthopaedic manual physical therapy as: "a specialized area of physiotherapy for the management of neuromusculoskeletal disorders, based on clinical reasoning, using very specific therapeutic approaches, including manual techniques and therapeutic exercises. Orthopedic hand-held physiotherapy also includes, and is guided by, the available scientific and clinical data and the biopsychosocial context of each individual patient".

The effectiveness of manual therapy in the treatment of low back pain (LBP) has been supported by various studies, indicating its potential benefits in reducing pain, improving impotence and trajectory range. Manual therapy includes techniques such as manipulation and mobilization, which have shown positive results in enhancing range of motion and relieving discomfort in patients with low back pain.

Treating low back pain through exercise has been shown to be an effective intervention, with various studies highlighting its benefits in reducing pain and improving functionality. Exercise therapy, including specific methods such as Pilates and t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Manual therapy
  - OTHER: Manual therapy plus Pain Neuroscience Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07306312
