CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05352477
Title: Balneotherapy With Acquabios Thermal Water in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Double-blind Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial for Evaluating the Effects of Balneotherapy With Acquabios Thermal Water in Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 88
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is the evaluation of the effect of balneotherapy with Acquabios bicarbonate-alkaline-sodium thermal water in ameliorating some signs and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis in human subjects suffering from this disease

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This double-blind randomized controlled clinical trial is aimed to evaluate whether the balneotherapy with Acquabios thermal water is effective in improving some signs and symptoms of gonarthrosis in subjects affected by this disease.

The evaluated outcomes will be the reduction of pain and muscle-joint stiffness, the improvement of the joint range, the improvement of the quality of life, strength in the lower limbs and tolerance to physical exercise, the quality of walking and function in specific daily activities compared to the control group. Appropriated and validated tests will be used to evaluate the achievement of these outcomes.

The evaluation will be carried out on all patients enrolled in the study at the beginning, after the first week of treatment, after the second week of treatment and at the end of the study period (90 days after the first day of treatment). All eligible patients will be evaluated at the time of selection for weight, height, blood pressure, heart rate. These parameters will be evaluated and recorded on a specific form both during the enrollment and during all the visits planned for the follow-up. Each visit will last approximately 30 minutes.

The adverse reactions known for the balneotherapy with thermal water are the temporary reduction or increase of blood pression, thermal crisis and thermal reaction.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of knee pain as assessed by Visual Analogue Scale
  - Change of knee joint stiffness as assessed by Western Ontario and McMaster Universities.(WOMAC) osteoarthritis index
  - Change of knee range of motion change as assessed by the use of a universal goniometer
  - Change of walking quality as assessed by the 6-meters Walking Test.
  - Change of walking quality as assessed by Western Ontario and McMaster Universities (WOMAC) osteoarthritis score.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Balneotherapy with thermal water
  - OTHER: Balneotherapy with tap water

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05352477
