CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06229509
Title: Study of the Cytokine Response During Exercise Dyspnea in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Effect of Body Composition
Official Title: Study of Cytokine Response During Exercise Dyspnea in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Effect of Body Composition
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Dyspnea, more commonly known as breathlessness, is a symptom found in the majority of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with a major impact on quality of life and mortality.

COPD is a chronic inflammatory disease of the bronchi, affecting 8% of the French population (more than 3 million people). By 2030, it will be the third leading cause of death worldwide. Effective management of dyspnea in these patients is a priority.

In patients with severe COPD, physical exertion increases the workload of breathing, leading to dyspnea. At the same time, the respiratory muscles and fatty cells release cytokines, myokines and adipokines - a group of proteins involved in the inflammatory response. In addition, 15% of COPD patients suffer from sarcopenia (loss of muscle mass and strength) which increases respiratory effort and dyspnea.

Our research project aims to study the effect of dyspnea relief in COPD patients on cytokine, myokine and adipokine levels, taking into account the presence of sarcopenia. Indeed, it is possible to alleviate the workload of the respiratory muscles during exercise by means of respiratory assistance.

The ultimate goal is a better understanding of dyspnea mechanisms, to enable the development of cytokine-targeted therapies and improve quality of life and survival in these patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Variation in exercise-induced release of cytokines IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and TNF-alpha plasma concentrations (pg/mL) between the two ventilatory conditions (sham and effective)
  - Variation in exercise-induced release of adipokines adiponectin and leptin concentrations (pg/mL) between the two ventilatory conditions (sham and effective)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Effective noninvasive ventilation
  - DEVICE: Sham noninvasive ventilation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06229509
