CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05664945
Title: Rethinking Pulmonary Rehabilitation - a Three-arm Randomised Multicentre Trial
Official Title: Rethinking Pulmonary Rehabilitation for Patients With COPD: a Three-arm Randomised Multicentre Trial (REPORT-trial)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is one of the cornerstones of care for people with COPD together with smoking cessation and medical treatment. Despite the compelling evidence for its benefits, pulmonary rehabilitation is delivered to less than 30% of patients with COPD. Access to PR are particularly challenging, and especially for those with the most progressed stages of the disease.

Pulmonary Tele-rehabilitation (PTR) and Home-based pulmonary rehabilitation (HPR) are two emerging models using health-care supportive technology that have proven equivalent to the conventional PR programs in patients with COPD who are able and willing to participate in conventional PR.

However, much remain unknown regarding patients with COPD unable to access and participate in the conventional out-patient hospital- or community-based PR when offered during routine consultation. No studies have been conducted to specifically intervene towards this group. Response from emerging rehabilitation models for this specific group is a black box with no substantial research.

To fulfill its potential of relevance, results from emerging models, such as Pulmonary Telerehabilitation and Home-based pulmonary rehabilitation must be of clinical relevance, and superior to the current 'usual care' (medication and scheduled follow-up control) in patients with COPD unable to access and participate in the conventional out-patient hospital- or community-based PR when offered during routine consultation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This trial will investigate if pulmonary tele-rehabilitation (PTR) and home-based pulmonary rehabilitation (HPR) leads to respiratory symptom relief (CAT score) and improvements on secondary outcomes in patients unable to access conventional rehabilitation programs (standard PR offer).

Our hypotheses in a three-arm RCT design are

1. PTR and HPR will be equivalent to each other
2. PTR and HPR will be superior to usual care, that is the control group (CON - no intervention)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in COPD Assessment Test (CAT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: pulmonary tele-rehabilitation (PTR)
  - BEHAVIORAL: home-based pulmonary rehabilitation (HPR)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05664945
