CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05639231
Title: An INtervention TO Improve MOBility of Older Hospitalized Patients
Official Title: Impact of an INtervention TO Increase MOBility in Older Hospitalized Medical Patients (INTOMOB): a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 383
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Low mobility during an acute care hospitalization is very frequent, particularly among older patients, and associated with adverse outcomes, such as persistent functional decline, institutionalization and death. However, increasing hospital mobility remains challenging because of the multiple existing barriers.

The goal of this clinical trial is to test the effect of a multilevel intervention to increase hospital mobility, which addresses modifiable barriers and facilitators and does not require unavailable additional resources.

This study aims to answer whether this intervention can improve mobility and patient-relevant outcomes such as life-space mobility and functional status.

The multilevel intervention will target:

1. The patients, who will receive an information booklet, a customizable diary, an exercise booklet and an iPad with access to the videos of the exercise booklet.
2. The healthcare professionals (nursing staff and physicians) who will complete an e-learning, receive an oral presentation on the intervention, and receive a "mobility checklist" that reminds them of what they should assess daily regarding mobility.
3. The hospital environment, where posters will be hung in the wards, including walking itineraries, on topics of interest to older adults.

In a first phase, the intervention will be pilot-tested in one ward of each hospital. The intervention will then be adapted based on patient and healthcare professional feedback.

In a second phase, the intervention will be tested in a cluster randomized controlled trial, and compared to standard of care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Life-space level

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: INTOMOB intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05639231
