CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05957809
Title: Structured Exercise Training in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Sclerosis
Official Title: The Effects of Structured Exercise Training on Disease Course in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Sclerosis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 49
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
the effectiveness of structured exercise training will be investigated for individuals with MS who are newly diagnosed and have no clinical problems. Individuals with MS included in the study will be randomly divided into two groups a Structured Exercise Group (SEG) and a Control Group (CG). In order to compare baseline and follow-up data, the Healthy Group (HG) will be taken and all three groups will be evaluated initially, 8. weeks and 24. weeks with primary and secondary outcome measurements. SEG, CG, and HG will be evaluated initially for postural sway, muscle strength, mobility, dexterity, cognitive function, trunk strength-endurance, and fatigue. Afterward, SEG will receive structured exercise training consisting of clinically supervised aerobic exercise and resistance training on unstable surfaces for 8 weeks, 2 days a week, with a minimum session duration of 60 minutes. Stretching and mobility exercises will be added to warm up and cool down before and after the program. CG will be on the waiting list during this process. At the end of 8 weeks, both groups will be reassessed with their initial assessment. After the 8-week program, the SEG physical activity recommendation will be given and the KG group will continue on the waiting list, and a follow-up evaluation will be made in the 24th week. This study will allow the comparison of newly diagnosed individuals with MS who do not have any physical or cognitive effects on neurological examination and healthy controls with objective and detailed evaluations, and will also reveal the evidence on the effects of planned structured exercises specific to individuals with newly diagnosed MS. During the 24-week follow-up period, the change in the clinical status of individuals with MS who received or did not receive any exercise training can be interpreted.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
According to the data of the World Multiple Sclerosis (MS) atlas, the incidence of MS in our country is 51-100/100.000 and it is estimated that there are over 70.000 individuals with MS. MS continues to be the most common cause of non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults with its increasing prevalence in our country as well as all over the world. The most common problems seen in MS are deterioration of balance and postural control, decrease in muscle strength, gait problems, and cognitive and emotional functions. These effects become more visible in the later stages of the disease, but a limited number of studies reveal that there is an insidious progression from the early period. The topographical model of MS suggests that the burden of disease below the threshold is compensated by functional reserve, presents no physical problems, and symptoms become evident once the clinical threshold is crossed. Furthermore, the evidence suggests that disease activity may be continued even during the relapse-remitting phase of the disease course, highlighting the need for the use of sensitive outcome measures that can detect early disorders. Therefore, the involvement in individuals with newly diagnosed MS is ignored because it is not reflected in activities of daily living, is compensated by functional reserve because it is below the threshold value, and cannot be detected in the non-objective clinical neurological examination. Rehabilitation approaches for individuals with newly diagnosed MS are needed in order to benefit from the protective effects of exercise and to prevent the effects from progressing. Therefore, within the scope of our proposed project, the effectiveness of structured exercise training will be investigated for individuals with MS who are newly diagnosed and have no clinical problems. Individuals with MS included in the study will be randomly divided into two groups a Structured Exercise Group (SEG) and a Control Group (CG). In order to compare baseline and follow-up data, the Healthy Group (HG) will be taken and all three groups will be evaluated initially, 8. weeks and 24. weeks with primary and secondary outcome measurements. SEG, CG, and HG will be evaluated initially for postural sway, muscle strength, mobility, dexterity, cognitive function, trunk strength-endurance, and fatigue. Afterward, SEG will receive structured exercise training consisting of clinically supervised aerobic exercise and resistance training on unstable surfaces for 8 weeks, 2 days a week, with a minimum session duration of 60 minutes. Stretching and mobility exercises will be added to warm up and cool down before and after the program. CG will be on the waiting list during this process. At the end of 8 weeks, both groups will be reassessed with their initial assessment. After the 8-week program, the SEG physical activity recommendation will be given and the KG group will continue on the waiting list, and a follow-up evaluation will be made in the 2

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinical Test of Sensory Integration of Balance Test
  - Postural Stability Test
  - Balance Error Scoring System Test
  - Muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Structured exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05957809
