CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05986500
Title: The GALAXY-1 Project
Official Title: The GALAXY-1 Project: Galactose - the Ideal Carbohydrate Supplement for Exercise
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
"The understanding of the two sugars, glucose and fructose, has been thoroughly investigated regarding their impact on human metabolism during exercise. The consumption of the sugar galactose is an intriguing alternative and can be beneficial, especially for individuals with type 1 Diabetes, as it reduces the need for insulin to maintain normal blood sugar levels. Additionally, galactose oxidation rates during exercise are only 50-60% compared to glucose, primarily due to liver storage and/or the requirement for conversion to glucose in the liver before oxidation. This delay in metabolism can prevent hyperglycemia before exercise and provide extended protection against episodes of hypoglycemia during and after exercise through a moderate and prolonged glycemic response.

The purpose of this experiment is to investigate whether galactose is taken up by skeletal muscles and the heart in response to exercise or hyperinsulinemia. Using non-invasive 18F-FDGal PET, the investigators will examine this in a randomized controlled study design. The results could contribute to updating dietary recommendations, particularly for individuals with type 1 diabetes who struggle to maintain normal blood sugar levels during and after exercise."

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is generally accepted that saccharides have to be converted into glucose before they can be oxidized and used to produce energy. As a result, non-glucose saccharides affect blood glucose levels differently than glucose. For example, the saccharide fructose requires hepatic conversion to glucose, causing more constant blood sugar levels and less risk of both glucose excursions and hypoglycemia during exercise. However, metabolization of fructose increases the risk of developing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease due to the stimulation of de novo lipogenesis and blocking of β-fatty acid oxidation. Consequently, a different carbohydrate source with the same glycemic profile as fructose but without the undesirable hepatic effects would be preferable. Galactose is the third of the three quantitively important dietary monosaccharides in a regular Western diet. Lactose (disaccharide of galactose and glucose) from dairy products is the primary source of dietary galactose, but galactose is also found in other food sources such as fruits and vegetables. While the impact of glucose and fructose on human metabolism has been extensively studied, there is limited knowledge of the effects of galactose as a nutritional supplement during or before exercise, and it is also unknown whether it can have clinical applications.

Intake of galactose or lactose instead of glucose prior to exercise may be advantageous, particularly for individuals with diabetes, since it lowers the insulin requirement to maintain euglycemia. Furthermore, galactose oxidation rates during exercise are only 50-60% compared to glucose, presumably due to hepatic storage and/or a requirement for conversion to glucose in the liver before oxidation. This delay in end-point metabolism could prevent hyperglycemia prior to exercise and at the same time provide prolonged protection from hypoglycemia during and after exercise via the prolonged and moderated glycemic response. In line with this, a recent study from the investigators' collaborator Gareth Wallis's group showed that lactose ingestion in relation to exercise increased fat oxidation and lowered carbohydrate oxidation compared to sucrose ingestion. Accordingly, ingestion of the lactose component - galactose - instead of regular glucose-containing carbohydrates is an intriguing option if blood glucose excursions are to be avoided. However, it is still unclear whether the beneficial metabolic effects of galactose are all caused by the hepatic delay in conversion to glucose or if galactose is also used directly by skeletal muscle as a source of energy. To address this, the investigators recently performed positron emission tomography (PET) pilot studies in two pigs using the galactose analogue 18F-FDGal to measure insulin-stimulated skeletal and cardiac muscle galactose uptake. Although muscle galactose uptake was clearly less than for glucose, it was evident that some uptake can be stimulated by insulin, particularly in the heart. These preli

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Galactose uptake in skeletal muscle

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Galactose
  - OTHER: No intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05986500
