CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06572345
Title: Low EnerGy DiEt iN Adolescents With Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes: The LEGEND Study
Official Title: A Multicentre Open-Label, Feasibility Study of the Use of a Short-Term Low-Energy Diet in Adolescents With Obesity and Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 73
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
This is a multicentre, single-arm, feasibility study in adolescents with T2DM and obesity to investigate the recruitment and retention rates to a study using Low Energy Diets(LED). It will also provide estimates of weight loss needed to bring about remission to inform a larger randomised study. In addition a subgroup of participants and their parents/carers undertaking a period of LED will be interviewed to understand the participants experience of taking part. Two further groups will also be interviewed: participants and their parents/carers who have declined to take part in the LED to understand their motivations and barriers and healthcare practitioners who have participated in conducting the trial to understand their experience of the study.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
LED intervention

The three-stage intervention, will be delivered by the local study dietitian and doctor. Participants will typically undergo a 12-week intensive LED intervention followed by a 12-week Food Re-introduction (FR) phase and then a Weight maintenance (WM) phase. The aim is for participants to lose 15kg (or 15% of starting body weight if\<80kg at baseline) and achieve remission defined as an HbA1c \<48 mmol/mol three months apart.

The LED phase consists of a total meal replacement (TMR) diet for 12 weeks which contains 800-1000cal/day (with LED diets typically containing 800-1200kcal/day), and has been previously shown to be safe in young people. Available products include shakes, soups and bars from providers such as Cambridge 1:1, Lighter Life and Optifast. TMR products will be supplied and distributed by the study team at no cost to the participant. The experience of other investigators suggests that having prepared shakes and bars reduces the anxiety associated with meal choices and preparation. If participants are not able to adhere to only four meal replacement products a day, a low-energy meal option for up to one meal a day (instead of a TMR product and using low-calorie recipes provided as part of the study) may be suggested and discussed by the research team.

Following the initial LED phase, participants will enter the FR phase, typically over the next 12 weeks. This consists of a gradual reintroduction of food one meal at a time, in a structured stepwise progression and under the supervision of a dietitian. A recipe book of 400-500 kcal recipes has been developed for this purpose.

If the target weight is achieved before 12 weeks, the FR phase may be brought forward.

If the HbA1c has fallen to below the pre-diabetes range (less than 42 mmol/mol) on point of care testing, but the target weight has not been achieved, FR phase may still be initiated at 12 weeks. If the target weight is not achieved by 12 weeks and the HbA1c remains 48 mmol/mol or above, the LED phase could be extended to a maximum of a total of 20 weeks duration, in discussion with the participant and the parents/carers, as appropriate.

If, during FR, the participant gains 2kg or more, there is flexibility to regress a step along the FR pathway, at the discretion of the local team and in discussion with the participant and their family, mirroring the successful pragmatic approach of the DiRECT study. For instance, a participant who has introduced their first meal and gains 2kg, may go back to full LED; someone who has gained weight after moving from two to three meals a day may go back to two meals. A participant who gains 2kg or more in the WM phase, may similarly go back one step to two meals a day. Locally, our experience using the LED showed the importance of a flexible approach, with some young people finding benefit from a short break (e.g. for a family celebration) or a preference to start during school holidays.

Current standard practice is to mea

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proportion of potential participants that can be recruited to an LED intervention
  - Retention rate measured by by data availability for participant height.
  - Retention rate measured by by data availability for participant weight.
  - Retention rate measured by by data availability for participant HbA1c.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Low-energy diet
  - OTHER: Qualitive interview - LED participants
  - OTHER: Qualitive interview - Participants declining LED
  - OTHER: Qualitive interview - Health Care Professionals (HCPs)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06572345
