CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01220856
Title: Reparixin in Pancreatic Islet Transplantation
Official Title: A Phase 2 Multicenter, Randomized, Open Label, Parallel Assignment, Pilot Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of Reparixin Following Islet Transplantation in Patients With Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 9
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Inhibition of CXCL8 activity might represent a relevant therapeutic target to prevent injury occurring after pancreatic islet transplantation. Reparixin is a novel and specific inhibitor of CXCL8. This study is designed to explore the efficacy of reparixin in preventing graft dysfunction after islet transplantation in type 1 diabetes patients (T1D).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pancreatic islet transplantation has become a feasible option in the treatment of T1D which offers advantages over whole pancreas transplantation. However to date insulin independence can be obtained in most cases only after the patient has received repeated infusions from several donors. A non-specific immune response, mediated predominantly by innate inflammatory processes, coupled with specific cellular immune responses, possibly promoted by early inflammation, play a major role in the loss of transplanted islets from the liver. PMNs have been found to be the predominant cell types infiltrating in vitro the islets. In this regard, CXCL8 has been shown to be expressed by human islets and could play a crucial role in triggering the inflammatory reaction. Thus, CXCL8 might represent a relevant therapeutic target to prevent early graft failure. The efficacy of reparixin in improving graft outcome in mice models of intrahepatic islet transplantation, as well as the safety shown in human phase 1 and 2 studies, provide a rationale for a clinical study aimed at evaluating the effect of reparixin in preventing graft dysfunction after islet transplantation in T1D patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Percentage of insulin-independent Patients Following Single Infusion Islet Cell Transplantation at Day 75 +/- 5

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Reparixin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01220856
