CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07482358
Title: TCI-Massage Clinical Trial
Official Title: Trauma-Informed and Culturally-Responsive Integrated Massage Therapy (TCI-Massage): An Implementation and Effectiveness Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this hybrid implementation-effectiveness study is to learn about the effectiveness and appropriateness of "Trauma-Informed and Culturally-Responsive Integrated Massage Therapy" (TCI-Massage) for torture and war trauma survivors.

The study aims are: • Examine the uptake of TCI-Massage within CVT by assessing key implementation science outcomes of acceptability and appropriateness among refugees and asylum seekers from diverse cultural backgrounds. • Examine the integration of massage therapy into the current psychosocial care model used at CVT. • Examine the effectiveness of TCI-Massage for torture and war trauma survivors to reduce distress (mental health symptoms, chronic pain, and HRV) and improve coping (interoceptive awareness and social functioning).

Treatment group participants will participate in psychosocial care services + TCI-Massage, which the control group will only participate in psychosocial care services

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed project is a hybrid implementation effectiveness study. To examine effectiveness, the investigators will use a two group wait list randomized trial with repeated measures.

Aim 1: Implementation Science Aim. Examine the uptake of TCI Massage within CVT by assessing key implementation science outcomes of acceptability and appropriateness among refugees and asylum seekers from diverse cultural backgrounds.

Aim 2: Implementation Science Aim. Examine the integration of massage therapy into the current psychosocial care model used at CVT. This aim involves examination of system level information including scheduling, session duration, care consultation, implementation costs, and in depth interviews with key clinical staff.

Aim 3: Health Outcome Aim. Examine the effectiveness of TCI Massage for torture and war trauma survivors to reduce distress (mental health symptoms, chronic pain, and HRV) and improve coping (interoceptive awareness and social functioning).

Research Strategy and Design.

Design. This study is a hybrid implementation effectiveness study. The implementation study involves surveys and focus groups with clinical staff and examination of system level outcomes such as cost, administrative burden, and scheduling. The effectiveness study involves a two group randomized controlled trial using a wait list control and repeated measures. Fifty patients will be recruited for participation and randomly assigned to a treatment group receiving TCI Massage plus usual care or to a control group receiving usual care only and placement on a wait list for TCI Massage. The wait list control group will receive TCI Massage after a three month wait period. Assessments will be administered at baseline, three months, and six months.

Inclusion criteria:

1. Refugee or asylum seeker who has experienced torture or war related trauma
2. Currently receiving care at one of the CVT clinics offering the study
3. Moderate to high levels of pain assessed through the Graded Chronic Pain Scale

e) Age between 18 and 70 years

Exclusion criteria:

1. Currently receiving massage therapy services
2. Presence of high risk medical condition(s) requiring referral to more intensive services or hospitalization such as inpatient psychiatric care

Usual Care Condition. All patients will engage in a multimodal psychosocial care approach including psychotherapy, social work, and medical services. Clients receive weekly or biweekly psychotherapy and social work services. Clients also have access to primary care services through the Healing Hearts program and to nursing and physician services.

Intervention Condition. Trauma informed and culturally responsive integrated model of massage therapy (TCI Massage).

Massage therapy over clothes will be provided for one hour once per week for eight weeks. The protocol for TCI Massage includes several defining elements described below.

Intake. The initial fifteen minutes of each session involve an intake to assess participan

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Chronic Pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: TCI-Massage

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07482358
