CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03947801
Title: Dairy Consumption During a High-intensity, High-volume Training Week in Young Athletes
Official Title: Dairy Consumption During a High-intensity, High-volume Training Week in Young Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Our proposed study is a 5-d double-blind randomised cross-over trial, seeking to simulate a training identification camp in competitive adolescent soccer players

The purpose of the proposed study is to investigate whether increased protein consumption by Greek yogurt, compared to an isoenergetic carbohydrate (CHO) control supplement, consumed immediately following exercise training, prior to sleep and between breakfast and lunch, for a week during an intense training period (high volume, high intensity) will:

* Attenuate the pro-inflammatory response (cytokines, acute phase proteins)
* Reduced the severity of muscle damage and impairment (creatine kinase)
* Maintain performance

Secondary outcome measures:

\- Increase bone turnover (in favour of formation)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The proposed study is a randomized, double-blinded, cross-over trial. The protocol will consist of an information session, two identical training camps consisting of 5 consecutive days of intensified soccer training, differing only by nutritional intervention, and identical pre-and post-training session testing. Each testing block will be separated by 28-d to allow for an adequate wash-out and recovery period, during which participants would resume their regular soccer activities

Study Procedures:

All tests and measurements will be performed within eight-weeks. Specifically, participants will attend 1 information session, two identical pre- and post- training/testing sessions and two identical soccer specific training camps.

Information session:

One week prior to the initial soccer specific training camp, participants will be informed of all tests and procedures that will take place and be familiarized with all testing protocols.

Pre- and Post-training testing:

All participants will be tested twice: on the day before (pre) and day following (post) the 5-d soccer specific training camp. Specifically, Participants, will arrive at the University for pre- and post-training testing in the morning at the same time. Body composition measurements will be performed (e.g., standing/seated height, mass, % body fat) followed by fasted venous blood and saliva sampling. A standardized breakfast would then be provided followed by an adequate rest and digest period before performance testing (\~1.5h). Performance testing would include a battery of soccer specific tests that cover, power (counter-movement jump, broad jump), speed (10m and 20m sprint), agility (modified 5-0-5) and aerobic capacity (beep-test). During both pre-and-post-testing sessions participants would consume the same standardised breakfast and perform the same tests in the same order for consistency amongst trials which would be repeated between the two testing blocks.

Soccer training:

The simulated 5-d soccer-specific training will be structured to mimic a heavy-volume, high-intensity training camp. Training sessions would occur at the same time each day in the evening for consistency. Drills/exercises will be administered by a certified technical soccer coach and knowledgeable training staff. Each session will began with a 15 min dynamic warm-up followed by 90 min of soccer-specific training, ending with a 15 min cool-down. The 90 min of soccer-specific training will be performed at maximal effort and consist of agility, sprinting and plyometric exercises as well as ball-handling, small-sided games (rondo) and shooting. Following each training session rating of perceived exertion (RPE) will be measured as an indicator of internal load.

Food/Drink supplement consumption:

During the study, three servings of 160 g of 0% plain GY (\~115 kcals, 17 g protein, \~11.5 g carbs, 0 fat), or 30 g of isoenergetic CHO (\~115 kcal, 0.04 g protein, \~28.6 g carbs, 0 fat) will be provided to partici

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body mass (kg)
  - Height (cm)
  - Seated height (cm)
  - Body fat (%)
  - Rate of perceived exertion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Greek Yogurt
  - OTHER: Isoenergetic carbohydrate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03947801
