CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06643650
Title: Study to Document the Phenomenon of Vitamin D Deficiency and Its Added Value in Patients with Low-energy Osteoporotic Hip Fracture, in Daily Practice in Greece.
Official Title: PHASE IV Observational Study to Document the Phenomenon of Vitamin D Deficiency and Its Added Value in Patients with Low-energy Osteoporotic Hip Fracture, in Daily Practice in Greece.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Vitamin D, through its action on calcium metabolism, is essential for bone physiology. Vitamin D deficiency can affect muscle function and increase the risk of falls in the elderly, while severe deficiency is common in patients with fragility fractures. Vitamin D and calcium supplementation, in addition to anti-osteoporosis treatment after surgery or conservative treatment, can ensure optimal recovery and survival, especially in patients with a hip fracture.

The goal of vitamin D supplementation is to bring the serum 25-(OH)-D concentration above 30 ng/ml.

Clinical pathways have been developed to support orthopedic surgeons in improving the medical management of patients after orthopedic/surgical fracture management. Pathways include advising primary care physicians and orthopedic surgeons on diagnostic and therapeutic approaches, promoting their appropriate use without compromising quality of care, and educating patients on non-pharmacological management of their disease (physical therapy, lifestyle habits life and nutrition).

This is an observational cohort study that will record data on the use of vitamin D in daily practice in patients with low-energy fractures.

The aim of this study is to measure vitamin D levels in the patient and provide these patients according to daily practice with appropriate supplementation for a period of one year, observing if there is a good functional outcome and a reduction in the risks of new fractures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of Vitamin D levels of the patients after receiving vitamin D supplementation
  - Evaluation of BMD of the patients after receiving vitamin D supplementation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: CHOLECALCIFEROL ORAL.SOL 25000 IU/2,5ML

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06643650
