CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06830967
Title: Virtual Prehabilitation for Patients Undergoing Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair
Official Title: Virtual Prehabilitation for Patients Undergoing Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The time between diagnosis and operative intervention represents an untapped opportunity to optimize patient readiness for surgery and augment their function prior to undergoing a physiological stress, rather than purely recovering post-operatively. Vascular surgery patients are frail and primed to benefit from such interventions and upcoming surgery is a strong motivator for behavioral change. In this proposal, the investigators outline our vision for a prehabilitation program for patients undergoing elective open aortic aneurysm repair (AAA).

Participants scheduled to undergo AAA repair would receive, in addition to standard of care, 5 main interventions: exercise therapy; smoking cessation counseling and pharmacotherapy; nutritional counseling; psychological readiness planning and patient education. Exercise therapy will consist of 6 weeks of moderate exercise coordinated remotely through the cardiology rehabilitation program, whereas all other interventions will be consultations through videoconferencing or phone interactions. Outcomes of interest include morbidity, mortality, predictors of completion of program, exercise function and quality of life.

This study is a pilot feasibility project and the first step in the creation of a long-term program that will improve patient clinical outcomes, exercise capacity quality of life and hopefully become an model for prehabilitation for other institutions across the country and raise the standard of care for vascular surgery patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The time between diagnosis and operative intervention represents an untapped opportunity to optimize patient readiness for surgery and augment their function prior to undergoing a physiological stress, rather than purely recovering post-operatively. Vascular surgery patients are frail and primed to benefit from such interventions and upcoming surgery is a strong motivator for behavioral change. In this proposal, the investigators outline our vision for a prehabilitation program for patients undergoing elective open aortic aneurysm repair (AAA).

Participants scheduled to undergo AAA repair would receive, in addition to standard of care, 5 main interventions: exercise therapy; smoking cessation counseling and pharmacotherapy; nutritional counseling; psychological readiness planning and patient education. Exercise therapy will consist of 6 weeks of prescribed moderate exercise coordinated remotely through the physiotherapy. Smoking cessation will consist of motivational interview with adjunctive pharmacotherapy prescribed as required. Nutritional assessment will be remotely coordinated with a certified dietician and psychological readiness and patient education will consist of 2 1 hour sessions with a counselor. Outcomes of interest include morbidity, mortality, predictors of completion of program, exercise function and quality of life.

This study is a pilot feasibility project and the first step in the creation of a long-term program that will improve patient clinical outcomes, exercise capacity quality of life and hopefully become an model for prehabilitation for other institutions across the country and raise the standard of care for vascular surgery patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Postoperative complications measured by the Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Prehabilitation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise therapy
  - BEHAVIORAL: Smoking cessation counselling
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutritional counselling
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychological intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06830967
