CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04953364
Title: Self-Management for Amputee Rehabilitation Using Technology.
Official Title: Self-management for Amputee Rehabilitation Using Technology (SMART) Program: a Peer Supported mHealth Approach for Rehabilitation After Lower Limb Amputation
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 82
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Lower Limb Amputations (LLAs) are a substantial burden on the Canadian health services with nearly 50,000 cases reported between 2006 and 2011. To address the challenging nature of a LLA (e.g., decreased mobility, pain, depression), patients need to go through extensive rehabilitation programs. Effective self-management programs can help those with LLA to monitor their own condition and improve their quality of life. However, a lack of self-management programs, a limited healthcare budget, and a decrease in quality of services (e.g. shorter lengths of stay for inpatients and rapid movement to outpatient services) pose further challenges for patients with LLA. Self-management programs can be provided to clients through online mobile technologies (e.g., tablet) and offer accessible, low-cost, and potentially augmentative rehabilitation after discharge, in both urban and rural areas. To address these needs, an online educational and training platform for individuals with LLA called, Self-Management for Amputee Rehabilitation using Technology (SMART) was designed and developed. SMART focuses on LLA education, prosthetic limb management, and weekly support of peers. It is monitored by a trainer through a website. SMART will be evaluated in men and women with LLA aged 50 years and over, admitted to prosthetic rehabilitation throughout BC and ON. SMART has the potential to influence a client's post-LLA needs with direct (e.g., individual's health) and indirect (e.g., healthcare utilization) benefits. The purpose of this randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the effect of SMART in community dwelling older adults with unilateral, above or below, knee amputation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Importance: Amputation is a stressful experience which causes daily fluctuations in psychological and physical functioning and social interactions. Yearly, more than 7300 patients are admitted to hospitals nationwide for lower limb amputation (LLA), with the majority (86%) occurring in adults over 50. Consequences of LLA, such as a change in body image, mobility restrictions, and pain, may lead to depression, social isolation and decreased quality of life. Clients may lack coping strategies, educational resources, or access to rehabilitation services, especially for rural living Canadians. Online eHealth approaches, including the use of tablets, are considered effective approaches for delivering self-management programs, while addressing logistical barriers. Using a participatory action research approach, an eHealth platform for individuals with LLA called Self-Management for Amputee Rehabilitation using Technology (SMART) was co-designed and co-developed.

The investigators' goal is to determine the effectiveness and retention effect of SMART in community dwelling older adults (≥50yrs) with unilateral LLA, while documenting implementation factors. the hypothesis driving this investigation is that older adults with LLA who receive SMART intervention, compared with paper-based education as a control group, will have greater positive changes in confidence in their ambulation and walking capacity.

Methods: Using a Type 1 Effectiveness-Implementation Hybrid Design randomized controlled trial (RCT), the 6-week effectiveness and 4-week retention effect of SMART will be assessed on patient-relevant outcomes, and implementation. A volunteer sample of men and women, aged ≥50 years, with unilateral transtibial or transfemoral LLA, who started casting of their initial prosthetic limb, with command of English will be recruited from BC and ON. The sample will be randomly allocated to the experimental (SMART) (n=41) or control group (n=41), with a ratio of 1:1. Both groups will receive usual care, provided by their healthcare providers. The experimental group will receive a SMART enabled tablet for daily use (6 weeks). SMART includes mental and physical wellness, residual/prosthetic limb managements, use of a prosthesis and weekly peer-support calls or video call over Zoom, hosted by University of British Columbia, depends on participant's preference, promoting motivation and establishing goal setting and action planning. The tablet will also allow asynchronous contact with trainers through a secure website. The control group will receive a care booklet and weekly contacts. All data collection will be conducted using Zoom online platform, hosted by University of British Columbia. Confidence in ambulation will be measured by Ambulatory Self-Confidence Questionnaire (ASCQ) and Walking capacity will be assessed using the Timed Up and Go test (TUG)--these measures will be conducted under remote supervision via Zoom. Five elements of implementation will be assesse

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - TUG, Timed Up and Go test
  - ASCQ, the Ambulatory Self-Confidence Questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: SMART
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04953364
