CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01528800
Title: Vitamin K to Attenuate Coronary Artery Calcification in Hemodialysis Patients
Official Title: Inhibit Progression of Coronary Artery Calcification With Vitamin K in HemoDialysis Patients: The iPACK-HD Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 85
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to see if vitamin K supplementation three times per week reduces the progression of coronary artery calcification over 12 months in dialysis patients compared to placebo.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
At every stage of chronic kidney disease (CKD), the leading cause of mortality is cardiovascular disease. This is due, in part, to vascular calcification (VC) of the coronary arteries. The extent of VC in the coronary arteries of patients with CKD is commonly determined by high resolution CT scan. The total coronary artery calcium (CAC) score, measured in Agatston units (AUs), reflects the calcium burden in the three major coronary arteries and is the current standard for determining extent of vascular calcification in hemodialysis patients. Matrix Gla protein (MGP), a vitamin K dependent protein, is a key inhibitor of vascular calcification and is present in the arterial wall. It is established that MGP becomes up-regulated adjacent to sites of calcification and that vitamin K is critical to its function. Therefore vitamin K status may be critical to the extent of vascular calcification in this patient group. However, to date, no trial has examined whether vitamin K supplementation prevents the progression of coronary artery calcification in patients with kidney failure, a group in which high risk has been established. Therefore, our primary research question is: Does vitamin K supplementation with 10 mg of phylloquinone thrice weekly reduce the progression of coronary artery calcification (as measured by CAC score) over 12 months in prevalent hemodialysis patients with a baseline CAC score of ≥ 30 Agatston Units compared to placebo?

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Recruitment rate
  - Compliance with study medication
  - Dropout rate
  - Adherence to study protocol
  - Rates of eligible patients consented and randomized

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Vitamin K1
  - DRUG: Microcrystalline Methylcellulose

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01528800
