CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00933218
Title: Beer, Marathon, Genetics, Inflammation and the Cardiovascular System: Be-MaGIC-Trial
Official Title: Effects of Polyphenols on Changes of Inflammatory and Cardiovascular Status After a Marathon Run
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 250
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine the myocardial function and vascular adaptation after strenuous exercise in association with consumption of polyphenols. The investigators aim to investigate the effects of extreme endurance exercise on the inflammatory system. Furthermore, the role of the cardiovascular response and adaptive mechanisms of the vasculature are examined. Subclinical injuries to the myocardium and vascular wall are being investigated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Regular exercise leads to an improvement of cardiovascular risk factors in patients with coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis and metabolic disorders.

Aerobic exercise has anti-inflammatory effects. In contrast, the exertional exercise of marathon running causes an acute pro-inflammatory impulse. This may lead to myocardial injury and, in case of preexisting plaques, may result in plaque rupture and acute myocardial infarction.

We aim to define the critical role of inflammatory markers and cardiovascular risc factors as a predictor of an increased risk for myocardial and endothelial dysfunction in marathon runners.

Diagnostic tools include measurements of microvasculature, the large vessels and echocardiography. Inflammatory markers include high sensitive c-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukins.

All variations are analysed on the basis of consumption of polyphenols as they are found in in hops (Humulus lupus L.) and beer.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Inflammatory marker: Interleukin 6 and Interleukin 10

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: polyphenols (non-alcoholic beer)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: beverage without polyphenols

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00933218
