CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02140632
Title: Efficacy Study of Local Steroid Injection and Wrist Splinting for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
Official Title: Local Steroid Injection vs Wrist Splinting for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by the compression of median nerve at the wrist where it passes through a narrow space called carpal tunnel formed by the wrist bones, ligaments and tendons. The common symptoms include numbness and pain over the areas supplied by the median nerve namely the thumb, the index finger, the middle finger and the outer part of the ring finger. There can be loss of sensation, weakness or muscle atrophy in severe cases. The functions of the affected hands may be greatly impaired.

Carpal tunnel syndrome is very common. It can lead to significant economic impact both to the affected individual and the society either by the direct treatment cost and indirectly from the working ability loss. Despite the vast burden, there is no consensus regarding its treatment so far. Surgery is generally effective and often reserved for severe cases. There are many nonsurgical treatment options. Local steroid injection and wrist splinting are among the commonest and with more evidence. Local steroid injection into the carpal tunnel can reduce the inflammation and swelling. Wrist splinting can maintain the wrist at its neutral position where the pressure at the carpal tunnel is the least. However, there are only very few studies comparing these two treatments directly.

Patients complaining of finger numbness who have been confirmed to have carpal tunnel syndrome by nerve conduction test are invited to participate in the study. The patients who agreed to be recruited are asked about their basic informations and the details of the carpal tunnel syndrome symptoms. Their hands will be examined. They are asked to fill in a questionnaire specific for assessing the symptom severity and the functional status of patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. They will then be assigned to one of the two treatment groups randomly and receive the respective treatment. They need to come back for follow-up at one month and to fill in the questionnaire again.

The study hypothesis is local steroid injection is more effective than wrist splinting in treating carpal tunnel syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is caused by the pressure and consequent compression on the median nerve within a confined anatomical area at the wrist referred to as the carpal tunnel. It is very common and has an important socio-economic impact. The prevalence of CTS in the UK is 7-16%. Its incidence has been estimated at 88-125 per 100,000 in USA. Economic consequences include the direct financial implications of treatment and the indirect cost of absenteeism from the workplace. The median number of days away from work for CTS is among the highest at 27 days. In the US in 1995, between 400,000 and 500,000 patients underwent surgical decompression. This equates to an economic cost of in excess of $2 billion. CTS and hearing loss was found to account for more morbidity, measured by cases and working days lost, than any other illness in the US working population. CTS may also occur as a work- related disorder leading to compensation claims.

Despite the vast burden of the disease, there is no consensus regarding its best management. Surgical treatment is generally preferred in severe cases of CTS. A Cochrane review investigating surgical treatment of CTS showed surgical treatment relieves symptoms significantly better than splinting, but no conclusion could be drawn in people with mild symptoms and if surgical treatment is better than steroid injection. On the other hand, surgical treatment is relatively costly and carries risks of significant complications that may last several months and give rise to further work absence. In addition, the waiting time for surgery is usually long.

For non-surgical interventions many modalities have been trialed but only a few have shown discernable benefits. Local steroid injection and wrist splinting are among the most popular options. They are commonly employed in mild to moderate cases of CTS. For severe cases, they can also offer relief of complaints during the waiting period for surgery or when there are contra-indications for surgery. Systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials have concluded that local steroid injection provides greater clinical improvement at one month compared with placebo and that there is weak evidence that a splint worn at night is more effective than no treatment in the short term. However, the number of studies that compare the two methods is limited, and they are mostly either retrospective in design or prospective but non-randomized. Two randomized controlled trials comparing local steroid injection and splinting found respectively that local steroid injection does not significantly improve clinical outcome compared to anti-inflammatory drugs and splinting and that injections of steroids are ineffective. However, the conclusions of these two studies are limited either by a small sample size or the lack of a validated outcome measure.

We would like to conduct a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing the efficacy of local steroid injection and splinting in patients w

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Clinical improvement at one month

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Local methylprednisolone acetate and lidnocaine injection
  - DEVICE: wrist splinting

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02140632
