CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05238480
Title: Effect of Hard Labial Reinforcement of a Mouthguard on the Degree of Satisfaction Among Rugby Players
Official Title: Effect of Hard Labial Reinforcement of a Custom-made Mouthguard on the Degree of Satisfaction Among Rugby Players. A Randomized Crossover Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This study assesses the effect of incorporating a hard labial layer to the front zone of a custom-made mouthguard on the degree of satisfaction of rugby players. Twenty-four rugby players will wear a custom-made Bioplast Xtreme conventional mouthguard (Bioplast Xtreme 4 × 125 + Bioplast 2 x 125; Scheu-Dental Company) and a custom-made Bioplast Xtreme Pro mouthguard (Bioplast Xtreme 4mm × 125 + Duran Layer 0.75mm; Bioplast 2mm x 125), two weeks per mouthguard. They will wear it during training sessions and competitions. The sequence will be randomized for one-half of the participants to start wearing the Bioplast Xtreme conventional and the other half the Bioplast Xtreme Pro mouthguard the first week.

The participants will rate the degree of interference with oral functions or discomfort in reference to speeking, breathing, swallowing, gag reflex, tight or loose fitting, aesthetics and athletic performance, in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no discomfort/interference and 10 maximum discomfort/interference. After each session, players will also rate the perception of the protection, the degree of improvement on athletic performance and the degree of satisfaction in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no protection/satisfaction and 10 maximum protection/satisfaction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This crossover intervention study aims to assess the effect of incorporating a hard labial layer to the front zone of a custom-made mouthguard on the degree of satisfaction of rugby players. Twenty-four rugby players will participate in this randomized crossover trial. Three hydrocolloid impressions will be made, two of their maxillary arches and one of their mandibular arches, and the casts will be poured immediately with Type IV dental stone. An interocclusal record will be obtained using an extra hard wax covering the tip of two wooden tongue depressors to assure a near centric relation and a minimum interocclusal distance of approximately 2 mm. Two different custom-made mouth guards will be made for each participant, a Bioplast Xtreme conventional mouthguard (Bioplast Xtreme 4 × 125 + Bioplast 2 x 125; Scheu-Dental Company) and a custom-made Bioplast Xtreme Pro mouthguard (Bioplast Xtreme 4mm × 125 + Duran Layer 0.75mm; Bioplast 2mm x 125). Conventional mouthguard will be fabricated using a pressure molding device and a 4-mm ethyl vinyl acetate foil made at 2 mm from the full depth of the labial sulcus, covering the second maxillary molar, and with the palatal margin extending 2 mm from the cervical line. To fabricate the occlusal adjustment a second 2-mm foil of ethyl vinyl acetate will be formed over the initial 4-mm layer. The maxillary and mandibular casts mounted to an articulator using the inter occlusal record will facilitate the accommodation of the occlusal surface to the antagonistic teeth. Bioplast Xtreme Pro will be made by the same procedure, except the incorporation of an extra layer of Duran between 4mm ethyl vinyl acetate foil and 2 mm ethyl vinyl acetate foil. The participants will be instructed to wear the mouth guards during training sessions and competitions. The sequence of use will be randomized to obtain one half of the participants wearing Xtreme Conventional mouthguard the first and the fourth week and the Xtreme Pro mouthguard the second and the third week. The other half will start wearing the first and the fourth week the Xtreme Pro mouthguard and the second and third week the Xtreme conventional mouthguard. The participants will evaluate using a 10-point scale the discomfort (gag reflex, tight or loose fitting), the level of interference with functions (speeking, breathing, swallowing, aesthetics and athletic performance), the protection, and the general satisfaction after each training session or match.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Degree of satisfaction using a questionnaire

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: XC mouthguard
  - DEVICE: XP mouthguard

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05238480
