CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01952704
Title: Aerobic Exercise to Improve Memory in TBI
Official Title: A Randomized Controlled Trial of Aerobic Exercise to Improve Memory in TBI
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Aerobic exercise holds a multitude of health benefits. Studies in mice have shown that aerobic exercise improves memory, and increases the volume of the hippocampus, the brain's primary memory center. Only two studies have been conducted in humans, one in healthy elders, and the other in a schizophrenia population. So far, there has never been an aerobic exercise trial in traumatic brain injury (TBI) to look at hippocampal volume and memory as outcomes of interest. The proposed project is a randomized controlled trial of aerobic exercise in persons with TBI. We will conduct a 12-week (36 sessions) program of aerobic exercise (stationary cycling), versus a control condition of non-aerobic exercise (stretching), in memory-impaired TBI patients to a) increase hippocampal volume and b) improve memory. Importantly, we also expect benefits of aerobic exercise on the level of brain function. Specifically, we will look at 'functional connectivity,' which refers to how efficiently remote regions of the brain 'talk' to each other. TBI is an ideal population to benefit from aerobic exercise, given the young age at which many individuals sustain TBI, which allows for benefits of aerobic exercise to be maximally realized in a population with sufficient neurofunctional reserve. The expected benefits of aerobic exercise (increased hippocampal volume, improved memory) from this intervention stand to have a meaningful impact on people with TBI, including improved health, productivity, independence, and quality of life. And, unlike current treatments for memory impairment (e.g., pharmacological agents, cognitive rehabilitation), aerobic exercise is a cost-effective, all natural, readily-available treatment for memory problems.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hippocampal volume

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Placebo control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01952704
