CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05568394
Title: Effects of Manual Therapy Combined With Therapeutic Exercise on Brain Biomarkers in Neck Pain
Official Title: Effects of Manual Therapy Combined With Therapeutic Exercise on Brain Biomarkers in Patients With Chronic Nonspecific Neck Pain: Study Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Structural brain alterations in pain-related areas have been demonstrated in patients with nonspecific neck pain. While manual therapy combined with therapeutic exercise is an effective management for neck pain, its underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. The primary objective of this trial is to investigate the effects of manual therapy combined with therapeutic exercise on brain imaging biomarkers in patients with chronic nonspecific neck pain. The secondary objectives are to assess neurochemical biomarkers, clinical features of neck pain, cervical range of motion and cervical muscle strength.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a single-blinded, randomized controlled trial. Forty-eight participants with chronic nonspecific neck pain will be recruited into the study. Participants will be randomly allocated to either an intervention or control group (1:1 ratio). Participants in the intervention group will receive manual therapy combined with therapeutic exercise for 10 weeks (2 visits per week). The control group will receive routine physical therapy. Primary outcomes are brain imaging biomarkers (cortical gray matter: volume, thickness and area, and white matter: fractional anisotropy and mean diffusivity) in pain-related areas. Secondary outcomes are neurochemical biomarkers (N-acetylaspartate, NAA; creatine, Cr; glutamic acid/glutamine, Glu/Gln; myoinositol, mI; and choline, cho), clinical features (neck pain intensity, duration, neck disability and psychological symptoms), cervical range of motion and cervical muscle strength.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cortical gray matter: volume and thickness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Manual therapy combinded with therapeutic exercise
  - OTHER: Routine physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 59 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05568394
