CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02901457
Title: "The Healthy Body Image" (HBI) Program: A Program to Promote a Positive Body Image
Official Title: "The Healthy Body Image" (HBI) Program: A Program to Promote a Positive Body Image. A School-based Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 4193
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Too many Norwegian adolescents experience severe body dissatisfaction (40-70 %), and strive to accomplish the "perfect body". At the same time, only 50 % meet the government's recommendations on physical activity and intake of fruits and vegetables. Also, 14-24 % has unhealthy sleeping habits. Optimizing these lifestyle factors is associated with physical and psychological health. These factors, along with the pressure to obtain the "perfect" body, are threatening the adolescent's physical and psychological health, jfr. Meld St nr 19. It is now a need for knowledge on how the investigators can contribute to promote positive body experience among the adolescents.

It has recently, through a controlled study on elite youth athletes at Norwegian sports high schools, been shown that it is possible to change eating habits, improve body image and reduce new cases of eating disorder. It is now desirable to test an adapted program through a school-based program at regular Norwegian high school students (12th grade). Today, no controlled, school-based intervention studies with long-term follow-up have been conducted.

The main aim of this project is to investigate if it is possible, through a school-based intervention program (Healthy Body Intervention), to promote positive body image, increase physical activity level, and healthy eating and sleeping habits in both boys and girls at Norwegian high schools.

The intervention program will contribute with new evidence-based knowledge on the effect of an adapted health-promoting program.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The design is a school-based randomized controlled trial (RCT) intervention, using the methods questionnaire and interview to obtain data. Based on statistical power analyses, all high schools in Oslo and Akershus County will be asked to participate in the study. After the schools have responded, consenting schools will be stratified (by size and geographical affiliation) and randomized to the intervention or the control condition. To minimize contamination biases within schools, the investigators prepare a cluster-randomized design.The population should contain 17-20 schools (1400 students at 2nd year). Data collection is conducted through pre-test and post-test 1, 2, and 3 (acute, 3, and 12 month post-intervention). At post-test 1, a selection is invited to participate in an interview about feasibility in addition to the questionnaire. It is an intervention for students containing interactive lecturers with discussion, team work, discussions and home assignments.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Proximal and distal effect of the "Healthy Body Intervention" (HBI) program on change in positive body image

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: The "Healthy Body Image" intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 19 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02901457
