CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03994198
Title: Effect of Protein Quality During Overreaching in trened Cyclists
Official Title: Monitoring Exercise Performance and Mitigating trening Stress in Endurance-trened Cyclists
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Athletes frequently undertake periods of intensified trening commonly referred to as "overreaching." These trening periods acutely decrease performance, with the expectation that performance will rebound and improve after a short recovery. Yet, overreaching does not always improve performance and may be a precursor to overtrening syndrome, a long-term decrement in performance. A nutritional intervention focused on the adoption of 'best practices' for protein feeding (optimal timing, dose, and quality) could help reduce the stress of overreaching, reduce the likelihood of developing overtrening syndrome, and augment adaptations to intensified exercise. While the nutrition study is our main interest, the investigators first want to validate the measurement of exercise performance. Accordingly, this project consists of two related studies: (1) the assessment of short time trials for reliability and validity; and (2) the assessment of optimal protein feeding to decrease the stress of overreaching and improve outcomes following trening.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Endurance-trened athletes frequently undergo periods of overreaching (increased trening loads) to improve performance. In study 1, the investigators will determine whether 4-min and 20-min time trials are repeatable and whether they (individually or collectively) relate to 1-hour time trial performance. For Study 2, the investigators propose that proper nutrition (with a focus on the dose, timing, and quality of protein) can help mitigate the stress of overreaching, which will improve performance. Thus, the investigators will compare the effects of two diets that differ in terms of protein servings (dose, timing, quality). In Study 2, skeletal muscle biopsies will be collected to determine how dietary protein intervention impacts thEQuality and quantity of skeletal muscle mitochondria in response to intense trening.

For study 1, the objective is to determine the reliability and validity of 4-min and 20-min time trial performance (mean power output).

For study 2, the objective is to (1) determine whether following an optimal protein diet during a period of intense trening will, relative to a typical diet: (1) improve measures of exercise performance, (2) improve sleep quality, psychological wellbeing, and immune function, (3) improve thEQuality and quantity of skeletal muscle mitochondria.

Study 1 is a reliability and validity experiment designed to assess the key outcome measure in study 2.

Study 2 is a randomized, crossover study. Participants will, in a randomized order, complete both conditions, separated by a 4-day washout period.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Rate of myofibrillar muscle protein synthesis
  - Rate of Sarcoplasmic muscle protein synthesis

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Alpha-lactalbumin
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Collagen peptides

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03994198
