CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06113484
Title: Impact of a Mediterranean Diet on Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors
Official Title: Impact of a Mediterranean Diet (gReenheArTediEt - RATE) on Cardiovascular Disease Risk Factors: a Randomized Clinical Trial.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
This approved and funded research project is part of a larger project titled "Algarve Active Ageing - Cardiac and Osteoarthritis Rehabilitation (A3-COR): personalized exercise protocol in the rehabilitation after acute myocardial infarction or at risk of cardiovascular disease and knee osteoarthritis, a multicenter clinical intervention study".

The main objective of this work is to quantify the effect of a nutritional and physical activity intervention in improving important risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as body weight, body composition, and waist circumference.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death worldwide and one of the main contributors to diminished quality of life. It is estimated that in the year 2019, approximately 17.9 million individuals died due to this non-communicable disease, accounting for 32% of all global deaths. It is considered that CVDs result from the interaction between genetic predisposition (non-modifiable risk factors) and environmental influences (modifiable risk factors). Environmental factors prevail over others and often lead to negative outcomes through the adoption of poor lifestyles, such as imbalanced nutrition, physical inactivity, smoking, and alcohol habits. These are considered risk factors with direct effects on the pathogenesis of CVDs, and indirectly contribute to increasing the risk for predisposition to chronic diseases such as hypertension, dyslipidemia, overweight, obesity, and diabetes mellitus.

Currently, scientific literature has demonstrated the importance of diet in preventing CVDs and how it can minimize their risk factors. The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, Mediterranean dietary pattern, vegetarian diet, EAT-Lancet diet, and other dietary strategies have been published in various scientific journals.

Parallel to health, another topic that has gained prominence in the scientific community is environmental degradation derived from current food production. With the projected population growth until 2050, reaching 10 billion, the effects of food production on greenhouse gas emissions, nitrogen and phosphorus pollution, biodiversity loss, and water and land use are predicted to reach such high values that they will lead to the destabilization of the Earth system.

Considering that diet holds both environmental value and promotes cardiovascular health, this study aims to explore more sustainable and health-promoting dietary adaptations. This intervention will be based on principles of the Mediterranean diet, integrating higher consumption of plant sources compared to other mentioned patterns, and also leveraging the benefits of chronobiology, which are important for weight and adiposity control.

RECRUITMENT PLAN Participants will be recruited from the Algarve Active Ageing - Cardiac and Osteoarthritis Rehabilitation (A3-COR) project, carried out under the Algarve Biomedical Center - Research Institute. After the participants are integrated into the A3-COR project, those who meet the requirement of never having suffered from AMI but have high cardiovascular disease risk criteria according to the SCORE2 or SCORE2 O.P. algorithm will be contacted by phone. At this point, the objective of the nutritional intervention and the necessary conditions for participation will be explained (assessment of the remaining inclusion and exclusion criteria). After verifying these criteria, they will be invited to voluntarily participate in the present study. Those who accept to join the study will be contacted again to schedule the initial evaluati

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Body weight (kg)
  - Body weight (kg)
  - Body fat (%)
  - Body fat (%)
  - Waist circumference (cm)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: DIET + EXERCISE
  - OTHER: WITHOUT DIET + EXERCISE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06113484
