CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06534853
Title: Comparison of Post Facilitation Stretch Versus Reciprocal Inhibition in Quadratus Lumborum Syndrome: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Comparison of Post Facilitation Stretch Versus Reciprocal Inhibition in Quadratus Lumborum Syndrome: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 42
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study is a randomised control trial and the purpose of this study is to determine the effects Post facilitation stretch versus reciprocal inhibition on pain, lumbar range of motion, apparent leg length discrepancy and lumbar lordotic angle in Quadratus Lumborum Syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to determine the difference between Post facilitation, stretch versus reciprocal inhibition on pain, lumbar range of motion, apparent leg length discrepancy and lumber lordotic angle in Quadratus Lumborum Syndrome.

The individual of Age 18-35 years among both genders, who experiences pain of 3 ≤ on NPRS from at least 3 months and whose pain decreases on supine lying; along with any two of the following findings positive of quadratus lumborum on physical examination i.e., Taut bands, Local tenderness, Patient's pain recognition, Pain referral to greater trochanter, Local twitch response \& Jump sign will be recruited in the study as patients of Quadratus lumborum syndrome.

Pain levels will be assessed using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS). Inclinometer will be used for measuring lumber ranges. To assess apparent leg length discrepancy measuring tape will be used. The lumbar lordotic angle will be measured using 60 cm flexible ruler. Participants of interest would be approached and explained about the research. Informed written consent will be taken. It is a non-blinded study and randomization will be done through sealed envelope. Both groups will receive conventional intervention. Additionally, Group A will receive quadratus lumborum post facilitation stretches while Group B will receive Reciprocal inhibition. Baseline and post intervention scores would be recorded for both groups.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Lumbar Range of Motion (ROM)
  - Leg Length Discrepancy (LLD)
  - Lumbar Lordotic Angle

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Post Facilitation Stretch
  - OTHER: Reciprocal Inhibition
  - OTHER: Conventional Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06534853
