CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03712098
Title: Daily Liraglutide for Nicotine Dependence
Official Title: Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists as Novel Pharmacotherapies for Nicotine Dependence
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
This clinical research trial examines the effects of the GLP-1 receptor agonist liraglutide on smoking behavior, food intake, and weight gain. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel arm pilot study, overweight and obese smokers (N=40; 20 female and 20 male) will be randomized to 32 weeks of liraglutide or placebo and undergo 8 sessions of smoking cessation behavioral counseling. Outcomes are smoking abstinence and weight change.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Tobacco use and obesity are the two leading causes of preventable deaths. A growing literature indicates that common neurobiological substrates mediate drug addiction and obesity. Therefore, it is not surprising that during smoking abstinence, highly palatable food may serve as a substitute reinforcer ultimately leading to increased body weight gain. Importantly, post-cessation weight gain (PCWG) can deter a quit attempt, precipitate smoking relapse, and contribute to health issues related to excess body weight. The majority of weight gain occurs within 3-6 months of quitting smoking and many individuals maintain this increased weight 5 to 20 years post-cessation. Although there is substantial variability in the amount of weight gained, individuals who successfully quit smoking gain an average of 4.2 kg, with estimates ranging from 2.5 kg to 8.6 kg, at 6-month follow-up. Weight gain after smoking cessation contributes to increased risk of obesity, type II diabetes mellitus and hypertension (18), as well as reducing the improvement in lung function conferred by smoking cessation. Moreover, overweight or obese smokers comprise 70% of treatment-seeking smokers, gain the most weight, and are the least accepting of PCWG. Thus, post-cessation weight gain is a significant clinical problem. Unfortunately, current pharmacological interventions to reduce post-cessation weight gain are not very effective.

While weight gain is often cited as a primary reason for smoking relapse, there is a significant gap in our understanding of the biobehavioral mechanisms linking smoking cessation and overeating. Recent evidence indicates that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) regulates the rewarding effects of nicotine. These effects are mediated, in part, by reduced dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens, a key brain region known to regulate the reinforcing effects of both drugs of abuse and palatable foods. Indeed, activation of GLP-1 receptors in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a brain region that sends dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens, reduces both drug intake and consumption of palatable food. Based on the ability of GLP-1 receptor agonists to reduce drug and food intake, it is plausible that targeting GLP-1 receptor signaling may be an effective strategy toward reducing withdrawal-induced weight gain in abstinent smokers.

Investigators have recently developed a novel animal model of nicotine withdrawal-induced hyperphagia and body weight gain in order to gain an improved understanding of the molecular and behavioral mechanisms underlying increased food intake and body weight gain during nicotine withdrawal. The pilot data provide strong empirical rationale for the proposed study by establishing an animal model of withdrawal-induced hyperphagia and body weight gain following voluntary nicotine self-administration. This withdrawal phenotype was evident only in rats given ad libitum access to a highly palatable diet during withdrawal as parallel

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of Participants With 7-day Point Prevalence Smoking Abstinence at 12 Weeks Post-Target Quit Date
  - Number of Participants With 7-day Point Prevalence Smoking Abstinence at 26 Weeks Post-Target Quit Date

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Liraglutide
  - DRUG: Placebo
  - BEHAVIORAL: Smoking Cessation Counseling

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03712098
