CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01297049
Title: I-care: Stimulating Self-management in Patients With Type 2-diabetes
Official Title: I-care: Stimulating Self-management in Patients With Type 2-diabetes Through Web-based Situational Feedback. A Pilot Study.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The overall objective of this pilot study is to develop a cost-effective treatment methodology delivered outside of traditional clinical setting, and based on modern technology for patients with diabetes type 2 also suffering from obesity. This study will investigate the feasibility of web based counselling and situational feedback through mobile supervising. The intention is to treat 10-15 patients. All participants will receive standard treatment delivered by their general practitioners. In addition the participants will fill in and send diaries to the supervisors each evening for 4 weeks reduced to a weekly frequency for the next two months period. The diary's schedule will be an evaluation of the day activities related to meals and food, medication management as well as the performed physical activities. The diary's schedule will also include blood glucose sample, and plans for the next day especially regarding physical activity. The participants will be able to view their own registrations on a web page. Daily/weekly situational feedback will be given to the participants within a cognitive behavioural framework to stimulate self-management. The primary outcome will be the HbA1c levels. Secondary outcomes will include evaluation of lifestyle outcomes such as physical activity levels and eating behaviour, and skills such as self-management of medication. In addition, the interventions effectiveness will examine mental health outcomes such as emotional distress and health-related quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Diabetes and overweight have become a world health epidemic. The number of people suffering of these diseases is increasing due to population growth, aging, urbanization, and increasing prevalence of obesity and physical inactivity. The costs of diabetes affect health services, national productivity as well as individuals and families. Hospital in-patient costs for the treatment of complications are the largest single contributor to direct healthcare costs. Many of these complications and, therefore, their costs, are preventable. Intensive therapy, directed at the control of blood glucose, blood pressure etc, has been shown to be cost-effective in that, although initial costs are increased, it decreases longer term costs as a result of delayed or prevented complications . Diabetes self-management education is a multi-faceted process involving much more than helping people with diabetes to monitor their blood glucose, or take their medication as prescribed. Diabetes education must be an ongoing process rather than a one-time event because a person's health status and need for support change over time.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Blood glucose control with changes in Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) values

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01297049
