CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04860960
Title: Phase 3 Study to Evaluate Intravenous Trappsol(R) Cyclo(TM) in Pediatric and Adult Patients With Niemann-Pick Disease Type C1
Official Title: Phase 3, Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled, Parallel-group, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability and Efficacy of 2000mg/kg of Trappsol®Cyclo™ (Hydroxypropyl-B-cyclodextrin) and Standard of Carecompared to Placebo and Standard of Care in Patients With Niemann-Pick Disease Type C1 (trensportNPC)
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 94
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multi-center therapeutic study for patients age 3 and older with confirmed diagnosis of Niemann Pick disease type C1 (NPC1). The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 2000 mg/kg dose of Trappsol Cyclo (hydroxypropyl betacyclodextrin) administered intravenously compared to standard of care. An open-label sub-study in countries following European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidance will enroll asymptomatic or symptomatic patients from infancy up to age 3 to evaluate safety in that population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The trensportNPC study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled therapeutic study for 93 patients age 3 and older with confirmed diagnosis of NPC1. The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 2000 mg/kg dose of Trappsol Cyclo (hydroxypropyl betacyclodextrin) administered intravenously by slow infusion every two weeks in addition to standard of care as compared to placebo and standard of care. Standard of care may include Miglustat or leucine products that are not currently under investigation as a therapeutic. Patients will be randomized to receive Trappsol Cyclo or placebo at a 2:1 ratio. The study duration is 96 weeks, with an unblinded interim analysis at 48 weeks. An open-label extension of up to 96 weeks follows the interventional study. Patients whose disease progression worsens by two levels in the Clinical Global Impression of Severity scale over 12 weeks, starting at week 36, may be moved to open label treatment. Efficacy will be measured at week 48 and week 96 by a composite score of major disease features. A sub-study will be conducted in countries following EMA guidance for up to 12 patients age 0 - 3 years who may be asymptomatic. Outcomes for the sub-study are safety, clinical and caregiver impression of disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in 4-Domain NPC Severity Score (US only)
  - Change from Baseline in 4-Domain NPC Severity Score (US only)
  - Change from Baseline in 5-Domain NPC Severity Score (ex-US)
  - Change from Baseline in 5-Domain NPC Severity Score (ex-US)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 3 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04860960
