CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04659876
Title: Factors Affecting Mortality in Critical Patients Admitted to Intensive Care Unit Due to Coronavirus Disease 2019
Official Title: Clinical Characteristics and Laboratory Values Affecting Mortality in Critical Coronavirus Disease 2019 Patients Followed in the Intensive Care Unit
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 445
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Gazi Yasargil trening and Research Hospital, located in Diyarbakır province in southeastern Turkey, was designed as a pandemic hospital from the beginning of the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) outbreak. The first cases in this region were seen on March 22, 2020. In this study, it is aimed to retrospectively examine critical patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) due to COVID-19 from the first onset of cases until September 01, 2020 and to examine the factors affecting mortality. The necessary permits for the study were obtained from the Scientific Research Platform of the T.R. Ministry of Health and the Ethics Committee of the Gazi Yasargil educational and Research Hospital in Diyarbakır. (No: 550, 11.09.2020) Patients diagnosed with COVID-19 on the specified dates, followed in the ICU, older than 18 years, identified as critical/serious according to the World Health Organization and provisional guidelines of the Scientific Board of the T.R. Ministry of Health will be included in the study.

ICU patients without COVID-19; COVID-19 patients under 18 years of age; COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms, no respiratory distress, no signs of common pneumonia on lung radiography or tomography will be excluded from the study.

Patients' age, gender, comorbidity, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II), Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) and Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) scores when first admitted to the ICU, hemogram parameters (white blood cell count, neutrophil, lymphocyte, neutrophil / lymphocyte ratio, hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count), blood gas information (pH, Partial oxygen pressure-PO2, Partial pressure of carbon dioxide-PCO2, bicarbonate-HCO3, lactate), coagulation parameters (prothrombin time and D-dimer, blood biochemistry results (C-reactive protein, lactate dehydrogenase, creatine kinase , urea, creatinine, alanine aminotrensferase, aspartate aminotrensferase, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin and indirect bilirubin), procalcitonin and ferritin levels will be recorded. In addition, the number of days spent in the ICU and whether mortality develops or not will be recorded.

Patients will be divided into two groups according to their clinical results as those without mortality during ICU follow-up (Group S) and those with mortality (Group NS). The clinical characteristics of both groups, APACHE II, SOFA, KDIGO scores and laboratory results at the first admission to the ICU will be compared. With the diagnosis of COVID-19, factors affecting mortality in critical patients in the ICU will be tried to be determined.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II Score
  - Sequential Organ Failure Assessment Score
  - Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes Scores
  - White Blood Cell
  - Neutrophil

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: clinical features and laboratory values

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04659876
