CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02533063
Title: Semi-Recumbent Vibration Therapy in Older Adults
Official Title: Semi-Recumbent Vibration Therapy in Older Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This proposed prospective study will evaluate whether a novel exercise approach, seated vibration therapy, can improve function in the target population of older adults. Therefore, the primary aim of this pilot is to examine the effect of vibration therapy on muscle function (balance, muscle power and strength) and muscle mass.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There are four study visits; screening/baseline followed by eight weeks of training three times a week, visit 1 at eight weeks followed by 4 weeks of washout, Visit 2 at 12 weeks followed by eight weeks of training three times a week, and a final Visit 3 at 20 weeks.

At the screening visit, volunteers will be asked to perform tests included in the short physical performance battery (SPPB) (gait speed, chair rise, balance). If the participants score is ≤ 9 or ≤ 2 in any of the three tests included in the SPPB they will be eligible for the intervention phase. At the baseline visit several questionnaires will be obtained and participants then will proceed with muscle function tests (SPPB, jumping mechanography, grip strength, timed-up-and-go test).

Participants will then be randomized into one of two groups. The first group will receive vibration + loading treatment for the first 8 weeks, the second group will receive sham treatment (loading only). After 8 weeks both groups will go through a 4 week wash-out period and then crossover will occur. The first group will now receive sham treatment (loading only) while the second group will receive vibration + loading treatment. The participants will train for 10 minutes, 3 times a week, during the active 16 total weeks.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Weight Corrected Jump Power Based on Participant's Jump on the Jump Force Plate

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: VibeTech One

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02533063
