CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04607460
Title: EMG Biofeedback Treatment for Chronic Low Back Pain, Cancer Pain and Migraines
Official Title: Biofeedback EMG Alternative Therapy for Chronic Low Back Pain and Chronic Cancer Pain (BEAT-Pain): A Pilot Efficacy Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 330
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this pilot efficacy study is to examine the effects of EMG-biofeedback (EMG-BF) on pain-related outcomes in Chronic Low Back Pain (CLBP) patients, Recent mastectomy and lumpectomy patients, and patients with episodic migraine.

EMG-BF facilitates neuromuscular retraining and muscle relaxation by using audio and visual stimuli using an EMG surface electrode-based biosensor and a software installed on a tablet or smart phone.

For this pilot efficacy study, we will recruit 125 patients with chronic low back pain, 125 patients who are expected to undergo mastectomy and 80 patients with episodic migraine. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the JOGO Digital Therapeutics EMG Biofeedback device or treatment as usual control group.

Patients assigned to the intervention group will be asked to complete self-report questionnaires assessing demographics, pain intensity, negative affect, physical function, pain catastrophizing and sleep, will undergo QST and will be asked to wear Actiwatches to keep track of health behaviors, prior to and after completing the intervention. The intervention consists of weekly sessions during which participants will be instructed on how to use the device by a trained biofeedback instructor.

Patients in the control group will undergo sensory testing procedures at baseline and after treatment period but will receive no active treatment.

The aims of this study are to examine the impact of EMG-BF on pain and QST and the impact of EMG-BF on psychosocial function. We hypothesize that patients that will undergo the EMG-BF will demonstrate reductions in pain, physical functioning, sleep, pain catastrophizing, anxiety and depression.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Biofeedback can be described as "operant conditioning of physiological activity", by which "the patient learns to self-regulate his or her physiological processes with the help of feedback information", and can comprise different sites, modalities, and procedures. Biofeedback instruments measure physiological activity such as brainwaves, heart function, breathing, muscle activity, and skin temperature and rapidly and accurately provide feedback information to the user. There are various aims biofeedback can target, e.g., developing more awareness or control for physiological processes and thus, consciously reducing muscle tension. Previous research has shown findings of higher baseline muscle activation and abnormal EMG as a response to stress in chronic back pain patients.

Studies using biofeedback for the treatment of chronic back pain have shown inconsistent results and it is difficult to draw conclusions based on previous studies due to variability in sample size and characteristics, biofeedback modality, treatment conditions, and control groups. Thus, the effectiveness of biofeedback in reducing the symptomatology of back pain patients remains unclear. The investigators therefore are planning to conduct this pilot efficacy study, to examine the effects of EMG-biofeedback (EMG-BF) on pain-related outcomes in a cohort of Chronic Low Back Pain (CLBP) patients.

This randomized clinical trial has two study arms. Participants in the first arm will receive the experimental condition (EMG-Bf) and those in the second will continue their usual care and serve as a control group. Both groups will be asked to complete self-report questionnaires before their first visit and after the last visit at 8 weeks. Further, both groups will undergo Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) before their first visit and after the last visit at 8 weeks. The specific aims of this study are to examine the impact of EMG-BF on pain intensity and sensitivity and on physical functioning, sleep, pain catastrophizing, anxiety and depression. We will not modify pain medication regimens in any of the trial arms and no pain medication prescriptions will be issued by the research team at any time.

Chronic Lower Back Pain

Experimental Condition:

This study will include 2 in-person office visits separated by 8 virtual therapy sessions. During the in-person visits, participants will undergo sensory testing procedures described below. On visit 1 a member of the research staff will train patients on the basic functionality of the EMG-BF device. Virtual sessions 1-8 will be held via Partners Healthcare Secure Zoom. During these, participants will receive guided EMG biofeedback intervention with a therapist and will be instructed to use the device at home.

Home practice will be monitored via electronic practice logs recorded on REDcap. Patients will be trained to relax their muscles under the guidance of a doctorate level therapist by monitoring progress through virtual feedback in the 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Pain intensity after treatment period

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: JOGO Digital Therapeutics EMG Biofeedback for Lower Back Pain
  - DEVICE: JOGO Digital Therapeutics EMG Biofeedback for Persistent Post Mastectomy Pain
  - DEVICE: JOGO Digital Therapeutics EMG Biofeedback for Migraine

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04607460
