CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03649698
Title: Exercise and Nutrition for Healthy AgeiNg
Official Title: Exercise and Nutrition for Healthy AgeiNg: Anabolic Interventions for Older People With (Pre)Sarcopenia to Improve Physical Functioning, Muscle Mass and Muscle Strength and to Understand the Underlying Mechanisms of Action.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The aim of this randomized placebo-controlled 5-arm clinical trial is to evaluate the effect of combined anabolic interventions compared to single or placebo interventions on physical performance in community-dwelling (pre)sarcopenic elderly (≥ 65 years) and to determine the underlying mechanisms of action. Important secondary outcome measures are muscle mass, muscle strength, compliance to the interventions (exercise program, protein and omega-3 supplementation) and functional, cognitive and nutritional status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this randomized 5-arm clinical trial is to evaluate the effect of combined anabolic interventions compared to single or placebo interventions on physical performance in community-dwelling (pre)sarcopenic elderly (≥ 65 years) living in Belgium. Physical performance will be evaluated using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). Muscle mass will be measured using a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and/or bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA). Muscle strength will be measured by the Biodex (knee-extensor and knee-flexor) and a 1 hand-held dynamometer. The trial will also determine the underlying mechanisms of action using blood measures (such as markers of inflammation and sarcopenia) and muscle biomarkers. Important secondary outcome measures are compliance to the exercise program and to the protein and omega-3 supplementation, as well as functional, cognitive and nutritional status and the patients report on benefits and adverse events.

The study consists of four parts. Part I is the screening phase, which starts from the moment the participant has signed the informed consent until the start of the preparations of the study. During the screening, participants will be assessed for study eligibility by the study coordinator and contributors. If the participant is eligible, he or she will be randomly assigned into 1 of 5 intervention groups: Group 1: Exercise intervention; Group 2: Protein supplement; Group 3: Exercise intervention + protein supplement; Group 4: Exercise + Protein supplement + omega-3 supplement; Group 5: No intervention.

Part II is the preparation phase, in which the participants starts some of the interventions before the start of the study to familiarize patients with e.g. the intake of a protein supplement. All the participants will take an oral vitamin D supplement (800 IU cholecalciferol) from 4 weeks before the start of the intervention if their vitamin D level is above 20 nmol/L. Patients with a vitamin D level \< 20 nmol/L will receive repletion therapy. A trial diary will be completed by all participants to record PA, falls and intake of protein/omega3/placebo and vitamin D products. Participants in the exercise intervention (group 1, 3 and 4) will be invited to an information session where the Otago Exercise Program (OEP) will be explained and practiced. With respect to the protein supplementation, participants will receive an individually adapted protein supplement to achieve the recommended total daily intake of 1.5 g protein/kg. This will be realized by adding an individualized amount (g) of protein powder during breakfast, lunch, dinner or snack between, before or after meals, based on the subjects' food intake assessed by a food diary. The protein powder is commercially available and consists of 4.5g protein/ 5g powder. The participants in group 2, 3 and 4 will start taking the protein supplement or matched placebo 5 days before the start of the intervention. Four weeks before the start of t

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in physical functioning
  - Percentage of participants with change in physical functioning

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Home-based training program
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: High-quality protein supplement
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3 fatty acid
  - DRUG: Placebo protein powder
  - DRUG: Placebo omega-3

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03649698
