CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05742542
Title: The Effects of High vs. Low Time Spent Near VO2max During Two Work-matched High Intensity Interval Training.
Official Title: The Effects of High vs. Low Time Spent Near VO2max During Two Work-matched High Intensity Interval Training.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) is used to define cardiorespiratory fitness, which is important to health and sport performance in humans. Although different types of training can improve VO2max, the high intensity interval training is recognized as one of the best ways to do it. Furthermore, it has long been speculated that high intensity interval training that elicits a high time spent near VO2max could be the best way to improve VO2max. However, this theory has not been verified. Thus, the investigators performed a randomized controlled trial with crossover in healthy individuals who underwent two high intensity interval training protocols of two weeks, being a workout with longer and other with shorter time spent near VO2max.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fifteen participants were enrolled in a randomized trial with crossover to perform two weeks of high intensity interval training with high (i.e., five times 2 minutes of work and 1 minute of recovery; T-2min:1min) or low (i.e., ten times 1 minutes of work and 30 seconds of recovery; T-1min:30seg) time spent near VO2max. The work intensity was adjusted at 85% and 87% of power output achieved at the end of incremental test for the first and second week, respectively. Before and after the T-2min:1min and T-1min:30seg, the participants performed tests to determine VO2max, lactate threshold, muscle oxidative capacity, pulmonary oxygen uptake kinetics, power output achieved at the end of incremental test, and power output related to Wingate anaerobic test. The training programs had a washout period of at least one month.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maximal oxygen uptake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05742542
