CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05811767
Title: The Esbjerg Cohort - A Cross-sectional Study About Work Ability and Musculoskeletal Pain in 55 to 70 Years Old Workers
Official Title: Ergonomic Exposure in Relation to Physical Capacity and Its Effect on Work Ability and Musculoskeletal Pain in the Oldest Group of Workers - The Esbjerg Cohort
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 331
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The overall aim of this study is to investigate how work with physical demands affects the physical capacity, work ability, labor market affiliation, pain and self-reported health in the oldest group of workers.

Following research questions are to be answered:

1. How high physical work demands affects muscle strength in 55-70-year-old workers and how obesity in combination with high physical work exposure influences muscle strength, work ability, cardiac function, and self-reported health?
2. Which parameters are important for work ability and how does the exposure of high physical workload affect the work ability over time in 55-70-year-old workers?
3. By exploring the underlying mechanism of pain among 55+ year old workers, how is pain associated with work ability, BMI and physical capacity?

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is a population-based cross-sectional study conducted in the municipality Esbjerg, Denmark. This study wants to investigate how ergonomic exposure in relation to physical capacity has an effect on work ability and musculoskeletal pain in workers between 55 and 70 years old. This Ph.D. is a clinical study including physical tests, questionnaires, and long-term evaluation of work ability. The study population consists of 336 citizens divided into 12 groups stratified for gender, age (\< 60 years, 60-64 years and above 64 years) and occupational group (white-collar or blue-collar worker).

The study population will be recruited to uncover the physical workload among citizens 55+ years and compare the physical work demands to their health status, pain and physical capacity. The intention is to provide knowledge of the consequences of high physical workload on the musculoskeletal system in the oldest group of workers. This knowledge is necessary for better treatment and counseling to the oldest group of workers and for improved guidelines on how to optimize the balance between the physical work demands and the capacity of the workers.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Work Ability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Health Examination

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05811767
