CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06049628
Title: The Impact of FIFA 11+ on Isokinetic Muscle Strength and Balance
Official Title: The Impact of FIFA 11+ Exercise Program on Isokinetic Muscle Strength and Balance on Adolescent Amateur Soccer Players.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
FIFA 11+ program; It consists of simple, easily remembered, and time-consuming, sport-specific exercises underlying fair play. Although the FIFA 11+ program is a well-established warm-up protocol for injury prevention among football players, the performance improvement aspect of the program is not often discussed in the literature. The study's objective is to investigate the efficacy of the FIFA 11+ program on sports performance parameters such as dynamic balance, isokinetic muscle strength performance in adolescent amateur male football players.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was planned in a randomized controlled experimental type. The footballers of a team from an amateur league will be included in the research. All participants will be tested at baseline and 9 weeks after baseline. The participants will be submitted to the following testing procedures: dynamic balance (Star Excursion Balance Test), muscle strength assessment (Isokinetic assessment). After the baseline measurements will be completed, the control group members will be advised to continue their regular warm-up program. This program consists of jogging and stretching exercises. The experimental group will complete the FIFA 11+ trening, which consisted of six different types of running exercises; six exercises with three levels of increasing difficulty to improve the participants' strength, agility, core stability, eccentric control, etc.; and advanced running exercises, such as running across the pitch, bounding, planting, cutting. The FIFA 11+ will be applied to the experimental group 3 times a week for 9 weeks. The control group's warm-up duration will be matched to the experimental group's duration (20-25 min). This routine workout will perform 3 times a week for 9 weeks. At the end of 9 weeks, the evaluations will be repeated (Star Excursion Balance Test, Isokinetic assessment).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Isokinetic assessment
  - Isokinetic assessment
  - balance assessment
  - balance assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: FIFA 11+ exercise program
  - BEHAVIORAL: routine program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 18 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06049628
