CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03064230
Title: Promotion of Wellbeing in Women Athletes
Official Title: Promotion and Protection of the Well Being of Women Athletes Through the Female Athlete Triad Screening
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The Female Athlete Triad is a medical condition often observed in physically active girls and women, and involves 3 components: (1) low energy availability with or without disordered eating, (2) menstrual dysfunction, and (3) low bone mineral density. An early intervention is essential to prevent its progression to serious endpoints including clinical eating disorders, amenorrhea, and osteoporosis that can affect the quality of life of these patients and even compromise the athletic performance.

All patients, aged between 14 and 40 years, who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria, were prospectively enrolled in this observational study and were divided into two groups: Athletes agonists (Experimental Group or Group A) and women who do not perform agonistic sports (Control Group or Group B). In both groups of patients, the investigators administered two types of questionnaires: a standardized quality of Life questionnaire, validated in Italian (SF-12) and a screening questionnaire recommended by the Female Athlete Triad Expert Panel.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
From January 2016 to May 2016 the investigators considered eligible all consecutive women, aged between 14 and 40 years, who came to undergo routine physical examination.

The institutional internal review board approved the study. Inclusion criteria were: I) age between 14 and 40 years; II) absence of malignancies; III) informed consent obtained from the patient; IV) no previous surgical, chemotherapic and/or radiotherapic treatments.

the investigators excluded all patients who presented any conditions that could alter quality of life such as: I) recent traumas; II) recent surgeries; III) oncologic history; IV) uncontrolled systemic illnesses; V) severe or uncontrolled infection; VI) mental illness; VII) pregnancy.

All patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria were prospectively enrolled in this observational study and were divided into two groups: Athletes agonists (Experimental Group or Group A) and women who do not perform any agonistic sports (Control Group or Group B).

Were considered agonists athletes and enrolled in Group A all the patients who met the definition of competitive sports athletes adopted by the Italian Ministry of Health (Ministerial Decree, D.M. 18/02/1982 - Circular No. 7 of 01/31/1983): "form of sporting activity systematically and/or continually practiced, especially organized by the National Sports Federations, the Sporting Promotion bodies recognized both by CONI and the Ministry of Education with regard to the Youth Games at National level, to the achievement of a certain level of sportive performance". All other women were considered as not athletes and were included in the control group (Group B).

To assess the sample size, in order to detect a difference of 3 points in SF12-questionnaires, were used the Cohen formulas, considering a power of 80% (two-tails; P = 0.05 Long Rank Test): 100 patients were necessary for each group to detect a statistically significant difference.

In all patients an accurate gynecological history was recorded with a special focus on menstrual irregularities, from the age of menarche to present. It was also investigated the presence of other gynecological symptoms that can affect athletic performance of the patient, such as pain during menstruation (dysmenorrhea) or other forms of pelvic pain.

A registration of medication history was taken, including medications that can affect menstruation and /or bone mass density (BMD), as contraceptive pills or other contraceptive agents.

Moreover all patients underwent the evaluation of every physical characteristics that could be suggestive of an eating disorders, such as low body mass index (BMI), weight loss, orthostatic hypotension, swelling of the parotid glands or presence of calluses on the proximal interphalangeal joints (also known as Mark Russell). Finally an accurate record of all the previous episodes of bone stress, injuries and fractures was recorded.

In both groups of patients two types of questionnaires were adminis

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quality of life through a validated in Italian (SF-12) and a screening questionnaire recommended by the Female Athlete Triad Expert Panel.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: QoL questionnaire SF-12 and and a screening questionnaire

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 14 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03064230
