CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02032667
Title: Exercise Games and Physical Activity: Can a Home-based Exergame System Increase Physical Activity?
Official Title: Exercise Games and Physical Activity: Does Multi-player Online Play Improve Adherence?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will be investigating an innovative and exciting way to increase physical activity in children between the ages of 9 and 12 years old. Families will be provided with a state-of-the-art exercise bike and video game console to have in their homes. The video games will provide a variety of play including racing, puzzle solving, collaborative play, team play and competitive play. We will be comparing whether a 'multi-player' condition has a greater adherence compared to a 'single-player' condition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
1. Aims of the study: In 2005, the number of deaths attributed to cancer surpassed those caused by major cardiovascular diseases as the number one cause of mortality in Canada, and to this date, continues to significantly impact the lives of Canadians. As a response to the societal and individual afflictions from disease, it is imperative that research initiatives become more focused in the area of primary prevention. Reports have shown that at least half of all new cancer cases and deaths worldwide can be prevented. The largest impact on cancer development are lifestyle variables such as physical activity. Reviews and meta-analysis show a strong inverse linear relationship between physical activity and many of the most prevalent forms of cancer including breast, lung, and colon cancer (i.e., the more an individual exercises the less likely they are to develop cancer). Unfortunately, over 80% of the Canadian populace fails to meet these recommendations. To compound the problem of low physical activity prevalence, the largest declines in activity may occur early in life. Obviously, regular life-long physical activity is the desired outcome for lowering the risk of cancer; thus, promotion efforts targeting critical transitions to physical inactivity early in life are paramount. Two such groups are parents and their children, making family-based physical activity initiatives arguably the most important target for disease prevention. Unfortunately, physical activity interventions focused on the family home are limited and have resulted in negligible changes in physical activity for both children and their parents. Improvements are required in terms of the innovations of interventions.

   An area often overlooked when trying to increase physical participation is affective expectations or judgments (expected pleasure and enjoyment). Affective judgments are a central construct - in some form - in many of our popular health behaviour models, yet few interventions have focused on the modification of affective expectations, despite its reliable and robust association with physical activity. One such group of activities with this potential is interactive exercise videogaming (exergames). Exergaming is a relatively unexplored topic but early results and commentary have been very controversial; the topic has generated as many reviews as it has experimental trials. Overall, the emerging evidence suggests that these games can significantly increase energy expenditure similar to moderate intensity physical activities and these can translate into health-related fitness improvements. The research conducted from our group on this topic also shows this finding. Our studies employ exergames within the context of traditional exercise bikes (i.e., exercise bikes that interact with video games) because they demonstrate physical activity in the moderate to vigorous intensity range that results in marked fitness changes. Despite these positive effects, limited research i

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in physical activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Multi-player condition

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02032667
