CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04672681
Title: Rehabilitation Including Structured Active Play for Preschoolers With Cancer.
Official Title: Rehabilitation Including Structured Active Play for Preschoolers With Cancer.
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 84
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Treatment for childhood cancer causes treatment-related acute adverse events such as muscle weakness and physical incompetence. With long admissions, isolation, and long-term bed rest, this means reduced physical activity and, ultimately, gross motor functioning development is affected. Furthermore, the children participate less in sport and leisure activities, inhibiting social skills, and the children feel isolated from peers. The above makes it difficult for children to return to everyday activities. Physical activity in the form of play and movement activities is essential for preschool children's gross motor, social, and personal development- a development where parents play a crucial role.

Replay is a randomized controlled trial that will include 84 children with cancer aged 1-5 years at the University Hospital Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet. The children are included at the treatment initiation and are randomized to either the intervention group or the control group. The intervention consists of six months of daily structured play-based physical activity, including daily parent administered play and movement and three weekly group-based play and movement sessions at the hospital during admissions. Gross motor and physical function is measured with 1) Peabody Developmental Motor Scales, Second Edition (PDMS-2), Pediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory (PEDI), Handgrip strength, and a six-minute walk test. The assessment time points are baseline (initiated timepoint), 3- and 6 months (endpoint) after initiated treatment. The intervention group will be observed and invited to participate in qualitative interviews. The control group will receive usual care and specific physiotherapy if needed.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aim

Project RePlay aims to investigate the effectiveness of a play-based physical activity intervention on gross motor functioning measured by Peabody Developmental Motor Scales, Second Edition (PDMS-2) with the primary end-point six months after diagnosis in children with newly diagnosed cancer aged 1-5 years old. The investigators hypothesize that the intervention will reduce short- and long-term physical and psychosocial consequences, including reduced gross motor function and lack of social interaction.

1. Background

   Physical play and movement activities are essential for preschool children's gross motor, social, and personal development. Through play and movement, children develop motor skills crucial for participation in physical and social activities throughout life. A study showed that an 18-week play intervention among healthy preschool children significantly improved (p\<.0005) gross motor function in the intervention group compared with the control group. Play is also the children's first arena for socializing, and these interactions have an immense role in developing emotional, personal, and social skills. Physical play and movement activities are more than just physical exercise; it is social teamwork, emotions, and learning. Reduced physical activity or inactivity in children is highly dependent on three factors; 1) reduced dynapenia (muscle strength and power), 2) exercise deficit disorder (physical inactivity), and 3) physical illiteracy (reduced competence, confidence, and knowledge in movement). Due to more intensive treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery, children with cancer experience acute adverse events such as myopathy and neuropathy, resulting in muscle weakness, physical incompetence, and inactivity. Furthermore, treatment-related complications such as infections can cause extended periods of hospitalization, periods of isolation, and long-term bed rest. Thus, many children with cancer experience several physical side effects as impaired motor skills, physical capacity, and decreased motivation to engage in physical activity. The cancer treatment has a significant impact on the children's physical development and socialization as the lack of motor development leads to inactivity and less participation in sport and leisure activities. This leads to a reduced understanding of the social playing field in joint activities, and the children feel more isolated from peers. Children with cancer experiences challenges in all three factors leading to physical inactivity. Compared with siblings and the general population, these social and physical challenges persist for the rest of their lives. Hence, children diagnosed with cancer have lower school performance, lower education level, higher unemployment, and increased socioeconomic challenges. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that early initiated rehabilitation programs during initial treatment, focusing on maintaining a typical physical activity level, are c

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gross Motor Function
  - Gross Motor Function
  - Gross Motor Function
  - Gross Motor Function
  - Gross Motor Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Play-based physical activity intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Months to 5 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04672681
