CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06115850
Title: Effect of Music Intervention on Anxiety in Cancer Patients Undergoing Initial Radiation Therapy
Official Title: Effect of Music Intervention on Anxiety in Cancer Patients Undergoing Initial Radiation Therapy: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
This prospective randomized trial evaluated the effect of music interventions on anxiety and nervousness during 10 consecutive days in individuals undergoing their first radiation therapy session.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A total of 100 participants were enrolled and randomly assigned to either the music group or nonmusic group (n = 50 each). Investigators ensured an equal distribution of men and women, without considering the cancer type. To minimize confounding factors and prevent shared learning experiences or communication between the two groups, the participants in the experimental and control groups were scheduled for treatment at different times throughout the year (from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022). Anxiety assessment questionnaires were administered before the treatment began and after 2 weeks of treatment. Physiological parameters, including heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and blood oxygen levels, were monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment. In the music intervention group, the patients received music intervention during RT for 10 consecutive days and listened to music for approximately 10-15 minutes in each session. The music period was then followed by a 10-day period without music during treatment to evaluate the differences in the same individuals. In contrast, the control group did not receive music intervention throughout their entire RT period. Investigators observed the music intervention group for 2 weeks to ascertain any differences.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The physiological indicators - Heart rate
  - The physiological indicators - Blood pressure
  - The physiological indicators - Blood oxygen
  - The anxiety status - Distress Thermometer
  - The anxiety status - Brief Symptom Rating Scale (BSRS-5)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Music

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06115850
