CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01406106
Title: Effect of Plant Sterols on the Lipid Profile of Patients With Hypercholesterolaemia
Official Title: EFFECT OF PLANT STEROLS ON THE LIPID PROFILE OF PATIENTS WITH HYPERCHOLESTEROLAEMIA. RANDOMISED, EXPERIMENTAL STUDY
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 182
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Background information Studies have been conducted on supplementing the daily diet with plant sterol ester-enriched milk derivatives in order to reduce LDL-cholesterol levels and, consequently, cardiovascular risk. However, clinical practice guidelines on hypercholesterolaemia state that there is not sufficient evidence to recommend their use in subjects with hypercholesterolaemia. The null hypothesis establishes that there is no relationship between the decrease in blood LDL-cholesterol levels and the consumption of stanol ester enriched liquid yoghurt. The alternative hypothesis establishes a relationship between such consumption and the incidence of the primary variable.

The main objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of the intake of 2 g of plant sterol esters a day in lowering LDL-cholesterol levels in patients diagnosed with hypercholesterolaemia. The specific objectives are: 1) to quantify the efficacy of the daily intake of plant sterol esters in lowering LDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol and cardiovascular risk in patients with hypercholesterolaemia; 2) to evaluate the occurrence of adverse effects of the daily intake of plant sterol esters; 3) to identify the factors that determine a greater reduction in lipid levels in subjects receiving plant sterol ester supplements.

Study design Randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled experimental trial carried out at family doctors' surgeries at three health centres in the Health Area of Albacete (Spain). The study subjects will be adults diagnosed with "limit" or "defined" hypercholesterolaemia and who have LDL cholesterol levels of 130 mg/dl or over. A dairy product in the form of liquid yoghurt containing 2 g of plant sterol ester per container will be administered daily after the main meal, for a period of 24 months. The control group will receive a daily unit of yogurt not supplemented with plant sterol esters that has a similar appearance to the enriched yoghurt. The primary variable is the change in lipid profile at 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. The secondary variables are: change in cardiovascular risk, adherence to the dairy product, adverse effects, adherence to dietary recommendations, frequency of food consumption, basic physical examination data, health problems, lipid-lowering medication, physical activity, smoking habits and socio-demographic variables.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in lipid profile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Plant stanol esters

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01406106
