CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05451901
Title: Immediate Necrosectomy vs. Step-up Approach for Walled-off Necrosis
Official Title: Immediate Necrosectomy vs. Step-up Approach After EUS-guided Drainage of Walled-off Necrosis: a Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial (WONDER-01)
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Walled-off necrosis (WON) is a pancreatic fluid collection, which contains necrotic tissue after four weeks of the onset of acute pancreatitis. Interventions are required to manage patients with infected WON, for which endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)-guided drainage has become a first-line treatment modality. For patients who are refractory to EUS-guided drainage, the step-up treatment including endoscopic necrosectomy (EN) and/or additional drainage is considered to subside the infection. Recent evidence suggests that EN immediately after EUS-guided drainage may shorten treatment duration without increasing adverse events. In this randomized trial, the investigators will compare treatment duration between EN immediately after EUS-guided drainage versus the step-up approach in patients with symptomatic WON.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Pancreatic fluid collection is a late complication of severe acute pancreatitis. According to the revised Atlanta classification, walled-off necrosis (WON) is defined as an encapsulated collection of necrotic tissue that is observed after four weeks of the onset of acute pancreatitis. Infected WON is associated with high morbidity and mortality; therefore, an appropriate treatment, including antibiotics and drainage, is mandatory. With the development of endoscopic equipment, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)-guided drainage has become a first-line treatment modality for infected WON. For patients who are refractory to EUS-guided drainage, endoscopic necrosectomy (EN) is a treatment option to facilitate direct removal of infected necrotic tissue within the WON. However, due to potentially lethal adverse events of EN, such as bleeding, perforation, and peritonitis, EN is usually withheld for several days after EUS-guided drainage. This strategy is known as "the step-up approach." Recently, with the accumulated evidence supporting the safety of EN, especially with the use of a dedicated lumen-apposing metal stent, it has been reported that EN immediately after EUS-guided drainage can shorten the treatment duration without increasing adverse events. Given these lines of evidence, the investigators hypothesized that immediate EN following EUS-guided drainage of WON might shorten time to clinical success compared to the step-up approach. To examine this hypothesis, the investigators planned to conduct a multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing treatment duration between EN immediately after EUS-guided drainage versus the step-up approach in patients with symptomatic WON.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time to clinical success from randomization

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Immediate necrosectomy
  - PROCEDURE: Step-up approach

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05451901
