CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05386017
Title: Post-interventional Future for Adolescents From the PRALIMAP-INÉS Trial
Official Title: Post-interventional Future for Adolescents From the PRALIMAP-INÉS Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 852
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The research focuses on a follow-up measure of participants in the PRALIMAP-INÈS cohort (NCT01688453 - Legrand et al. 2017). PRALIMAP-INÈS was conducted between 2012 and 2015 with the objective of showing that adapted overweight support for less advantaged adolescents has an effect equivalent to standard support for advantaged adolescents in the short term. This trial included 3 measurement times: T0 (before intervention), T1 (after intervention, at the end of the school year), T2 (after intervention) and of the school year), T2 (one year later).

The proposed research is a continuation of PRALIMAP-INÈS with the addition of a 4th measurement time (T3) to study the trajectories of the intervention. (T3) to study the long-term social, economic, educational and health trajectories (in particular weight) of weight) of adolescents who have become young adults.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Beforehand, an information letter will be sent to the young adults included in PRALIMAP-INÈS at the postal and e-mail addresses initially provided. The objective is to present the study and to inform about the upcoming solicitation by the project team.

The young adults are contacted by a member trained in the project and the telephone call. This person will contact the young adults by phone to: follow up on the information letter, present the study to the young adult, verify the contact information from the T0, propose to fill out the questionnaire (T3) and propose to participate in a follow-up visit. The follow-up visit will take place in a medical center near the young adult's current place of residence, work or study. This visit will include a questionnaire as well as anthropometric measurements.

In addition to the data previously collected during follow-up visit 3, approximately 60 young adults will participate in a qualitative interview conducted by a sociologist. The goal is to gain a deeper understanding of the trajectories of young adults with respect to The objective is to gain a deeper understanding of the trajectories of young adults with respect to the social aspects that may affect health behavior. Dimensions such as educational and professional backgrounds, family and social networks, living conditions social networks, living conditions, etc. will be explored in detail.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evolution of the corpulence determined from the body mass index [BMI].

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Anthropometric measurements and sociodemographic and health data collection

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05386017
