CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05022342
Title: Study of PIK3CA Mutations and Effectiveness and Tolerability Outcomes of Alpelisib in Real-world
Official Title: A Descriptive Study of PIK3CA Mutations and Outcomes With Alpelisib in Patients With HR-positive and HER2-negative Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC)/ Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC) in India
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 600
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
SPEAR is a non-interventional / observational, prospective, multicenter study planned to be conducted across \~ 30 sites in India, amonGHR-positive and HER2-negative ABC/MBC patients. This being a non-interventional study, no investigational drug or intervention will be administered as a part of the study participation. All the therapeutic decisions, as well as the type and timing of disease monitoring, laboratory tests or medical procedures will be at the discretion of the treating physician and upon patient's consent. No visits will be scheduled as a part of this non-interventional study, however, data by visits for variables will be collected for all the enrolled patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Overall, this study will have 2 parts (Part A and Part B). However, it is to be noted that, these parts (Part A and Part B) are independent of each other and can run in parallel. The purpose of the Part A of study is to determine the proportion of PIK3CA mutation positive patients among the HR-positive and HER2-negative ABC/MBC diagnosed patients in India. The Part B of the study aims to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and tolerability of alpelisib plus fulvestrent among men, pre-menopausal women (ovarian ablation) or post-menopausal women who are PIK3CA mutation positive patients with HR-positive and HER2-negative ABC/MBC diagnosis among Indian population, in the real-world setting.

Part A- This will involve enrolling of approximately 1200 patients (males, post-menopausal women or pre-menopausal women who are receiving ovarian ablation) with a documented diagnosis of HR-positive HER2-negative ABC/MBC. The data on PIK3CA mutation status will be collected only for those patients who signs ICF for participation in the study. Once, patient signs ICF, their samples will be sent for PIK3CA mutation status testing, that will be performed at central laboratory and the results on mutation status will be reported to the investigator.

Part B- This part aims to enroll approximately 200 patients who are PIK3CA mutation positive. The patients enrolled into the Part B of the study can either be continued from Part A of the study or be a direct enrollment into the Part B of the study. For the patient's entering directly into Part B of the study, positive PIK3CA status should be available prior to study entry. All the patients entering into part B of the study must be alpelisib treatment naïve. The patients enrolled into Part B of the study, should have already been planned to receive treatment with alpelisib plus fulvestrent, based on their treating physician's discretion and upon patient's consent. The treatment decision by the physician are to be made independent of the patient's inclusion in this observational study. During the Part B of the study, data by visits for variables will be collected for the enrolled patients at every 3 months interval (±1 month), if feasible or until a maximum of 24 months observational period or lost to follow-up (End-of-study \[EoS\] assessment will be performed), or death, or disease progression, whichever occurs first.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - PART A: Percentage of patients with tumors harboring a PIK3CA mutation
  - PART B: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) as measured by RECIST 1.1

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: alpelisib plus fulvestrent

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 100 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05022342
