CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05396963
Title: Egg White Supplementation in High-Intensity Functional Training
Official Title: Effects of Egg White Supplementation on Body Composition, Physical Performance, and Amino Acid Profile of Individuals Undergoing High-intensity Functional Training
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
High-intensity functional training (HIFT), a new version of high-intensity interval training, has gained interest in recent years. HIFT is based on the CrossFit training template and includes multijoint movement patterns via both endurance and strengthening exercises. Research has shown positive effects of HIFT on body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, and muscle performance of young individuals. The effectiveness of HIFT in higher ages and its protein requirements are less well documented. Protein requirements have been widely investigated in resistance training, where it has been found that protein supplementation may have additive beneficial effects on muscle strength and lean body mass. However, there is a research gap regarding the adaptations to HIFT when combined with protein supplementation.

Thus, the aim of this research is to compare the effects of egg white supplementation, whey protein supplementation (as a positive comparator), and maltodextrin (a carbohydrate as placebo) on body composition, physical performance, and plasma amino acid profile in young and middle-aged trained individuals of both sexes who perform HIFT. Participants will take all three supplements for 6 weeks each, with 2 weeks of washout (no supplementation) in between, in random and counterbalanced order. Researchers will not know the supplementation status of the participants. Participants will receive 0.6 g of protein or placebo per kg body weight daily on top of isoenergetic dietary plans to avoid differences in energy intake that might compromise the validity of the study. The dietary plans will be individualized and will provided 1.0 g protein/kg body weight/day. The HIFT protocol will include multimodal patterns of movement, combining endurance and strengthening exercises with the use of equipment such as Total Resistance eXercise (TRX), Bosu, kettlebells, and barbells.

Participants will undergo measurements of muscle strength, muscle endurance, aerobic capacity, and body composition at the beginning and end of the study, as well as during the two washout periods. Also, plasma amino acids, hematology, biochemistry, and hormones will be measured. Comparison of all these outcome measures between supplements will reveal whether protein supplementation is useful in HIFT.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lean and fat mass pre-supplementation
  - Lean and fat mass post-supplementation
  - Maximal dynamic strength of shoulder muscles pre-supplementation
  - Maximal dynamic strength of shoulder muscles post-supplementation
  - Force-velocity relationship of knee flexors and extensors pre-supplementation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Egg white
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whey protein
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Maltodextrin

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05396963
