CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04146818
Title: Study of the Effects of Adapted Tango and Multidimensional Intervention in pREvention of Dementia in agiNG (STRENGTH)
Official Title: Study of the Effects of Adapted Tango and Multidimensional Intervention in pREvention of Dementia in agiNG: Developing healTHy Life Style Programs. (STRENGTH)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 300
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The STRENGTH project is a randomized controlled trial to assess the effects of a 6 months multimodal intervention consisted of adapted Tango dancing together with music therapy, engagement in social activities, cognitive intervention and psycho-education on functional, biological, cognitive outcomes and psycho-social aspects in 300 subjects with mild cognitive impairment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cognitive decline represents a pathological condition for elderly with negative consequences on social functioning and independent living. To reduce the incidence of cognitive deficits in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), treatments that prevent or delay dementia are needed. The main objective of STRENGTH Project, is the assessment of the effects of a comprehensive intervention in 300 subjects with MCI, finalized to improve functional, biochemical, cognitive outcomes and psycho-social aspects. The study uses a multidisciplinary approach, has a 3-year duration, and includes 3 follow-up phases. Participants will be assigned to: a) Experimental group, which will undergo a multimodal intervention for improving cognitive outcomes, functional status and mobility. Treatment will include sessions of Adapted tango, music therapy, engagement in social activities, comprehensive cognitive intervention and psycho-education for 6 months; or b) Control group, which will receive psycho-education and advice on healthy life-style for 6 months. Cognitive and psycho-social outcomes, functional, cardiovascular status, life-style characteristics, biochemical determination, will be evaluated at baseline and longitudinally. Our hypothesis is based on expectation that the proposed could improve cognitive, functional outcomes and quality of life, with a positive impact on prevention of onset of dementia and cognitive decline in MCI subjects.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in overall cognition

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Adapted Tango Dancing
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04146818
