CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07189936
Title: Effect of 2-HOBA in Persistent Immune Activation in Long COVID POTS
Official Title: Mechanism of Isolevuglandin-Protein Adduct Formation in Persistent Immune Activation in Long COVID POTS
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Long COVID is defined by a range of symptoms affecting multiple organs that persist for more than three months following an acute SARS-CoV-2 infection. Approximately 7% of individuals who recover from SARS-Cov-2 infection develop Long COVID.

Long COVID Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (LCPOTS) symptoms include fatigue, exercise intolerance, orthostatic intolerance, syncope, and heightened orthostatic tachycardia.

Research has found that decreased parasympathetic activity in LCPOTS increases the production of highly immunogenic neoantigens Isolevuglandins (IsoLG-adducts). IsoLG-adducts induce formation of circulating monocyte/T cell complexes(doublets) leading to the persistent and unresolved immune response that continues after the initial infection.

The purpose of the this research, is to study the effects of 2-hydroxybenzylamine (2-HOBA), an Iso-LG-adduct scavenger, its effects in immune markers and compare it with Placebo

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

Decreased parasympathetic activity is present in LCPOTS; this system is an important modulator of NAPDH oxidase activity because the activation of NADPH oxidase in monocytes promotes superoxide (reactive oxygen species -ROS) production.Oxidative stress occurs when ROS are generated in excess of normal antioxidants. Oxidative stress occurs when reactive oxygen species (ROS) are generated in excess of normal antioxidantsOxidative stress occurs when reactive oxygen species (ROS) are generated in excess of normal antioxidants that can cause harm by having adverse effects on T cell function. Targeting downstream damaging effects of ROS is an attractive alternative.

Rationale and Specific Aims

Reduced parasympathetic activity increases the production of highly immunogenic neoantigens, Isolevuglandins (IsoLG-adducts), through heightened activation of NADPH oxidase. Previous findings demonstrated that the cholinergic enhancer galantamine, reduces NADPH oxidase activation and that vagal stimulation reduces IsoLG-adducts in immune cells of LCPOTs patients.

Immune activation in response to viral or likely self-antigen presentation can induce formation of circulating monocyte/T cell complexes(doublets).The presence of these doublets provides powerful insights into the persistent and unresolved immune response that continues after the initial infection. The preliminary data show that: 1) LCPOTS subjects have markedly increased circulating doublets compared to controls; 2) T cells in these doublets produce higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-17A and IFN-ɣ than singlet T cells; and 3) inflammatory cytokines positively associate with the severity of orthostatic tachycardia in LCPOTS.

Monocytes in these doublets exhibit high levels of IsoLGs. These results support the hypothesis that LCPOTS represents a condition of unresolved immune activation due to IsoLG-adducts, which we have shown can act as neoantigens.

Study Aims Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that IsoLG-adducts directly contribute to persistent immune activation as measured by elevated monocyte/T cell doublets in LCPOTS.

For this purpose, the effect of 28-day treatment with Iso-LG-adduct scavenger, 2-hydroxybenzylamine (2-HOBA) versus placebo will be tested on circulating monocyte/ T cell doublets, and inflammatory cytokines.

Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that IsoLG-adducts directly contribute to splanchnic vasodilation, orthostatic tachycardia, and symptom burden in LCPOTS.

Aim 2 will be tested using the same experimental design as Aim 1 but will be focused on assessing changes in splanchnic venous capacitance with 2-HOBA treatment.

The proposed study will determine if IsoLG-adducts contribute to persistent immune activation, increased splanchnic venous capacitance, and orthostatic tachycardia in LCPOTS. The goal is to discover new treatment pathways for this disabling disease.

Study population: Total of 50 LCPOTS patients

Study visits: 3 in person study visits and 1 telemed

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effect IsoLG-adducts (2-HOBA) measured by levels of monocyte/T cell doublets in LCPOTS.
  - Changes in Splanchnic venous capacitance before and after 28 days of treatment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: To Measure levels of circulating monocyte/ T cell doublets at Baseline
  - DRUG: To measure levels of circulating monocyte/ T cell doublets after 28 days of 2 HOBA treatment
  - DRUG: To measure levels of circulating monocyte/ T cell doublets after 28 days of Placebo treatment
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: To Measure Splanchnic venous capacitance after 28 days of Treatment with 2HOBA
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: To Measure Splanchnic venous capacitance after 28 days of Treatment with Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07189936
