CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03483519
Title: Efficacy of Preoperative Muscle Training on Postoperative Orthopaedic Surgery Recovery
Official Title: Efficacy of Preoperative Muscle Training on Postoperative Recovery and Function in Patients Undergoing Total Hip or Knee Replacement
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a preoperative muscle training program on hip or knee TJA (Total Joint Arthroplasty). It aims to improve hospital discharge readiness and functional capacity in both the short and long-term. One of the key factors affecting recovery after TJA is how well the patient functions before their surgery. Thus, interventions addressing preoperative function are expected to be beneficial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Although total hip or knee joint replacement is beneficial in treating severe hip or knee osteoarthritis, a significant number of patients take longer to recover in the hospital or have a non-optimal quality of life after the surgery. These patients often have difficulties in accomplishing basic essential everyday tasks such as walking and stair climbing, both shortly and long after surgery. It has been previously shown through research that difficulties to do basic tasks before surgery delays recovery and negatively affects long-term function. It has also been shown that these difficulties are associated with reduced strength in hip or knee muscles present before surgery, caused by lack of activity of patients. This study will determine if a hip or knee muscle strengthening exercise program accomplished before surgery can improve hospital recovery, capacity to accomplish basic activities, and quality of life two days, six weeks and six months after joint replacement surgery. If this exercise program is shown to be beneficial, it will be easily used by patients when waiting for their surgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - HOOS or KOOS Questionnaire to assess self-reported pain

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation
  - OTHER: Standard of Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03483519
