CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07329439
Title: Comparative Effects of High Intensity and Eccentric Resistance Among School Going Basketball Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of High Intensity and Eccentric Resistance on Squat Strength,Dynamic Balance and Explosive Power Among School Going Basketball Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This will be experimental randomized clinical trial conducted in Pakistan sports board, Sacred Heart cathedral high school . Female school going basketball players will be screened for eligibility according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. Informed consent will be obtained from eligible participants. All participants will go through randomization by Online Randomization tool. Information regarding number of groups, number of participants in each group and total number of participants will be entered. This will be a single blinded study in which outcome assessor will be blinded to ensure accuracy and reduce biasness. Sample size according to G power will be 40.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study purpose is to compare effects of high-intensity and eccentric resistance training on squat strength, dynamic balance, and explosive power among school going basketball players.

This will be experimental randomized clinical trial conducted in Pakistan sports board, Sacred Heart cathedral high school . Female school going basketball players will be screened for eligibility according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. Informed consent will be obtained from eligible participants. All participants will go through randomization by Online Randomization tool. Information regarding number of groups, number of participants in each group and total number of participants will be entered. This will be a single blinded study in which outcome assessor will be blinded to ensure accuracy and reduce biasness. Sample size according to G power will be 40. Group A will receive high intensity resistance training, 8-week duration for significant results. Exercises will be performed at starting 50% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) for hypertrophy and strength gains. Group B will receive eccentric resistance training, 8-week duration for significant results, exercise training three times a week. Training will start at 50% of maximum eccentric force, with adjustments made bi-weekly to maintain this intensity as strength improves. Trainings will be conducted 2-3 times per week includes 3-6 sets of 6-12 repetitions with rest intervals of 30 seconds to 2 minutes. Both groups will be assessed by 1RM squat strength, YBT test and vertical jump test before after training. Objective of this research will be to determine comparative effects of high intensity and eccentric resistance training on squat strength, dynamic balance and power. The data will be analyzed using SPSS version 26 for Windows software. Statistical significance will be set at P = 0.05.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 1RM squat strength
  - vertical jump
  - Y balance test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High intensity resistance training
  - OTHER: Eccentric resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 18 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07329439
