CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05603585
Title: Optimal Protein Supplementation and Early Exercise In Mechanically Ventilated Patients
Official Title: Attenuation of Sarcopenia Using Optimal Protein Supplementation and Early Exercise In Mechanically Ventilated Patients: A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial (PIVOT)
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
A Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) will be conducted where where mechanically ventilated patients will be randomized to optimal protein (Achieve 80% protein supplementation adequacy with daily titration) versus standard protein feeding. Both groups will receive standard usual early exercise therapy.

Specific aim 1: To determine if optimal protein supplementation improves functional outcome of patients as measured by Functional Status Score (FSS) on Day 7.

Specific aim 2: To determine if optimal protein supplementation reduces muscle loss of patients at Day 7 as measured by the Rectus Femoris thickness and cross-sectional area (RFCSA) using skeletal muscle ultrasound.

Specific aim 3: To determine difference in functional recovery between groups using quality of life (QOL) scores and 6-minute walk distance at 3 months after hospital discharge.

The hypothesis is protein inadequacy can be overcome with optimized protein supplementation to reduce muscle loss/sarcopenia and functional impairment in ICU survivors.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will be a prospective pilot randomized controlled trial. Collaboration will be between the National University Hospital (Medical, Surgical and Cardiothoracic ICUs), Centre for Healthy Aging, National University Health System (NUHS) and Physical Education \& Sports Science, National Institute of Education (NIE). Patients admitted into these ICUs will be screened and those meeting the inclusion criteria will be approached for consent. If the patient is unable to consent, his/her legally acceptable representatives will be approached. This approach is routinely done in ICU studies. As with other ICU studies, potential difficulties in consenting and recruiting patients will be expected. To overcome this, all adult ICU patients at NUH will be included in the current study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Functional Status Score for ICU (FSS-ICU)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Optimal protein supplementation to achieve 80% protein adequacy.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 21 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05603585
