CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06533891
Title: Effects of Omega-3 Fatty Acid Supplementation and Physical Training on Metabolic Health
Official Title: Effects of Omega-3 Fatty Acid Supplementation and Physical Training on Metabolic Health
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The degree of insulin resistance in an individual can be monitored by several means including blood concentrations of insulin, triglycerides, HDL-C, and eventually glucose. In particular, the ratio of triglycerides to HDL-C reflects the severity of insulin resistance's impact on liver-mediated lipoprotein transport and may be a sensitive measure of early insulin resistance when fasting glucose levels are still in the normal range (compensated by higher output of insulin). High triglycerides and low HDL-C indicate poor metabolic health and increased risk of fatty liver and atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases.

Two diet and lifestyle strategies that have shown therapeutic promise are 1) supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids and 2) aerobic exercise training. Omega-3 fatty acids can prevent the development of insulin resistance but have not been successful in reversing established insulin resistance. Importantly, omega-3 fatty acids are effective for improving the ratio of triglycerides to HDL-C in blood and reducing the amount of fat in the liver. Aerobic exercise has demonstrated greater success for reversing established insulin resistance, but it is not known if and to what degree supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids could potentiate its therapeutic efficacy and vice versa regarding dyslipidemia. Both omega-3 fatty acids and exercise lead to increased blood concentrations of beneficial oxygenated lipid compounds (termed oxylipins) that regulate inflammatory and metabolic processes (including insulin resistance) linked to the development of NAFL.

In preparation for studies of people in poorer metabolic health, the investigators will conduct a pilot and feasibility study of relatively inactive younger adults with low dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids to assess whether increased aerobic physical activity combined with omega-3 supplementation leads to greater improvements in blood concentrations of triglycerides, HDL-C, and their ratio, as well as concentrations of oxylipins in the blood. The investigators will also assess whether a less studied omega-3 fatty acid, called DPA, may have effects above and beyond those conferred by EPA and DHA (which are concentrated in prescription omega-3 fatty acid products).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical study. The treatment phase will span a continuous 6-week period. Prior to the treatment phase, participants will be assigned to receive the DPA enriched n-3 supplement, conventional n-3 supplement, or identical placebo. A computer program will be used to randomly assign participants to a treatment group.

Intervention protocol and study treatments:

Study capsules will be provided tri-weekly at the Food, Bioactives, \& Health Lab on the University of Arizona campus. Participants may schedule pick-up times that are most suitable for their schedules. A staff member will be available to meet with participants at each tri-weekly pick-up appointment.

The treatments are as follows:

* 4 g/d DPA enriched n-3 concentrate (\~980 mg DPA, 380 mg EPA, 1720 mg DHA)
* 4 g/d n-3 control (\~980 oleic acid, 380 mg EPA, 1720 mg DHA)
* 4 g/d placebo control ("light" olive oil)

During the 6-week treatment phase, participants will consume 4 g/day of the DPA-enriched concentrate, n-3 matched control, or placebo control. Participants will be required to avoid consuming any other food or supplements that contain n-3 FA during treatment phases. They will also be asked to engage in exercise ad libitum while wearing a heart rate monitor for the 6-week period.

The supplementation period will be at least 6 weeks in length. However, it can be extended by 3 weeks (up to 9 weeks total) to accommodate scheduling challenges due to illness, travel, etc. For example, should a participant be unable to come in on two separate mornings for testing after 6 weeks of supplementation, they may continue the supplement and schedule testing for the following week.

Screening:

Potential participants will be interviewed by telephone to determine their initial eligibility. If they remain eligible after the telephone screening, they will be further screened at the Food, Bioactives, \& Health Lab. This screening visit will consist of: filling out forms (informed consent, medical history, personal information); measuring height and weight so body mass index (BMI) can be calculated; and measuring blood pressure (BP). If it is determined that they are still eligible following these measurements, a blood sample will be taken and a complete blood cell count, health panel including liver and kidney function, and a blood fat panel will be performed (approximately 15 mL of blood or \~1 tablespoon will be taken). If the initial blood draw is unsuccessful, it may need to be repeated, with permission of the participant. Females of child-bearing age will be given a urine pregnancy test. Study investigators will review all of the screening data. Participants meeting eligibility criteria will be scheduled for baseline data collection and supplementation will begin thereafter.

• Urine Pregnancy Testing: Female participants of childbearing age will be asked to provide a urine sample for pregnancy testing at baseline. If a participant is pregnan

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Triglyceride/HDL-C ratio

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: DPA enriched n-3
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: n-3 control
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06533891
