CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05855733
Title: Radiofrequency Treatment for Pilonidal Disease : Safety of Use, Efficacy and Patient Satisfaction at 6 Months
Official Title: Radiofrequency Treatment for Pilonidal Disease : Clinical Investigation on Safety of Use, Efficacy and Patient Satisfaction at 6 Months
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Infected pilonidal sinus is a common suppuration that occurs twice as often in men as in women, usually between the ages of 15 and 30. Clinical diagnosis is easy, whether the presentation is acute or chronic. Exeresis with a wound left open requiring secondary postoperative healing is the most widely practiced technique in France because its recurrence rate is the lowest, but it has the disadvantage of requiring daily or even twice-daily local nursing care, long healing, and a break in activity.

In order to limit the disadvantages of the open technique, "conservative" minimally invasive techniques have also recently been developed in response to strong patient demand: such as endoscopic treatment (EPSIT = Endoscopic Pilonidal Sinus Treatment, or VAAPS = Video-Assisted Ablation of Pilonidal Sinus), or the SiLaT (Sinus Laser Therapy) laser.

More recently, radiofrequency has emerged as a new technique in the treatment of hemorrhoidal pathology according to the Rafaelo procedure as well as the Fistura procedure for anal fistulas. The principle of the treatment is similar to that of the laser, based on radio frequency thermocoagulation using very high frequency electromagnetic waves (4MHz), similar to the principle of microwaves. However, its use in the infected pilonidal sinus has not yet been described. The fibers used in anal fistulas are perfectly adapted to the treatment of the pilonidal sinus. In addition, and in contrast to the laser, several fiber diameters are available depending on the size of the fistula path(s). For example, the large diameters of 9 Fr seem to be more adapted to the deep and wide cavities of the pilonidal sinuses than those of the SiLaT, which has a single fiber diameter. The investigators can therefore think that this type of fibers could allow a more efficient destruction of the granulation tissues and a better docking of the cavity walls.

According to published studies in the treatment of anal fistulas, the safety profile of this treatment is perfectly reassuring since the penetrance of the energy released does not exceed 3 mm in depth.

The aim of this study is to propose a competing alternative to the SiLaT laser, which is radiofrequency according to the Fistura® procedure, by evaluating its safety, efficacy and patient satisfaction on a series of consecutive patients treated

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incidence rate of at least one complication of the surgery

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: radiofrequency treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05855733
