CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01901367
Title: ALL-Active: A Family-Based Lifestyle Program for Pediatric Acute Leukemia Patients
Official Title: ALL-Active: A Family-Based Lifestyle Program for Pediatric Acute Leukemia Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
This randomized pilot phase II trial studies how well nutritional intervention and exercise intervention works in preventing metabolic syndrome in younger patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Nutritional intervention may help weight loss and improve quality of life in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Exercise may help decrease feelings of being tired caused by cancer, may help improve strength, and may help build up lost muscle tissue. Nutritional intervention plus exercise intervention may be effective at preventing metabolic syndrome.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate feasibility, adherence, completion rates and participant satisfaction associated with a family based lifestyle intervention for overweight pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients or those at high risk to become so (body mass index \[BMI\] \>= 50th percentile).

II. Assess changes in BMI z-score, waist circumference, body composition, blood pressure exercise tolerance and physical activity at baseline, immediately post intervention and three months later.

III. Assess changes in serum glucose, insulin, leptin and adiponectin in patients over the intervention course and at 3 months post intervention.

IV. Assess changes in self-reported quality of life, physical activity, caloric intake, and fatigue associated with the nutrition and exercise program in the participant and their primary caregiver.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care individualized diet and exercise plan and monthly booster follow-up sessions from the nutritionist and exercise physiologist and weekly phone counseling with a trained health coach to address barriers to improve plan adherence.

ARM II: Patients receive standard of care individualized diet and exercise plan.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage change in number of pediatric ALL patients with BMI ≥ 75th percentile who agree to be randomized to participate in a lifestyle intervention program.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: nutritional intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention
  - OTHER: follow-up care
  - BEHAVIORAL: counseling intervention
  - OTHER: quality-of-life assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01901367
