CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03949959
Title: Effectiveness of Physiotherapy Following PRP for Chronic Whiplash
Official Title: Effectiveness of Conservative Multimodal Physiotherapy in Chronic Whiplash-associated Disorders With Facet-mediated Pain Undergoing Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) Treatment: a Series of Single Case Experimental Designs (SCEDs).
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The investigators will explore a standardized and previously published evidence-based conservative multimodal physiotherapy treatment fulfilling clinical practice guidelines in individuals with chronic whiplash-associated disorders (WAD) with facet-mediated pain (appropriate response to dual medial branch blocks) undergoing cervical facet joint Plasma-Rich Platelet (PRPt) and compare health outcomes to individuals' undergoing cervical facet joint PRP with usual care (PRPu), which consists of advice, supervised home exercise and pharmacological management for treatment of residual pain. To be clear, the investigators are not investigating the efficacy or effectiveness of cervical facet joint PRP - these individuals have already consented to proceed with PRP treatment. The investigators are evaluating the role of adjuvant conservative multimodal physiotherapy treatment. It must be noted that these patients have previously failed to respond to conservative physiotherapy. The investigators will use a design which is quite novel in physiotherapy, Single Case Experimental Designs (SCEDs). In contrast to an experimental group design in which one group is compared with another, participants in single-subject research provide their own control data for the purpose of comparison in a within-subject rather than a between-subjects design. SCEDs provide a method to determine response and benefit for every individual patient.

Therefore, the investigators will assess effectiveness of conservative multimodal physiotherapy for chronic WAD with facet-mediated pain undergoing cervical facet joint PRP, using patients as their own control, in a multiple baseline design.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This will be a single case with randomized multiple baseline experimental design with enrolment of 3 patients undergoing PRPt, and 3 patients undergoing PRPu following PRP. There will be a variable length baseline (A1) and then a staggered start to provide internal validity - one patient starting at 5 days (post-PRP), one at 8 (post-PRP) and one at 11 days post-PRP, randomly allocated. This study will utilise an A1-B-A2 design: a baseline (A1 no intervention); intervention phase (B); and a no intervention (A2 follow up).

Primary outcome measures will be collected daily during this time period. The baseline phase will be followed by a 6-week intervention period (B). Participants will have 10 one hour sessions over a 6-week period. The intervention will be delivered by an experienced physiotherapist with postgraduate qualifications. During the intervention period, once or twice per week the daily collection of the primary outcome measures will coincide with the delivery of each intervention session. The intervention phase will be followed by a 12-week follow-up phase (A2) where participants will have no contact with the intervention personnel. This follow-up phase is implemented in order to determine the possible duration of improvement post intervention. All outcome measures will be collected at the completion of this 12-week follow-up period.

Secondary outcome measures for generalisation purposes will be collected prior to commencing PRP, at the end of the intervention period (which coincides with the commencement of the no-intervention period), and at the end of the no-intervention period; totalling 3 sampling points throughout the study duration.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain, Enjoyment of Life and General Activity (PEG)
  - Self-efficacy whilst performing daily activities in chronic WAD.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Multimodal physiotherapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03949959
