CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02538952
Title: Evaluating Accuracy, Impact, and Operational Challenges of GeneXpert Use for TB Case Finding AmonGHIV-infected Persons
Official Title: Evaluating Performance, Impact, and Operational Challenges of GeneXpert Use for TB Case Finding AmonGHIV-infected Persons in Botswana During 2012-2013: The Xpert Package Rollout Evaluation Study (XPRES)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18696
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
Background: In Botswana, as in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, undiagnosed TB or TB diagnosed late in the course of disease is thought to be the most common cause of death amonGHIV-infected persons.

Interventions for Evaluation: The Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the GeneXpert platform (Xpert) has a TB diagnostic sensitivity of 82.4%, significantly superior to that of smear microscopy (44.6%). In line with WHO guidelines, the Botswana Ministry of Health (MOH) and CDC rapidly rolled out the Xpert device and a new Xpert-based diagnostic algorithm in service of 22 HIV care and treatment clinics. To maximize impact of the Xpert device in improving detection of active TB, Xpert rollout was preceded by strengthening of TB screening procedures by: (1) adopting the WHO-recommended 4-symptom TB screen for adults; (2) situating trened TB case-finding nurses in facilities; and (3) treninGHealth facility personnel in TB diagnostic algorithms. The combination of these strengthened TB screening procedures and rollout of the Xpert device is referred to as the "Xpert package" in this protocol.

Key Evaluation Objectives: The protocol has two key objectives: (1) to evaluate whether the new MOH-recommended Xpert-based TB diagnostic algorithm for new adult HIV clinic enrollees is more sensitive than the pre-Xpert smear-microscopy-based algorithm in diagnosing culture-positive TB disease; and (2) to evaluate the impact of the whole "Xpert package" on all-cause mortality during the first 6 months of ART, among adult patients.

Design: Stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial. Sample Size: 6,136 patients were prospectively enrolled to meet the first primary objective. A retrospective cohort of 10,131 persons was also enrolled to meet the second objective. Projected power to meet both objectives is \>80%.

Time line: Prospective cohort enrollment started in July 2012 and was complete by March 2014. Retrospective cohort enrollment was complete by March 2015. Patient follow-up and data entry will be complete in March 2016 at which time analysis to answer the first two primary study questions will be possible.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: In Botswana, as in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, undiagnosed tuberculosis (TB) or TB diagnosed late in the course of disease is thought to be the most common cause of death amonGHIV-infected persons receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) as well as those not yet on ART. Common reasons for failure to diagnose TB early, include: (1) failure to appropriately screen HIV-infected patients for TB; and (2) difficulty in diagnosing TB with traditional diagnostic methods.

Public Health Intervention: The recent development of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay for the GeneXpert platform (Xpert) has revolutionized TB diagnostic capability for clinicians managinGHIV-infected patients. AmonGHIV-infected adults, TB diagnostic sensitivity of Xpert (82.4%) has been proven superior to that of smear microscopy (44.6%). In line with World Health organization (WHO) guidelines, the Botswana Ministry of Health (MOH) and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), initiated a project in July 2012 to rapidly rollout 13 Xpert devices in service of 22 HIV care and treatment clinics while simultaneously initiating an evaluation to answer important operational research questions that can inform future national scale-up. To maximize the impact of the Xpert device in improving detection of active TB, the Xpert rollout was preceded by strengthening of TB screening procedures by: (1) ensuring the 22 HIV care and treatment clinics adopted the WHO-recommended four-symptom TB screen for adults; (2) situating trened TB case-finding nurses in all 22 facilities; and (3) treninGHealth facility personnel in both smear-microscopy-based and Xpert-based TB diagnostic algorithms. The combination of these strengthened TB screening procedures and rollout of the Xpert device is referred to as the "Xpert package" in this proposal.

Key Evaluation Objectives: The evaluation component of this project has two key objectives: (1) to evaluate whether the new MOH-recommended Xpert-based pulmonary TB diagnostic algorithm (including Xpert testing of sputum samples for all TB suspects and chest x-ray for Xpert-negative TB suspects) is more sensitive than the pre-Xpert smear-microscopy-based algorithm (smear microscopy and chest x-ray for smear-negative TB suspects) in diagnosing culture-positive TB disease; and (2) to evaluate the impact of the whole "Xpert package" on all-cause mortality during the first six months of ART, among adult patients.

Rationale for the First Evaluation Objective: Although it is expected that the Xpert-based TB diagnostic algorithm will be both more sensitive and more specific than the pre-Xpert algorithm, superiority of the Xpert- over the microscopy-based algorithm in Botswana has not yet been evaluated.

Rationale for the Second Evaluation Objective: In Botswana, undiagnosed TB or TB diagnosed late in the course of disease is thought to be the most common cause of death amonGHIV-infected persons receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART). Th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - TB diagnostic sensitivity among adults (>12 years old). Sensitivity proportions will be estimated using laboratory data on TB diagnoses (see "Description" below).
  - All-cause mortality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Xpert device
  - OTHER: Intensified TB Case Finding (ICF)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02538952
