CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02238808
Title: A Study to See Whether Estrogen Can Slow the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of Some ER Positive Breast Cancers
Official Title: PRe-operative ESTradiOl Window of Opportunity Study in Post-Menopausal Women With Newly Diagnosed ER Positive Breast Cancer
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
Some breast cancers have estrogen receptors (ER+). The investigators know that some ER+ tumours can be cured by hormone therapy alone while other ER+ breast cancers cannot. Currently, there is no perfect way to tell these groups apart nor do the investigators know why some respond when others do not.

Research findings suggest that the two types of ER+ breast cancers differ in their response to estrogen with estrogen being toxic to one type and not the other. For those tumours that find estrogen toxic, this may explain why tumours only start to grow when estrogen levels decrease after menopause.

The purpose of this study is to see whether a two-week treatment of estrogen equal to pre-menopausal estrogen levels will decrease the rate at which patients' ER+ tumours grow. This will be done by comparing the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone rate in the tissue removed during standard of care surgery after patients have been treated with 7-14 days of estrogen prior to that surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease that includes two ER+ genetic subtypes (luminal A and luminal B) that differ in their response to treatment.

Results from the Women's Health Initiative Trial showed that estrogen treated hysterectomized women with no prior history of breast cancer had a significant and persistent decrease in breast cancer incidence when compared to placebo treated participants. This implies that some ER+ breast cancers are in fact growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone inhibited by estrogens and are not growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone promoted.

The hypothesis of this study is that some ER+ breast cancers (luminal A) are actually sensitive (growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone inhibited) by estrogen.

Objectives:

1. To assess changes in breast cancer proliferation after a 7-14 day trial of estradiol in newly diagnosed estrogen receptor positive post-menopausal breast cancer patients prior to surgery.
2. Exploratory analysis of biologic correlates with comparison to available genotyping tests.

This is an open-label single group assignment pilot study for safety/efficacy and exploratory biologic correlates

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To assess changes in breast cancer proliferation after a 7-14 day trial of estradiol in newly diagnosed estrogen receptor positive post-menopausal breast cancer patients prior to surgery.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Estradiol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02238808
