CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06388434
Title: Protective Arm Balance Responses
Official Title: Influence of Attentional Control on Protective Arm Responses to Balance Perturbations in Older Adults and People With Peripheral Neuropathy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 25
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The overall objective of this study is to investigate the effect of attention control training on reach-grasp stabilizing responses during fall-induced perturbations. The central hypothesis is that training attention control during reach to grasp balance perturbations will lead to increased grasp accuracies and reduced in-task falls. This research will mark the first explore the effects of training attention control on protective arm responses and fall rate during a balance perturbation paradigm and the first feasibility testing of a fully integrated cognitive and physical rehabilitation paradigm, moving beyond correlative designs and parallel treatments. The overall public health significance of the proposed research is that with improved protective arm responses and grasp accuracies, a larger randomized control study may be designed to mitigate falls among community dwelling older adults.

Participants will be involved in 6 sessions. Session 1 will include the assessment, questionnaires, and training. Session 2 will include just the training. Session 3 will include the assessment and training. Sessions 4-5 will include just the training. Session 6 will include the assessment, questionnaires, and training.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will be involved in 6 sessions. Session 1 will include the assessment, questionnaires, and training. Session 2 will include just the training. Session 3 will include the assessment and training. Sessions 4-5 will include just the training. Session 6 will include the assessment, questionnaires, and training.

Assessment:

Using a specialized treadmill that induces balance perturbations (ActiveStep, www.simbex.com), an individualized perceived balance threshold will first be assessed. In brief, participants will stand feet together, arms relaxed at their sides, eyes focused on a red 'X' at eye level and asked only to grasp when participants feel a true need to restore balance. Testing perturbations will proceed 2 levels above this threshold. Next, two lateral perturbation conditions, each with 10 trials (5x right; 5x left) will be randomly applied. Perturbation direction and timing will be unknown and random. Condition 1 has no cognitive task. Condition 2 has participants engaged in a cognitive task 30-120s prior to perturbation with instructions, "as soon as the participant feels a falling sensation, stop the task and grab a single rail to quickly restore balance." To promote high cognitive task engagement, a mental arithmetic task was selected as one of the most effective stressors. Psychophysiological stressors are known to result in greater task engagement than pleasant tasks, thus adding a consistent challenge to task inhibition and in turn, attention switching. To allow characterization of the 'first trial response', the first and second trial will include one of each condition, separated by a 5min rest. The 'first trial response' has less stability compared with subsequent perturbations and is relevant to the study of mechanisms underlying 'real-life' falls. Objective kinematic and electromyographic (EMG) assessment of balance responses to the perturbations will be conducted. Following the balance perturbation assessment, clinical tests of balance, including the four square step test and miniBEST, will be conducted. The investigators will also be using a device to record physiological responses using sensors attached to the fingers (Biopac Systems, Inc.) to record stress at baseline and during the reactive balance responses assessment.

Subjects will also complete questionnaires on balance confidence and anxiety. These include:

1. Activity specific balance confidence scale (ABC): Questions are on how confidence subjects feel when performing normal activities of daily living that involves maintaining their dynamic balance.
2. Stait Trait Anxiety Inventory: Measure of trait and state anxiety
3. Subjective Units of Distress Scale (SUDS): Measures anxiety and distress on a scale of 0 no distress and totally relaxed to 100 highest distress/ anxiety ever felt
4. Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE): A validated sensitive test for detecting mild cognitive impairments. It involves documenting the participants responses to cognitive tas

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Grasp Accuracy
  - In-task falls incidence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Protective Arm Balance Response Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 88 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06388434
