CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01922011
Title: Safety and Efficacy Study of Daptomycin Compared to Active Comparator in Pediatric Participants With Acute Hematogenous Osteomyelitis (AHO) (MK-3009-006)
Official Title: A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blinded Comparative Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of Daptomycin Versus Active Comparator in Pediatric Subjects With Acute Hematogenous Osteomyelitis Due to Gram-Positive Organisms
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 149
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to determine whether daptomycin is effective and safe in the treatment of pediatric participants with AHO when compared to vancomycin (or equivalent) or nafcillin (or β-lactam equivalent). The primary hypothesis is that daptomycin is non-inferior compared with vancomycin (or equivalent) or nafcillin (or β-lactam equivalent) with respect to improvement in Pain, Inflammation, and Limb Function on or before study Day 5.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Acute hematogenous osteomyelitis is a common problem in the pediatric population, affecting approximately 5/10,000 children each year and accounting for approximately 1% of all pediatric hospitalizations. In children, osteomyelitis arises from bacteremic seeding of the bone metaphysis.

Daptomycin, is a cyclic lipopeptide antibacterial active against most clinically significant gram-positive pathogens including drug-resistant strains such as Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus (S.) aureus (MRSA) and Methicillin Susceptible S. aureus (MSSA). Daptomycin has proven clinical efficacy in adults in the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by aerobic gram-positive pathogens and the treatment of S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia; SAB), including those complicated by right-sided infective endocarditis, caused by MSSA and MRSA. Although not indicated for osteomyelitis, daptomycin has been successfully used to treat osteoarticular infections in adults and children as salvage therapy and at medical centers with increasingly high rates of vancomycin resistant organisms.

In addition, more comparative clinical trials are needed in pediatric AHO to better elucidate the optimal treatment regimen and clinical response.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage of Participants With Clinical Improvement in the 3 General Categories of Pain, Inflammation, and Limb Function Based on the Investigator's Overall Assessment of Severity of Each of the Symptom Categories.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Daptomycin
  - DRUG: Vancomycin (or equivalent)
  - DRUG: Nafcillin (or equivalent)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 1 Year to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01922011
