CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04704141
Title: Relationship of the Microenvironment and Male Fertility
Official Title: Relationship of the Gut and Genitourinary Tract Microenvironment and Male Fertility
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
Although much is known about the microenvironment of the gut and the vagina, very little has been published on the microenvironment of the seminal plasma. The seminal plasma is the support fluid for sperm, providing nutrients, facilitating sperm transit to the uterus, and promoting fertilization. It is a rich area of research for markers of fertility and treatment targets.

The investigators hypothesize that (1) there are significant populations of seminal microorganisms associated with seminal leukocyte counts well below the WHO's cutoff for pyospermia (1 million/mL) that were not previously detected by traditional culturing methods, and (2) there are pathologic populations of bacteria within the gut and semen microbiome which negatively impact overall fertility, by directly or indirectly impairing hormone status.

Participants will be recruited from the Male Fertility practice at the University of Illinois-Chicago (UIC). All participants will have infertility, diagnosed as an inability to conceive pregnancy after 12 months of unprotected intercourse. The normal evaluation of these participants is to obtain at least one semen analysis and bloodwork investigating their endocrine profile: total testosterone, estradiol, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and albumin. Semen volume is typically \>1 mL, and \<0.2 mL is typically used for the semen analysis. If over 1 million/mL round cells are identified, then a Papanicolaou stain would be performed to identify leukocytes. In this study, any semen demonstrated to have round cells would undergo Papanicolaou staining. A portion of the remaining semen, which would typically be discarded, will be sent for microbiome analysis.

Secondly, as part of routine care, fertility patients may be started on medications to increase endogenous testosterone (i.e.: clomiphene citrate, anastrozole, etc). Participants started on medications will also be asked to submit a rectal swab for gut microbiome analysis. Routine care is to monitor the hormonal and testicular response with periodic endocrine blood panels and semen analyses; rectal swabs will be requested at these follow-up intervals also. The control group for both hypotheses will be men with clinical infertility with normal semen analyses and hormone profiles.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives:

1. Characterize the microbiota of the genitourinary tract and testicular microenvironment in infertile men with leukocytes in the semen by using 16S rRNA sequencing to analyze the microbiome of de-identified semen samples, and compare the results of semen with normal parameters to the results of semen with leukocytes.
2. Evaluate the influence of the gut microbiome on hormone replacement therapy in hypogonadal, infertile men who are being treated with hormone replacement therapy, by analyzing multiple de-identified blood samples and rectal swabs collected both before and over the course of standard hypogonadism treatment. The investigators will use 16S rRNA sequencing on the rectal swabs and hormone level analysis of the blood samples.

Identification and Enrollment: Participants who meet inclusion criteria will be identified in UIC Urology fertility clinics by attending physician co-investigators during routine chart review for standard patient care. The participant will then be approached regarding the study and discuss the following: informed consent and information within it, basic information about the human microenvironments and significance in layman's terms, and reinforce that participation in the study will have no impact on the participant's care. Consent to participate will be obtained if the participant elects to proceed. The participant will receive oral and written information about the study. The written information includes understandable information about the study with extensive information on the study and include a copy of the consent form.

These participants' medical records will be reviewed for basic data listed below, and if hypogonadal also periodically after routine blood draws (see Venipuncture below).

Participant information management: Participants' names, MRN, and DOB will be stored in a UIC REDCap database. Each participant will also be assigned a study identification number generated by a random number generator. This ID number will be used to label the respective participant's biospecimen.

Semen collection and storage: As part of standard infertility workup of men, a semen sample will be requested after the diagnosis of infertility is made. Semen will be prospectively collected by the UIC Andrology Laboratory (820 S Wood St, Room 132, Chicago, IL 60612).

Participants will be instructed on the following for sample collection (adapted from Hou et al.):

1. Present for sample provision after 3-7 days of abstinence.
2. Wash hands 2-3 times with soap and water prior to masturbation.
3. Wash penis with a focus on glans and coronal sulcus with soap and water followed by 75% alcohol, 2-3 times.
4. Avoid contact of specimen with inside side wall of sample container.
5. 0.1 mL or less of freshly collected semen will be used for standard semen analysis.
6. If semen is identified to have any number of round cells, then a leukocyte count will be determined by Papanicolaou staining.
7. The remainder of semen wil

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Characterization of the Microbiota

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Hormone replacement therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04704141
