CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06897761
Title: Development of an Interactive Digital Respiratory Game and Device and Investigation of Its Effectiveness in Children With Bronchiectasis
Official Title: Development of an Interactive Digital Respiratory Game and Device and Investigation of Its Effectiveness in Children With Bronchiectasis
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
Our study aims to develop a personalized interactive digital breathing game and device that can be produced in our country and to provide daily airway cleaning treatment at home via mobile phone or computer without the need for a physiotherapist or healthcare professional with the use of an interactive digital breathing game.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The disruption of airway clearance may lead to obstruction, respiratory infections, gas exchange deterioration, and an increase in mortality and morbidity. Airway clearance is especially crucial in children with bronchiectasis. Postural drainage, manual techniques, positive expiratory pressure, and chest oscillation devices are among airway clearance techniques. The repetitive and frequent use of these techniques strengthens adherence to therapy. With the development of technology and digitalization, Digital Respiratory Games (DRG) offer an alternative solution. DRGs, with their difficulty levels, provide a platform for progression, offering a fun and engaging experience that enhances patient adherence to therapy through storytelling and user interaction. The absence of a locally made DRG in Turkey, despite the chronic respiratory diseases impact, has led to the need for an interactive DRG with personalized features. The developed interactive DRG and device will be Turkey first interactive DRG example, designed to respond to different respiratory maneuvers. The developed DRG and device will detect the lung volume and flow rates and allow for the real-time execution of maneuvers within the Active Cycle of Breathing Techniques (ACBT) in a playful environment. The interactive DRG will enable airway clearance at home and in daily life, without the need for a physiotherapist, in a progressive, fun, and environmentally compatible manner, adjusted to capacity of the user. The interactive DRG and device possess useful model or patentable value and unique features. The aim of the study is to investigate the effectiveness of the locally produced interactive DRG and device in children with bronchiectasis.

The accepted and supported 2022-B-03 call for TUSEB project includes producing personalized interactive digital respiratory games and examining their effects in children with bronchiectasis. A total of 40 children (n=20 in the DRG group and n=20 in the control group) will participate in the study. Participants will perform physical activity exercises specific to their group's treatment protocol, twice a day for 7 days a week, over 8 weeks. Following treatment, their lung function, peripheral respiratory muscles, capacity, treatment adherence, quality of life, and treatment satisfaction will be assessed.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6 Minute Walk Test
  - Evaluation of Expiratory Muscle Strength
  - Evaluation of Inspiratory Muscle Strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Interactive Digital Respiratory Game
  - OTHER: home-based exercise training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06897761
