CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05908578
Title: Exercise Frequency During Endurance Training: Cardiorespiratory, Hematological, and Muscle Oxidative Adaptations
Official Title: Exercise Frequency During Endurance Training: Cardiorespiratory, Hematological, and Muscle Oxidative Adaptations
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this interventional study is to compare training for different numbers of days each week in healthy, young individuals. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does exercising less often improve endurance fitness as much as exercising more often?
* Are endurance fitness improvements caused by improvements in the muscle and blood?

Participants will train on a stationary bike for eight weeks. Researchers will measure the participants endurance fitness, as well as muscle and blood characteristics, before and after training to look for improvements from the training protocols.

Researchers will compare low-frequency exercise (two times per week) and high-frequency exercise (four times per week) to see if they each improve endurance fitness.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Questions and Hypotheses:

The primary research question of this study is "Does exercising less frequently lead to improvements in aerobic fitness that are not worse than the improvements from exercising more frequently, when total exercise volume and exercise intensity are matched?" The secondary research questions of this study are: "Does exercising less frequently lead to similar improvements in hemoglobin mass, neuromuscular fatigue resistance, and skeletal muscle oxidative capacity compared to exercising more frequently, when total exercise volume and exercise intensity are matched?" The investigators hypothesize that the "weekend warrior" training program will induce improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness that are not worse than the improvements elicited by the standard training protocol. The investigators hypothesize that these improvements will be driven by similar improvements in markers of skeletal muscle mitochondrial content, and hemoglobin mass, and neuromuscular fatigue resistance between both training protocols.

Study Design and Methods:

32 participants total (16 female, 16 male; 8 per sex per group) will be randomized to either the low- or high-frequency training groups and will undergo physiological testing at baseline, after 4 weeks, and after 8 weeks of training. The sample size of 32 was calculated based on an alpha of 0.05, a power of 0.90, a group allocation ratio of 1:1, and a dropout rate of 20%. As this study is using non-inferiority testing, the investigators also set the allowable difference to 0 (the null hypothesis), the standard deviation for change in the primary outcome to 3 (based on data from a recently completed study), and the non-inferiority margin to 3.5 mL/kg/min, which is equivalent to 1 metabolic equivalent of task unit (MET), a standard unit for assessing cardiorespiratory fitness that is often considered to have clinical significance.

The low- and high-frequency groups will perform exercise two or four days per week, respectively. The intensity and duration of training sessions will increase throughout the study to ensure the training stimulus is maintained as participants become fitter. Training intensities will be individualized based on exercise testing.

The investigators will measure (i) maximal oxygen uptake (V̇O2max) and ventilatory thresholds with an incremental exercise test; (ii) substrate oxidation and neuromuscular fatigue development during 30 minutes of constant work rate cycling in the heavy intensity domain, (iii) time to task failure at 80% of peak power output (i.e., "performance") following this prolonged exercise bout; (iv) hemoglobin mass with the carbon monoxide rebreathing technique; (v) non-invasive skeletal muscle oxidative capacity using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Throughout training, perceptual responses including rating of perceived exertion and rating of general fatigue will be recorded, as well as exercising heart rate and heart rate variability.

In total, par

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) after 8 weeks of training

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High Frequency Exercise Training
  - OTHER: Low Frequency Exercise Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05908578
