CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03675529
Title: The Effect of Exercise on Tumor Hypoxia in Men With Localized Prostate Cancer Undergoing Radical Prostatectomy.
Official Title: The Effect of Exercise on Tumor Hypoxia in Men With Localized Prostate Cancer Undergoing Radical Prostatectomy - a Randomized Controlled Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Background and purpose: The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of one acute exercise bout on tumor hypoxia in patients with localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.

The primary hypothesis is that exercise reduces tumor hypoxia and that the reduction is greater in patients performing one acute high intensity exercise bout compared to no training controls.

The investigators have not been able to identify any prior or current randomized trials investigating exercise and tumor hypoxia, and believe that such research is warranted and would be of great importance. Moreover there is a need for studies including biological measurements to allow a full assessment of the effect of exercise on diverse biomarkers and mechanistic pathways, which may influence cancer survival.

Subjects: Patients with histologically verified prostate adenocarcinoma scheduled for radical prostatectomy at Urologic Department, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Methods: In this randomized controlled pilot study 30 patients with localized prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy will be included and randomized 2:1 to either one single acute High Intensity Interval Training bout or usual care and no training the day prior to radical prostatectomy.

All patients will undergo assessment at inclusion (baseline) and the day prior to surgery.

Assessment includes: anthropometrics; blood pressure; resting hearth rate; hip and waist circumference, ECG, quality of life by self-report questionnaires; fasting blood sample measuring PSA (prostate specific antigen), cholesterol, triglycerides, insulin, c-peptide, HbA1c, glucose and inflammatory markers.

All patients will receive one dose of pimonidazole hydrochloride (500 mg per m2 body surface) in order to quantify tumor hypoxia by pathological analyses after removal of the prostate.

Biological tissue from tumor (primary prostate biopsies) will also be retrieved from the respective local pathological departments and from the perioperative prostate specimen and sent to protocol analyses.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of one acute exercise bout on tumor hypoxia in patients with localized prostate cancer randomized to one single acute I) High Intensity Interval Training bout compared to (II) usual care and no training prior to radical prostatectomy.

In addition to this the aim is to investigate the effect of one exercise bout on tumor vessel morphology and to investigate the effect of one acute exercise bout on intratumoral immune cell infiltration and to investigate the modulation of tumor-metabolism, -biology and signaling in patients randomized to either one acute High Intensity Interval Training bout compared to usual care and no training, the day prior to surgery.

Moreover this study will explore the acute response in immune cells, hormones and cytokines in blood samples taken before, during and after a single exercise session, and will collect physiological (metabolic profile and metabolic inflammatory markers) and psycho-social (e.g. fatigue, emotional well-being, anxiety) information regarding patients randomized to either one acute High Intensity Interval Training bout compared to usual care and no training, the day prior to surgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tumor hypoxia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High Intensity Interval Training bout

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03675529
