CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04375969
Title: Short to Long Effects of Whole Body Cryostimulation on insulin Sensitivity Among Overweight
Official Title: Short to Long Effects of Whole Body Cryostimulation on insulin Sensitivity Among Overweight: Translational Controlled Trial Investigating Coldness and Training Effects on Endocrine Regulation on Energy Metabolism
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Therapeutic effectiveness of coldness in relieving pain and reducing inflammation has been known for many years now. Over that time, various coldness therapies have gained in popularity, including winter swimming, snow baths or whole body cryostimulation (WBC) . Recent researches have shown positive effects of WBC on metabolic profile, low-to-moderate chronic inflammation and related diseases (e.g., obesity). WBC could be, thus, intended as an adjuvant method in the treatment of dysmetabolic conditions, such as overweight or obesity. WBC is a cheap easily accessible practice, with a few well-defined contraindications and limited non severe possible adverse events, if performed in specialized centres. At the same time, in sport science appears data, which indicated on inhibition of adaptive changes induced by regular training.

The primary aim is to define, through a randomized controlled approach, the relative effectiveness of up to 20 consecutive sessions of either WBC, high-intensity intermittent training (HIIT), or their combination (WBC and HIIT) in improving the metabolic status of overweight and obese subjects. The effects will be assessed, at different time-points, in terms of insulin sensitivity and modification in the profile of hormones regulating the energy metabolism (adipokines, myokines, bone-derived hormones) and the inter-organ cross-talk.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Secondary aims are:

1. To assess the influence of WBC and HIIT on insulin sensitivity and establish the role of myokines (irisin and IL-6) in this regulation. To find the answer for the question if the rise of mentioned myokines cause a decrease of authophagy protein HMGB1.
2. To characterize potential effectiveness of these intervention protocols on bone and energy metabolisms by stimulating in vitro cultured normal human osteoblastic primary cells and β-pancreatic cells with sera obtained from patients at different time points during treatment.
3. To establish, which procedure is most effective at improving insulin sensitivity: training or training supported with WBC treatment, which factors modify this response (body composition or physical capacity of subjects)
4. To establish if training supported with WBC treatment impairs adaptive changes of trained subjects
5. To determine the potential beneficial effects of the intervention protocols on the metabolic homeostasis, and assess how long these changes are maintained over a period of four weeks or three months.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The assessment of pro- and anti-inflammatory proteins concentration in blood , in response to applied procedures.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: whole body cryostimulation treatment
  - OTHER: Connection WBC treatment and HIIT training
  - OTHER: Control Group
  - OTHER: HIIT training group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04375969
