CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04923165
Title: Nutritional Status in Subacute Stroke Patients Under Rehabilitation
Official Title: Influence of Nutritional Status on Rehabilitation Outcome in Subacute Stroke Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 119
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Recently, is becoming more evident a relationship between malnutrition, stroke-related sarcopenia and/or altered systemic oxidative status in patients with subacute stroke .

The aim of this study is the evaluation of nutritional status, the presence of stroke-related sarcopenia and systemic oxidative status in patients with subacute stroke outcomes; another aim is to investigate the correlation of nutritional status, the presence of stroke-related sarcopenia and systemic oxidative status on admission with the rehabilitative outcomes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Stroke is the third leading cause of mortality and the second leading cause of permanent disability in adults, and is therefore very expensive. Some patients with stroke outcomes, regardless of baseline motor and cognitive function, for unknown reasons show an unexpectedly worse outcome than others and this suggests other factors, in addition to the degree of initial disability, that influence the response to rehabilitative treatment.

Nutrition is an essential aspect in the overall picture of the stroke patient. Malnutrition in the hospital setting is an important issue that can negatively influence the rehabilitation outcome (Cederholm et al. 2017; 2019).

Malnutrition is also responsible for the increase in complications, negatively affects the results of treatment, reduces the immune response and predisposes to infections, delays healing, compromises the function of organs and systems, reduces muscle mass and strength, induces psychic effects with depression and low interest in food.

All this leads to a demand for greater and more prolonged care, with a delay in the recovery of the performance (National Guidelines for hospital and care catering. Min. of Health, 2015).

A picture of malnutrition also leads to an alteration of biochemical and haematochemical indexes. Our retrospective pilot study on 30 patients with subacute stroke, showed a positive correlation between the reduction of disability following rehabilitation treatment and the calcium at admission (Siotto et al, 2020). In addition, a recent study with 100 patients admitted to a rehabilitation unit showed that the functional status at the time of admission and the improvement following the rehabilitation program were positively influenced by high blood levels of vitamin D (Lelli et al. 2019).

Malnourished patients experience "sarcopenia", which is characterized by the reduction of muscle mass and strength, and is a phenomenon strongly related to age: after the age of 70 years, in fact, there is a loss of 15% of muscle mass. It is a risk factor for falls, fractures, physical disability and mortality and it is a phenomenon dependent on various factors such as metabolic imbalance, inactivity, malnutrition and inflammatory states. Sarcopenia is accompanied by body weight loss, neuro-hormonal activation and a systemic shift towards catabolic over-activation (Knops et al. 2013).

Sarcopenia is frequently found in patients with stroke outcomes and can contribute negatively to the rehabilitation process. A recent study of 267 stroke patients admitted to a rehabilitation unit showed that those with sarcopenia (n=129 48%) had severe lower limb paralysis, lower Body Mass Index (BMI) values and a lower Functional Independence Measure (FIM) score, compared to patients without sarcopenia. In addition, patients with sarcopenia had a longer average stay with less chance of returning home and were less autonomous in walking. Finally, patients with sarcopenia showed a lower recovery of functional a

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in Mini nutritional Assessment (MNA) scores
  - change in Body Mass Index
  - weight change
  - change in food income detection
  - change in Bioimpedance analysis (BIA) measurements

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: robotic assisted intervention
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: biochemical analyses
  - DEVICE: BIA, hand grip
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: nutritional assessment, MNA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04923165
