CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06925425
Title: Effect of Task Specific Electrical Stimulation on Upper Limb Gross Motor Skills in Children With Spastic Quadriplegia
Official Title: Effect of Task Specific Electrical Stimulation on Upper Limb Gross Motor Skills in Children With Spastic Quadriplegia
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Cerebral palsy is a non-progressive lesion of the brain occurring before 2 years of age resulting in disorders of posture and movement.( Ostensjo S, 2004)( Keles MN, 2018). Although non- progressive, motor impairments develop as the child grows leading to activity and participation restriction.

For children with CP, body function and structure impairments include changes in muscle tone and strength that affect the ability to control movement, specifically in regard to postural responses, selective control, regulation of activity, ability to learn unique movements, and inappropriate sequencing.(Ross SA,2007)( Ostensjo S, 2004) .

Lack of proper loading and maladaptive muscle pulls over time causes the skeletal system to adapt to positions of malalignment, malformation, and overall bone weakness (Beckung E, 2007) (Elbasan B, 2018).

These changes lead to delays in the natural progression of gross motor skills. As the child falls behind in motor function, they also fall behind in cognitive stimulation and development.( Akaya KU, 2018) . Understanding the anatomical and physiological implications that CP has on the developing child is necessary for physical therapists to treat this population, especially when utilizing electrical stimulation.

Spastic quadriplegia Is a type of cerebral palsy that affects all four limbs and typically involves significant motor impairment. It results from brain damage that occurs before, during, or shortly after birth, affecting the areas of the brain responsible for movement and coordination.

Electrical stimulation is a mode of physical therapy that can be utilized in the treatment of various nerve and muscle injuries, in addition to patients with acute and chronic pain. It involves an electrical pulse applied to a muscle or nerve that activates excitable tissue utilizing internal or external electrodes to build muscle strength, reduce pain, as well as create or support limb movement (Kerr C, 2007).

Task-specific electrical stimulation (TASES) is a therapeutic technique used primarily in rehabilitation settings to enhance motor function. The primary aim of TASES is to facilitate movement and improve motor learning by applying electrical stimulation to specific muscles during targeted tasks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cerebral palsy is a group of non-progressive motor disorders; it commonly appears in early childhood and affects muscle tone, posture, and movement. (Salazar AP, 2019) The most common cause of physical disability in developed countries and one of the most common causes of acquired physical disability in children is cerebral palsy (Surveillance of cerebral palsy in Europe, 2000). between 1.5 and 4 per 1000 live births, on average (Smithers-Sheedy H, 2016).An estimated 17 million people live with cerebral palsy worldwide, and at least 80 percent of them will survive into their sixth decade ( Blair E, 2019).

This definition acknowledged that there are numerous etiologies for cerebral palsy and that, although the movement and posture disorders are permanent, the motor impairments are frequently progressive.

Classification in CP uses different descriptors and may assess different aspects of the clinical manifestation such as topography of affected limbs, severity of movement impairment, or upper limb manual ability. For instance, regarding topographical classification, unilateral involve- ment of an arm and leg is termed hemiplegia, predomi- nant lower limb involvement is termed diplegia, and involvement of all limbs is termed quadriplegia (Shevell MI, 2010) (Stanley FJ,2000).

Tone abnormalities result from the area of the central nervous system that is damaged. Damage at the vestibulospinal and rubrospinal pathways of the spinal cord and associated central cortex of the brain, accounting for 80% of cases, results in spasticity, at the basal ganglia results in dyskinesia, at the cerebellum results in ataxia, or a mix of any of these.( Goodman CC, 2015) Damage to the cortex, can result in the topography presentations of monoplegia, hemiplegia, diplegia, or quadriplegia, and at the basal ganglia athetoid. ( Ko, N.2022)

Spastic quadriplegia is a type of cerebral palsy characterized by increased muscle tone and stiffness affecting all four limbs, often resulting in significant motor impairment. (Smith J, 2023)

Key Features:

1. Motor Impairment: Individuals may have severe limitations in movement and muscle control, impacting their ability to walk or use their hands.
2. Muscle Tone: Muscle tone can vary, leading to stiffness (spasticity) or weakness. This can affect posture and mobility.
3. Associated Conditions: Many individuals with quadriplegic cerebral palsy may also experience other challenges, such as intellectual disabilities, seizures, or sensory impairments. (Rosenbaum P, 2007)

Upper limb problems in individuals with spastic quadriplegia can vary widely, but some common issues include:

1. Muscle Tone and Spasticity: Muscles in the arms may be excessively tight, leading to difficulty in movement. This spasticity can cause awkward positioning of the hands and arms.
2. Limited Range of Motion: Joint stiffness, particularly in the shoulders, elbows, and wrists, can restrict the range of motion. This can make it challenging to perform everyday 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Improved upper limb gross motor skills

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Task specific electrical stimulation ( TASES )
  - OTHER: Designed Physical therapy program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 6 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06925425
