CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02517762
Title: Acute Low Back Pain: Causes, Mechanisms, Treatment and Followup
Official Title: Labour Triggered Acute Low Back Pain: Origin, Mechanisms, Causes of Pain, Evaluation of Treatment and Followup
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 99
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate acute low back pain, its origin, mechanisms, the cause of pain, evaluation of treatments and development. Employees from a large local manufacturing company are sent for a complete orthopedic and pain evaluation immediately after onset of acute low back pain. Thereafter, the included patients are allocated either to the advice to stay as active as possible in spite of the pain or to adjust their activity to the pain. Pain intensity and physical activity are followed prospectively over seven days using a diary and a pedometer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The purpose of this study is to investigate acute low back pain, its origin, mechanisms, the cause of pain, evaluation of treatments and development. Employees from a large local manufacturing company are sent for a complete orthopedic and pain evaluation immediately after onset of acute low back pain. The patients go through x-ray examinations, physical examinations, they complete a battery of questionnaires covering history of acute low back pain, lifestyle characteristics, work place factors, psychosocial factors, and indicate pain intensity and pain locations. Thereafter the patients are randomly allocated to one of two treatment advices: stay active as much as possible in spite of pain or adjust the activity to the pain. During seven days after the medical examination the patients wear a pedometer attached to the waist and annotate the number of steps and pain intensity, pain location and pain-related disability in a diary. A numeric graphic scale is used for pain intensity. Work absenteeism and sick leave due to the current acute back pain is collected from the company records. Immediate inclusion after pain onset is facilitated with continuous communication with the manufactory company. Physical activity and pain development over the seven days is investigated statistically using linear mixed models for repeated measures.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Acute low back pain
  - Physical activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical activity

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02517762
