CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05747118
Title: A Feasibility Study of a 12 Week Training Intervention With Patients With Type 2 Diabetes and MODY in Greenland
Official Title: A Feasibility Study of a 12 Week Training Intervention With Patients With Type 2 Diabetes and MODY in Greenland
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The goal of this study is to investigate to what extent a 12-week training course for people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) or MODY can be conducted in a clinical context with clinically relevant improvements in cardiometabolic risk factors and quality of life?

The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. To investigate the feasibility of supervised training for people with T2DM or MODY in a clinical context in Greenland.
2. To investigate evidence of the effect of combined aerobic and strength training on cardiometabolic risk factors and mental well-being.
3. To investigate the signs of efficacy and different interactions with the type of disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Globally, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a major public health issue. This is also the fact in Greenland, the biggest island in the world.

Twice as many Greenlanders as Danes have diabetes, and this is due to both lifestyle and genes. It is estimated that 7% of T2DM patients in Greenland have Maturity Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY), which is hereditary and rare elsewhere.

Exercise improves blood sugar control in T2DM, reduces cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension and dyslipidemia, contributes to weight loss and improves fitness and well-being. Less is known of how people with MODY responds to exercise.

Today, the Greenlandic health care system only offers supervised physical training to people with osteoarthritis in two towns in Greenland, but in the future, they would like to offer supervised physical training to people with other conditions too.

Relevance: As mentioned above, this study aims to evaluate the feasibility of a 12-week supervised physical training intervention for people with T2DM or MODY and to investigate signs of efficacy and different interactions with the type of disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Adherence

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Physical training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05747118
