CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03871738
Title: Proprioception in the Improvement of Sports Performance in Long Jumpers.
Official Title: Efficiency of a Proprioception Work in the Improvement of Sports Performance in Long Jumpers. A Randomized Clinical Trial.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 139
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Introduction: In jumping sports the tendinopathies of patellar and Achilles tendon are very frequent. Sports performance is the action that optimizes the relationship between physical abilities and the exercise to be performed. Good proprioceptive work favors the correct execution of the technique in jumping sports.

Aim: To evaluate the effectiveness of the lower limb proprioception exercise in the increase of sports performance, in adults and federated long jumpers Study design: Randomized single-blind multicenter study, with follow-up period. Methods: The 139 subjects included in the study will be randomly assigned to the two study groups: experimental (proprioception protocol) and control (non-intervention group). The intervention will be carried out for 4 weeks, with two weekly sessions, lasting 25 minutes. Three evaluations were carried out (baseline, post-intervention and follow-up). The study variables will be: Proprioception (evaluated by the Romberg test and the SEBT), and sports performance (evaluated with vertical, horizontal jump and competition simulation tests). The analysis of normality will be carried out by the Kolmogorov Smirnof test and in the case of homogeneity of the groups, through the t-student test of related measures and an Anolva of repeated means, we will calculate the difference between the different evaluations and the effect intra and intersubject.

Expected results. To observe improvement in sports performance, once the proprioceptive exercises have been carried out.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline jump performance of the athlete after intervenion and at month - length of jump

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Proprioceptive trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03871738
