CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02522182
Title: ALLiance for sEcondary PREvention After an Episode of Acute Coronary Syndrome (ALLEPRE)
Official Title: ALLiance for sEcondary PREvention After an Episode of Acute Coronary Syndrome. The ALLEPRE Trial: a Fully Nurse-led Intensive Intervention Programme
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2060
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the ALLEPRE trial is to compare the benefit offered by a structured, intensive and fully nurse-led intensive secondary prevention intervention programme with that offered by standard of care in a high-risk population of patients admitted to hospital because of an ACS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
ALLEPRE enrols a population of residents in Emilia Romagna with a diagnosis of ACS (unstable angina, non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, ST segment elevation myocardial infarction) who were admitted to the specialist cardiological departments of the participating centres up to 20 days after the index event.

All eligible patients are randomised 1:1 to the nurse-led intensive secondary prevention programme (ISPP: intervention/experimental arm) or usual treatment (UT: control arm).

Randomisation is centralised by means of IVRS under the responsibility of the Study Coordinator and the Principal Investigator at each hospital centre, and the patients are the allocated to groups by e-mail. Due to the nature of the study, neither participants nor research personnel can be blinded to the group assignments. The randomisation data are kept at the coordinating centre.

OPERATIVE PHASE After randomisation, all of the patients in both arms undergo a baseline examination and are required to return to their reference centre for follow-up visits after 12, 24 and 60 months for outcome assesment. Outcomes will also be recorded after 36 and 48 months on the basis of telephone enquiries.

ISPP: intervention arm. This consists of a series of programmed sessions involving the centrally trained nurses and the patients randomised to the ISPP. There will be a total of nine sessions: before discharge, and one, three, six, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48 months after discharge. During the sessions, each of which will last for about one hour, the trained nurse will record the main clinical parameters (i.e. risk factors, lifestyle habits, adherence to therapy, and any discrepancies between patient reports and the recommended goals) using an ad hoc clinical file (SIM: scheda infermieristica multidimensionale or multidimensional nursing form), and then activate the interventions laid down by the pre-specified rules inside the SIM in order to correct the discrepancies. The activation of the pre-established multidisciplinary network (anti-smoking, anti-diabetes and anti-hypertension centres, and psychological support) is completely under the nurses' control.

Caregivers are encouraged to support the patients in achieving behavioural changes over time.

Adherence to the proven secondary prevention treatments is monitored using the Morisky scale in order to ensure that each of the following classes of cardioprotective medications are prescribed according to the guidelines at the doses used in clinical trials: antiplatelet therapy, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers, and statins. The reasons for non-adherence also investigated in order to ensure more targeted interventions. The risk factor and lifestyle behaviour goals are to stop smoking, eat a healthy Mediterranean diet, undertake physical activity for at least 30 minutes/day on five days/week, and maintain a body mass index (BMI) of \<25 kg/m2, systolic blood pressure o

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The difference in the degree of adherence to the goals concerning risk factors, lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy.
  - The difference in the degree of adherence to the goals concerning risk factors, lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy.
  - The difference in the degree of adherence to the goals concerning risk factors, lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy.
  - The difference in the degree of adherence to the goals concerning risk factors, lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy.
  - The difference in the degree of adherence to the goals concerning risk factors, lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nurse-led Intensive Secondary Prevention Programme
  - BEHAVIORAL: Usual Treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02522182
