CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04211779
Title: a-tDCS Combined With Aerobic Exercise in Healthy Individuals
Official Title: The Effect of Anodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation Combined With Aerobic Exercise on Performance in Healthy Individuals
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to assess the effects on the exercise performance of anodal transcranial direct current stimulation combined with aerobic exercise in healthy individuals.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation method that has become increasingly popular in recent years. tDCS shows promising improvements for the motor performance of healthy individuals as well as pathological conditions. Moreover, it is frequently preferred because of its safety advantage, high tolerability as well as being cheap, portable and easily applicable.

Studies have shown that tDCS can modulate the excitability of both cortical and subcortical brain regions. In recent years, there have been scientific studies investigating the effects of tDCS on improving physical performance in healthy individuals, but these studies are limited in number, their results are conflicted and as far as the investigators know there is no study that combines tDCS with exercise.

Moreover, although the mechanisms of tDCS on physical performance are largely unknown, some tDCS devices are open to public usage and a large number of professional athletes have reported using tDCS during their training programs. Therefore, studies are needed to demonstrate the effects of tDCS which combined with exercise on performance.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of anodal transcranial direct current stimulation combined with aerobic exercise on physical performance in healthy individuals.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Effect of tDCS combined with aerobic exercise on exercise performance in healthy individuals.
  - Effect of tDCS combined with aerobic exercise on ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) in healthy individuals.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Real tDCS
  - DEVICE: Sham tDCS
  - OTHER: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 25 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04211779
