CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03632681
Title: Effect of Intranasal insulin on Cognitive Processes and Appetite
Official Title: Interactions Between Metabolic, Cognitive and Reward Processes in Appetite - Effects of Intranasal Administration of insulin
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 64
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
This study investigates the effect of intranasal insulin on cognitive processes (behavioural and neural) in healthy lean and obese female adults. All subjects will receive a single-dose of intranasal insulin and/or placebo (on different days) before participating in several cognitive tasks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is well established that eating behaviour is affected by metabolic signals (e.g. insulin, ghrelin, serotonin) and is also modulated via food reward processes. However, in humans, eating behaviour is a complex process, which involves habits, long-term goals and social interaction. Thus, recently it has been proposed that higher cognitive processes such as inhibitory control, attention and memory also modulate eating.

insulin seems to be involved in both metabolic processes and cognitive processes. In the last decade it has been shown that intranasal administration of insulin decreases food intake, especially in women, and enhances thermogenesis and memory. In addition intranasal insulin administration has been shown to affect brain areas related to homeostatic control, reward and memory.

In the proposed study the investigators will examine the effect of intranasal insulin administration on eating, and on metabolic, reward and cognitive processes and their potential interplay. The investigators will also study the effect of body weight on the actions of insulin on these processes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - fMRI brain response during inhibition to a food stimuli

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Intranasal insulin
  - DRUG: Intranasal Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03632681
