CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07089264
Title: Physical Rehabilitation in Patients With Complex Congenital Heart Disease
Official Title: Physical Rehabilitation in Patients With Complex Congenital Heart Disease
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
Studies have shown that patients with congenital heart disease have functional changes compared to healthy individuals. Several interventions can be performed to minimize these changes; physical rehabilitation is one of these possible treatments that can generate numerous benefits for patients. The aim of this study is to evaluate the response to physical rehabilitation in patients after surgical correction of congenital heart disease.

Methods This cross-sectional study included patients with complex congenital heart disease who underwent surgical correction. Different examinations were performed: cardiopulmonary exercise was used; and the six-minute walk test was used to determine functional capacity, the quality of life cardiac version questionnaire was used to determine quality of life. Descriptive analysis of patients was performed for all the data.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design and population This cross-sectional study analyzed those patients with complex congenital heart disease who underwent surgical correction at Hospital do Coração, São Paulo - Brazil. The institutional ethics committees on human research approved . All the subjects signed consent forms before starting the protocol.

The survey of patients eligible for the physical rehabilitation protocol was conducted at the Congenital Cardiology Outpatient Clinic of the Hospital do Coração. Patients currently under clinical follow-up the investigators selected for inclusion in the study. The protocol was presented to the medical team, and patients who did not exhibit neuromuscular, pulmonary, or complex orthopedic conditions that could interfere with the performance of the assessments the investigators chosen.

Transthoracic echocardiography The transthoracic echocardiographic evaluation will be performed using the two-dimensional technique, always by an echocardiographer. All images will be obtained by software, using an appropriate transducer. Echocardiographic measurements will be made in accordance with the recommendations of the congenital heart disease consensus.

Cardiopulmonary exercise test The cardiopulmonary exercise test was performed using a treadmill exercise test equipped with a metabolic analyzer. This assessment aimed to determine the subject's maximal cardiopulmonary capacity.

Blood pressure measurements were taken at rest, every two minutes during exercise, and every minute during the recovery phase. All readings were taken by the same observer, using the auscultatory method to ensure consistency.

A customized ramp-up protocol based on the modified Balke approach was employed, featuring an increase in speed during the first 3 minutes, followed by a two percent rise increase in incline every minute until the participant reached exhaustion.

Ventilation, oxygen consumption, and carbon dioxide production were assessed using a breath-by-breath analysis technique, from which ventilatory thresholds were calculated. Maximal functional capacity was determined using absolute peak oxygen and relative peak oxygen, expressed as a percentage of predicted values for age- and sex-matched healthy individuals.

Additional parameters, including the oxygen uptake efficiency slope and the ventilatory equivalent for carbon dioxide, were also measured and analyzed.

Six-minute walk test A submaximal analysis of physical capacity was conducted using the six-minute walk test, following the protocol.

The patients were instructed to walk as quickly as possible without running for six minutes, while the distance covered was recorded. Breaks during the walk were allowed if needed. The data analyzed included the distance covered in meters, heart rate, respiratory rate, peripheral oxygen saturation, blood pressure, and the fatigue. These measurements were taken at rest one minute before the test, immediately after the test, two minutes after the test if there

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluate the response to aerobic activity and peripheral muscle strength training in children with congenital heart disease.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Physical rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 4 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07089264
