CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06594926
Title: Working Out M0 Bipolar Androgen Therapy
Official Title: Evaluating the Efficacy of Bipolar Androgen Therapy in Extending Metastasis-free Survival in Patients With M0 Castrate-resistant Prostate Cancer With PSA Progression But Not Radiological or Clinical Progression on Darolutamide
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 69
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The WOMBAT study will test if BAT can prolong the time it takes for nmCRPC prostate cancer to become detectable in other areas of the body (metastatic disease).

Approximately 69 participants over the age of 18 with castrate resistant prostate cancer, no evidence of metastatic disease (M0) on conventional imaging (WBBS and CT scan at screening) and PSA only progression on darolutamide will be enrolled from approximately 8 sites within Australia.

Participants will receive continuous androgen deprivation therapy with LHRH agonists/antagonists. The study intervention will be IM testosterone enthanate, injected on day 1 of each 56-day cycle. Concurrent darolutamide will be taken at a dose of 600mg BD on days 29-56 of each cycle. Both LHRH and agonist/antagonist and darolutamide are supplied through the PBS as standard of care medications. Administration of both testosterone and darolutamide will continue until disease progression, beyond disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death, withdrawal of consent or study Sponsor termination of the study.

Primary objective (endpoint) is to determine the metastasis-free survival (time from commencing BAT to evidence of metastases or death)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a study to assess the efficacy and safety of cyclical testosterone and darolutamide in non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Adults with castrate resistant prostate cancer, with no evidence of metastatic disease (M0) on conventional imaging \[Whole Body Bone Scan (WBBS) and Computed Tomography (CT) scan at screening\] and prostate specific antigen (PSA) only progression on darolutamide may be eligible.

Study participants will receive cyclical treatment with intramuscular (IM) testosterone, darolutamide and ongoing medical/surgical castration. This will be delivered in 56-day cycles until evidence of metastatic disease on conventional imaging unless treated beyond progression. Participants will be asked to provide blood samples, complete questionnaires and undergo scans during their treatment.

It is hoped that findings from this study will help develop new treatment pathways for those with non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Metastases free survival

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone Enanthate

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06594926
