CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07020897
Title: Short-term and Intermediate-term Effects of Self-applied Joint Mobilization Versus Clinician-applied Joint Mobilization in Addition to Exercise in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Official Title: Short-term and Intermediate-term Effects of Self-applied Joint Mobilization Versus Clinician-applied Joint Mobilization in Addition to Exercise in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if a combination of patient self-administered joint mobilization and exercise works to treat knee osteoarthritis in adults. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does self-administered joint mobilization improve the ability to perform regular daily activities?
* Does self-administered joint mobilization improve knee motion?
* Does self-administered joint mobilization improve hip strength?

Researchers will compare the program of self-administered joint mobilization to a joint mobilization administered by a physical therapist.

Participants will:

* Attend 8-12 physical therapy clinic visits over 6 - 8 weeks
* Perform home exercises
* Visit the clinic 6 months later for a brief check-up

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study will take place in the Outpatient Rehabilitation Clinic at Texas Health Resources (THR) in Plano, or in the Texas Health Sports Medicine Clinic in Allen.

Participants in this study will be asked to complete the same intake forms and questionnaires as any other physical therapy patient being seen for knee pain at all of the THR physical therapy clinics. These will include questions about health history, learning style, living situation, and goals for physical therapy treatment. One investigator will perform a physical therapy evaluation, including joint motion, muscle strength, and flexibility measurements, as well as functional testing.

For this study, we will measure one knee motion and one hip strength item and ask participants to complete a knee- specific questionnaire 3 times: on the initial evaluation visit, during the last visit of physical therapy, and during a 6-month follow-up visit.

After the initial evaluation visit, we will assign each participant into one of the two treatment groups, self-joint mobilization or joint mobilization performed by a physical therapist. Participants will be asked to attend 7 - 11 physical therapy treatment visits over 7-8 weeks for strength training exercises, flexibility exercises, joint mobilization, and a home exercise program. Each physical therapy visit, including the initial evaluation visit will last 45 minutes. Participants will be asked to track compliance with a home program and attend a follow-up appointment about 6 months after the initial evaluation. This follow-up visit will last about 30 minutes.

All appointments, except for the 6-month follow-up, will be structured and carried out as they would for any other patient receiving physical therapy for knee pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Clinician-administered joint mobilization
  - OTHER: Self-administered joint mobilization
  - OTHER: Exercise-based physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07020897
