CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05567653
Title: Effects of Probiotics on Gut Microbiota, Endocannabinoid and Immune Activation and Symptoms of Fatigue in Dancers
Official Title: Effects of 3-month Probiotic Mix Supplementation (L. Helveticus R-0052, B. Longum R-0175) on Gut Microbiota and Metabolome, Endocannabinoid and Immune Systems Activation, Along With Symptoms of Fatigue in Professional Dancers
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
The aim of the planned research is to assess the dynamics of changes in the elements of the gut-brain axis (GBA), the cytokine profile and the endocannabinoid system markers, after dietary supplementation with probiotics Lactobacillus helveticus Rosell-52 and Bifidobacterium longum Rosell-175 by professional dancers. Although in recent years there has been growing interest in the influence of the gut microbiota on the body's adaptation to stress stimuli and on overall health, there is a lack of information on the influence of probiotics on systems involved in maintaining neuropsychiatric balance, such as the endocannabinoid system.

In order to determine the validity of the applied therapy with selective probiotics, the following will be assessed: intestinal bacteria and bacterial metabolites in the stool, cannabinoids and cannabinoid receptors and enzymes in the blood, indicators of mental distress in the blood, cytokines responsible for the modulation of the gut-brain axis in the blood, as well as questionnaires regarding the functioning of the digestive tract, fatigue, stress and sleep quality.

The study will involve active dancers of the Polish Theater in Poznan, the Polish Dance Theater, the Private School of Dance Art in Poznan and students of the Academy of Physical Education in the field of Dance. Dancers are a group of athletes that is exposed to particular injuries and work-overload. Professional dancers spend multiple hours a week on intensive physical trening. The largest percentage of injuries occurring in the group of professional dancers are chronic injuries, including: inflammation of soft tissues, muscle strens and tears.

Professional dance is one of the most physically demanding forms of physical activity, and at the same time it is associated with a high burden on the nervous system problems caused by performances in front of an audience or subjective jury, frequent traveling and disturbances in the circadian rhythm.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Professional dancers are often referred to as artistic athletes due to their high level of physical activity and competition. trening dance for over 11.5 hours a week increases the risk of injury (women - mostly bone injuries, men - mostly bruises and tendon injuries). One of the reasons for the increased susceptibility to injuries among dancers is psychological stress. The observations results indicate that dancers often decide to continue trening despite feeling pain, which limits the smoothness of their movements and leads to a further increase of stress. Highly physically active groups of people are more exposed to functional dyspepsia (FD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), which occurence is correlated to chronic stress. As a result of chronic stress and the activation of the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA), inflammatory processes in the gastrointestinal mucosa are initiated. The presence of noradrenaline increases the adhesion of bacteria and viruses to the epithelium, which in turn modulates the immune system within the intestines and increases their inflammation. Systemically acting cortisol causes the leakage of tight junctions (TJ) cells and an increase in the permeability of the intestinal barrier. Inflammation stimulates the secretion of cortisol, which initiates the further cycle of inflammation and weakening of the intestinal barrier function. As a consequence, cytokines and inflammatory mediators released in the course of inflammation act directly on the nerve endings that trensmit these afferent nerve signals to the brain, becoming an endogenous stressor.

When exogenous and endogenous stress factors overlap, the body's perception of stress increases, which ultimately leads to psychological, physiological and behavioral changes.

Pain and depression are common comorbidities of neuropsychiatric origin. One of the body's regulatory systems, which in both cases is dysfunctional, is the endocannabinoid system (ECS). It has been suggested that these diseases can be caused by intense and prolonged exercise, which disrupts the intestinal barrier, causing changes in the profile of metabolites and the function of the intestinal microbiota. Overtrening leads to an increase in the levels of cortisol, adrenaline and noradrenaline, and to the trenslocation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) outside the gut, increasing the concentration of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the body. This results in dysregulation of the balance between serotonin (5-HT), dopamine (DA) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and fatigue. These changes lead to further activation of the endocannabinoid system and, in the long-term, weakening of adaptive abilities.

The neuromodulatory properties of the cannabinoid system are manifested e.g. in short- and long-term synaptic plasticity and modulation of pain conduction. Research results indicate that the endocannabinoid system, in addition to its key role in regulating intestinal motility, also affects the secretory fu

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Qualitative assessment of intestinal microbiota in stool samples
  - Quantitive change in intestinal microbiota in stool samples
  - Intestinal metabolome in stool samples
  - Quantitive change in endocannabinoids levels in blood samples
  - Quantitive change in endocannabinoids' receptors levels in blood samples

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Lactobacillus helveticus Rosell-52 and Bifidobacterium longum Rosell-175 (Sanprobi Stress)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Starch (placebo)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 36 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05567653
