CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04185506
Title: FReedom From Emotional Eating
Official Title: FReedom From Emotional Eating: Weight Loss Program
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The current study was a pilot study examining a novel treatment for weight loss and emotional eating. The intervention is a group-based approach, and it includes a focus on teaching emotion regulation skills from Dialectical Behavioral Therapy and traditional behavioral weight loss techniques. The goal of the study was to develop and refine the treatment protocol. Additional goals of the study were to evaluate feasibility and acceptability, to see whether the intervention could be administered and whether participants like the treatment and believe it helps them. Changes in weight and emotional eating from baseline to post-treatment will also be measured.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: The current study was a preliminary investigation of Live FREE, a pilot study of a treatment that included a combination of Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT) and Behavioral Weight Loss (BWL) techniques for overweight/obese adult emotional eaters. Live FREE was based on the premise that impaired emotion regulation skills promote emotional eating behavior and lead to weight gain. Consistent with the ORBIT model (Czajkowski et al., 2015) of behavioral treatment development, the primary study aim was to refine the treatment protocol.

Methods: Adults with overweight/obesity who self-identified as emotional eaters were enrolled in Live FREE. Participants completed assessments at baseline, post-treatment, and at a 6-month follow-up. The intervention delivered 10-weeks of emotion regulation skills training followed by 6-weeks of BWL treatment in a group-based format. Groups were co-led by a licensed clinical psychologist and a doctoral student. Feasibility and acceptability will be examined by calculating rate of enrollment into the study and session attendance. ANOVA will be used to examine changes in primary and secondary outcome variables (weight, emotional eating) over time. Effect sizes (Cohen's d) will be calculated to examine the magnitude of change observed in these outcomes using standard interpretation guidelines ( d=0.2 be considered a 'small' effect size, 0.5 represents a 'medium' effect size and 0.8 a 'large' effect size).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - change in body weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: DBT+BWL

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 22 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04185506
