CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01343927
Title: Yoga vs. Physical Therapy vs. Education for Chronic Low Back Pain in Minority Populations
Official Title: Yoga vs. Physical Therapy vs. Education for Chronic Low Back Pain in Minority Populations (Back to Health)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 320
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
A randomized controlled trial for chronic low back pain in predominantly minority populations with three treatment arms: yoga, physical therapy, and education. Four cohorts of participants will be randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio (yoga:physical therapy:education). Primary outcomes are pain intensity and measure of disability; secondary outcomes are pain medication use, treatment adherence, and health-related quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic low back pain (CLBP) affects 5-10% of U.S. adults annually and disproportionately impacts individuals from minority and low income backgrounds due to disparities in access and treatment. Our previous Yoga Dosing Study of 95 adults with chronic low back pain recruited from Boston Medical Center and affiliated community health centers showed that both once per week and twice per week yoga classes for 12 weeks were similarly effective for reducing pain and improving back related function. We concluded that due to the superior convenience and lower cost of once per week compared to twice per week classes, a once per week yoga protocol was optimal for the current study. Evidence from multiple studies supports a moderate benefit in CLBP for exercise therapy individually-delivered by a physical therapist. Moreover, physical therapy is the most common, reimbursed, non-pharmacologic treatment recommended by physicians for CLBP. However, no studies to date have done a head-to-head comparison of the effectiveness of yoga and physical therapy for CLBP. To ultimately reduce disparities in CLBP for minority populations, patients, providers, and health insurers need to know how a complementary therapy such as yoga compares in effectiveness to more well established treatments such as physical therapy (PT) and education. If yoga is superior to education and has similar effectiveness as PT but costs less with greater adherence, the potential therapeutic and economic implications would be substantial. Alternatively, if yoga is inferior, this information will help guide better treatment decisions and reduce unnecessary expenditures on inferior treatments.

The present study (Back to Health) is a 52 week comparative effectiveness randomized controlled trial of once per week yoga classes, individually delivered physical therapy (PT), and education for chronic low back pain (CLBP) in 320 individuals from predominantly minority backgrounds recruited from Boston Medical Center and affiliated community health centers. The 52 week trial starts with an initial 12 week Treatment Phase followed by a 40 week Maintenance Phase. Back to Health has the following three specific aims:

1. In the 12 week Treatment Phase, we will enroll 320 adults with chronic low back pain(CLBP) from predominately low-income minority communities and compare the effectiveness (co-primary endpoints pain and function) between (1) a standardized protocol of one yoga class per week; (2) a standardized exercise therapy protocol based on an evidence-based clinical guidelines individually delivered by a physical therapist; and (3) an educational book on self-care for CLBP
2. For adults with CLBP who have completed the initial 12 week yoga or physical therapy(PT) Treatment Phases, compare effectiveness (co-primary endpoints pain and function)between patients participating in a structured yoga maintenance program, a structured PT maintenance program, or no structured maintenance program.
3. Determine 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in Average Pain intensity in previous week
  - Change from Baseline in Modified Roland Morris questionnaire for Back pain specific disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Weekly yoga classes
  - BEHAVIORAL: Individual physical therapy treatment
  - BEHAVIORAL: Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01343927
