CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02757664
Title: Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Adjuvant Effect of Shock Wave Therapy in the Insertional Achilles Tendinopathy
Official Title: Shock Wave Therapy, Associated to Eccentric Strengthening Versus Isolated Eccentric Strengthening for Treating Insertional Achilles Tendinopathy: Double Blinded Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 119
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Background: There is no consensus regarding the treatment of insertional tendinopathies. The good results of the eccentric training in the management of the non-insertional Achilles tendinopathy were not reproducible in the insertional disease. Shock wave therapy is described as an alternative to these patients.

Hypothesis: The shock wave therapy allied to the eccentric strengthening protocol presents better results that the eccentric strengthening associated to placebo.

Design: Double blinded (outcome assessor and patient) randomized clinical trial, with the use of placebo, in parallel groups.

Materials and Methods: Nine-three patients with chronic insertional tendinopathy will be enrolled in a randomized trial. Participants will be divided in two groups, one containing the combination of shock wave and eccentric exercises as treatment and the other comprehending the exercises assembled to placebo. The assessment of outcomes will occur in 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 weeks of the beginning of the study. Patients will be evaluated for pain, activity and function by the VISA-A (the Victorian Institute of Sport Assessment-Achilles \[VISA-A\] questionnaire).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Introduction: The insertional tendinopathy occurs in the Achilles attachment to the tuberosity of the calcaneus bone and up to 2 cm proximal to the tuberosity. It is generally associated to a traction enthesophyte (upper spur), to Haglund deformity (pump bump) and to pre and retro achilles bursitis. Nowadays, it is considered that its cause is multi-factorial, comprehending mechanical, vascular, neural and genetic factors. Historically, the disease´s initial treatment is based on motor physiotherapy, via the eccentric strengthening of the tendon. If, on the one hand, the results for non-insertional tendinopathy were encouraging, 82% of them being duly successful, the insertional tendinopathy, on the other hand, produced a rate of improvement ranging between 32 and 67% of the patients, according to the present studies.

The failure of the traditional treatment normally leads the patients to surgery frequently associated to complications, such as wound necrosis and tendon rupture. More recently, the therapy with shock waves is being used in the treatment of pseudo-arthrosis and several types of tendinopathy.

Several studies showed the above mentioned effects of the shock wave therapy may theoretically stimulate neovascularization and of the collagen production that, besides being important in the healing process, also permits several clinical usages, such as the skin healing treatment, the pseudo-arthrosis and several tendinopathies, including the Achilles insertional tendinopathy. The shock wave therapy is being progressively more studied. Recent works have presented good results with the technique however; the evidences are still insufficient to represent a consensus regarding the indication of this treatment.

The objective of the present study is compare the effectiveness of eccentric strengthening protocol with and without shockwave therapy considering the VISA-A.

Hypothesis: The shock wave therapy allied to the eccentric strengthening protocol presents better results that the eccentric strengthening associated to placebo.

Material and Method Design Double blind randomized clinical trial, with the use of placebo, in parallel groups Setting The study will be conducted at Hospital São Paulo - University Hospital of UNIFESP (HSP-UNIFESP), in the Orthopedics and Traumatology Department (DOT) and in CPRT - Centre of Tissue Research and Regeneration (DOT/EPM-UNIFESP); linked to a FINEP project regarding Shock Waves.

Inclusion Criteria: Older than 18 and younger than 65 years of age, both genders; Pain symptoms in the calcaneus tendon insertion region over the last three months; Clinical diagnosis: presence of pain at palpation of the tendinous insertion region in the calcaneus bone (and up to 2cm close to this region) and the occurrence of increase of the region´s volume; Indication of tendinopathy in the Ultra Sound done at the previous health center or by a certified doctor; Lateral X-ray view of the calcaneus, showing any of the associated co

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - VISA-A Score change

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Shock Wave Therapy
  - OTHER: Eccentric Exercises
  - DEVICE: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02757664
