CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04875273
Title: Effects of Magnetic Tape on Perceived Spine Pain and Over Ankle Dorsiflexion in Patients With Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effects of Magnetic Tape on Perceived Spine Pain and Over Ankle Dorsiflexion in Patients With Low Back Pain: RCT
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The tape will be applied on the lumbar area bilateralemten to the spine without creating any tension.

The possible variation in perceived pain in each spinous process is measured with the Wagner Force Dial-FDK 20 algometer.

The possible variation in the range of motion in ankle dorsiflexion is measured with LegMOtion® Therapeutic and Corrective Exercise Assessment System.

A kinesiology tape was used as a placebo tape and the magnetic tape was used in a randomized experimental way.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A double-blind randomized clinical trial is designed where subjects with low back pain will be selected and blinded to recieve the Magnetic Tape® or placebo Tape. Likewise, the evaluator who puts the Magnetic Tape® does not know what material he is using, as it is supplied by another researcher.

The recommendations of the "Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials" (CONSORT) will be followed. All participants will receive a participant information sheet and sign informed consent. Patients aged 18 to 65 years with low back pain will be recruited from different private clinics in the city of Valencia, Spain.

The hypothesis is that when Magnetic Tape® comes into contact with electromagnetic fields such as those generated by living beings, due to the movement of electrical charges (ions), as defined by Ampere's Law, the domains of the tape are oriented or aligned in parallel with the external magnetic field creating a magnetic flux with a north pole and a south pole. This generated field in turn produces a magnetic induction proportional to the variation of the magnetic flux, as defined by the Faraday Law.

This electric potential produces a redistribution of the electric charge (ions) generating a magnetic field due to the orientation of the tape domains, then exerting a force on the moving charges within the electrolyte.

Physiological, Lorentz's Law, regulating Magnetic Tape® aberrant electromagnetic fields.

After signing the informed consent and data protection, the groups with low back pain will be formed that will receive the application of both Magnetic Tape® and the intervention of a placebo tape. To avoid that the order of the intervention influences the results of the study, the subjects will be randomized into two different groups, Group A and Group B. Group A will receive Magnetic tape® and Group B will do the opposite. The next day the other tape will be applied.

The patient will be placed in the prone position and the spinous processes of L1 and L5 will be identified by marking them with a pen. Once L4 is located at the level of the iliac crests, the therapist will palpate the following spinous processes and will count down to the level of L1 and L5, and then mark it. The tapes are placed on the paravertebral muscles leaving the spinous processes uncovered by the tape.

Patients receive the two interventions on two different days and the tests serve as their own control. To avoid that the order of the intervention influences the results of the study, the subjects will be randomized into two different groups, Group A and Group B. Group A will be applied Magnetic tape® in their first visit and kinesiology tape or neuromuscular bandage in your next visit. Group B will do the opposite.

Before starting the research, a familiarization session will be held so that the assessments are consistent in terms of pain intensities using the VAS scale. To do this, an algometer will be pressed on the posterior deltoid at 2kg, 4kg and 6kg of pressu

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pressure
  - Range of motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Magnetic Tape® aplicación
  - DEVICE: Kinesiology Tape application

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04875273
