CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00100854
Title: Erlotinib With or Without Fulvestrant in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Official Title: A Randomized, Open-Label Phase II Clinical Trial of Combination Erlotinib (Tarceva®) and Fulvestrant (Faslodex®) Versus Erlotinib (Tarceva®) Alone in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 108
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
RATIONALE: Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Estrogen can cause the growth of non-small cell lung cancer cells. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant may fight non-small cell lung cancer by lowering the amount of estrogen the body makes. Giving erlotinib together with fulvestrant may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known whether giving erlotinib together with fulvestrant is more effective than erlotinib alone in treating non-small cell lung cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying giving erlotinib together with fulvestrant to see how well it works compared to erlotinib alone in treating patients with stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare objective tumor response in patients stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer treated with erlotinib hydrochloride with vs without fulvestrant.

Secondary

* Correlate response rate with ER and EGF receptor expression in patients treated with these regimens.
* Correlate measurement of ER-α, ER-β, EGF/HER-1 receptor and HER-2/neu receptor with clinical response in patients treated with these regimens.
* Correlate erlotinib hydrochloride resistance with ER and HER receptor expression in patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to performance status, gender, and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days.
* Arm II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride as in arm I and fulvestrant intramuscularly on days 1, 15, and 29, and then every 28 days thereafter.

In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days and then every 2 months until disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 102 patients (34 in arm I and 68 in arm II) will be accrued for this study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Objective tumor response

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride
  - DRUG: fulvestrant

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00100854
