CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03531164
Title: Kayak Ergometer Training in Individuals With Spinal Cord Injury
Official Title: Effect of Kayak Ergometer Training in Trunk Control, Independence and Cardiovascular Health in Individuals With Spinal Cord Injury
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
One of the main objectives in spinal cord injury rehabilitation programs is the improvement of trunk control in order to achieve independence, to prevent complications and, in specific cases to walk.

Research question: What is the effect of kayak ergometer training in trunk control, cardiovascular condition and independence in individuals with a spinal cord injury? Purpose: To determine the effect of kayak ergometer training in trunk control, cardiovascular condition and independence in individuals with a spinal cord injury.

Methods: Randomized clinical trial, blinded to evaluator and to the person that will analyze data.

Population: Spinal cord injured individuals treated at the National Institute of Rehabilitation, with a spinal cord injury of any ethiology, with a neurologic level of C8 and below, with time since injury from three months to one year.

Proceeding: The subjects will be randomly assigned to : a control group with neuro propioceptive facilitation exercises focused in trunk control or an experimental group with kayak ergometer training. Both groups will recieve 5 sessions a week during 6 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) is an alteration of the spinal cord that modifies not only muscular strength and sensitivity, but that also generates a change in all of the systems of the organism. At the worldwide level, an incidence is calculated of between 13.1 and 52.2 per one million inhabitants.

Damage to the ascending and descending tracts of the spinal cord consequently gives rise to an alteration in the postural control system. It is known that effective postural control is of utmost importance forstanding and walking, as well as for providing support for voluntary movements. Alterations in posture depend on the grade and level of the injury; thus, persons with complete, thoracic, or cervical lesions have poor trunk control. Due to the latter, they are limited in many of the movements necessary for carrying out daily life activities (DALYS) Therefore, part of the objectives of rehabilitation in individuals with an SCI comprises improvement in trunk control.

On the other hand, patients with SCI tend to engage in a sedentary lifestyle that, added to the alterations in the autonomic nervous system proper to the lesion, exposes individuals with a SCI to a greater risk of developing chronic-degenerative conditions, such as metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases, which are, at present, the main cause of death in these persons.

Thus, after the immediate rehabilitation, it is necessary to maintain and improve the functional capacity obtained during this process. Therefore, it is important to find training activities to challenge stabilization of the upper part of the body and sitting equilibrium without giving rise to symptoms caused by overuse.

Kayak training appears to comply with these criteria, in that it implicates the greater part of the upper musculature, presents high metabolic demands, and imposes strict requirements for the balance control system, due to continuous compensation of the disturbances of the upper part of the body caused by movement on the apparatus. It was previously demonstrated that open-sea training in kayaks could be implemented in a group of individuals in paraplegic condition and that this is accompanied by improvements in strength and equilibrium in sedestatIon.

Due to the difficulty in controlling and adjusting the time and challenge level of the equilibrium experienced by participants at sub-acute stages, it is necessary to utilize a kayak ergometer, in such a way that the demand for equilibrium can be adjusted individually and for this to increase progressively as the treatment advances. In this respect, Bjerkefors and Thorstensson demonstrated that kayak ergometer training in a group of persons with SCI is accompanied by improvement in shoulder muscular strength and in various functional wheelchair tests that demand trunk stabilization and balance control.

These studies achieved demonstrating the positive effect of kayak training in patients with SCI; however, in these studies, small populations were inc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Trunk control

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: kAYAK ERGOMETER GROUP
  - OTHER: CONTROL GROUP

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03531164
