CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06544317
Title: Motor Intervention for Children With Developmental Coordination Disorder
Official Title: Motor Intervention for Children With Developmental Coordination Disorder
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study focuses on the effects of physical activity in schools on the cognitive function and physical fitness of children with and without developmental coordination disorder (DCD). Methods: 58 children with DCD participated in an 8-week exercise program. Children's standing broad jump (SBJ), 50m dash, 50m\*8 shuttle run, mental rotation and executive functions were assessed before and after training. A mixed-design analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted separately for each performance variable.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Potential children were identified from elementary schools in three districts of Shanghai. The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Shanghai Uni-versity of Medicine and Health Sciences. In order to select the research sample, recruitment letters were sent to the parents of all children; these letters detailed the purpose, significance and research process of the study, and a consent form was attached. If parents were willing to participate in the study, they were asked to sign the consent form and scan the QR code to fill in the questionnaire, including DCDQ, the Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Rating Scale-VI and other personal information. All questionnaire contents were only accessible to research team members, and the researcher's name and telephone number were provided in case parents had questions. A total of 2,761 children and their parents volunteered to participate in this study. Children were screed using the Developmental Coordination Disorder Questionnaire (DCDQ) . Teachers selected those children with probable DCD but without any intellectual or cognitive impairment. These children were then tested using the Movement Assessment Battery for Children, 2nd edition. Finally, 116 pDCD children were randomly divided into a training group (TG, mean age 10.67 ± 1.25 years, 50 boys and 8 girls) and a control group (CG, mean age 10.27 ± 1.04 years, 48 boys and 10 girls) and gender matched typically developing (TD, mean age 10.35 ± 1.87 years; 48 boys and 12 girls) controls were included in the study. TG and TD will receive an additional 8 weeks of physical training intervention, while CG will not participate in the physical training intervention.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Reaction time (RT) of mental rotation tasks
  - Reaction time (RT) of modified Stroop task
  - Standing broad jump
  - 50m sprint
  - 50m*8 shuttle run

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: physical training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06544317
