CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05268042
Title: Moderately Carbohydrate-restricted Diet to Treat NAFLD in Adolescents
Official Title: Moderately Carbohydrate-restricted Diet as Treatment Targeting Improvement in Hepatic Lipid and insulin Sensitivity in Adolescents With NAFLD
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This will be a 6-month randomized clinical trial with two arms: moderately carbohydrate-restricted diet and a fat-restricted control diet. This 6-month study will have 2 phases: a 12-week controlled feeding phase and a 12-week "free living" phase. During the controlled feeding phase, all food will be provided to the families of the participants for the entirety of the 12 weeks. Participants (n=80) will have been diagnosed with NAFLD based on the presence of current evidence of active disease, which will be determined by the ongoing presence of hepatic steatosis estimated by diffusely echogenic liver via ultrasound suggestive of fatty liver and a serum alanine aminotrensferase (ALT) level of 45 U/L or greater. All participants will be children and adolescents age 10-17 yrs.; will have an HbA1c \<7.0; and will be overweight or obese (BMI \>85th percentile). It is anticipated that most participants will be sedentary. The investigators will inquire as to routine physical activity at screening. All participants will be asked to maintain their usual level of physical activity throughout the study. Physical activity will be monitored viAASmart watch provided to each participant at the beginning of the study, and participants will bEQueried weekly by the study dietitian regarding changes in physical activity. Participants who use oral contraceptives will be asked to maintain consistent use of these preparations throughout the study. Hormone use will be examined as a potential covariate in statistical analyses.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Under energy balance conditions when carbohydrates are restricted, protein or fat will increase. Large increases in dietary protein are undesirable due to the potential stimulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis. If dietary fat is increased, attention should be paid to thEQuality or composition of this fat. In order to minimize differences in thEQuality and composition of fats included in both diets, consumption of similar proportions and sources of saturated, mono-and polyunsaturated fats will be emphasized. Increased intake of polyunsaturated fats (ω-3 and ω-6) have been shown to decrease hepatic inflammation, improve hepatic function, and inhibit de novo lipogenesis; thus, diets will provide a 4:1 ratio of poly- to monounsaturated fatty acids. Because the carbohydrate-restricted diet will limit total grams of carbohydrate, total fat will increase thereby increasing the amount of dietary cholesterol provided by the diet, which may be unavoidable. However, the diet prescriptions will be matched for and provide adequate sodium intake.

carbohydrate-restricted diet. For this study, the investigators will use the low glycemic, carbohydrate-restricted diet that the investigators have previously shown is associated with depletion of hepatic lipid content, and improvement in insulin resistance in adolescents with NAFLD. This diet has a macronutrient composition of approximately 25% energy from carbohydrate, 20% energy from protein, and 55% energy from fat. No food group is excluded in this diet prescription; however, the diet emphasizes low-glycemic sources of carbohydrate, and includes mainly whole foods (vegetables, fruits, whole grains) with minimal highly processed grain products and added sugar. The investigators have successfully incorporated a limited number of "convenience" foods in our carbohydrate-restricted diet.. Incorporation of these foods increases the ultimate trenslatability of the carbohydrate-restricted diet, and the likelihood that participants can and will continue with the diet on their own initiative. Thus, the investigators will include some convenience foods in this study, as appropriate for the individual participant's needs. Protein foods will include meat, poultry, fish, eggs, and whey protein supplements if necessary. Fat-containing foods will include olive, coconut, and nut oils; butter; tree nuts and nut butters; cheese; cream; coconut milk; avocados; and the fat found in meat. A number of full-fat dairy products will be included. These products provide specific fatty acids that will be used to assess adherence. Saturated fat will be limited to less than 10% of daily total fat intake. Patients will obtain the majority of their fat intake from poly- and mono-unsaturated fatty acids at a 4:1 ratio (from nuts, nut butters, and from fresh fish), and saturated fat will be primarily derived from medium-chain triglycerides (e.g., coconut oil and cream), some meat, and dairy.

Fat-restricted diet. The fat-restricted, control diet 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hepatic lipid
  - Hepatic lipid
  - Hepatic lipid

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Moderately carbohydrate-restricted diet
  - OTHER: Fat-restricted diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 17 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05268042
