CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06671964
Title: The Impact of School-Based Intervention for 9-13-year-old School Children with Overweight and Obesity
Official Title: The Impact of School-Based Intervention for 9-13-year-old School Children with Overweight and Obesity: Nutrition Knowledge, Attitudes, Self-Efficacy, Fruit and Vegetable Intake, and Anthropometry
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 403
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Childhood obesity is a major issue for the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Interventions modifying people's nutritional behavior and changing their dietary habits can potentially address this problem. This study assessed the effectiveness of the 6-month school-based nutritional educational intervention on fruit and vegetable intake, nutrition knowledge, anthropometric measures, and practice, attitude, and self-efficacy measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The problem of childhood obesity is a critical issue for the UAE. Findings of recent studies illustrate that nutritional interventions seeking to modify people's nutritional behavior and change their dietary habits have the potential to address this problem. This article reports the results of the study that was dedicated to the influence of the school-based nutritional educational intervention on fruit and vegetable intake, anthropometric measures, practice, attitude, self-efficacy, and knowledge scores of schoolchildren. The intervention was carried out among 9-13-year-old schoolchildren at public schools from Dubai and Sharjah (n=403). The sample included three groups, including the control group (n=114), Intervention Group 1 (n=148), and Intervention Group 2 (n=141). The control group was exposed to a conventional curriculum on healthy nutrition. Group 1 participated in the intervention involving children, and Group 2 participated in the intervention involving students, peers, and parents.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Nutrition Knowledge and Self-Efficacy
  - Nutrition Knowledge and Self-Efficacy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Anthropometric measurements
  - OTHER: Questionnaire
  - OTHER: Educational sessions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 13 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06671964
