CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04706208
Title: Identifying Body Awareness-related Brain Network Changes During Cognitive Multisensory Rehabilitation for Reduced Neuropathic Pain in People With Spinal Cord Injury
Official Title: Identifying Body Awareness-related Brain Network Changes During Cognitive Multisensory Rehabilitation for Reduced Neuropathic Pain in People With Spinal Cord Injury
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
Many adults with spinal cord injury (SCI) suffer from long-term debilitating neuropathic pain. Available treatments, including opioids, are ineffective at eliminating this pain. Based on preliminary data from Dr Morse and from Dr Van de Winckel, we have demonstrated that brain areas that are important for body awareness and pain perception (parietal operculum, insula) have weaker brain connectivity in adults with spinal cord injury than in able-bodied healthy adults and that Cognitive Multisensory Rehabilitation (CMR) can restore these networks. This study uses a delayed treatment arm phase I randomized controlled trial (RCT) for adults with SCI and a comparison of baseline outcomes in adults with SCI vs able-bodied healthy adults to address two aims:

AIM 1: Determine baseline differences in resting-state and task-based fMRI activation and connectivity in adults with SCI compared to able-bodied healthy controls.

AIM 2: Identify changes in brain activation and connectivity, as well as behavioral outcomes in pain and body awareness in adults with SCI after CMR versus standard of care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
One of the reasons for the current lack of effective therapies is that underlying mechanisms of neuropathic pain after SCI are not yet fully understood. Nonetheless, as suggested by numerous studies, because of the spinal injury, the inflow of sensory information is dramatically altered. Therefore, the brain is missing sensory information or receiving incorrect sensory information, which may alter the brain circuitry related to pain sensation, which in turn may drive the perception of neuropathic pain.

Cognitive multisensory rehabilitation (CMR), developed for motor recovery after stroke, has shown to be effective for treating adults with chronic pain, i.e., after shoulder impingement when compared to traditional physical therapy; or in a case study of severe phantom limb pain after below the knee amputation, resulting in such substantial pain reduction that the patient could finally be fitted with a prosthesis and walk. CMR is thought to be effective because it restores mental body representations by recalibrating sensations in combination with a focus on body awareness. Body awareness is often impaired in people with chronic pain and with dysfunctions in the sensory and motor networks, such as after SCI.

This study uses a delayed treatment arm phase I randomized controlled trial (RCT) for adults with SCI and a comparison of baseline outcomes in adults with SCI vs able-bodied healthy adults to address two aims:

AIM 1: Determine baseline differences in resting-state and task-based fMRI activation and connectivity in adults with SCI compared to able-bodied healthy controls.

AIM 2: Identify changes in brain activation and connectivity, as well as behavioral outcomes in pain and body awareness in adults with SCI after CMR versus standard of care.

More information: https://med.umn.edu/rehabmedicine/research/sci-neuropathic-pain

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Numeric Rating Scale (NPRS) - part of the International SCI Basic Pain Data Set

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Multisensory Therapy
  - OTHER: UsuALCARe
  - BEHAVIORAL: Clinical Assessment
  - BEHAVIORAL: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
  - OTHER: OPTIONAL: blood draw

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04706208
