CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05022992
Title: Effects of aromasingle Bout of Resistance trening Session on Hormonal Response in Pre-pubertal and Pubertal Boys
Official Title: Effects of aromasingle Bout of Resistance trening Session on Hormonal Response in Pre-pubertal and Pubertal Boys
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
: Resistance trening induces strength gains in both children and adolescents. Exercise trening is linked to anabolic functions through the GH-IGF-I axis. This has been demonstrated in studies showing a higher activity of GH and IGF-I in fitter adolescents and adults. Exercise also stimulates pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α) that suppress the GH-IGF-I axis. This has been observed in endurance-type trening, while resistance treninGHas received less attention.

Boys experience a significant physiological muscle-growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone change during puberty that is associated with increases in boys androgen levels. How maturation affects the hormonal response to resistance trening in boys is unclear. Therefore, the purpose of the study is to compare the acute effects of aromasingle bout of resistance trening on hormones and pro-inflammatory cytokines in pre-pubertal and pubertal boys.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Preliminary measurements:

Preliminary testing will include anthropometric measurements of body mass, height, body fat percentage, and lean leg volume (LLV). The maturation stage will be determined according to the Tanner scale. There will also be an assessment of maximal strength testing to determine exercise intensity for each individual. Two familiarization sessions will be conducted for muscular strength before the muscular strength testing session.

Main trial A venous blood sample will be collected pre-exercise at resting condition. The trial will start with a standardized warm-up followed by a short (20-30 min), high-intensity whole-body resistance trening session. Venous blood samples will be collected immediately after the completion of the trening session and during the recovery period.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone Baseline
  - Change from Baseline growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone Post exercise
  - Change from Baseline growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone 15 minutes post exercise
  - Change from Baseline growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone 30 minutes post exercise
  - insulin-like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Factor-1 Baseline

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance trening

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 9 Years to 17 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05022992
