CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03005561
Title: Detection of Difficulties and Improvement Compliance to Growth Hormone Treatment
Official Title: Multi Center, Interventional, Randomized Study Detection of Difficulties and Improvement Compliance to Growth Hormone Treatment
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: growth hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
In the last 50 years the use of growth hormone (rhGH, somatropin) has become commonly to treat problems such as GH deficiency, chronic renal failure and Turner syndrome and Prader-Willi. Giving the hormone in childhood and adolescence is designed to accelerate growth to close the gap in the average population and reach a final height is normal, while minimizing risks and costs.

Noncompliance to treatment with GH is common; Other estimates are that one third to one half of patients do not comply with the provisions as require. This may result in linear growth depreciation, unnecessary diagnostic tests, unnecessary change of dosage and treatment and higher costs.

Many studies have been devoted to locating factors make it difficult to adhere to their chronic diseases in children, including conditions that require treatment with GH.

Pain is the primary cause for difficulties. In recent decades, many resources were devoted to research and development of ways of dealing with pain in all aspects.

In order to implement all of the information collected, appropriate interventions medium should be found; In this study we intend to use the method of playback. Playback define that improvisation as a theater facilitator asks the audience to share moments, feelings and stories of his daily life, and a group of actors improvise their stories in front of the stage as a kind of "play-back". Unlike hobbies such as sports or singing, the method allows not only to unload the tensions but also communication and collaboration. It is very reminiscent of psychodrama, but unlike, is not considered a therapeutic tool.

Assumption:

Intervention of two playback meetings during the year will uncover the difficulties and engage ways of dealing with pain. That will reduce the difficulties caused by GH injections and improve compliance to treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
In the last 50 years the use of growth hormone (rhGH, somatropin) has become commonly to treat problems such as GH deficiency, chronic renal failure and Turner syndrome and Prader-Willi. Giving the hormone in childhood and adolescence is designed to accelerate growth to close the gap in the average population and reach a final height is normal, while minimizing risks and costs.

Noncompliance to treatment with GH is common; Other estimates are that one third to one half of patients do not comply with the provisions as require. This may result in linear growth depreciation, unnecessary diagnostic tests, unnecessary change of dosage and treatment and higher costs.

GH therapy in all non-yielding satisfactory results, it is recommended first of all to consider noncompliance before turning to look for other causes.

Many studies have been devoted to locating factors make it difficult to adhere to their chronic diseases in children, including conditions that require treatment with GH.

Pain is the primary cause for difficulties. Despite the pain seems fairly simple phenomenon, it is actually very complex. Untreated pain is manifested prominently course and immediate distress to the child and the parent, but it has other deep effects; It seems that pain not receiving treatment at early stages in children's lives adversely affects the central nervous system development. This assumption is supported by various studies.

Pain is a force in shaping behavior; In recent decades, many resources were devoted to research and development of ways of dealing with pain in all aspects.

In order to implement all of the information collected, appropriate interventions medium should be found; In this study we intend to use the method of playback. Playback define that improvisation as a theater facilitator asks the audience to share moments, feelings and stories of his daily life, and a group of actors improvise their stories in front of the stage as a kind of "play-back". Unlike hobbies such as sports or singing, the method allows not only to unload the tensions but also communication and collaboration. It is very reminiscent of psychodrama, but unlike, is not considered a therapeutic tool.

Assumption:

Intervention of two playback meetings during the year will uncover the difficulties and engage ways of dealing with pain. That will reduce the difficulties caused by GH injections and improve compliance to treatment.

Study Population:

1. This is a pilot study in with a total of 200 participants treated with GH therapy.
2. Intervention group - 100 participants that will be participating in the Play Back meetings.
3. Control group - 100 participants with similar demographic s that will not participate in the play back meetings.

Patients will be divided randomly into groups. The following data will be collected-

* Height (SDS)
* Growth rate (SDS)
* IGF-1 (by SDS) - a sample taken on the first visit (time 0 and the last visit six months later).
* Accountability - empt

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in height

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Play Back Sessions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 7 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03005561
