CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05909449
Title: Improving Posture Parameters of Primary Care Providers to Individuals With Disabilities
Official Title: Improving Posture and Health-Related Physical Fitness Parameters of Primary Care Providers to Individuals With Disabilities
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this research is to create and implement an exercise program so that primary caregivers can have the correct posture and improve health-related physical fitness parameters.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
It is planned to include at least 40 volunteers between the ages of 18-65 who meet the inclusion criteria and provide primary care services to individuals with disabilities who attend Sportive Skills and Coordination trening Centers operating in the provinces of Istanbul and Gaziantep within the body of the Foundation for the Physically Disabled. Musculoskeletal complaints of caregivers related to the care process (neck pain, low back pain and upper extremity pain), physical fitness parameters (functional capacity and shortness-flexibility, balance and footpad pressure distribution), the effects of the caregiving process on the caregiver and mental well-being will be evaluated.

After the first evaluation, the participants will be given an informative trening seminar on the effects of exercise on healthy life and the regulation of ergonomics in our behaviors. After the seminar, participants will be included in a structured home exercise program. The home exercise program prepared by the research team and recorded on video will be delivered to the participants. The exercise program will be continued for 6 weeks, 3 days a week. The exercise program will be prepared weekly to advance to the next level. Exercise compliance and attendance will be monitored weekly by the researchers. Evaluations will be repeated at the end of the 6-week exercise program.

Establishment of an exercise program: In the light of the data obtained as a result of the evaluations, an individual-specific exercise program will be created. The exercises will be taught one-on-one to the participants. With the exercise video prepared by the project team and sent to the patients, the participants will be prevented from forgetting the exercises and they will be stimulated to do the exercises correctly. The content of the exercise program will include exercises that include aerobic, strengthening and flexibility components. The exercise program will take approximately 30-45 minutes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire
  - Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Index
  - The shortened disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand questionnaire (Quick DASH)
  - The Oswestry Disability Index (ODI)
  - Two Minute Walk Test (2MWT)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: exercises

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05909449
