CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05734755
Title: Dietary Programme and Exercise Training in Combination or Separately on Managing Sarcopenic Obesity in Older Adults
Official Title: Effects of an Individualized Dietary Behavioural Change (IDBC) Programme and Exercise Training in Combination or Separately on Managing Sarcopenic Obesity in Community-dwelling Older Adults: A Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 380
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Sarcopenic obesity (SO) has synergistic detrimental effects on elderlies' health. It greatly increases the risk of cardio-metabolic diseases, physical impairment, institutionalization, and mortality when compared with sarcopenia or obesity alone. Effective interventions to simultaneously increase muscle mass and decrease fat mass are challenging but highly warranted. Research showed that exercise tends to produce better outcomes in SO than nutritional interventions. Inconsistent effects of nutritional interventions may be due to a short intervention duration and participants' poor compliance with nutritional advice. Participants' adherence to a dietary regimen is essential to the success of nutritional interventions. Behavior change techniques grounded in a tested effective theoretical model - the Health Action Process Approach \[HAPA\] model at improving participants' self-efficacy should be incorporated in a diet modification intervention.This project aims to investigate the effects of a HAPA-based individualized dietary behavior change (IDBC) intervention and exercise training, in combination and separately, for elderly with SO, to improve their body composition and physical functions. In this four-armed randomized controlled trial, investigators will recruit and randomize 380 elderly with SO to one of the following four groups: the combined (COMB) group, receiving the 24-week combined intervention consisting of the IDBC program and exercise training, the EXER-only group, receiving only the exercise training, the IDBC-only group, receiving a combination of the IDBC program and health talks, and the control group, receiving only health talks with no other intervention. Investigators will use health talks to control the group and social interaction effects of the group exercise training for the COMB and the EXER-only groups. Investigators hypothesize that participants in the COMB, EXER-only, and IDBC-only groups will have significantly better outcome measures middle of the intervention (T1), immediately (T2), at 3-months (T3), and 6-months (T4) post-intervention than those in the control group when compared to baseline (T0).

Investigators will use mixed-effects modeling to compare changes in all outcome variables at the three post-tests among the four groups. If our intervention is effective at mitigating or preventing such occurrences, the impact on public health will be significant. A similar intervention for other populations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low muscle mass and high body fat mass often coexist in older adults, a condition known as sarcopenic obesity. Older adults with low muscle mass and strength are 1.95-2.62 times more likely to suffer from obesity than those with normal muscle mass. This is because both sarcopenia and obesity have common risk factors that include unhealthy lifestyles and age-related physiological changes with a decline in growth hormones, increased insulin resistance, and increased oxidative stress. Sarcopenic obesity has synergistic detrimental effects on physical functions and overall health. The risks of developing cardio-metabolic diseases, institutionalization, and mortality are higher than with sarcopenia or obesity alone. Depending on the diagnostic criteria, its prevalence can be up to 20.4% and 27.0% in women and men, respectively, in China and worldwide.

Effective interventions to simultaneously increase muscle mass and decrease body fat mass are challenging, but highly warranted. To date, only a limited number of trials have focused on managing sarcopenic obesity. The common proposed interventions are lifestyle interventions (i.e. exercise and a nutritional intervention). Unfortunately, evidence-based interventions are yet to be established due to diverse methodologies with inconsistent results in different clinical trials.

Exercise-based interventions: The current evidence shows that managing sarcopenic obesity with exercise interventions tends to produce better outcomes than with nutritional interventions. A recent systematic review of 15 trials with 856 participants revealed that the combination of aerobic and resistance exercise decreased fat mass and improved physical performance (i.e. gait speed). However, additional benefits could not be observed when combining a nutritional intervention and exercise. Another systematic review of eight RCTs with 605 participants observed that resistance training alone could increase muscle strength. To also improve physical functions (i.e. gait speed and grip strength), exercise combining aerobic and resistance training with dietary supplements seems to have more promising results. Another systematic review of seven RCTs with 558 participants also reported that exercise alone or combined with dietary supplements showed beneficial effects on increasing muscle mass and physical functions in this population. In summary, exercise, especially the combination of resistance and aerobic training, improves body composition and physical performance in older adults with sarcopenic obesity. However, the additional beneficial effects of combining exercise and nutritional interventions were inconsistent.

Nutrition-based interventions: However, nutritional intervention should not be ignored in managing sarcopenic obesity, as unhealthy diet habit is a key factor to develop both sarcopenia (i.e. a result of an inadequate protein intake) and obesity (i.e. a result of an excess calories consumption). Studies suggest that adequat

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes of muscle strength
  - Changes of muscle mass
  - The Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) scale
  - Changes of body mass index
  - Waist circumference

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: The Individualized Dietary Behavioural Change Programme (IDBC)
  - BEHAVIORAL: The Exercise Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05734755
