CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05550857
Title: Effect of Myofacial Release vs. Eccentric Resistance on Pain, ROM and Functional Disability on Achilles Tendonitis
Official Title: Comparative Effect of Myofacial Release With and Without Eccentric Resistance on Pain, Range of Motion and Functional Disability in Patients With Achilles Tendonitis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 72
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Achilles tendinitis is a common condition that cause pain along back of leg near the heal. It is an overuse injury of the Achilles tendon, the band of tissue that connect calf muscles at the back of the lower leg to heel bone. There are number of treatment approaches to relieve pain in Achilles tendonitis . Insufficient literature has discuss the combine effect of myofascial release with eccentric resistance. So the aim of the study is to compare the effect of myofascial release with eccentric resistance and without eccentric resistance on pain , range of motion and functional disability in patient with Achilles tendinitis

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Tendonitis refers to inflammation of a tendon in response to injury or disease. It causes pain, irritation, and swelling, especially following periods of activity. Achilles tendinitis (AT) is a prevalent condition across the lifespan in both active and sedentary people, and can occur in the mid tendon, tendon insertion to the calcaneus and peritendon.

Achilles tendinitis is caused by overuse of the ankle and is closely related to an individuals activity level. In the adult population (21-60 yrs old), the incidence rate is 2.35 persons per 1000. It has been reported in approximately 7%-9% of professional athletes and 6%-18% of regular runners.

People with Achilles tendinitis typically report symptoms of pain and stiffness upon weight bearing after prolonged rest and at the start of physical activity, which reduces as the activity continues . These symptoms lead to impaired performance. In more severe cases, pain and disability can be persistent with functional activities such as walking.

Physical therapists have used different methods to maintain and also to increase joint motion, and prevent deformity and dysfunction resulting from the muscle shortening. The intension of the physical therapist is to lengthen the musculo-tendinous unit, supporting connective tissue and increase the range of motion.

Soft tissue treatments are widely used for AT, but strong scientific evidence to support those treatments is lacking. The literature provides some evidence that heavy pressure and deep massage might have some positive effect on chronic tendonitis by promoting healing.

Eccentric training can be effective in the rehabilitation of patients with Achilles tendonitis. The mechanism behind these results is not clear. However, there is evidence that tendons are able to respond to repeated forces by altering their structure and composition, and, thus, their mechanical properties change

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - pain intensity
  - Range of motion
  - Functional disability

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: eccentric resistance exercise
  - OTHER: myofascial release

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 50 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05550857
