CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03810508
Title: A Natural History Study of Charcot-Marie-Tooth 4J (CMT4J)
Official Title: A Natural History Study of Charcot-Marie-Tooth 4J (CMT4J)
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 21
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Charcot-Marie-Tooth 4J (CMT4J) is a rare inherited peripheral neuropathy often characterized by rapidly progressive, asymmetrical upper and lower extremity weakness, muscle atrophy leading to loss of ambulation, respiratory compromise and premature death with no available treatment.

The purpose of this study is to investigate the clinical characteristics and natural clinical progression of symptoms in individuals with CMT4J. This natural history study is important to better understand disease course to be able to determine clinically meaningful outcome measures for use in future clinical trials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) diseases are the most common inherited motor and sensory neuropathies, composed of a group of pathologically and genetically distinct subtypes ranging from slowly to rapidly progressive disease.

CMT4J is a rare subtype of CMT caused by mutations in the FIG4 gene. Pediatric-onset disease can often be characterized by rapid progression of muscle weakness and atrophy, culminating in loss of ambulation and respiratory compromise and premature death. Adult-onset CMT4J can present with a more variable disease course.

No prospective natural history study for CMT4J has been reported. This study aims to prospectively investigate the natural history of CMT4J, and concurrently to identify potential outcome measures that could be used in future clinical trials. No investigational product will be provided in the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Charcot Marie-Tooth Pediatric Scale (CMTPedS)
  - Charcot-Marie-Tooth Neuropathy Score second version (CMTNSv2)
  - Charcot Marie-Tooth Functional Outcome Measure (CMT-FOM)
  - CMT Health Index (CMTHI)
  - Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the calf muscles without contrast

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03810508
