CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04704297
Title: Trigger Point Injection for Myofascial Pain Syndrome in the Low Back: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Trigger Point Injection for Myofascial Pain Syndrome in the Low Back (T-PIMPS): A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 180
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Rationale: Low back pain (LBP), or myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) of the low back, accounts for approximately 2.63 million visits in the United States, or 2.3 percent of annual Emergency Department (ED) visits. An estimated 100 billion dollars per year is lost from LBP. Approximately one-third of this is direct costs. Previous studies have established the safety of trigger point injections (TPI). However, the results of these studies are highly heterogeneous regarding TPI's ability to treat pain or improve functional outcomes. The two most promising TPI studies conducted in the ED have been published in the last two years. They both suffered from a small sample size. Additionally, they suffered from a combination of limitations including: lack of randomization, inconsistent medical management, lack of a follow-up assessment, and lack of patient centered functional outcomes. These studies were both two armed and either compared standard medical management to TPI with local anesthetic or TPI with local anesthetic to TPI with Normal Saline (NS). One of these studies concluded that TPI is generally beneficial. The other concluded that TPI with NS is superior.

Research Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that standard therapy (ST) plus TPI with 8 mL of 0.5 percent Bupivacaine is superior to ST alone or ST plus TPI with 8 mL of NS for the treatment of the pain associated with MPS of the low back.

Significance: This will be the first TPI study to compare ST, to TPI with local anesthetic, and TPI with NS for LBP conducted in an ED. It will also be the first TPI study to incorporate a patient centered functional outcome and patient follow-up after discharge from an ED. TPI's are a popular treatment modality for LBP among many Emergency Medicine Providers. However, to date, there is limited evidence for or against it. The investigators are hopeful that this study will answer whether or not trigger point injections are benefiting patients and, if so, which type of TPI is most beneficial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Significance: Low back pain (LBP) is a common presenting complaint in the Emergency Department (ED), accounting for 2.63 million visits in the united states and 2.3 percent of ED visits annually.1 An estimated 100 billion dollars per year is lost from low back pain. One-third of this is direct costs.2 For the United States military, in 2015, 195,844 acute cases of LBP were identified, leading to significant loss of person-hours.3 The definitions of durations, or types, of LBP vary among sources. For example, the American Association of Family Physicians defines acute low back pain as six to 12 weeks of pain and chronic pain as anything more than 12 weeks.4 A more specific definition used by The American College of Physicians defines acute LBP from 0-4 weeks, subacute LBP as 5-12 weeks, and chronic low back pain as greater than 12 weeks.5 A specific definition of chronic low back pain is essential if including acute on chronic low back pain in a study. These specific definitions will not only be used for demographics, they will also aid in excluding other causes of LBP from the study such as fibromyalgia, rheumatoid arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis.6,7 The investigators will include exacerbations of chronic LBP, but they will have to satisfy a specific definition. An excepted definition of an exacerbation of chronic low back pain is an increase of 1.5 cm above baseline pain on a 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS). The justification is that this is outside the standard deviation of typical back pain estimations.8 As this study of LBP focuses on TPIs, the investigators are narrowing the definition of LBP to myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) of the low back. The investigators chose this definition as MPS is defined by trigger points.9 Use of MPS is also consistent with prior TPI studies of LBP.10-15 The trigger points of MPS are recognized clinically by having two out of three of the following criteria: a taut band of muscle on exam, reproduction of pain upon palpation, and referred pain along a band of muscle upon palpation.16-18 The two most promising TPI studies previously conducted in the ED have been published in the last two years.19,20 They both suffered from a small sample size. Additionally, they suffered from a combination of limitations including: lack of randomization, inconsistent medical management, lack of a follow-up assessment, and lack of patient centered functional outcomes.19,20 These studies were both two armed and either compared standard medical management to TPI with local anesthetic or TPI with local anesthetic to TPI with Normal Saline (NS).19,20 One of these studies concluded that TPIs are generally beneficial.19 The other concluded that TPIs with NS are superior.20 The investigators endeavor to complete a randomized controlled trial (RCT) that definitively answers whether TPIs with local anesthetic are superior to TPIs with NS in an ED setting. The investigators will also be comparing both of these treatments to standard th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain reduction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Treatment of Myofascial Pain Syndrome in the low back. This intervention will be based on outcomes of the medications listed below.
  - DRUG: Evaluation of functional ability using a patient centered functional score known as the Modified Oswestry Disability Index (MODI). The intervention will be based on outcomes of medications below.
  - DRUG: Following up with participants 60-72 hours after treatment in the Emergency Department. This intervention will be based on outcomes of the medications listed below.

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04704297
