CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02354508
Title: Pasireotide in Patients With Acromegaly Inadequately Controlled With First Generation Somatostatin Analogues
Official Title: A Phase IIIb Multicenter, Open-label, Single Arm Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Pasireotide in Patients With Acromegaly Inadequately Controlled With First Generation Somatostatin Analogues
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 123
Topic: growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone treatment

SUMMARY:
This is a phase IIIb multicenter, open-label; single arm study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pasireotide LAR 40 mg and 60 mg in patients with inadequately controlled acromegaly with maximal approved doses of first generation somatostatin analogues. The study will enroll inadequately controlled patients by high doses (maximal approved) of first-generation somatostatin analogues given for at least 3 months. Patients will receive pasireotide LAR 40 mg or 60 mg during the 36 week core study phase. Patients who have completed all visits of core phase and have completed all the assessments at the core phase completion visit can move into the 32-week extension phase. Patients can continue with study treatment until pasireotide LAR is commercially available and reimbursed in their respective country or until the end of the extension phase whichever occurs first.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a phase IIIb multicenter, open-label; single arm study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pasireotide LAR 40 mg and 60 mg in patients with inadequately controlled acromegaly with maximal doses of first generation somatostatin analogues. The study will enroll inadequately controlled patients by high doses of first-generation somatostatin analogues given for at least 3 months.

Patients will be categorized into two groups. Group 1 consists of patients treated with octreotide LAR 30 mg from countries where octreotide LAR 40mg is approved for the treatment of acromegaly at the time of screening. These patients will start a 3-months run-in phase to receive 40mg octreotide before being considered eligible to enter the core treatment phase. After 3 months of treatment have been completed, and prior to the fourth injection a mean GH and IGF-1 will be assessed. Patients who are achieving biochemical control will be considered a screen failure and they will not qualify for the core phase of the study. They will continue treatment with octreotide LAR 40 mg outside the frame of this study.

Group 2 consists of patients treated with octreotide LAR 30 mg from countries where octreotide 40mg is NOT yet approved at the time of screening. This group also includes patients already treated with octreotide LAR 40 mg or lanreotide ATG 120 mg. Patients should have been treated with the first generation SSAs for at least 3 months prior to screening. Eligible patients can directly enter the core treatment phase of the study. A run-in phase is not required for this patient population.

In the core treatment phase patients will start treatment with pasireotide LAR 40 mg every 4 weeks. At week 12, the mean GH value and IGF-1value will be assessed. Patients who have not achieved biochemical control by week 12 and do not have any tolerability issues with pasireotide LAR 40 mg will have the dose increased to 60 mg. Patients who have achieved biochemical control by week 12 will maintain a dose of pasireotide LAR 40 mg. A mean GH value and IGF-1 value will be assessed every 12 weeks until Visit 777. At weeks 16 and 28, the investigator will be able to adjust the dose based on the achievement of biochemical control and drug tolerability. If tolerability issues occur, the dose can be decreased in 20 mg. Once the tolerability issue resolves, the patients should return to the dose previously received. Patients will be treated for a total of 36 weeks during the core phase. During this period any concomitant medication for the treatment of acromegaly is prohibited. Patients are required to complete a core phase completion visit 4 weeks after the last dose of pasireotide LAR is administered. Patients who discontinue from the core phase are also required to complete the core phase completion visit 4 weeks after receiving the last pasireotide LAR dose.

Patients who have completed all visits of core phase and have completed all the assessments at the core phase completion vi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core Phase: Percentage of Participants With Mean GH < 1 g/L and IGF-1 < ULN at Week 36 by Previous Treatment and Overall
  - Core Phase: Percentage of Participants With Mean GH < 1 g/L and IGF-1 < ULN at Week 36 for Participants Up-titrated to Pasireotide LAR 60 mg
  - Core Phase: Percentage of Participants With Mean GH < 1 g/L and IGF-1 < ULN at Week 36
  - Core Phase: Percentage of Participants With Mean GH < 1 g/L and IGF-1 < ULN at Week 36
  - Core Phase: Percentage of Participants With Mean GH < 1 g/L and IGF-1 < ULN at Week 36 Overall by Baseline Diabetic Status

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Pasireotide LAR

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02354508
