CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05137990
Title: The HIIT Cognition Study
Official Title: The Effects of High Intensity Exercise in Teens on Cognition
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 6
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This pilot study is a randomized control trial to test the effects of a 14-week home-based virtual, interactive high intensity interval training (HIIT) exercise intervention on cardiometabolic and cognitive outcomes in sedentary youth with overweight/obesity during adolescence. All participants (N=24) will complete screening via phone to determine eligibility. Eligible participants will be randomized to receive a) 14 weeks of a home-based HIIT intervention delivered via iPad or b) 14 weeks of a stretching intervention (control group). Each participant will undergo an in-lab pre- and post-test visit, where they will complete a fasting blood draw, a fitness test, and various cognitive and mental health measures.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Rationale: Existing literature supports the premise that physical activity (PA) has beneficial effects on cognitive function in youth, but prior studies have limitations, such as cross-sectional designs with limited insights on the intensity or duration of PA or the biological underpinnings linking physical activity and mental health and cognitive function in adolescents. A limited number of studies (and none in the U.S.) have evaluated the effects of HIIT on cognitive processes in youth, particularly in youth with overweight/obesity whose age-related declines in PA puts them at increased risk for poor outcomes. This study is particularly timely during the current COVID-19 related public health crisis because our HIIT exercise intervention is time efficient, delivered remotely, and completed using space-efficient equipment in the home.

Intervention: Participants (youth ages 12-16 years with overweight/obesity) will be randomly assigned to complete a) 14 weeks of a home-based virtual, interactive HIIT intervention or b) 14 weeks of a stretching intervention (control group).

Objectives/Purpose: The overall goal is to improve cognitive and cardiometabolic outcomes in youth with overweight/obesity by implementing an at-home HIIT intervention. The aims of this study are: 1) to determine the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of HIIT in adolescents with overweight/obesity, 2) to examine the effectiveness of HIIT on cognitive and mental health outcomes, and 3) to examine the effectiveness of HIIT on cardiometabolic health.

Study Population: This study will consist of youth ages 12-16 years with overweight/obesity (BMI \>=85th percentile) who do not meet current PA guidelines.

Study Methodology: This pilot study is a randomized control trial to test the effects of a 14-week home-based virtual, interactive high intensity interval training (HIIT) exercise intervention on cardiometabolic and cognitive outcomes in sedentary youth with overweight/obesity during adolescence. All participants (N=24) will complete screening via phone to determine eligibility. Eligible participants will be randomized to receive a) 14 weeks of a home-based HIIT intervention delivered via iPad (HIIT group) or b) 14 weeks of a stretching intervention (control group).

Those randomized to the HIIT group will receive the intervention 3 times/week and will be given a pre-assembled stationary bicycle to use to complete each exercise session, an iPad to Zoom with the exercise trainers, and a Fitbit to assess real-time heart rate. Exercise trainers will provide encouragement and supervision for exercise prescription adherence and youth will select an age-appropriate music playlist from Spotify to enhance enjoyment throughout each session. Each exercise session consists of a 5-minute warm-up (10% HRmax), followed by a 20-minute HIIT protocol. The 20-minute HIIT protocol consists of seven bouts of 1-min high intensity exercise (90% HRmax) followed by 2-min of active recovery (10% 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measures of intervention feasibility
  - Measures of intervention efficacy
  - Intervention Feasibility Measure
  - Intervention Acceptability Measure
  - Intervention Appropriateness Measure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: HIIT Exercise Intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Stretching Intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05137990
