CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06746922
Title: Intermittent Theta Burst Stimulation in Fibromyalgia Syndrome
Official Title: The Effect of Intermittent Theta Burst Stimulation to the Primary Motor Cortex on Pain Intensity, Pain Catastrophizing, Quality of Life and Mood in Fibromyalgia Patients
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Research on repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation therapy in fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is increasing rapidly. High-frequency rTMS administration to FMS patients is reported to restore intracortical facilitation and provide successful pain relief. This finding supports restoration of cortical stimulation as one of the possible mechanisms of action for rTMS. One treatment protocol is intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS, a variant of excitatory rTMS). Although there are many treatment protocols, there are few widely accepted treatment schemes in the literature. In fibromyalgia syndrome, there is no study in the literature. It was planned to include at least 30 patients aged 18-65 years who were admitted to İzmir Katip Çelebi University Atatürk Training and Research Hospital Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Outpatient Clinic or hospitalized in the ward and diagnosed with fibromyalgia syndrome according to the 2016 criteria. This study has a prospective, parallel group, randomized, sham-controlled study design. A total of 30 fibromyalgia patients will be randomized into 2 groups and will receive a total of 10 sessions of transcranial magnetic stimulation to the primary motor cortex with intermittent theta bust stimulation technique or sham application. Patients will continue their current fibromyalgia treatment.Numeric Rating Scale-pain intensity (NRS-pain), revised Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQR), Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS), Hospital Depression Anxiety Scale (HADS) will be used in the evaluation of the patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a chronic condition characterized by generalized body pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, impaired cognitive function and anxiety of unknown etiology. Potential causes include genetic, neurologic, psychological, sleep and immunologic factors. In the literature, complaints or symptoms reported by more than 25% of patients with FMS include widespread body pain, fatigue, morning stiffness, headache, paresthesia, sleep disturbance, subjective swelling, dry mouth, irritable bowel, dysmenorrhea, joint hypermobility, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, dermographism, Raynaud's phenomenon and reticular skin discoloration. Although some factors are known to predispose individuals to FMS (e.g. genes, adverse life events and physical trauma), the etiology of FMS is still unknown.

One of the best-supported hypotheses regarding its pathophysiology is the presence of central sensitization to pain and deficiencies in endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms. Its prevalence has been reported as 0.2% to 6.6%. This rate increases to 2.4% to 6.8% in women. This rate increases in the 40-60 age group and in Turkey, the prevalence of fibromyalgia is reported to be 3.6% in women, with the highest rate (10.1%) observed in women aged 50-59 years. Studies show that fibromyalgia is more common in the female gender, among people with low education and socioeconomic status, and in the 40-60 age group.

The clinical picture of the patients shows that the pain is usually localized at first, but then involves many muscle groups. Hyperalgesia and allodynia are important features of fibromyalgia, although it can often be described as burning, gnawing pain, stiffness or aching sensation. Patients often complain of swollen joints and paresthesia despite the absence of any objective clinical findings during physical examination. Pain is often exacerbated by cold and damp weather, inadequate sleep, physical and mental stress.

There is no gold standard for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. There are no laboratory markers or tests for the diagnosis of FMS and the diagnosis is made entirely clinically. Although the 1990 and 2010 criteria were also used in the diagnosis of FMS until recently, the latest version of the 2016 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) revised criteria are used. According to the 2016 ACR diagnostic criteria, the presence of generalized pain defined as pain in at least four of the five regions (four quadrants and axial) (however, jaw, chest, abdomen, headache and facial pain should not be included in the quadrant or regional definition of generalized pain), symptoms should be present at a similar level for at least 3 months, and scores should be WPI ≥ 7 and SS ≥ 5 or WPI 4-6 and SS ≥ 9.

The main goal of treatment should be to alleviate the patient's symptoms and improve quality of life. Current evidence-based guidelines emphasize the value of multimodal therapies, including both non-pharmacological and selected pharmacological treatment

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline in the Numeric Rating Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Intermittent theta-burst stimulation
  - DEVICE: Sham Intermittent theta-burst stimulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06746922
