CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05947240
Title: Effects of UE Aerobic Exercise on Exercise Capacity and PA in Patients With Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension.
Official Title: Effects of Upper Extremity Aerobic Exercise on Exercise Capacity and Physical Activity in Patients With Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Group A will be training group and group B will be control group. Deep breathing exercises will be done as baseline treatment in both groups. Both groups will be assessed with Modified Borg scale, 6-PBRT and Fatigue severity scale at the baseline. The control group patients will perform functional active alternating movements for the upper limbs at home involving three sets with 10 repetitions and a rest interval between 1- and 2-minute.

Intervention will be for 3 times a week or 6 weeks. The treatment group patients will perform upper extremity aerobic exercises by using an arm ergometer under the supervision of a physiotherapist. Training intensity will adjust according to 50 80 % of max HR or intensity of dyspnea to 4 points on modified Borg scale (MBS) for at least 15 45 min, 3 times/week over 6 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Group A will be training group and group B will be control group. Deep breathing exercises will be done as baseline treatment in both groups. Both groups will be assessed with Modified Borg scale, 6-PBRT and Fatigue severity scale at the baseline. The control group patients will perform functional active alternating movements for the upper limbs at home involving three sets with 10 repetitions and a rest interval between 1- and 2-minute.

Intervention will be for 3 times a week or 6 weeks. The treatment group patients will perform upper extremity aerobic exercises by using an arm ergometer under the supervision of a physiotherapist. Training intensity will adjust according to 50 80 % of max HR or intensity of dyspnea to 4 points on modified Borg scale (MBS) for at least 15 45 min, 3 times/week over 6 weeks. This study will measure and record HR by using the heart rate monitor, oxygen saturation (SpO2) by using pulse oximetry and blood pressure, breathing frequency (BF), dyspnea, fatigue, and arm fatigue by using MBS before, during, and after training.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - 6 MWT
  - Borg rating of perceived exertion (RPE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: aerobic exercises
  - OTHER: active alternating movements for the upper limbs

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05947240
