CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06805708
Title: Educational Intervention for Sleep Hygiene Nursing in Adolescents
Official Title: Educational Intervention for Sleep Hygiene Nursing in Adolescents: Translation to the School Nurse
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
There is an urgent need to influence the knowledge and beliefs associated with sleep (TV viewing, use of electronic devices, sedentary activity...) of school children through holistic interventions involving students, parents, teachers and other professionals in the education sector that can positively influence education. The project's main objective is to determine the acceptability and effectiveness of a school intervention consisting of counselling by family and community nurses. The methodological approach is Participatory Action Research (PAR), developed in three phases: exploratory, intervention, and evaluation. In the exploratory phase, which corresponds to a research study with a qualitative (focus groups and content analysis) and quantitative (questionnaires) approach, the study subjects will be students in the second year of secondary education in five schools in southern Spain (city and province), as well as parents and teachers. Sampling will be probabilistic. Following the action research cycle, the results of the exploration phase will be shared with all participants and will be considered for the intervention phase. This phase will aim to conceptualise/implement a sleep hygiene programme. It will take into account key aspects such as (i) health education, (ii) sleep hygiene, (iii) breathing control to facilitate sleep, (iv) sleep restriction, and (v) stimulus control. The programme will be implemented during 12 sessions of 30 minutes (intensive phase: 1 session/week for 3 weeks; maintenance phase: 1 session every 2 weeks) and will focus on cognitive-behavioural counselling. The intervention will be applied to the referred students from the participating schools. For this phase, the data analysis will be quantitative (pre-post intervention). The evaluation phase will occur 6 and 12 months after the intervention, with the same methodological approach as in the exploratory phase (quantitative and qualitative).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Sleep hygiene (Adolescent Sleep Hygiene Scale)
  - Sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index)
  - Sleep duration (sleep diaries)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sleep hygiene training programme

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 16 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06805708
