CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02829632
Title: Feasibility Study of Receiving Feedback Messages Based on Self-monitored Dietary Intake
Official Title: 12 Weeks Weight Loss Study Using Feedback Messages Delivered Via Smartphone
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
Brief Summary: This randomized clinical pilot will test the feasibility of having individuals self-monitor for 12 weeks and based on what the participants record be given feedback messages. The investigator will use this information to refine the questions and data collection procedures for the larger study.

Participants will be randomized into 3 groups

* self-monitoring only
* self-monitoring w/ feedback messages
* self-monitoring w/feedback messages and group sessions Feedback messages will be delivered up to 4 times per day using a different schedule. The group sessions will be held in the 2nd, 4th and 8th week of the 12-week study.

All participants will be asked to complete questionnaires and 2 assessment visits at baseline and 12 weeks.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research Strategy. The investigator will randomize 45 overweight/obese adults to one of 3 groups: (1) Control (Con) - no FB, no Behavioral Lifestyle Program (BLP), (2) FB Only, no BLP, and (3) FB+BLP. All subjects will use a smartphone to self-monitor diet and PA. The subjects will download a feedback system onto the Android operating system smartphone that was developed for this study called the SMARTER. The algorithm was developed by Dr. Lora Burke of the University of Pittsburgh. All groups will attend a one-time how to self-monitor using the smartphone session and receive education materials at baseline. The FB Only and FB+BLP groups will receive up to 4 daily FB messages, based on progress in attaining target behavior. The FB will be delivered on a variable ratio schedule and tailored to data in subjects' recordings. FB+BLP participants will receive a face-to-face BLP intervention that will include 3 group sessions over 12 weeks. Also to not confound the effect of the daily FB, the interventionists will not provide feedback to the weekly diaries. Sample. The investigator will recruit from the community 45 adults, over the age of 18. All participants need to be randomized prior to the beginning of the 3 BLP sessions since the sessions are conducted as a closed group. The randomization scheme will be implemented via a computerized program (Visual Basic 6.0) using minimization method. The randomization will be overseen by a statistician (Co-I: S Sereika). Each of the 3 conditions will be assigned a total of 15 subjects with randomization stratified by gender and ethnicity/race. Intervention. Those in the Con and FB Only groups will receive a 1-hr session on provided calorie prescription for weight loss and self-monitoring and associated education materials. Only those in FB+BLP will receive a 3-session BLP for a healthful lifestyle and weight loss. The groups will meet in the School of Nursing and will be led by a trained interventionist. Protocol for Self-monitoring: All participants will be subscribed to LoseIt!, an online self-monitoring service that can be accessed via the smartphone and computer. This will be used in place of the traditional paper diary. This software permits self-monitoring of diet, PA, and weight; it also provides feedback on up to 9 macronutrients based on a database of 60,000 foods. Because of the investigator's ongoing working relationship with the developers of LoseIt! program, the investigator will have access to LoseIt! Connect, a custom portal created by LoseIt! for centralized user management. This permits the investigators to view participants' entries and set custom controls on participants use, (e.g., disabling particpants' ability to share data with outsiders). All participants will be encouraged to self-monitor diet and self-report weight. Participants who do not have scales will be given one for the duration of the study and be ask to return it at the completion of the study. Participants see the nutrient v

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Group Sessions
  - BEHAVIORAL: Feedback
  - BEHAVIORAL: Self-monitoring

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02829632
