CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06948149
Title: Creatine and Resistance Training in Older Adults With Mild Cognitive Impairment
Official Title: Examining the Effects of Creatine Supplementation and Resistance Training on Cognition and Brain Health in Older Adults With Mild Cognitive Impairment: a 26 Week Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The goal of this 26-week trial is to learn if creatine supplementation and resistance training (i.e., weightlifting; exercise that increases muscle mass), alone and together, impact cognition, brain health, and physical function in older adults with mild cognitive impairment. Previous studies have shown that resistance training improves cognition and brain health in older adults. Creatine is naturally occurring in the human body and is known to decline with age. Studies have shown that creatine increases muscle mass and bone density in older adults when supplemented. Some research has suggested that creatine may also improve cognition and brain health. However, little is known about how creatine supplementation affects the aging brain and body alone and when combined with resistance training, especially in those with known cognitive impairment.

In this study, participants will be randomly assigned to one of four groups: 1) creatine and resistance training, 2) placebo and resistance training, 3) creatine and active control (balance and tone classes), or 4) placebo and active control. Participants in the creatine groups will take creatine every day during the study. Participants in the placebo groups will take a look-alike substance that contains no drug every day during the study. Participants in the resistance training groups will attend three 60-minute classes per week that target each major muscle group and will increase in difficulty during the study. Participants in the active control group will attend three 60-minute classes per week that will consist of balance, stretching, and range of motion exercises. This group accounts for variables such as physical training received by traveling to the training centres, social interaction, and changes in lifestyle secondary to study participation.

Researchers will collect information before and after the 26 weeks to see if creatine supplementation and/or resistance training have any effects on cognition, brain health, and/or physical function. The investigators suspect that both creatine supplementation and resistance training will improve cognition, brain health, and physical function alone. However, it is thought that the combination of creatine supplementation and resistance training will improve cognition, brain health, and physical function more.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Research objectives:

To evaluate the effects of 26 weeks of creatine supplementation on its own and in combination with progressive resistance training in community-dwelling older adults with mild cognitive impairment on:

1. visuospatial working memory (Primary Objective);
2. executive function (working memory, inhibitory control, and mental flexibility), functional mobility, muscle and grip strength, bone density, cerebral blood flow, and blood-based biomarkers for brain health and cognitive decline (Secondary Objectives); and
3. resting state functional activity, hippocampal volume and structural integrity, and key metabolite concentrations in the brain (Exploratory Objective).

Hypotheses:

It is hypothesized that 26 weeks of creatine supplementation and resistance training in community-dwelling older adults with mild cognitive impairment will: 1) increase visuospatial working memory performance; 2) improve executive function, functional mobility, strength performance, bone density, cerebral blood flow, and blood-based biomarkers for brain health and cognitive decline; and 3) increase resting state functional activity, volume and structural integrity in the hippocampus, and concentrations of key metabolites in the brain.

Methods:

Screening: Participants interested in the study will reach out to researchers via phone or e-mail. Interested participants will be sent the Letter of Information via e-mail to get more detailed information about the study. Before a baseline assessment is scheduled, investigators will complete an initial screening over the phone with all participants to ensure that study eligibility is met. The Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) will be administered over the phone as part of initial screening to ensure that they can partake in exercise. At this time, participants will have an opportunity to ask questions. Those who are eligible and still interested in participating will be scheduled to come into the lab for baseline assessments.

Baseline assessments: When participants arrive in the lab, the researcher will go over the consent form with them, answer any additional questions they have about the study, and obtain informed written consent. At this time, participants may also consent to participate in the optional MRI portion of this study. Participants will then complete baseline assessments. Total time to complete baseline assessments in the lab (excluding MRI) will be \~2.5-3 hours. For those participating in the MRI component, this will be scheduled for another separate visit (1 hour).

Randomization: Once participants complete baseline assessment, they will be randomly assigned to one of the four conditions. Group allocation will be determined by an online randomizer (randomization.com). The sequence will be held remotely by the PI and will not be revealed until after baseline assessments.

Descriptors and covariates:

1. Anthropometry (height, weight)
2. Demographic information via general question

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Corsi Span - Corsi Block Tapping Task
  - Reaction Time - Corsi Block Tapping Task

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Creatine monohydrate
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06948149
