CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06805799
Title: Stress Reactivity and Mother-Infant Cardiovascular Disease Risk
Official Title: Maternal-Infant Stress Reactivity as an Intergenerational Pathway to Cardiovascular Disease Risk
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Prenatal Mindfulness training (MT) shows promise as a preventive intervention against hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) and may reduce risk for offspring cardiovascular disease (CVD). One proposed mechanism of MT to reduced CVD risk is improved self-regulation following stress. Perhaps the most crucial contributor to the development of self-regulation in the first year is the psychophysiological coregulatory relationship between mother and infant. However, this self-and co-regulation among women exposed to prenatal MT has not been studied and has yet to be examined in relation to CVD risk. The goal of this proposed project is to evaluate maternal-infant physiological reactivity to and recovery from stress at 6 months postpartum following prenatal MT, and to examine the relationship between these maternal infant stress responses and maternal-infant CVD risk at 12 months postpartum.

Using a lab-based stress paradigm and well-validated biomarkers of mother and infant CVD risk, the investigators will assess respiratory sinus arrhythmia and heart rate at 6 months postpartum for 40 mother-infant dyads who have completed either prenatal MT or a usual care arm of an RCT examining MT for women at risk for HDP. The investigators will compare maternal, infant, and dyadic stress responses by treatment arm. Then, cardiac stress responses will be examined as predictors of maternal and infant biomarkers of CVD risk at 12 months postpartum.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) affect 1 out of 10 pregnancies, contribute annually to over two billion dollars of health care utilization costs, and are a leading cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in the United States. HDP confer long-term cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk for both mother and infant. Thus, prevention of prenatal HDP is essential to reducing intergenerational transmission of CVD risk. Prenatal mindfulness training (MT) has shown promise as a non-pharmacological intervention to prevent HDP and is associated with improved mother-infant outcomes at birth. Benefits of prenatal MT on maternal-infant stress responses and concomitant effects on CVD risk have not been examined.

One proposed mechanism thought to confer cardiovascular benefits of MT is improved physiological stress response via the autonomic nervous system (ANS). ANS dysfunction has been linked with early childhood physical health concerns, such as obesity and elevated blood pressure, and increased CVD risk in adulthood, and thus may be a significant target for interventions aiming to disrupt intergenerational risk for CVD.There is emerging evidence that prenatal MT interventions may improve sympathetic reactivity to and recovery from stress (as measured by pre-ejection period activity) in 6-month old infants. Biobehavioral frameworks of attachment propose that mother-child dyads engage in physiological coregulation that influences self-regulatory processes. Maternal-infant synchrony of heartbeat and motor activity begins in utero and may promote children's physical and behavioral health. Concordance of maternal-infant self-regulation in stressful situations, a proxy of adaptive psychophysiological reactivity, may thus be associated with reduced CVD risk. However, it is not yet known whether prenatal MT is associated with improved maternal-infant regulation of ANS responses to stress, or whether these responses are associated with maternal and pediatric cardiovascular outcomes. These data are essential for the development of targeted parenting interventions that promote adaptive coregulatory stress responses and disrupt postpartum pathways for intergenerational CVD risk.

To address this knowledge gap, this study will examine effects of a prenatal MT intervention on postpartum maternal-infant psychophysiological coregulatory processes that may decrease maternal and infant CVD. The study will leverage the data and infrastructure from an ongoing RCT (PI: Mentor Bublitz; R01HL157288) examining mechanisms of a prenatal MT intervention on the prevention of HDP. At 6 months postpartum, maternal-infant physiological reactivity to stress will be assessed. At 12 months postpartum, maternal and infant CVD risk will be measured. This study aims to: 1) Evaluate psychophysiological responses to stress in women randomized to MT vs usual care and their offspring and 2) Evaluate the relationship between maternal-infant psychophysiological responses to stress and cardiov

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Maternal-Infant Stress reactivity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Follow up to Mindfulness RCT using a Still Face Paradigm

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Months to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06805799
