CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06597552
Title: The Effect of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Pediatric Cancer Patient
Official Title: The Effect of Inspiratory Muscle Training on Respiratory Functions, Functional Capacity, Failure and Quailty of Life in Pediatric Cancer Patient
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 8
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to examine the effects of inspiratory muscle training on respiratory functions, functional capacity, fatigue and quality of life in pediatric cancer patients who have recently completed treatment. A total of 27 patients were included in the study. The patients were divided into two groups as Training and Control groups. After the initial evaluation of all patients, they were included in an 8-week inspiratory muscle training program. The final evaluation was made at the end of 8 weeks. According to the final evaluations, it was found that there was a statistical increase in favor of the Training group on Maximal Inspiratory Pressure, 6 Minute Walking Test, Quality of Life and Fatigue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of inspiratory muscle training on respiratory functions, functional capacity, fatigue and quality of life in pediatric cancer patients. A total of 27 patients, 13 in the training group and 14 in the control group, who received and completed cancer treatment at the Memorial Şişli Hospital Pediatric Oncology and Hematology Department and who met the inclusion criteria were included in the study. The age, gender, diagnosis, height and weight of the patients included in the study were recorded. Evaluations were made regarding respiratory functions, respiratory muscle strength, functional capacity, fatigue and quality of life in the patients before and after inspiratory muscle training.

In the study, the initial and post-training values of the FVC, % FVC, FEV1, % FEV1, FEV1/FVC, PEF and % PEF in the respiratory function test of the patients in the training and control groups were compared.

The MIP and MEP values of the patients in the training and control groups were compared with the initial and post-test values of SpO2, heart rate and walking distance calculated after 6MWT. Fatigue values of patients in the education and control groups before and after inspiratory muscle training were compared. Physical, emotional, social and school-related baseline values obtained after the pediatric quality of life test in the education and control groups were compared.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Measurement of Pulmonary Function
  - Measurement of Respiratory Muscle Strength
  - Measurement of Functional Capacity
  - Measurement of Quality of Life
  - Measurement of Fatigue

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Training Group
  - OTHER: Control Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06597552
