CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04279951
Title: Alpha and Omega of Lifestyle Therapy
Official Title: Alpha and Omega of Lifestyle Therapy - Resistance trening and Ingestion of n-3 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids to Improve Health and Muscle Functions in Individuals With Obesity and Healthy Controls
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The study aims to investigate the effects of double-blinded, randomized placebo-controlled n3-fatty acid supplementation (1000 mg day-1) and 13 weeks of resistance trening on muscle function/biology and systemic health in individuals with obesity (BMI\>30) and lean individuals (BMI\<30)

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lifestyle therapy is important for treating lifestyle-related morbidities such as obesity. Such therapy often includes exercise and nutrition, and leads to improved health, functionality and quality of life. Unfortunately, obesity leads to adverse changes in the physiological milieu, including inflammation and altered nutritional status such as reduced omega-3:omega-6 ratios. Indeed, inadequate omega 3 levels are common even among lean individuals. This may negatively affect the outcome of lifestyle therapy with exercise, particularly those involving resistance trening, contributing to the large heterogeneity seen in trening responses. In accordance with this, many individuals (including both lean and obese subjects) fail to improve muscle biology/functions and health, including failure to increase muscle mass and strength, failure to improve glucose handling and inflammatory status. This makes general lifestyle therapy recommendations ineffective. Here, we investigate effects of double-blinded, randomized placebo-controlled n3-fatty acid supplementation (1000 mg day-1) and 13 weeks of low- and high-load resistance trening on muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone/function/biology and health in individuals with obesity (BMI\>30, n=60) and lean controls (BMI\<30, n=60). Each participant will perform two different trening protocols, one on each leg. The supplement period will commence 7 weeks prior to the onset of the strength trening intervention to ensure adequate omega-3 biology at the onset of trening. Analyses include assessment of the separate and combined effects of n3-supplementation and obesity on trening responses to resistance trening, measured as muscle mass, muscle strength/functionality, muscle biological traits, and systemic health variables such as hormone/inflammation/glucose biology, adipose tissue biology/mass, gut microbiome and health-related quality of life. The project will provide important insight into the feasibility of resistance trening and n-3 fatty acid supplementation for treating individuals with obesity, paving the way for personalized lifestyle therapy.

The study has two defined main outcome measures, targeting the combined effects of omega-3 and strength trening on i) muscle thickness of the thigh (measured using ultrasound; this main outcome measure targets the effects of the intervention on muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone), and ii) glucose tolerance (measured using an oral glucose test; this main outcome measure targets the effects of the intervention on improvements in health).

In our analytical approach, we will use a mixed model-approach to assess the main effects of the intervention, mainly defined as changes from before to after the resistance trening intervention. Importantly, for health variables such as glucose tolerance, analyses will be performed by accounting for individual variation at baseline, as any beneficial effect can be expected to be higher/present only in individuals with a pathological/diseased starting point. Notably, 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle thickness, ultrasound
  - Glucose tolerance

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Resistance exercise
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04279951
