CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07054762
Title: Effects of Omega-3 Supplementation on Exercise Performance, Body Composition, and Appetite Status in Female Athletes
Official Title: Effects of Omega-3 Supplementation on Exercise Performance, Body Composition and Appetite Status in Female Athletes: A Single-Blind Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 14
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
Volleyball is a sport that requires high performance and aims to increase endurance. The intense training and competition tempo of athletes directs them to special nutritional needs. Omega-3 fatty acids, in particular, are known for their anti-inflammatory properties and positive effects on the cardiovascular system, and provide potential contributions such as supporting exercise performance, reducing stress levels and improving body composition in athletes. However, studies examining the effects of omega-3 on female volleyball players are rare in the literature.

The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of omega-3 supplementation on exercise performance, body composition and appetite status in 2nd league women's volleyball team athletes. The research group consists of female volleyball players over the age of 18. The potential effects of the recommended level of omega-3 supplementation added to the daily nutrition programs of female athletes without changing their routine nutrition programs will be evaluated in the study.

A single-blind placebo method will be used in this experimental and randomized controlled study. After the participants have a diet low in omega-3 for 2 weeks, they will be divided into two groups; The experimental group will be given 2 capsules of omega-3 supplements with breakfast for eight weeks, while the control group will be given a placebo capsule. This study aims to contribute to the literature on the effects of omega-3 supplements on athlete performance and to better understand the role of nutritional supplements on physiological parameters in female volleyball players.

Anthropometric measurements of the athletes will be taken at the beginning of the intervention, every two weeks during the intervention, and at the end of the intervention, and a 24-hour retrospective food consumption record, a simplified nutritional appetite questionnaire, muscle pain assessment, and a muscle endurance test will be applied.

The collected study data will be analyzed using SPSS 20.0 statistical analysis software. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used to assess the normality of the data. Percentage, mean, and standard deviation calculations will be used in the analysis of the findings obtained in the study; appropriate statistical analyzes will be performed to examine the relationship between the independent variables of the control and experimental groups and exercise performance, body composition, and appetite status.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
An athlete is defined as an individual, whether amateur or professional, who receives regular exercise training and participates in official sports competitions, whether young or adult (1). Volleyball is a complex team sport with an average match duration of 60-90 minutes, which imposes different physical and cognitive demands (2). Volleyball is a sport that requires explosive power, endurance and speed. Volleyball athletes use their physical capacities, such as jumping, quick changes of direction and focus, to the maximum. Research shows that volleyball players train three to five days a week and participate in special exercises to increase their muscular endurance and conditioning (3). Volleyball, an open skill sport, requires motor movements characterized by effective visual search and action anticipation in dynamic and complex environments (4). Increased ability for action anticipation is closely associated with the ability to effectively "read the game" and having superior game intelligence (5), which is a prerequisite for successfully applying techniques and tactics (4). Consequently, physical performance, including vertical jump, short-distance agility, and spiking, as well as perceptual-cognitive performance, are key determinants of volleyball performance (6). Fatigue is common in sports, especially in high-intensity, long-duration activities such as volleyball (7). A comprehensive understanding of how fatigue affects action anticipation and physical performance is crucial to developing effective training strategies for top-level volleyball players (8).

Female athletes may have different hormonal structures, training responses, and muscle recovery processes. In this context, it is thought that muscle recovery is slower in female athletes and that they may face a higher risk of inflammation. It is stated that the anterior cruciate ligament injury rates are four to eight times higher in women than in men (9). It is thought that female volleyball players need additional support to prevent muscle damage during their weekly training and match periods, especially during intense training periods (8).

Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) cannot be produced by the human body, so it is important to get them through diet or supplements. There are three main omega-3 fatty acids: alpha-linolenic acid (ALA, 18:3 n-3), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5 n-3), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6 n-3). ALA is found in plant-based sources such as flaxseed, chia seeds, and walnuts, while EPA and DHA are primarily found in seafood and fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, and mackerel (10). The benefits of omega-3 fatty acids are wide-ranging. Omega-3s are thought to have anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic properties, lower plasma triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, improve vasomotor and endothelial function, and inhibit cell growth factors (11). Studies have confirmed that omega-3 supplements strengthen memory, reduce symptoms of depr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Evaluation of the effect of omega-3 supplementation given to female volleyball players for 8 weeks on exercise performance.
  - Evaluation of the effects of omega-3 supplementation given to female volleyball players for 8 weeks on body composition.
  - Evaluation of the effect of omega-3 supplementation on appetite status in female volleyball players given for 8 weeks.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: omega-3 supplements in female athletes
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo Group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07054762
