CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03288064
Title: Ergogenic and Antioxidant Effects of Corinthian Currant
Official Title: Effects of Corinthian Currant Supplementation on Redox Status, Inflammatory Markers, and Performance During Prolonged Exercise
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the present study is to investigate the effect of pre-exercise supplementation of Corinthian currant on metabolism, performance and blood redox status during, and after an acute bout of prolonged exercise.

Methods: Eleven healthy male adults (18 - 45y) performed an acute bout of prolonged cycling in a crossover fashion. Each bout consisted of a 90 min constant-intensity (70 - 75% VO2max) submaximal glycogen depletion trial, followed by a time trial (TT) to exhaustion (95% VO2max), with a wash out period of 2 weeks between bouts. During each experimental condition and 30 min prior to exercise, participants consumed an isocaloric (1.5 g CHO/kg body mass) amount of randomly assigned Corinthian currants, glucose drink, or water. Blood was drawn at baseline, 30 min after the supplement consumption (pre-exercise) and at 30, 60, 90 min of submaximal trial, after TT, and 1 h after the end of exercise (post TT), for the assessment of metabolic changes and redox status alterations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aerobic exercise performance in events lasting more than one hour has been shown to improve with pre- or/and during-exercise consumption of carbohydrates (CHO) and athletes or recreationally exercised individuals are often advised to consume CHO before, and/or during exercise. The improvement in performance with CHO supplementation is due to the maintenance of blood glucose levels and the increased CHO availability for oxidation late in exercise that may preserve muscle glycogen. Apparently based on the above mechanisms, the dietary industry provides a wide variety of CHO supplements in different forms (sport drinks, sport gels, CHO bars, sport jellybeans, sport chews). Athletes at all levels use these supplements to optimize their performance during training or competitive events. However, these products are processed, and often expensive, in contrast with other natural foods that may provide an alternative for those preferring a healthier, though, equally effective choice.

Aerobic exercise and training relates with the production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS), as indicated by the changes in the concentration of several by-products deriving from the oxidation of biomolecules, and the upregulation of antioxidant enzymes. Although RONS in low to moderate quantities are essential for optimized exercise performance and exercise-induced adaptations, yet, excessive production of RONS especially during exhaustive exercise, promote contractile dysfunction, muscle weakness and fatigue, and impaired recovery from exercise.Therefore, research has focused on nutritional strategies aimed at reducing these effects. There is evidence that treating with antioxidants, protects in part against free radicals-mediated damage in exercise. In regards with this prospective, the supplementation of antioxidants is a very common strategy to minimize RONS production and avoid the detrimental effects of oxidative stress in exercise. In the same way with CHO, natural foods could also provide an alternative antioxidant source for those seeking a more healthy option.

Corinthian currants or Corinthian raisins are small, dark purple colored, sun-dried vine products, produced from a special type of black grape (Vitis Vinifera L., var. Apyrena) and cultivated almost exclusively in the Southern of Greece. Corinthian currants are well known for their potential health benefits. They consist a high source of complex CHO (32.5% glucose, 32.1% fructose, 0.40% sucrose, 0.72% maltose), minerals (magnesium, iron, potassium, phosphorus, zinc) and vitamins (ascorbic acid, pyridoxine, riboﬂavin and thiamin) necessary for vitality, while they contain virtually no fat or cholesterol. Additionally, currants are considered as dried fruits with low to moderate glycemic index despite their high carbohydrate content. Therefore, Corinthian currant could be used as an alternative CHO source during exercise and provide a natural and healthy choice, equally effective to other commerc

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Differences in time trial performance between conditions
  - Differences in glucose concentration (GLU) between conditions
  - Differences in lactate concentration (LA) between conditions
  - Differences in oxygen consumption (VO2) during exercise between conditions
  - Differences in carbon dioxide (CO2) during exercise between conditions

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Corinthian currant
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Glucose drink
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Water ingestion

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03288064
