CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03954210
Title: SIESTA: Sleep Intervention to Enhance Cognitive Status and Reduce Beta Amyloid
Official Title: SIESTA: Sleep Intervention to Enhance Cognitive Status and Reduce Beta Amyloid
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of a sleep intervention on improving cognitive function in older adults with symptoms of insomnia, determine the association between change in sleep measures and change in cognitive function, and examine the efficacy of the sleep intervention on reducing the rate of Aβ deposition. Participants, ages 60-85, will be randomly assigned to a six-week sleep intervention program. A sub-group of fifty participants will undergo Florbetapir-Positron-emission tomography (PET) imaging during the one-year reassessment to examine the efficacy of the sleep intervention on reducing the rate of Aβ accumulation from baseline to one-year post-intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Lifestyle interventions to increase exercise and improve diet have been the focus of recent clinical trials to potentially prevent Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, despite the strong links between sleep disruptions, cognitive decline, and AD, sleep enhancement has yet to be targeted as a lifestyle intervention to prevent AD. Approximately fifteen percent of AD may be prevented by an efficacious intervention aimed to reduce sleep disturbances and sleep disorders. Chronic insomnia is the most frequent sleep disorder occurring in at least forty percent of older adults. Individuals with insomnia are more likely to be diagnosed with AD and demonstrate a decline in cognitive function at long-term follow-up. AD is characterized by the accumulation of Aβ plaques and tau tangles in the brain, and growing evidence shows impaired sleep contributes to the accumulation of Aβ. An intervention aimed at improving insomnia may represent a critical opportunity for primary prevention to slow cognitive decline and potentially delay the onset of AD. Therefore, the long-term goal of this research agenda is to understand how addressing sleep disturbances, via sleep intervention, may delay the onset of AD.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Continuous Performance Test (CPT)
  - Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS)
  - Stroop Test
  - Neuropsychological Assessment Battery-Digits Forward/Digits Backward Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Sleep and Lifestyle Education

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 85 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03954210
