CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06842849
Title: Impact of a Physical Exercise Program in a Rural Area
Official Title: Impact of a Physical Exercise Program on the Physical, Podiatric and Mental Health of the Adult Population in a Rural Area
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
With this work we want to assess whether there are differences in the amount of physical activity per week, measured by accelerometry in 3 groups of subjects, where one group (G1) has been carrying out a PA program called "Enguera Sé Saludable" for a year. another group (G2) newly introduced to the same exercise program, and a control group (G3) that does not carry out an exercise program but declared itself active.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Active aging, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), involves making the most of everything that contributes to physical, mental and social well-being throughout life, thus promoting improved quality of life, functionality and longevity in the most advanced stages of life, seeking to minimize disability. To achieve active aging, older people must remain active in all aspects: physical, social and mental. For this reason, the WHO recommends that older adults engage in moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) of 150 minutes a week The objetive, To assess whether there are differences in the amount of MVPA per week, measured by accelerometry in 3 groups of subjects, where one group (G1) had been carrying out a PA program called "Enguera Sé Saludable" for a year, another group (G2 ) newly inserted into the same exercise program, and a control group (G3) that did not carry out an exercise program but declared itself active.

Analytical quasi-experimental study, with 3 groups. A group (G1) over 59 years of age, of both sexes who have been doing PA since the year before the start of the study, within the "Enguera Be Healthy" Program in the municipality of Enguera. Another group (G2) of both sexes, newly enrolled in the same exercise program over 59 years of age. A control group (G3) of 59 years of both sexes who do not carry out the exercise program, inhabitants of Enguera and apparently active. The data analyzed was obtained from the placement of an Actigraph model GT3X BT accelerometer for a week and the collection of data from the various instruments such as the measurement of blood pressure and weight using the Tanita BC Scale. -545N, the Tinetti scale, the Time Up \& Go test, the Monopodal Test, the SPPB test, the Sit to Stand Test, the Borg scale, the IPAQ questionnaire and the FHSQ questionnaire.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - MVPA

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 59 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06842849
