CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03966248
Title: Chinese Tuina Therapy for Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Chinese Tuina (Chinese Massage and Manipulation Therapy) for KOA: A Randomized, Parallel, Physical Therapies Active Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 140
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is one of the most common musculoskeletal diseases in clinic. It usually occurs in middle-aged people, especially women. An estimated lifetime risk for KOA is approximately 40% in men and 47% in women. KOA is a chronic disease which can lead to obvious pain, joint stiffness, limitation of activity and even disability, with significant associated costs and effects on society, health systems, and individuals. Tuina therapy has been used and showed effectiveness and safety for pain relief and disability for the patients with musculoskeletal disorders for years in China. Though it is regarded that the Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) Tuina therapy is similar to the modern manual therapies, the modalities of TCM tuina therapy are different and effect maybe equal to or more better than the modern manual therapy in clinic. However, little evidence exists that Tuina benefits the KOA. The investigators will do this in a randomized, parallel, active controlled study to observe whether TCM Tuina is more beneficial to KOA than the physical manual therapy, which has been considered an effective and standard care for KOA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients will be randomly allocated to one of two groups. In the Chinese Tuina group (group CTG), patients will receive the traditional Chinese Tuina therapy (including rolling, grasping, scratching, pressing, acupressure or pushing) on the basis of KOA health education and home-exercise. Patients in the Physical Manual group (group PMG) will receive the modern physical manual therapy (including joint mobilization/manipulation, manual traction, soft tissue manipulations, passive stretching, range of motion and strength training) on the basis of KOA health education and home-exercise. Assessments will be conducted at baseline and 4 and 16 weeks after randomization.

It is expected that the interventions will alleviate the sufferings of the patient. The risks of participation are minimal. Occasionally, tuina can make people feel nauseous or experience a temporary increase in pain either during or after treatment. Rare side effects happen during and after Tuina or manual treatment.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Chinese Tuina therapy
  - OTHER: Physical Manual therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03966248
