CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05045521
Title: Comparison of Plyometric and Resistance Warmup on Running Performance in Athlets
Official Title: Comparison of Plyometric and Resistance Warmup on Running Performance in Recreational Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Background: Active Warm up is one of the best and commonly used techniques in athletes that can induce special type of cardiovascular and metabolic changes that can bring the prominent change in running performance. Warm up prepares the body to withstand the high intensity exercises and improves the athletic performance and reduce the risk of musculoskeletal injury.

Objective: The objectives of study are to compare two types of warm up resistance and plyometric warm up in recreational athletes to improve running performance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Warm up is initial practices before starting exercise with usual concept to enhance the overall performance generally known as warm up. Often prior to initiate specific sport it is recommended to do cardiovascular warm like stretching for at least 10 to 20 minutes. As believed by and proven to many sport coaches that warm up decline the risk of musculoskeletal injuries, improve player performance in particular sport by helps to upgrade body temperature, excel the muscle potential, decrease muscle stiffness as well as resistance, regulate muscle contractile units, increase heart rate and blood flow toward muscles, increase oxygen saturation, improve and regulate neuro-muscular electrical signals to achieve best outcome in competition.

Types of Warm Up:

Different types of warm up like active, passive and mixed regimes are generally recommended previous to any sport, different researches and studies have been conducted to seek the effects of various warm up protocols and their impact on athletes performance. Stretching, treadmill walking, plyometric exercises are frequently directed for warm up.

Plyometric warmup are heavy strength regimes may include works out like jumping, additionally called plyometric works out, ordinarily used to expand strength through the stretch-shortening cycle (SSC). This sort of preparing is a profoundly successful neuromuscular boost, with the benefit of requiring low physical space, time and it also require less training equipment to finish the training sittings. Present moment plyometric programs positively affect endurance running execution or running economy.

Resistance training improvement can improve running mechanics. Improved biomechanical efficiency and improved joint activation and coordination of leg muscles may enable a reduction in relative workload. Improved Running Mechanisms Combining neuromuscular efficiency and strength can reduce oxygen consumption and thus improve running economy and ultimately performance Indeed, the combination of HRT and plyometric training may facilitate further improvements in the running economy through the accumulation of adaptations previously observed when any type of training is run alone.

Previously investigated the effects of short term resistance training program and plyometric training on fitness performance in boys aged 12 to 15 years and concluded that plyometric training improved the running velocity. A study effect of plyometric training on running performance and vertical jumping in prepubertal boys it stated that plyometric training programme causes higher muscle tension compared to resistance training and energy is more stored and released during muscle shortening for this reason plyometric training is widely recommended for improving the running economy. A study was done on The Impact of Resistance Training on Distance Running Performance concluded that the running economy improved up to 8% with the help of resistance training programme but it improves the r

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Incremental Test. (Time of Exhaustion)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: plyometric warm up group
  - OTHER: resistance warm up
  - OTHER: control warm up group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 25 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05045521
