CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05854758
Title: Effects of Core Strengthening on Mechanical Low Back Pain in Overweight Adults.
Official Title: Effects of Core Strengthening on Mechanical Back Pain in Overweight Adults.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine the effects of core strengthening on mechanical back pain in overweight adults.

The main question is aims to answer:

Is there an effect of core strengthening on mechanical back pain in overweight adults? The participants will be divided into two groups; group A and group B Group A will perform core strengthening after baseline treatment of therapeutic hot pack and Trans continuous mode for 10 minutes.

Group B will perform conventional exercises after baseline treatment of therapeutic hot pack and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation. continuous mode for 10 minutes. Each exercise will be repeated 10 times, with 10 second holds, followed by a five-minute rest interval.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain (LBP) is defined as low back pain that keep on for more than 3 months, and it is the most commonly reported clinical symptom of orthopedic diseases. Low back pain has been the leading cause of disability globally for at least the past three decades and results in enormous direct healthcare and lost productivity costs. More than 50% of people in the United States are affected by LBP, and it is the primary cause of work nonappearance and everlasting disability. The core muscles, which are the primary muscle group for maintaining spinal strength, can be separated into two groups according to their functions and attributes.

The origin of LBP is complex, several of which are unidentified. Management of chronic low back pain (CLBP) is often multidisciplinary, involving a combination of treatments, including therapeutic exercises. Core stability exercises aim to improve pain and disability in CLBP increasing spinal stability, neuromuscular control, and preventing shear force that causes injury to the lumbar spine. One major cause involves the weakening of the shallow trunk and abdominal muscles. Another cause of CLBP is the deteriorating of or insufficient motor control of the deep trunk muscles, such as the lumbar multifidus and transversus abdominis. Lumbar multifidus (LM), the main trunk stabilization muscle, may have reduced efficiency 24 h after the onset of acute LBP.

During physical activities, the trunk muscle tissues ensure the mobility and stability of the lumbopelvic region; thus, changes in trunk muscle activity (particularly in the lumbar multifidus and transversus abdominis) are typically observed in patients with low back pain. Stabilization exercise programs have been widely applied for LBP treatment because they were effective in reducing LBP and disability. Core strength training is directed at working out the deep trunk muscles. However, autonomous training is challenging for LBP patients despite the existence of numerous core strength training strategies. Furthermore, no standardized system has been established for analyzing and comparing the results of core strength training and typical resistance training (6).

Core strengthening impression have gained increased popularity in low back rehabilitation. Traditional low back pain rehabilitation is based on a stationary spine stability model and is composed mostly of modalities, stretching and strengthening exercises (7). More recent theories, however, include newer concepts of dynamic spinal stability, coordination and neuromuscular control. Core strengthening exercises incorporate these new concepts. Although more research is required, the best available evidence suggests that a core strengthening program may be advantageous in reducing pain scores, functional disability and recurrences of acute low back pain episodes. Strong clinical and emerging epidemiological evidence shows that muscle-strengthening exercises is independently associated with multiple health outcome

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numerical Pain Rating Scale
  - Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire
  - Body Mass Index
  - Total Body Fat

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core strengthening with conventional treatment
  - OTHER: Conventional treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05854758
