CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02724930
Title: Cooperative Pain Education and Self-management
Official Title: Cooperative Pain Education and Self-management
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 135
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study will test the effectiveness of using enhanced facilitation strategies on implementation of an automated Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system as a means to remotely deliver in-home self-management support to Veterans with chronic pain. The implementation intervention uses an enhanced facilitation approach paired with automated case finding and direct patient outreach to encourage uptake of Cooperative Pain Education and Self-management (COPES). A nested effectiveness study will measure pre-post differences in pain-relevant outcomes (pain intensity, physical functioning and physical activity). The investigators will use a stepped wedge cluster design in which clusters will be randomized to the timing of the introduction of enhanced COPES implementation. Investigators will assess the efficacy of the facilitation based implementation strategy by evaluating COPES uptake in the implementation settings.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for chronic pain is a commonly used evidence-based self-management intervention. Though effective, CBT requires that patients attend multiple in-person visits and that highly trained staff be available to provide care. For these reasons CBT is resource intensive, often inaccessible to Veterans, and delivered unevenly across patients and facilities. In a Veterans Health Administration Office of Health Services Research and Development (HSR\&D) IIR-funded trial, investigators found that CBT delivered primarily via an automated Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system (Cooperative Pain Education and Self-management or COPES) leads to patient-centered outcomes that are comparable to standard United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) approaches in which CBT is delivered in-person by a therapist over ten weekly sessions. In this study, implementation facilitation will be guided by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) which provides a set of constructs to identify potential barriers and facilitators to implementation. The primary objective of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of the facilitation approach paired with automated case finding and direct patient outreach on uptake of COPES in the clinical care setting. Study investigators will specifically target Veterans who receive care at community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs) because these sites typically have few or no therapists trained in CBT for chronic pain.

Description of COPES: COPES is a 10-week, IVR-facilitated program of CBT for chronic pain. The primary components of COPES include: 1) a self-help handbook to teach Veterans pain self-management skills and describe the weekly skill practice goals, 2) a pedometer-facilitated progressive walking program (all COPES patients will be given an Omron Go Smart, Model HJ-112 pocket pedometer at the time of enrollment), and 3) daily, automated IVR calls to collect patient-reported pain intensity and pain-related interference, sleep quality, pedometer-measured step count, and adherence to the pain coping skill practice ratings. Participants will also receive a weekly, two to four minute pre-recorded, personalized therapist message via the IVR system based on the participant's IVR-recorded data. Therapists provide feedback on the participant's weekly average pain intensity, sleep, steps, and pain coping skill practice, note any changes from the prior week, and comment on symptom or activity patterns. Therapists also provide reinforcement for goal accomplishment, help patients make connections among pain, pain coping skill practice, and goal accomplishment, and assign a steps and skill practice goal for the upcoming week.

Research Design: Study investigators will test the effectiveness of the facilitation approach to implement COPES as a means to remotely deliver in-home self-management support to Veterans with chronic pain. To evaluate the implementation's success, study in

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient enrollment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced facilitation of COPES

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02724930
