CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06079021
Title: COOLEY- Study: aCute On chrOnic Liver failurE Using the cYtosorb Device
Official Title: COOLEY- Study: aCute On chrOnic Liver failurE Using the cYtosorb Device
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
A Prospective, Single-Center trial, in Patients With Acute on Chronic Liver Failure. Study of Standard Medical Care Plus CytoSorb® Compared to Standard Medical Care Alone in a historical group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study team wants to investigate the effect of Cytosorb hemoadsorption on the bilirubin level as well as on the ammonia level changes induced by the therapy in patients with Acute on Chronic Liver Failure (ACLF) .

In this group of patients with ACLF grade 2 and 3 the investigators want to determine the prevalence and development of sarcopenia by sequential quadriceps and thenar ultrasound images and by handgrip strength measurement.

The investigators will objectify muscle mass by skeletal muscle ultrasound of quadriceps and thenar muscles in this sickest subgroup of cirrhotic patients. Ultrasound forms a part of the daily clinical routine in ICU. The study team wants to compare both measurements and objectify the evolution to study the reliability and validity of ultrasound to quantify muscles in chronic liver disease and its clinical values. Most of ultrasonographic studies are based on quadriceps exploration, which is more inconvenient and takes more time than exploring the hands because patients need to remove clothes and lie down. The study team also hypothesizes that thenar muscles are less subject to fluid overload than the quadriceps muscles are.

When available, lumbar skeletal muscle indices will be compared by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging.

In this group of patients with ACLF, receiving Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) the appropriate choice of anticoagulant remains controversial. The objective of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of regional citrate anticoagulation (RCA) and Low Molecular Weight Heparin (LMWH) in critically ill ACLF patients requiring CRRT. These two commercially available anticoagulation methods are used in daily practice in the ICU. The first 10 patients will receive anticoagulation with LMWH with monitoring of anti-Xa. The second cohort of patients will receive RCA.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The impact of CytoSorb on serum bilirubin removal
  - Changes in ammonia and severity of hepatic encephalopathy during treatment period

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: CytoSorb

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06079021
