CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04242888
Title: The Acute Effects of Pragmatic Manual Therapy on the Range of Motion of Shoulder Joint
Official Title: The Acute Effects of Pragmatic Manual Therapy on the Range of Motion of Shoulder Joint
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Current studies on the mechanism of subacromial impingement and other shoulder pathology reveal that multiple factors are responsible for impingement. These include serratus anterior dysfunction, rotator cuff insufficiency, posterior capsular tightness, acromioclavicular joint, thoracic spine stiffness and extensibility of the pectoralis minor and subclavius muscles. Manual intervention should therefore address these issues in conjunction with the other therapies. Novel interventions have been designed pilot tested for each of these factors to produce a healing environment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of each individual factor and combination of all on the range of motion of shoulder joint in healthy subjects and subjects with a restricted range of motion of shoulder joint respectively. The subject will be allocated randomly into four groups with respect to objective 1 and each of the groups will be evaluated as a quasi-experiment design (pretest-posttest) for healthy each of 30 subjects. Beneficial intervention among the four trials and other previously reported beneficial in improving the shoulder joint range will be combined in and termed as pragmatic intervention protocols. Pragmatic interventions on subjects with the restricted range in shoulder pathology will be tested through a similar design. The effects of these interventions on the Quality of life measured through the Urdu version of Shoulder pain and disability in subjects with shoulder pathology will also be tested.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Shoulder disorders are the 3rd commonest among musculoskeletal conditions. Its prevalence is estimated 7-26% at one point of time and 67% of the individuals experience shoulder pain once in their life. Subacromial impingements (SAIS) are the frequent diagnosis accounting for 45-65% of all shoulder disorders. It is defined as "a condition in which the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles, long head of the biceps or the subacromial bursa are entrapped between the humeral head inferiorly and anterior acromion superiorly.

Multiple researchers have studied interventions which affect the shoulder range of motions. Thoracic spine manipulation improves the shoulder range of motion. Similarly, Stretching the pectorallis minor muscles improve shoulder kinematics. Manual intervention for subscapularis, infra spinatus, and serratus anterior are non-existent to investigators' knowledge. Modification to stretch the posterior capsule in a pragmatic manner is described and recommended but trials are nonexistent. Acromioclavicular joint being the part of the scapolo-glenohumeral complex has a role to play in the kinematics of the shoulder but trials on its mobilization with respect to shoulder range of motion are not been studies. These gaps in research in relation to understanding of the mechanism of shoulder pathology and subsequent intervention are also identified but trials and interventions are non-existent.

The understanding of the complex relations of the intrinsic and extrinsic factors necessitates the development of manual therapy interventions to address the factors which are adversely affect range of motion of shoulder joint. The purpose of this research is to develop and propose manual therapy interventions for shoulder joint which can effectively address the limitations in shoulder joint ranges of motion in both healthy subjects and subjects with shoulder pathology having decrease range of motion through a series of primitive trials.

AIMES AND OBJECTIVES The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the short term effects of Pragmatic manual interventions on range of motion of the shoulder joint in healthy individual and individuals with shoulder pathology who have restricted ranges of motion .The aims of this study are therefore to

1. To evaluate the effects of pragmatic interventions in healthy asymptomatic subjects with respect to the changes in shoulder joint restricted range of motion
2. To evaluate the effects of interventions in symptomatic shoulder individual with restriction in their shoulder range of motion and short term change in the shoulder related quality of life and pain MATERIAL AND METHOD A single group quasi-experimental (pretest-posttest) design will be used for all the trials in this study. It will be conducted at Helping Hand Institute of Rehabilitation Sciences, Mansehra. The study will be composed of 4 trials in the first phase on healthy subject with respect to each of the proposed pragmatic (novice) intervention consis

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Shoulder External Rotation
  - Shoulder Internal Rotation
  - Shoulder Abduction Range
  - Shoulder Flexion
  - Reaching Up Behind the Back

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: pragmatic manual therapies

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04242888
