CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04788706
Title: LLLT and Russian Electrical Stimulation in Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Efficacy of Low-level Laser Therapy Associated With Russian Electrical Stimulation in Knee Osteoarthritis: a Randomized Controlled Double-blind Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 80
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
Objectives: To investigate the effect of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) application combined with Russian Electrical Stimulation on pain, mobility, functionality, range of motion, muscular strength, and activity in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.

Design: Randomized controlled double-blind study. Setting: Specialist Rehabilitation Services.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
ABSTRACT Objectives: To investigate the effect of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) application combined with Russian Electrical Stimulation on pain, mobility, functionality, range of motion, muscular strength, and activity in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee.

Design: Randomized controlled double-blind study. Setting: Specialist Rehabilitation Services. Participants: Eighty participants with knee osteoarthritis were randomized. Intervention: Participants were randomized into four groups: Group I (n=20; LLLT over three weeks followed by an eight-week receiving Russian electrical stimulation), Group II (n=20; Placebo laser over three weeks followed by an eight-week receiving Russian electrical stimulation), Group III (n=20; LLLT over three weeks followed by an eight-week receiving LLLT application combined with Russian electrical stimulation), Group IV (n=20; Placebo laser over three weeks followed by an eight-week receiving Placebo laser application combined with Russian electrical stimulation). The groups treated with LLLT received treatments with invisible infrared laser (904 nm, 3 Joules/point). The Placebo groups received identical treatment, but the infrared laser output was disabled. The sessions occurred three times a week.

Main outcome measures: The primary outcome was the change in knee pain and functionality (Lequesne). Secondary outcomes included change in mobility (8 meters and Timed Up and Go test), range of motion (goniometer), muscular strength (dynamometer), activity (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis questionnaire) and medication intake.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity
  - Functionality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Low level Laser Therapy and Russian electrical stimulation
  - OTHER: Placebo Laser and Russian electrical stimulation
  - OTHER: Low level Laser Therapy and Low level Laser Therapy plus Russian electrical stimulation
  - OTHER: Placebo Laser and Placebo Laser plus Russian electrical stimulation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04788706
