CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05726955
Title: The Effect of Exercise Applied With Stretching Platform in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain
Official Title: The Effect of Exercise Applied With Stretching Platform on Pain, Proprioception, Balance, and Mobility in Patients With Chronic Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
This study aimed to examine and compare the effects of exercises applied with a stretching platform in addition to conservative treatment and conservative treatment only on pain, proprioception, balance, and mobility in patients with chronic low back pain. 55 people with chronic low back pain were included in the study and randomly divided into 2 groups. The participants in group 1 were included in the conservative treatment program, while the participants in group 2 were included in the exercise program applied with a stretching platform in addition to the conservative treatment. Pain intensity with Visual Analog Scale (VAS), proprioception sense with the active re-creation of passive positioning method without extremity support, mobility with Modified Schober Test (MST), Hand Finger-Ground Distance Measurement and Trunk Lateral Bending Measurement, balance level with Functional Reach Test, functionality with Oswestry Disability Index and quality of life was assessed with the EuroQol Group 5D-3L Questionnaire.

In the study, statistically significant differences were observed between the results of pain, proprioception, MST, HFGDM and TLBM, FRT, ODI and EuroQol Group 5D-3L in intragroup evaluations (p\<0,05). In intergroup analysis, the VAS score during activity and 15° right ankle plantar flexion in proprioception evaluation were superior in the Group 2 compared to the group 1 (p\<0.05).

It was observed that CT and exercises applied with a stretching platform in the treatment of chronic low back pain had positive effects on pain, proprioception, mobility, balance, functionality, and quality of life.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Our study, which was designed as a randomized controlled prospective clinical trial, was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Ethics committee approval for this study was obtained from University Ethics Committee with decision number (Study protocol: 6). The study included 55 participants aged 25-65 years, who had LBP for more than 12 weeks and whose pain intensity was greater than 3 on the 10 cm Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Those who have structural deformity, circulatory disorder, and a disease that will prevent mobility in the columna vertebralis, those who have undergone surgery for the columna vertebralis and lower extremity in the last year, and those diagnosed with vertigo and osteoporosis were not included in the study. All volunteers participating in the study were given an Informed Volunteer Consent Form and their signed consent was obtained.

2.2. Randomization The participants were randomized via the "Research Randomiser" website10. The numbers obtained as a result of randomization by entering the number of participants (n=55) and the number of groups (Group 1 and Group 2) were put into envelopes. Participants were assigned to groups according to the numbers on the envelopes they drew. Randomization was done in secret, blinding the groups and preventing the participants from meeting with the other group.

2.3. Groups Group 1 (n=27) were included in a conservative treatment program (CT) and the Group 2 (n=28) were included in an exercise training program applied with conservative treatment and a stretching platform (ETSP) 3 days a week for 6 weeks. Severity of pain, proprioception, mobility, balance, functionality, and quality of life (QoL) assessments of all participants were performed before and after the treatment. .

2.4. Assessments Demographic data including age, height, body weight, body mass index (BMI), previous diseases, and smoking habits of the participants who participated in the study were evaluated.

To evaluate the severity of pain, at night, at rest, and during activity, the VAS was used, which digitizes the parameter values that cannot be measured numerically, by numbering them from 0 to 10, where "0" is no pain and "10" is very severe pain11.

In the method of actively recreating passive positioning without supporting the extremity, in which a goniometer is used to evaluate the proprioception sense, the extremity was passively moved to the target angle while the participant's eyes were closed, and the participant returned to the starting point after focusing on the position for 10 seconds. The participant tried to find the target angle by actively moving the same extremity, and the difference was recorded as the deviation angle12.

Modified Schober Test (MST), Hand Finger-Ground Distance Measurement (HFGDM), and Trunk Lateral Bending Measurement (TLBM) were used to evaluate the level of mobility. In the MST, 5 cm below and 10 cm above the line connecting the spinal iliaca posterior superior were ma

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise training program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05726955
