CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03449810
Title: Effectiveness of Muscles Energy Technique in the Management of Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Official Title: Effectiveness of Muscles Energy Technique on Quality of Life and Trunk Muscles Functions in Patients With Chronic Non-specific Low Back Pain
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 125
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Low back pain is the most common health problem that affects work performance and quality of life. Non-specific low back pain (NSLBP) is defined as low back pain not attributable to a recognizable, known specific pathology. NSLBP is the leading cause of disability among the major musculoskeletal conditions which leads to Impairments, Activity Limitations and participation restrictions. Therefore it becomes a psychosocial/economic burden on individuals, families, communities, industries and government. Existing literature shows globally 40% to 50% of people have LBP at some point in their lives and there exists a challenge in Africa on the best rehabilitation methods for low back pain management which could prevent chronic pain and disability. Therefore, this study aims to determine the effectiveness of MET when combined with DSE in the management of chronic NSLBP patients and to analyze the additional effect the MET procedure will provide relative to DSE.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain (LBP) is arguably the most prevalent musculoskeletal condition found among both developed and developing nations. Broadly defined as pain or discomfort in the lumbar region of the spine it is the leading cause of activity limitations, resulting in significant losses in productivity at work and incurs billions of dollars in medical expenditure annually. The prevalence of LBP worldwide is estimated to be between 30 and 80% among the general population and has been found to increase with age. In addition, a higher prevalence of LBP has been associated with lower socioeconomic status and lower education levels. According to the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2010 study, LBP is currently the 6th highest burden on a list of 291 conditions and is the cause of more years lived with disability globally than any other disease. Affecting just about anyone, of any gender, race or socioeconomic background, LBP has a substantial impact on the overall and financial well-being of an individual and society.

Therefore, it was postulated that the burden of LBP would be greater in lower and middle-income countries like those situated in Africa. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis published in 2018 revealed that the lifetime, annual and point prevalence of LBP among African nations, was higher than the global LBP prevalence. The majority of the studies included in this meta-analysis were conducted in Nigeria, which is a lower-middle-income country. In Nigeria, the annual prevalence rate of LBP has been reported between 33% and 74%, mostly affecting workers. The prognosis after an acute episode of LBP is less favourable than once thought, as 60-80% of the patients will experience recurrence or persistence of this disabling condition.12 Despite the high incidence and prevalence of LBP, little is known about the precise causes. As a clear pathoanatomic diagnosis cannot be identified in 85% of the patients,13 LBP in these patients is labelled as non-specific (NSLBP).

Despite extensive research, the issue of spinal pain management still constitutes a challenge for physicians, physiotherapists, and researchers. There are many therapies claimed to be useful for the treatment of NSLBP, but most of these treatments have not been well investigated or have been found to have modest effects in terms of pain relief and improving disability. Conservative treatment remains the best choice and usually involves physiotherapy. Exercise therapy is one of the most used treatment strategies as it has shown to be effective in decreasing pain and disability, and can even induce functional changes of the back muscles. Although, exercise therapy in highly recommend by experts in treatment guidelines, the evidenced treatment effects remain low to moderate. It is, therefore, useful to further explore the effectiveness of treatments that may assist people with NSLBP. Another, non-invasive, safe and inexpensive treatment technique used by physiotherapists, osteopaths, ch

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Medical Outcomes Survey Short-Form-36 (SF-36)
  - Activity Limitation and Participation Restriction

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: DSE plus MET group A
  - PROCEDURE: DSE alone group B
  - PROCEDURE: Standard Physiotherapy treatment group C

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03449810
