CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04213014
Title: Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life Trial (GOAL) to Increase Young Adolescents' Physical Activity and Healthy Eating
Official Title: Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life Trial
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 935
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
In this 2-phase trial (R61/R33), we propose Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life (GOAL). Guided by Self-Determination Theory and the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills Model, GOAL will target the school and home environment to increase young adolescents' physical activity (PA) and healthy eating by increasing important factors at the individual-level: motivation and self-efficacy; and socioenvironmental-level: social support. The 4-month (16-wk) GOAL intervention has 3 components: (1) After-school GOAL Club: 26 events (2 d/wk; 120 min/event/day; 13 weeks due to no club during 3 school break weeks) for boys and girls to engage in PA and healthy eating/cooking activities; (2) Three parent-adolescent meetings (1st meeting at each school, which is also conducted synchronously via Zoom to increase convenience for parents who are not able to meet in-person at the school for various reasons; 2nd and 3rd meetings video-recorded and delivered asynchronously to accommodate and meet the needs of busy parents who have varying schedules due to work, home, and other responsibilities): to empower parents to assist adolescents with PA and healthy eating/cooking; and (3) GOAL social networking website: private website (already developed) for parents to learn about healthy eating and PA, network with other parents, and share with each other about how they helped their adolescent(s) increase PA and diet quality each week.

The purpose of this individual randomized controlled trial (unit of assignment is adolescent) is to evaluate the effect of GOAL on decreasing cardiovascular disease risk factors (high percent body fat, overweight/obesity, low cardiovascular fitness), improving quality of life; and increasing motivation, self-efficacy, and social support to increase moderate-to-vigorous PA and diet quality among adolescents (5th-8th grade) throughout the state of Michigan. All interested adolescents who meet eligibility criteria and have parental consent will be included. We are including all interested students and not only those who have a high BMI (e.g., BMI z-score ≥0 \[≥50th percentile\]), in order to avoid social stigma(s) discouraging adolescents from participating. Adolescents in each of 14 schools total will be randomly assigned to the intervention or control (usual school activities) condition. The plan is to include at least n=33 intervention and n=30 control adolescents in each school every year for 3 years of the R33 Phase. On average, we will include at least 63 adolescents per school (at least 31-32 boys and 31-32 girls) and one parent per adolescent will be enrolled, bringing our total sample size to at least 882 dyads total (882 adolescents and one parent per adolescent).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life (GOAL) Trial will use an individual randomized controlled trial (IRCT) design. On average, we will include at least 63 adolescents (at least 31-32 boys and 31-32 girls) in each of 14 schools. Adolescents in each school are randomly assigned by our senior biostatistician to either the 16-wk GOAL intervention or a routine school offerings control condition. One parent/guardian (for brevity sake, referred to as parent) per adolescent will also participate as a support person. During each of the 3 intervention yrs (Yrs 3, 4, \& 5), the cohort of adolescents and parents participating will differ (Yr 3 Cohort: 4 schools; Yrs 4 \& 5 Cohorts: 5 different schools in each year). Data will be collected at 3 time periods from each cohort: 1) pre-intervention/baseline (Wk 0); 2) immediately post-intervention (after 4 months), and 3) 9-month post-intervention follow up (F/U; 13 months post-baseline). We will include, on average, at least 63 adolescents in 5th-8th grade (10-14 yrs old) per school in low-income urban communities in Michigan and one parent per adolescent as a support person. Approximately half of the adolescent participants in each school will be boys, and half will be girls.

R61 Phase (1 year, but extended to 2 years from 2019-2021 due to COVID-19):

Human Subjects approval will be granted from Michigan State University (MSU) Institutional Review Board prior to recruitment. Each school administrator will be asked to identify a program champion to assist researchers during the study.

The PI and Project Manager (PM) will work with the University of Michigan Center for Health Communications Research (CHCR) to make minor refinements to our already developed GOAL social networking website (designed to assist parents in helping their adolescents increase physical activity \[PA\] and healthy eating) and integrate it into an administrative console with databases for tracking and monitoring day-to-day study operations.

Prior to recruitment, data collection, and the intervention start in fall of Yr 3, the protocol was provided to all permanent research staff for review within the first month of their hire date and prior to any contact with participants.

R33 Phase (Yrs 3-6): R33 was received in 2021; however, study had to be stopped in fall 2021 due to COVID-19 variant and the increased number of positive cases in Michigan that resulted in school closures and restricted access. Individuals external to the schools were not able to enter some schools, and access to students in the schools was limited.

In fall of 2022 (Yr 3), we enrolled 218 adolescents and 1 parent per adolescent who was willing to be a support person from 4 schools. In fall of 2023 (Yr 4), we enrolled 341 adolescents and 1 parent per adolescent who was willing to be a support person from 5 schools. In fall of 2024 (Yr 5), we enrolled 376 adolescents and 1 parent per adolescent who was willing to be a support person from 5 schools. Our biostati

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline Percent (%) Body Fat (adolescents) to 4 months (immediate post-intervention) and to 13 months post-baseline (9-month post-intervention follow up [F/U])

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Guys/Girls Opt for Activities for Life (GOAL)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 14 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04213014
