CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06479551
Title: Comparative Effects of High and Moderate Intensity Resistance Training in Young Football Players
Official Title: Comparative Effects of High and Moderate Intensity Resistance Training on Strength, Power and Muscle Soreness in Young Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
Football playing is an intermittent sport requiring high intensity dynamic movements, such as acceleration, sprinting and jumping. Higher levels of strength and power are crucial for young football players. Overuse includes using a muscle too much, too soon before warming up, or too often in gym, Tension or stress can cause muscle soreness. DOMS is thought to be due to temporary muscle damage and inflammation for which the most common trigger appears to be eccentric exercises. Exercise induced muscle damage DOMS is considered a type1 muscle strain injury that has a pain free period of one day. Muscle soreness peaks between one to two days. The objective of this study is to compare the effects of high intensity-low volume (HRT) versus moderate intensity-high volume resistance training (MRT) on strength, power and muscle soreness in young football players.

Study will be a randomized clinical trial, conduct at Pakistan football federation Lahore through convenient sampling techniques. Sample size will be calculated by using G-power. Randomization will be done by Lottery method. Participants will be divided into two groups. Group A will receive High intensity resistance training and Group B will receive moderate intensity resistance training Strength will be calculated by 1RM and sprint test . Power will be measured by vertical and horizontal jump. Muscle soreness and fatigue will be measured by Hooper and MacKinnon questionnaire. Data will be analyzed by SPSS version 25

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of my study is to compare the effects of high and moderate intensity resistance training on strength, power and muscle soreness in young football players

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Hooper and Mackinnon Questionnaire
  - Vertical and Horizontal Jump
  - 1RM, Sprint Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: high intensity-low volume resistance training
  - OTHER: Moderate intensity-high volume resistance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 24 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06479551
