CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06875388
Title: Task-Specific Training vs. Yoga (With and Without Perturbation) for Balance and Leg Strength in Older Adults
Official Title: Effectiveness of Task-specific Training vs Different Yoga Poses With and Without Perturbation to Improve Reactive Balance and Overall Leg Strength in Older Adults
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 200
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This experimental study is designed to observe the effectiveness of task-specific training vs yoga with and without perturbation on reactive balance and leg strength in older individuals in Islamabad/Rawalpindi, Pakistan. Older adults meeting the criteria will be grouped into 4 intervention groups. One group will be doing task-specific training, the second will be doing yoga poses, the third will be doing task-specific with perturbation, and 4th will be doing yoga poses with perturbation.

Baseline readings through manual release from lean, minbest test, manual muscle testing (MMT), WHO quality of life, Barthel index, 30-sec sit-to-stand test, Stroop test, and mini-mental state examination, will be taken before starting the intervention, and post-intervention readings will be taken after 3 months of intervention. After this, all readings will be retaken 1 month after stopping the intervention

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Plan of Work: males and females above 60 as per eligibility criteria will be enrolled Baseline Assessment: all variables Manual release from leans for reactive Balance, Minbest test questionnaire, Manual Muscle testing, Stroop test, Barthel Index scale, 30 sec-sit to stand test, WHOQOL questionnaire will be measured at the baseline Randomization \& Allocation: Eligible consenting subjects will be randomly allocated to all four groups Follow-up Assessment: All the outcome measures observed at baseline will be re-assessed after 3 months of intervention and then 1 month after stopping the intervention.

Statistical Analysis: Pre \& post-analysis will be conducted.

study design: it will be an experimental study and non- probability-convenient sampling method will be used. data will be collected from the old homes of Islamabad/ Rawalpindi after seeking approval from the authorities. A randomized control trial will be carried out to enroll older male and female individuals into 4 separate groups with random allocation through the sealed envelope method. 50 individuals will be located in each group. After achieving informed consent from all the participants, a baseline assessment will be conducted. Baseline- and post-intervention assessments of the reactive balance and overall leg strength will be completed one week before the intervention and following the last training session, respectively. Both variables will be tested through reliable tests stated in the next session. Only participants fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be recruited in the study. Then a 12-week intervention of task-specific training vs yoga poses in combination with and without perturbation will be implemented on the study population, having 3 sessions per week and a post-intervention assessment will be conducted afterward

Participants including males and females above 60 will be recruited with no restriction for ethnicity or race. The participants from diverse socio-cultural backgrounds will be considered eligible if they meet the inclusion criteria. The study objective will be explained and participants will be invited to participate based on their free will.

Sampling size: The sample size was calculated using G power and taking the following parameters: Effect size f = 0.25, α err prob = 0.05, Power (1-β err prob) = 0.85, No of groups = 04 Total sample size = 204

Randomization: After assessing the eligibility the participants will be randomly allocated in a study groups through sealed envelop method (group A task-specific training, Group B yoga training, group C task-specific with perturbation, group D yoga with perturbation ). The randomization sequence will done through the sealed envelope method. 200 envelopes will be made ready with the name of each group on 50 envelopes. participants will be asked to pick one envelope. and then their group will be mentioned in the performa.

intervention: Group A will receive a basic protocol of 40 minutes involving 10 minutes warm 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Manual Release from Lean (MRFL) Test:
  - Mini Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini-BESTest)
  - Manual Muscle Testing (MMT):
  - 30- secs sit to stand test
  - Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Task specific Training
  - OTHER: Specific Yoga Poses
  - OTHER: Tasl specific Training with perturbation
  - OTHER: Specific yoga poses with perturbation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06875388
