CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06776458
Title: Chronic Impacts of Endocrine Therapy on Cardiovascular and Brain Health Outcomes in Breast Cancer
Official Title: Beyond Cardiotoxicity: Characterizing the Long-term Cardiovascular Side Effects of Breast Cancer Endocrine Treatment
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 112
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Aromatase inhibitors are the most used endocrine therapy for hormone-positive breast cancer. Despite the evidence that aromatase inhibitor therapy is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events, potentially related to the duration of use, no studies have been conducted to characterize the long-term effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on the heart or vessel structure and function as underlying determinants of cardiovascular mortality. This study will characterize the long-term effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on established and novel health indices for CVD in breast cancer patients, by examining cross-sectionally compare health indices 1-, 5- and 10-years post-diagnosis in breast cancer survivors to controls. Specifically, our objectives are as follows:

1. To examine the effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on early risk indicators for cardiovascular disease in the peripheral vasculature and heart, including aortic stiffness (primary outcome) and secondary outcomes of peripheral and carotid artery stiffness, blood biomarkers (lipids), blood pressure, carotid intima media thickness, endothelial function, and left ventricular ejection fraction, global longitudinal strain, and left ventricular diastolic function, in breast cancer survivors compared to controls.
2. To examine the effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on factors related to cerebrovascular health, autonomic regulation, and cognitive function, including BDNF, heart rate variability, cerebrovascular function in response to a supine-sit-stand maneuver and squatting challenge, and a core battery of cognitive function tests, in breast cancer survivors compared to controls.
3. To examine the effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on body composition, bone mineral density, and protein metabolism, in breast cancer survivors compared to controls.
4. To examine the effects of aromatase inhibitor therapy on lifestyle factors (behavioural), including diet, physical activity (including cardiorespiratory fitness), sleep, stress, and quality of life, in breast cancer survivors compared to controls.

The investigators hypothesize that biologic and behavioural cardiovascular health indices will be deteriorated relative to controls as early as 1 year post-diagnosis and that prolonged use will further accelerate aging-related impairments.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Aortic Stiffness

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: N/A - Usual Care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06776458
