CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05796830
Title: Determination of the Effect of Puzzle Use in Elderly Patients
Official Title: Determination of the Effect of Puzzle Use on Cognitive Functions, Surgical Recovery and Quality of Life in Elderly Patients Undergoing Orthopedic Surgery
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 70
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to determine the effects of the use of a simple, reliable and cost-effective puzzle on post-operative cognitive function changes, postoperative recovery, and quality of life using questionnaires and face-to-face interview techniques.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aging is a process involving biological, physiological and psychological changes. With aging, deterioration in brain, behavior and cognitive functions is observed. In this process, physical and cognitive deficiencies and slow thinking can be seen. The independence of elderly individuals in meeting their self-care decreases. Over time, individuals become unable to meet their needs and this reduces the quality of life of individuals. With the developing technology, perioperative care techniques began to develop and the number of surgical procedures applied to elderly patients began to increase.One of the most important goals in the field of health today and in the future will be to increase the quality of life of individuals. It is becoming increasingly important to determine the effective factors to protect cognitive functions in elderly individuals.After surgical procedures, patients may experience memory loss and decrease in concentration. Symptoms indicating a decrease in cognitive functions were named as postoperative cognitive dysfunction. Compared to other individuals undergoing surgery, the rate of cognitive changes in the early period is higher in the elderly.Especially, elderly patients who underwent orthopedic surgery are thought to be a risky patient group for postoperative cognitive impairment.Solving jigsaw puzzles is a low-cost, motivating, visuospatial cognitive-challenging activity.This study will be conducted in order to determine the effect of this strain on the cognitive functions of the individual and to investigate the effect of focusing on completing the puzzle on post-operative recovery and quality of life, as it will focus the individual's perception on a certain point.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of Cognitive Function by the Standardized Mini-Mental Test
  - Change of Postoperative Recovery by the Postoperative Recovery Index
  - Change of Quality of Life by Quality of Life Scale in Older People (CASP-19)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Puzzle application

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05796830
