CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01305447
Title: Getting Physical on Cigarettes - Smoking Cessation & Relapse Prevention
Official Title: Getting Physical on Cigarettes: Exercise and Smoking Cessation - Preventing Relapse
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 413
Topic: body composition exercise

SUMMARY:
Adult female smokers will participate in an exercise-aided smoking cessation program, and will then be randomized into one of four cessation maintenance conditions: (a) Exercise maintenance only (b) Exercise maintenance + Relapse Prevention Booklets(c) Relapse Prevention Booklets + Contact and (d) Contact Control. Primary follow-up outcome is smoking behaviour. Secondary outcomes include exercise behaviour, Physiological measures (body composition (Dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry; DXA), vascular health (stiffness, endothelial function, carotid plaque volume), physical fitness), and Psychological measures (self-regulatory cognitions related to exercise adherence \[exercise, scheduling, barrier, relapse, and concurrent self-regulatory self-efficacy\]).

The hypotheses detailed below are specific to the randomization of participants into the following 4 groups:

1. Exercise maintenance only
2. Exercise maintenance + Relapse Prevention Booklets
3. Relapse Prevention Booklets + Contact
4. Contact Control

Hypothesis 1: Compared to quitters in the contact control condition, quitters exposed to a home-based lifestyle exercise maintenance intervention (Exercise maintenance only and Exercise maintenance + Relapse Prevention Booklets) will demonstrate significantly greater exercise adherence and fitness levels, as well as significantly less weight gain and smoking relapse rates following exercise-aided smoking cessation program termination.

Hypothesis 2: Compared to quitters in the contact control condition, quitters exposed to relapse information only (Relapse Prevention Booklets + Contact) will experience significantly less smoking relapse following exercise-aided smoking cessation program termination.

Due to the novelty and exploratory nature of the respective prevention programs, no hypotheses are specified with respect to which prevention program (exercise maintenance or relapse prevention information) will be superior to the other, or whether the additive benefits (i.e., exercise maintenance plus relapse prevention information) will be superior to one prevention program alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Adding exercise to cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) has been shown to aid smoking cessation and lessen some of the negative consequences of withdrawal symptoms (Marcus et al., 1999; Ussher, 2005). Recently, Prapavessis and colleagues (2007) demonstrated that their 12-week program, consisting of supervised vigorous intensity exercise as an adjunct to nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), facilitates smoking cessation, improves physical fitness, and delays weight gain in women smokers. However, a smoking relapse effect was shown post-intervention, illustrating a trend where, as abstinence decreased, physical fitness showed a corresponding decrease and an increase in weight (also see, Marcus et al.). These results suggest that exercise needs to be maintained if it is to be an effective aid to smoking cessation.

In practice, long-term supervised and structured vigorous exercise regimes are beyond the scope of smoking cessation services. Therefore, it is important to determine whether an exercise intervention program can be developed to maintain weight and physical fitness after program termination, and thus prevent (or reduce) smoking relapse. Teaching smokers the necessary self-regulatory skills needed to abstain from smoking and adhere to exercise independently may be a promising avenue through which to ensure lasting health behaviour changes.

The Getting Physical on Cigarettes program will begin in January 2010. The main purpose of this project is to examine whether an inexpensive, home-based lifestyle exercise maintenance intervention can demonstrate sustained health benefits in terms of weight gain and physical fitness benefits following an exercise and Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) aided smoking cessation program. In addition, this trial seeks to examine previously unexplored topics of interest in the smoking abstinence literature; specifically, we are interested in whether the nicotine metabolite ratio (3-HC/Cotinine: Schnoll et al., 2009) is a useful biomarker for determining cessation success in relation to exercise and Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) treatment, and whether the interactive effects of exercise and smoking cessation improve vascular health and lung function.

Four hundred and twenty adult female smokers will follow a structured and supervised 14 week exercise-aided smoking cessation program, with the 10 week NRT program beginning at week 4. Participants will be randomized into one of four conditions: a) Exercise maintenance; b) Exercise maintenance + Relapse Prevention Booklets; c) Relapse Prevention Booklets + Contact; and d) Contact Control. Starting at week 8, women in the Exercise maintenance conditions will engage in Group-Mediated Cognitive Behavioural (GMCB) therapy related to maintaining exercise in their home environment, while women in the Contact conditions will partake in group mediated discussions related to other health issues. The "Forever Free" smoking replase prevention book series (Brandon, Collins, 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Smoking Behaviour

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Behaviour maintenance
  - BEHAVIORAL: Smoking Relapse prevention booklets
  - BEHAVIORAL: Contact control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01305447
