CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06460662
Title: Effects of Agility and Perturbation Based Training in Addition to Routine Physical Therapy
Official Title: Effects of Agility and Perturbation Based Training in Addition to Routine Physical Therapy on Pain, Function and Quality of Life in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 26
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease. Knee OA patients sometimes report episodes of knee instability that limit their ADLs. The episodes of instability are similar to those reported in knee ligament injuries. It is believed that modifications of interventions that are used to promote knee stability in knee ligament injuries can be used in knee OA to enhance knee stability and function. The purpose of this study will be to determine the effects of agility and perturbation-based training in addition to routine physical therapy on pain, function, quality of life and disability in knee osteoarthritis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A Randomized Clinical Trial will be conducted at Al Syed Touqeer Altaf Surgical Hospital through a convenience sampling technique on 26 patients, which will be allocated using computer-generated randomization into two groups. Group A will be treated with agility and perturbation training techniques in addition to the same routine physical therapy as Group B, and Group B will receive only routine physical therapy. Outcome measures will be conducted through NPRS, WOMAC, SF-36, and KOS-ADLs questionnaires. All the outcome measures will be assessed pre and post-treatment, and the assessor will be blind. Frequency of the treatment will be 3 sessions per week for 4 weeks. Data will be analyzed using SPSS software version 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Numeric pain rate scale (NPRS)
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC)
  - SF-36 (Short form)
  - Knee Outcome Survey Activities of Daily Living KOS-ADLS

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Routine Physical Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06460662
