CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01188837
Title: Comparing Manipulation, Rehabilitation and Combination of the Two in the Treatment of Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The Relative Effectiveness of Three Full Kinetic Chain Treatment Protocols for Osteoarthritis of the Knee: Manual Therapy, Rehabilitation and a Combination Thereof
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 144
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
Common medical therapies for knee osteoarthritis are patient education, drug and physical therapy, exercise and surgery. These modalities may offer improvement but drugs and surgery carry significant risk. Manipulative therapy for KOA gives pain relief and increased function. However, research suggests addition of manipulative and soft tissue therapy (to the entire kinetic chain: lumbosacral, sacroiliac, hip, knee, ankle and foot joints), may give a better outcome. Exercise therapy is considered an effective and standard care for KOA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients seek treatment from chiropractors for osteoarthritis (OA) and Knee OA (KOA). Significant KOA impacts 10 % of individuals aged ≥63 particularly with radiographic changes; and by age 65, 80% have these x-ray changes. KOA may be the largest cause of decreased mobility, function, disability and pain in people aged ≥ 50 in the US. KOA causes 30% \> age 60 to experience decreased social activities of daily living, increased cardiovascular risk, increased fall risk and secondary depression. Overall KOA prevalence is 4% in young adults, 85% in those \> 75. Beyond great personal suffering - in the US, annual financial costs associated with OA were $60 billion per year in 2000 and, for all OA and rheumatic disease $128 billion in 2003. Estimates in 2005 were 27 million people suffer significantly due to OA and by 2020 in the US and other developed nations \> 12 million will suffer serious, and 19 million minor to moderate work or activity related disability from OA and KOA, with the highest prevalence expected in women.

MedicALCARe commonly prescribed for KOA is lifestyle accommodation (decreased activity, a cane, high chairs and toilet seats, etc), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), anti-arthritics, steroids, various and sundry prescription and non-prescription oral and topical medications and exercise. Randomized controlled trials (RCTS) support exercise for KOA treatment, proven superior to placebo. At least 50% (and periodically up to 90 percent) of KOA patients regularly use NSAIDs. Frequent minor but intermittently serious gastrointestinal and cardiovascular adverse reactions to chronic use of NSAIDS occur, and there is evidence that using exercise/rehabilitation with or without manipulative (MAN) therapy may give safer, similar or equivalent relief. Supported by earlier RCTs, MAN therapy with and without soft tissue and exercise therapy for KOA appears superior to placebo and equal or superior to exercise. Although Chiropractic has conducted and published two RCTs of manipulative therapy for KOA, the profession has not yet conducted an RCT with combined full kinetic chain MAN therapy, soft tissue and rehabilitation versus standard care (rehabilitation or exercise therapy) nor studied optimum dose for various patients. 1). in effect only 1 study of such combined care (MAN therapy, soft tissue and rehabilitation or exercise therapy) exists; 2) more studies of MAN therapy combined with rehabilitation are needed to establish: a). equivalent or b). superior treatment efficacy with full kinetic chain therapy and to c). use 'dose time to response' techniques to study the optimum number of treatments for various patients and (to help determine who will respond and will not respond and why) and d)collect data to develop future cost effective research.

Significant morbidity and occasional mortality from NSAID and drug-related complications and surgery; difficulty in obtaining compliance with prolonged exercise protocols; apparent simi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - McMaster Overall Therapy Effectiveness Tool
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Full Kinetic Chain Manipulative Therapy
  - OTHER: Full Kinetic Chain Rehabilitation
  - OTHER: Full Kinetic Chain Manipulative Therapy with Rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 38 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01188837
