CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04139603
Title: Effects of Two Different Kinesio Taping Applications on Pain and Functional Mobility in Pregnants With Lumbopelvic Pain
Official Title: Gebeliğe Bağlı Lumbopelvik Ağrıda İki Farklı Kinezyo Bant Uygulamasının Ağrı ve Fonksiyonel Mobilite Üzerine Etkisi
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 55
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This study evaluates and compares the effects of two different kinesio taping applications on pain and functional mobility in pregnancy related lumbopelvic pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Literature studies on the effectiveness of kinesio taping (KT) in pregnancy related lumbopelvic pain (LPP) are limited in number and have methodological shortcomings such as lack of randomization, a control group or assessor and/or patient blindness. Although generally presenting a significant effectiveness of KT on intensity of pain and disability, these parameters are evaluated by subjective methods, and the findings do not rely on quantitative data, in general.

In addition, the intervention parameters used in these studies, such as the KT techniques used, amount of KT tension and duration of the intervention are different from each other, and there is lack of studies comparing the effectiveness of different KT techniques.

In this study, effectiveness of two different KT applications will be compared with placebo KT:

1. Lumbopelvic KT (LPKT): Two I-shaped kinesio tapes in 40 cm length will be applied bilaterally, beginning from 5 cm below the spina iliaca posterior superiors (SIPSs) to the level of the 12th costae, in maximum trunk flexion position, on the paravertebral muscles, by inhibition technique of muscle correction techniques. The tapes will be placed with no tension at 5 cm of both ends, and with 15-25% tension in between. In addition, an extra I-shaped tape will be placed perpendicullar to these tapes with the ligament correction technique, while the pregnant women are in the vertical upright position, at the level of the sacroiliac joints, starting with a tensile strength of 75-100% from the middle, and then with no tension at two ends.
2. Abdominal supported LPKT (ALPKT): An abdominal support tape will be added to the LPKT. In order to reduce the tension of the uterus ligaments, and to help perception of the normal elasticity of the target tissues, ligament technique will be used. The middle part of an I-shaped tape will be placed to the midpoint of the lower abdomen, and then will be progressed laterally and above with 50% tension.

For placebo application, a Micropore™ surgical plaster of the same color with KT will be applied with no tension, as described in the LPKT technique.

All participants will undergo a 45-60 minutes of standard ergonomic education after initial assessments and following the first taping applications, They will be observed in regard to their behaviours during different activities such as standing, sitting, walking, turning in bed and standing from the bed. Necessary warnings will be given about correcting their posture and behaviors in terms of ergonomic principles.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in pain intensity during resting
  - Change in pain intensity during timed up and go (TUG) test
  - Change in pain intensity during five times sit to stand test
  - Change in pain intensity during stair climbing test
  - Change in time of completing timed up and go test (seconds)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Lumbopelvic kinesio taping
  - OTHER: Abdominal supported lumbopelvic kinesio taping
  - OTHER: Placebo tapng

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04139603
