CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05618899
Title: Effect of Exercises on Physical Health and Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Obese Women
Official Title: Effect oh High Intensity Interval trening Versus Moderate Intensity Exercises on Physical Health and Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Obeses Women
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: high intensity interval trening

SUMMARY:
The study will be a Randomized clinical trial and will be conducted in services hospital lahore. The sample size of 50 patients will be taken in this study to find the effects of high intensity interval trening versus moderate intensity exercises on physical health and cardiorespiratory fitness in obese women.

Patients will be divided into two groups (Group A will be treated with high intensity interval trening and Group B will be treated with moderate intensity exercises). Eligible participants attended three session per week. Overnight fast, resting metabolic rate and blood pressure will be assessed. An oral glucose test will be assessed and baseline blood samples will be used for lipoprotein analysis. Pacer test and step test performed in the each session. A regular follow-up visits to department and a final assessment will be made at the end of last week by using questionnaire and resulting improvement will shown in results after completion. Data will be analyzed on SPSS 25.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will be a Randomized clinical trial and will be conducted in services hospital lahore. The study will be completed within the duration of ten months. Non probability convenient sampling study technique will be used to collect the data. The sample size of 50 patients will be taken in this study to find the effects of high intensity interval trening versus moderate intensity exercises on physical health and cardiorespiratory fitness in obese women.

Patients will be divided into two groups (Group A will be treated with high intensity interval trening and Group B will be treated with moderate intensity exercises). Eligible participants attended three session per week. Overnight fast, resting metabolic rate and blood pressure will be assessed. An oral glucose test will be assessed and baseline blood samples will be used for lipoprotein analysis. Pacer test and step test performed in the each session. A regular follow-up visits to department and a final assessment will be made at the end of last week by using questionnaire and resulting improvement will shown in results after completion. Data will be analyzed on SPSS 25.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Step test
  - Glucose tolerance test
  - Lipoprotein blood test:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: HIGH INTENSITY INTERVAL trenING
  - OTHER: MODERATE INTENSITY EXERCISE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 30 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05618899
