CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05052593
Title: Compressive Myofascial Release in Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: Effects of Compressive Myofascial Release of Vastus Lateralis on Lateral Patellar Tracking in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 52
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of the study is to compare the effects of compressive myofascial release and conventional knee osteoarthritis treatment to correct lateral patellar tracking. A randomized control trial was conducted at Railway General Hospital, Ahad Medicare clinics and physiotherapy Centre and The Health Professional physiotherapy clinic Bahria town phase 6. The sample size was 52 calculated through open-epi tool. The participants were divided into two interventional groups each having 26 participants. The study duration was six months. Sampling technique applied was non probability convenient sampling for recruitment and group randomization using sealed enveloped method. Only participants who were 50 years above with grade 2 and 3 knee osteoarthritis were included in the study. Tools used in this study are Q angle, numeric pain rating scale, goniometry and WOMAC questionnaire, Self structured Questionnaire. Data was collected at baseline, at the end of 3rd session and 6th session. Data analyzed through SPSS version 23.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
knee osteoarthritis is commonly manifested as decreased joint space, sub chondral bone sclerosis, bony spur formation, cartilage loss and mainly lateral patellar tracking(2).Lateral patellar tracking is a condition in which patellar move laterally in relation to femoral groove on flexion and extension(4). Patellofemoral disorders are very common in patients of knee OA. One of the very common manifestation of which is lateral patellar tracking(5). Patella move laterally due to certain disorders of knee that include patellofemoral pain syndrome and anterior knee pain. Q-angle is used as an indicator of patellofemoral pain syndrome. When Q angle exceeds its normal limit i.e. 15-20 degrees it leads to lateral mal positioning of patella(6). Rozenfeld, E et al. in 2019 conducted a cross sectional study with a diagnosis of anterior knee pain that suggests highest prevalence of myofascial trigger points in distal vastus lateralis and mid and distal vastus lateralis. It also reported that presence of trigger points in anterior knee pain(7). There are several techniques that are used to release trigger points.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthrosis Index (WOMAC) scale:

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: compressive myofascial release
  - OTHER: conventional treatment group

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05052593
