CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07365618
Title: Combined Exercise Effects in Breast Cancer-related Lymphedema
Official Title: The Impact of Combined Exercise on Lymphedema, Body Composition, Muscle Strength, and Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Survivors
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is a common and debilitating condition that affects quality of life, mobility, and well-being. While exercise was once thought to worsen symptoms, current evidence suggests it may improve lymphatic function and symptom management. The LymFit project will test a 12-week combined exercise program (aerobic + resistance) in breast cancer survivors with BCRL compared to usual care.

This investigation aims to unravel the effects of a combined exercise program on BCRL management. A 12-week randomized controlled trial will be conducted with two arms: a combined exercise intervention (strength + aerobic training) and a control group. The LymFit project primarily aims to assess the effects of 12 weeks of combined exercise on L-Dex in BCRL patients. Secondary objectives include evaluating exercise's effects on i) ECW:ICW ratio (dilution techniques); ii) Body composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), handgrip strength (dynamometry), cardiorespiratory fitness, quality of life, arm disability, anxiety, depression (questionnaires), and inflammatory profile (blood analysis). The project also examines acute exercise (pre- to post-session) responses on iii) Lymphedema (L-Dex) and iv) Fluid shifts (ultrasound muscle thickness + PV measurement). By integrating clinical outcomes with mechanistic evaluations, this randomized controlled trial seeks to generate evidence-based recommendations for exercise in BCRL management and improve understanding of lymphatic fluid dynamics in this population.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
\- Background - Arm lymphedema is a common, debilitating complication following breast cancer treatment, affecting 20-40% of breast cancer survivors. Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is characterized by chronic limb swelling resulting from a significant complication caused by axillary lymph node removal and radiotherapy-induced fibrosis. Symptoms include limb swelling, weakness, decreased mobility, pain, and heaviness, significantly impacting quality of life, daily activities, emotional distress, and social isolation.

Exercise has emerged as a promising non-invasive intervention for BCRL management, supported by leading organizations such as the International Society of Lymphology and the American Society of Breast Surgeons. While traditionally viewed as a risk factor for exacerbating the condition, recent research has highlighted its therapeutic benefits. Strength exercise improves lymphatic function and reduces symptom severity through muscle pump and lymphatic vessel contraction. Aerobic exercise also supports lymph flow through blood circulation and respiration, which creates pressure changes in the thoracic-abdominal cavities and compresses and decompresses lymphatic vessels. Despite the isolated benefits of both types of exercise, the combined exercise (aerobic + strength) may yield additional benefits. However, the effects of combined exercise remain unexplored in BCRL patients. Strength exercise is associated with improved lymphatic function and increased muscle strength, e.g., handgrip strength - a vital health parameter. Aerobic exercise has been linked to enhancements in body composition, cardiometabolic health, inflammatory profile, increased quality of life, and reduced symptoms of anxiety and depression. Therefore, it is justified to explore the potential benefits of combined exercise for patients with BCRL. Although assessing lymphedema remains challenging in clinical practice, the lymphedema index (L-Dex), based on bioelectrical impedance spectroscopy (BIS), provides an objective method for detecting BCRL. The device measures extracellular fluid resistance using the L-Dex ratio, which compares dominant and non-dominant arm values. Although a precise method, it has never been tested in a combined exercise intervention.

From a more mechanistic standpoint, it is known that body water compartments, including total body water (TBW), extracellular water (ECW), and Intracellular water (ICW) plays a crucial role in fluid balance and cellular function. In BCRL, disruptions in this balance - particularly an elevated ECW:ICW (E:I) ratio-may reflect swelling and symptom severity. Research with a clinical population (e.g., elderly or patients with heart failure) suggests that a higher appendicular E:I ratio correlates with lower handgrip and mobility, independent of skeletal muscle mass. These findings suggest that interventions to improve the E:I ratio could enhance overall strength and health. Exercise has been previously demonstrat

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Bioelectrical Impedance Spectroscopy - Lymphedema Index

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Educational Sessions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07365618
