CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04546217
Title: Gait Training Combined With Behavioral Strategies for People With Stroke
Official Title: Gait Training Combined With Strategies to Induce Transference to Real Life for People With Stroke
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
A variety of rehabilitation techniques focused on improving disability after stroke have shown significant changes on walking speed, and endurance. Also, the administration of combined techniques showed better results. Previous studies have suggested that embedding behavioral strategies in neurorehabilitation protocols can enhance patient's adherence and participation outside the clinical setting. The addition of a group of behavioral strategies called Transfer Package (TP) has been widely used in motor training protocol (e.g. Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy). The TP has shown to enhance the effects of treatment 2.4 times when compared to motor training alone. However, the effect of TP when combined with robotic gait training remains unexplored. In this study our goal is to combine the TP with robotic gait training. The hypothesis is that using the TP in combination with robotic gait training will enhance the outcome of robotic gait training alone and will induce long term transference and retention of the motor skills observed after treatment. More importantly, this experimental intervention is more meaningful to the patient and can be more easily implemented on the clinical setting. The aims of this study are (1) to assess transfer and long-term retention of walking and balance skills after robotic treadmill gait training combined with the TP, (2) to understand participants' acceptability and perceptions of the TP as a tool to enhance transfer of skills to real-world situations, and (3) to examine the feasibility of these combined intervention to improve walking and balance after stroke.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This proposal seeks to investigate the effect of gait training combined with behavioral strategies on long-term retention of improvements on gait parameters and use of the affected lower-extremity in real-world situations.

Aim 1: To assess transfer and long-term retention of walking and balance skills after robotic treadmill gait training combined with the TP. A total of 24 participants with chronic stoke will be randomly allocated to either treadmill training combined with the TP (TT+TP) or usual TT with an educational approach. The 8-week intervention will consist of three weekly sessions of 1 hour of TT. The experimental group will also receive the TP for 30 minutes and the control group will receive a manual with exercises to be performed at home. The primary outcome is the change in Lower-Extremity Motor Activity Log. Also, change in walking speed, endurance, functional strength and use of the affected LE will be assessed at 3- and 6-months after the intervention.

Aim 2: To understand participants' acceptability and perceptions of the TP as a tool to enhance transfer of skills to real-world situations. A qualitative approach will be used for evaluating the acceptability of the TT + TP protocol. Individual interviews will be conducted with all participants to assess their opinion about TP, particularly, their perceived influence of the TP on real-life situations.

Aim 3: To examine the feasibility of body weight support treadmill training combined with behavioral strategies to improve walking and balance after stroke. Compliance with the intervention will be measured as the number of sessions attended and number of activities performed outside the clinical setting. Also, the relationship between the outcome changes after the intervention and the participants' perceptions will be explored.

The hypothesis is that the use of the TP will promote long-term retention of the positive changes in walking and balance and also changes in real-world situations. This pilot study will lead to future studies with larger samples in order to compare the effect of body weight support treadmill training combined with the TP. The long-term goal is to provide a systematic combination of strategies to improve gait and mobility after stroke that can be implemented in the clinical setting.

In this study our goal is to combine gait training with a robotic treadmill and the TP. The TP is adapted from our previous work with Lower-Extremity Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy. The effect of the combined gait training will on real-world use of the affected lower extremity, walking speed, endurance, functional strength will be tested as well as the effect of the TP on long-term retention. Furthermore the combined TP + treadmill training will be meaningful to the patient.

1. Participants: sampling and selection criteria Participants will be recruited from a list of patients that have been discharged from the Spain Rehabilitation Center at University of Alabama at Birm

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lower Extremity Motor Activity Log - Real World Use of the Affected Lower Extremity in Daily Activities.
  - Berg Balance Scale - Balance Assessment
  - 10 Meters Walk Test - Walking Speed Assessment

INTERVENTIONS:
  - COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Treadmill training + transfer package (TT+TP)
  - DEVICE: Treadmill training (TT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04546217
