CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07311031
Title: Effect of Blood Flow Restriction Rraining on Rehabilitation After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction
Official Title: Effect of Blood Flow Restriction Training on Quadriceps Muscle Strength, Knee Biomechanics and Rehabilitation After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction in Active Workers
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Importance: Following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR), patients often experience quadriceps muscle weakness and atrophy, frequently leading to long-term complications. A promising rehabilitation program based on blood flow restriction training (BFRT) seems to be particularly valuable for patients who may be unable to train with heavy loads due recent surgery. Previous studies have demonstrated that BFRT promotes strength gains and muscle mass increases, with adaptations comparable to traditional high-intensity training, despite using low-load resistance exercises.

Objective: to evaluate the effect of blood flow restriction training on quadriceps strength and knee biomechanics in a 4-month rehabilitation program of patients who have had an ACL reconstruction.

Design: The study will be a two-arm superiority randomized controlled clinical trial.

Setting: The trial will be conducted at a work-related injuries specialised hospital, MAZ Hospital, Zaragoza, Spain.

Participants: Participants will be active workers who have suffered an acute ACL tear and they have undergone ACL reconstruction (n=60).

Intervention: Patients will recieve a 14-16-week supervised accelerated early rehabilitation protocol; one group will complete it applying blood flow restriction training and the other will not.

Main Outcome and Measure: The primary outcomes will be peak quadriceps strength and rate of torque development measured both isometrically and isokinetcally with a Isokinetic Dynamometer CON-TREX MG.

Limitations: Potential limitations include patients and physiotherapists are not blinded.

Conclusions: The focus of the research will examine the impact of blood flow restriction rehabilitation on patients who have undergone ACLR.

Relevance: The study has potential to restore quadriceps strength to a greater extent than standard rehabilitation protocol. Moreover, patients will spend less time in the rehabilitation process to return to work compared to standard care.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Quadriceps strength
  - Quadriceps strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Blood flow restriction training
  - OTHER: Standard ACL rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07311031
