CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02419105
Title: Effects of Transdermal Testosterone and/or Monthly Vitamin D on Fall Risk in Pre--frail Hypogonadal Seniors
Official Title: Effects of Transdermal Testosterone and/or Monthly Vitamin D on Fall Risk in Pre--frail Hypogonadal Seniors. Double Blind, 2x2 Factorial, Randomized Placebo--Controlled Clinical Trial
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 91
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
The overall purpose of this study is to test the individual and combined effect of transdermal testosterone and/or Vitamin D in reducing fall risk and improve function in pre-frail hypogonadal senior men.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background:

One of the challenges of demographic change is the enormous personal and economic burden of falls and their consequences in the senior population. Thirty percent of adults 65 years or older and 40 - 50% of those age 80 years or older fall once per year. Serious injuries occur in 10 - 15% of falls, resulting in fractures in 5% and a hip fracture in 1-2% of cases. As an independent determinant of functional decline, falls lead to 40% of all nursing home admissions.

Several studies have estimated the prevalence of low testosterone levels (hypogonadism) in older men to be about 20% at age 60. This proportion increased in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging with each decade (30% at age 70 and 50% at age 80). Low testosterone levels are associated with decreased strength, impaired physical performance, and an increased risk of falls, and, thus, low testosterone may contribute to the frailty syndrome in older men. Current studies have focused on healthy, community dwelling men with a high level of function. Our trial aims to enrol pre-frail senior men at risk of losing their autonomy. Further, in this population and also relevant for muscle health and falling is the high prevalence of vitamin D deficiency.

Dose Rationale:

The investigators chose 75 mg testosterone/day as the minimally sufficient dose to shift over 90% of participants to total testosterone levels of at least 16.86 nmol/l (lower end of the third quartile in the pilot trial where fall reduction was significant -- Bischoff-Ferrari et al.; Osteoporosis International 2008). Additionally, this dose has been chosen for its cardiovascular safety as summarized in a 2013 review.

The investigators chose 24000 IU/month of vitamin D (equivalent to 800 IU vitamin D per day) as the current recommended dose for vitamin D and its evidence for fall reduction. To allow for the standard of care and given that 50% of participants will not be randomized to vitamin D supplementation - all participants are allowed to take 800 IU vitamin D per day in addition to the study medication.

Randomization:

Participants will be randomized at the baseline clinical visit using a computer-based randomization procedure. Willing and eligible participants will be randomized to one of the four treatment groups stratified by age (2 groups: 75 - 79 and 80+). Within each stratum, treatment assignments will be generated in blocks of 8 individuals, with 2 individuals in each of the 4 treatment groups.

Blinding:

Study medications will be labelled with a unique randomization code at the respective companies. The codes will be inaccessible until the data set is frozen and the study is unblinded. All study packages will look identical, except for the randomization codes on the labels.

Follow-up:

Follow-up is 12 months with 3 clinical (Baseline, 6 and 12 months) and 4 (2, 4, 8 and 10 months) phone call visits.

Determination of Sample Size:

The sample size of 168 senior participants was chosen to have suffic

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of fallers
  - Rate of falls

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Testosterone
  - DRUG: Colecalciferol
  - DRUG: Placebo drink solution
  - DRUG: Placebo transdermal gel

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 65 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02419105
