CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04743128
Title: Exercise on Expression of Heat Shock Protein 70 in Arterial Risk
Official Title: Impact of Exercise on Expression of Hsp70 in Individuals at Risk of Peripheral Arterial Disease. A Randomised Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Introduction: Atherosclerotic Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is the leading cause of mortality in the western world. To maintain homeostasis of the vessel wall, vascular cells produce a high level of heat shock proteins (HSP), among which is Hsp70, to stimulate innate immunity and face stress.

Methods: This is a clinical trial where 260 individuals were evaluated by a screening test employing the Ankle-Arm Index (ABI), 220 of them were not within risk value (0.91 to 0.99 mmHg). In the clinical trial, 32 individuals were included. A control group and an experimental group were formed. Aerobic exercise intervention was performed for 12 weeks. The level of Hsp70 was evaluated, physical and clinical measurements were applied at the beginning and at the end of the trial.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The objective of the study is to determine the level of serum expression of the HSP70 protein in individuals at risk of atherosclerotic peripheral arterial disease, after an intervention of moderate exercise.

Atherosclerotic Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is a systemic disease that causes obstruction of arterial blood flow and is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide 1.

Patients with PAD have a three times greater risk of myocardial infarction, stroke and death than those without the disease. However, more than 50% of patients are asymptomatic; so the disease remains underdiagnosed. 2 It is estimated that 202 million people in the world are affected with PAD, 45 million of them die from coronary or cerebrovascular disease in a range of ten years. The current prevalence of PAD in Mexico is 10% of the general population.3 The disease is strongly related to modifiable risk factors (blood pressure, sedentary lifestyle, baseline glycemia, cholesterol, and obesity) and unhealthy lifestyle (tobacco, physical inactivity, food and psychosocial stress), which increases the risk of acquiring the disease up to 17.2 times 4, 5, 6 Increased membrane permeability leads to the accumulation and modification of proteins, lipids and lipoproteins in the endothelium. The accumulation of pro-inflammatory molecules such as chemo-tactical monocyte protein 1 (MCP-1), intracellular adhesion molecules (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion (VCAM-1) and higher nitro-tyrosine content are also generated. 7 Macrophages are active in response to the spread of the inflammatory response and bind to low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors that had internalized.

Macrophages secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines resulting in the recruitment and activation of additional immune cells at the site of the lesion, amplifying the immune response and promoting the development of complex and advanced plaques that become mature atherosclerotic plaques.8 The Ankle Arm Index (ABI) is the non-invasive gold standard accepted for both the diagnosis and evaluation of the severity of this disease. The cut-off point for the diagnosis of PAD is an ABI of less than 0.90 at rest, regardless of the Framingham Risk Score, being 95% sensitive in the detection of PAD. 9, 10 To maintain homeostasis on the vessel wall, vascular cells produce a high level of heat shock proteins (HSP) 11. These types of stress proteins are cytoprotective agents that promote cell survival during stressors. 12 The reduction of HSP intracellular expression is also related to PAD, cardiovascular diseases and metabolic syndrome, where they are greatly diminished. 10 HSP are normally intracellular proteins, but when released at an extracellular level, they exert an immune response.13 The most thermo-sensitive and highly inducible HSP belongs to the 70 kilodalton (kDa) family, as established by Mizzen et al., In 1998 (figure 1). It is believed that extracellular Hsp70 (eHsp70) stimulates innate immunity and acts as a d

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Impact of exercise on expression of Hsp70 in individuals at risk of peripheral arterial disease

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age:  to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04743128
