CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05995210
Title: Comparing the Effectiveness of Kinesio Taping and Knee Orthosis in Patients with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome
Official Title: Comparing the Effectiveness of Kinesio Taping and Knee Orthosis in Patients with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome: a Randomized Controlled Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to compare the efficacy of kinesio taping treatment and knee orthosis treatment in Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome (PFAS). 54 patients were included in the study and the patients were divided into 3 groups as kinesio taping group (KTG) (n=18), orthotics group (OG) (n=18) and control group (CG) (n=18). A progressive exercise program was applied to all groups and patients were treated 2 days a week for 6 weeks.While kinesio taping was applied to KTG in each session, knee orthosis was given to OG and they were asked to use it for 6 weeks. Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Kujala Score, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and isokinetic strength test (IST) were used in the evaluation.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Patients were divided into 3 groups as patellofemoral knee orthosis group, kinesio taping group and control group. Randomization of group allocation was done using the website \&#34;https://www.randomizer.org\&#34;. Patients were unaware of the other group\&#39;s treatment program and group allocation. All participants signed an informed consent form before the study. The primary outcome measure of our study was the Kujala Score, and the secondary outcome measures were the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), Visual Analog Scale (VAS), quadriceps and hamstring isokinetic muscle strength. The evaluations were performed before and after treatment. All patients were informed about the disease and treatment process before treatment. Patients were informed about the things they should pay attention to for pain management in daily life activities and suggestions were made. In addition, all patients received at least 2 weeks of NSAID treatment by the orthopedist. A progressive exercise program was applied to all treatment groups. The progressive exercise program was continued under the supervision of a physiotherapist 2 days a week for 6 weeks. The progressive exercise program consisted of strengthening exercises for the muscles around the knee and hip, stretching exercises for the hamstring and gastrosoleus muscles. The knee orthosis group received the OrthoCare® 6158 Genucare Luxa knee orthosis. T-max Kinesiology Tape® (Tmax Medical Co., South Korea) brand kinesio tape was used in all patients. In kinesio tape application, 2 Y-shaped tapes were used. The activation technique was applied to the VMO muscle with the first band. In the second band, mechanical correction technique was applied to the patella.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in baseline Kujala scores of patients treated at week 6

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Kinesio taping
  - PROCEDURE: Orthosis
  - PROCEDURE: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 45 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05995210
