CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05596916
Title: The Effect of Axio Scapular Muscle Stretching Exercises in Office Workers
Official Title: The Effect of Axio Scapular Muscle Stretching Exercises on Posture, Periscapular Muscle Strength and Disability in Office Workers
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to examine the effects of stretching exercises applied to the axioscapular muscles on posture, periscapular muscle strength and symptoms in office workers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Individuals who work at a desk for a long time often take a kyphotic or loose sitting position, resulting in tension in some of the axioscapular muscles and weakness in others. Because, as a result of wrong working posture at the desk, scapular downward rotation formation, increased activation in trapezius and levator scapula muscles, pain, decrease in normal joint range of motion (ROM) may result in impaired proprioception and this situation may create a vicious circle. In addition, incorrect sitting posture was found to be associated with changes in scapula position, kinematics and muscle activity.

It is considered a clinical feature that a change in scapular alignment can cause neck pain and dysfunction. The scapula shares common muscle connections with the neck, and altered axioscapular muscle function is claimed to potentially cause neck pain through abnormal loading of the cervical spine or the formation of myofascial trigger points.

Stretching the shortened upper trapezius, sternocleidomastoid, and levator scapula muscles and strengthening the deep cervical flexor muscles are effective in correcting the anterior tilt posture of the head.

Stretching exercises applied to the tension and shortness of the axioscapular muscles can have a positive effect on middle and lower trapezius muscle and serratus anterior muscle weakness, as they contribute to the change of scapular position. It may also contribute to cervical motion and/or symptom relief.

For this reason, the aim of the study is to examine the effects of axioscapular muscle stretching exercises on posture, periscapular muscle strength and symptoms in office workers. In addition, information about the effect of isolated stretching exercises on muscle strength and symptoms will be obtained and a contribution will be made about the weekly dosage.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - The anterior tilt of head analysis with photography method
  - The shoulder protraction analysis with photography method
  - The thoracic kyphosis analysis with photography method
  - Shoulder protraction with tape measure
  - The hand held dynamometer

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High frequency of stretching exercise
  - OTHER: Low frequency of stretching exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05596916
