CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05526417
Title: Individualized Prehabilitation for Enhancing Recovery and Surgical Outcomes in Patients Undergoing Radiotherapy and Surgery for Soft Tissue Sarcoma
Official Title: Pre-Operative ERAS® (Enhanced Recovery After Surgery): Randomized Feasibility Trial of Implementing Individualized Prehabilitation for People Undergoing Neo-Adjuvant Radiotherapy and Lower Limb Soft-Tissue Sarcoma Surgery
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
This clinical trial evaluates whether patients with deep soft tissue sarcomas who receive a tailored prehabilitation exercise regimen during standard radiotherapy and prior to standard of care surgery have better recovery and surgical outcomes than those who do not. Patients undergoing surgery to soft tissue sarcomas are at high risk for post-operative disability, which is associated with high rates of depression and poor health-related quality of life. Prehabilitation is the practice of exercising before surgery to ensure that the patient is in the best possible condition. It allows patients to prepare their bodies for recovery after surgery, which may result in better surgical outcomes, recovery, and quality of life after surgery.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if a tailored prehabilitation program focusing on functional optimization of spared limb tissue in two groups of patients with localized, lower extremity soft tissue sarcoma, one with prehabilitation and one with equal attention and informational support, improves functional outcome as measure by the Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS).

II. To identify the measures and metrics most responsive to the intervention using the (TESS), Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT), wearable Heel2Toe sensor technology, and daily step count.

III. To estimate recruitment, retention, adherence, and acceptability rates.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare changes in quality of life over time as a result of the prehabilitation intervention using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) (Euroqol Group), the Patient Generated Index (PGI).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients perform personalized prehabilitation physical therapy exercises twice a day (BID) 5 days per week for 8 weeks while receiving standard of care radiotherapy and prior to standard of care surgery, attend telemedicine visits with a physical therapist once a week for 9 weeks, and receive educational materials. Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) at week 9.

ARM II: Patients receive educational materials and attend a telemedicine visit with a research assistant once a week for 8 weeks while receiving standard of care radiotherapy prior to standard of care surgery. Patients undergo MRI and CT at week 9.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at weeks 2, 6, and 12.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Feasibility as measured by recruitment, retention, adherence, and acceptability
  - Efficacy potential
  - Toronto Extremity Salvage Score
  - Functional walking capacity
  - Gait quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography
  - OTHER: Educational Intervention
  - PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
  - PROCEDURE: Physical Therapy
  - OTHER: Questionnaire Administration

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05526417
