CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02715713
Title: Autonomic Manifestations of Testosterone Deficiency in Men
Official Title: Autonomic Manifestations of Testosterone Deficiency in Men
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The primary goal of this pilot study is to investigate the association between testosterone deficiency and the presence of abnormalities in the function of the autonomic nervous system. If such association exists, then we will investigate the effect of testosterone replacement therapy on correcting these abnormalities.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators will recruit 40 men between the ages of 40 to 80-years-old with low testosterone. Participants will be selected among those males referred to the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center's (TTUHSC's) Internal Medicine Endocrinology Division outpatient clinic for the study and management of testosterone deficiency and to the TTUHSC Urology Department for diagnosis and management of prostate cancer that will result in testosterone deficiency due to surgical or pharmacological castration.

After recruitment, patients will have an initial standard clinical visit where aspects such as fatigue and anxiety will be investigated, followed by a full battery of autonomic testing (tilt table, heart rate response to deep breathing, Valsalva, and the Quantitative Sudomotor Axon Reflex Test (QSART).

Those patients with an initial diagnosis of testosterone deficiency will be initiated on testosterone replacement (intramuscular or skin routes) as standard of care, followed by a second visit in three (3) months--after normalization of serum testosterone levels--to evaluate changes in anxiety and fatigue level, and to repeat the cardiovascular autonomic function test.

Those patients with primary diagnosis of prostate cancer and normal serum testosterone levels will be evaluated a second time after confirmation of low testosterone, as described above. Standard questionnaires will be used to evaluate fatigue and anxiety. The autonomic testing of the heart will include tilt table (tilt the patient 70 degree by special designed table) and heart rate response to deep breathing, and Valsalva maneuver. Descriptive statistics will be compared between before and after treatment using different statistical methods.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of patients with testosterone deficiency who will have abnormal autonomic function test (abnormal heart rate response to deep breathing, abnormal Valsalva ratio, and abnormal tilt table i.e. orthostatic hypotension).

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 80 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02715713
