CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04737226
Title: The Relation of Ankle Mobility and Achilles Tendon, Plantar Fascia and Iliotibial Band Mechanical Properties
Official Title: The Association Between Ankle Mobility and Achilles Tendon, Plantar Fascia, Iliotibial Band Stiffness and Elasticity in Athletes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The myotonometric assessment is becoming popular and important in athletic population. It is mentioned an alternate method than expensive methods, and it is easy and reliable assessment. Still there is not enough information of mechanical characteristics in athletic population and ankle mobility. Most clinicians or treners can use this results and technique for enhancing performance, rehabilitation or prevention

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The soft tissue mechanical properties can be assessed through elastography and ultrasonography. Both methods can measure passive and active soft tissue properties. These methods are the gold standard to measure stiffness and elasticity, but they are expensive, operator dependent and need a laboratory settings.Recently, myotonometric device has been used to measure the mechanical properties of the muscles and tendons. This method serves many advantages, such as non-invasive, painless and cost-effective. There is an increasing literature on athletic trening about how trening effects viscoelastic properties. However, to the best of our knowledge, there were no studies assessing stiffness and elasticity of AT, PF and ITB and the relation with ankle mobility in different sport disciplines. The purpose of this study were to demonstrate the mechanical properties of AT, PF and ITB and find out relation with restricted ankle mobility in athletes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stiffness obtained from myotonometric assessment
  - Elasticity obtained from myotonometric assessment
  - Ankle range of motion

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: myotonometric assessment
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Ankle mobility assessment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 38 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04737226
