CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06600737
Title: Greater Manchester CARDIOvascular Pathology in Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Diseases
Official Title: Greater Manchester CARDIOvascular Pathology in Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Diseases
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 325
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
The researchers would like to know more about cardiovascular abnormalities in patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMID) and with the aim to provide new biomarkers (clinical, blood, imaging) for early diagnosis, prognosis and prediction of CVD in patients with IMID. This is important as there are still many things that are not known about this and finding out more could improve how patients are treated in future.

Participants with IMID diagnoses will be recruited from rheumatology/cardiology departments as in-patients or outpatients.

Once consented, researchers will collect past, present and future clinical information about them, including routine cardiovascular imaging and blood tests. Participants will also be asked to completEQuestionnaires at predetermined intervals. The participants could also be approached to take part in the following sub-studies; Biological sub-study, in which blood and urine would be collected; And the Imaging-sub study, in which one or more of Echocardiography, Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CMR) and Laser Doppler Imaging (LDI) will be performed. Participants with CVD without IMID and healthy volunteers will also be recruited as comparison groups.

The research is to be funded by the NIHR Manchester BRC ('Integrated Cardiovascular' and 'Rheumatic \& Musculoskeletal Diseases' themes). Other funding eg Manchester Academic Health Sciences and a recently awarded Medical Research Council Partnership grant will also support this programme. The study will recruit in specialist NHS centres; Recruitment will start in Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Immune-mediated-inflammatory-diseases (IMID) are a range of illnesses affecting over 1 million people in the UK.

Targeted treatments have changed outcomes of common IMIDs, but mortality is still high, largely due to premature cardiovascular disease (CVD). IMID includes the common rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and related conditions, and rare diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc), idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) and vasculitides. Increased risk of CVD and death in IMID contributes to inflammation and cardio metabolic disorders which includes accelerated atherosclerosis, microvascular dysfunction and myocardial and pericardial disease. The research has shown people with RA have A-50% higher risk for CVD than the general population and up to 35% of deaths in patients with SSc are due to cardiac causes.

The biological mechanisms underlying CVD in IMIDs remain largely unknown. Two comparable IMID patients may have significant differences in the presence of CVD and the reasons for this are poorly understood. Despite the significant morbidity and mortality associated with CVD in IMID patients, identification of at-risk patients early in the disease to start treatments and improve prognosis remains challenging. Difficulties also persist in tailoring treatments for people with IMID and existing CVD and there is an evidence gap in treating certain kind of cardiovascular involvement for example, myocarditis. This proposed study will address the missing gaps of the current knowledge. The longitudinal collection and evaluation of routine clinical information and imaging data at different stages of disease will allow the researchers to develop a prognostic model to identify risk factors for CVD in IMID and identify at-risk IMID patients. In addition, the biological and imaging sub-studies will allow the researchers to gain comprehensive insights into the mechanisms underlying CVD in IMID patients, including molecular pathways, genetics and imaging biomarkers. This programme of work will generate important pilot data that will inform subsequent definitive and fully powered studies.

Any potentially eligible patients seen at the relevant rheumatology/cardiology departments as part of in-patient, outpatient and/or multi-disciplinary team meetings and identified as per usual clinical practice may be eligible for inclusion in this observational programme; these patients will be classified as IMID patients at-risk of CVD (IMID-'at risk' CVD), IMID patients with documented new major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) (Incident IMID-CVD) and IMID patients with previous MACE (Established IMID-CVD). Three groups of control patients will also be recruited; IMID patients with no risk of CVD, patients with CVD but no IMID diagnosis and healthy volunteers.

The doctor will explain to the patient about the study and, if they are interested provide them with the information leaflet.

The participant will have the opportunity to 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of participants with major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06600737
