CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04383457
Title: Covid-19 Triage Using Camera-based AI
Official Title: Covid-19 Triage Using Camera-based AI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 214
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
The vital signs are critical in assessing the severity and prognosis of infections, such as Covid-19. The devices used today for measuring the vital signs have to be in physical contact with the patients. There is an apparent risk of transferring infections from one patient to the next (or to healthcare professionals).

This project aims to evaluate a new camera-based system for contactless measurement of vital signs as well as an artificial intelligence (AI) predicting hospitalization or death within 30 days. This particular study will evaluate the new system's ability without interfering with standard care of the patient.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and aim:

The vital signs are critical in assessing the severity and prognosis of infections, i.e., Covid-19, influenza, sepsis and pneumonia. Quick and accurate triage is critical when facing a pandemic with an overwhelming number of cases (confirmed and suspected). This study aims a) to evaluate a new method for rapid camera-based non-contact measurement of five vital signs; body temperature, heart rate, blood oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, and blood pressure, and b) if an AI can predict hospitalization or death within 30 days.

Methods:

A method-comparison study design is used comparing each vital sign measured with the new method to the corresponding standard reference method. Furthermore, a cohort design is used to follow up any hospitalization or death within 30 days. The investigated new system consists of a high-speed digital video camera, a digital radiometric infrared camera, LED lights and a computer for data recording. This system faces the subject at a distance of approximately one meter, capturing a 30 second recording of the subject's face. First, all vital signs will be measured using one set of reference devices. Secondly the investigated device will record a 30 second video of the patient's face. Thirdly, and last, all vital signs will be measured using the same set of reference devices. A copy of the vital sign readings (using the standard reference methods) will be handed over by an investigator to the clinical professionals responsible for the subsequent medical care for each subject. Afterwards, the collected 30-second recordings will be run through specific software algorithms to extract the vital signs. The results from the new camera-based contactless measurement of vital signs and the outcome of the AIs prediction of risk for hospitalization or death will not be presented in the care situation of the patient.

Expected Findings:

It is expected that the proposed study will show that the new method can estimate body temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, blood oxygen level, and blood pressure with an acceptable agreement compared with the reference method and also estimate hospitalization or death within 30 days.

Implications of the expected findings:

Being able to measure vital signs quicker than before by using a new contactless method would greatly facilitate triage of large number of patients. Also being able to predict hospitalization or increased risk for death would further improve the triage of patients.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Agreement between the new camera based method and reference standard to estimate body temperature
  - Agreement between the new camera based method and reference standard to estimate heart rate
  - Agreement between the new camera based method and reference standard to estimate blood oxygen saturation
  - Agreement between the new camera based method and reference standard to estimate systolic blood pressure
  - Agreement between the new camera based method and reference standard to estimate diastolic blood pressure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: RIA-device (Remote Investigation and Assessment)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04383457
