CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05678426
Title: TirolGESUND: Baseline-controlled Comparison of the Effects of Fasting Dietary Intervention or Smoking Cessation Combined With Exercise in Healthy Female Tyrolean Volunteers Aged 30-60 on Epigenetic and Multi-omic Biomarkers of Health, Ageing, and Disease
Official Title: TirolGESUND: General Exercise, Smoking Undone, and Nutrition Diet
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 156
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical study is to learn about disease-risk and age-associated changes in DNA methylation patterns associated with disease risk or age in healthy women aged 30-60 in response to health-promoting lifestyle intervention (intermittent fasting or smoking cessation). The main questions the study aims to answer are:

* Are the scores of DNA methylation in epigenetic signatures associated with age, women's cancer risk, or risk exposure reduced after 6 months of lifestyle intervention compared to baseline?
* What are the dynamics of DNA methylation changes during or following intervention, and do differences in changes between different sample types exist?
* Which other biomarkers of health and disease, including metabolic changes, microbiome, clinical, mental, or inflammatory parameters, are altered following intervention?

The investigators also aim to explore whether DNA methylation changes are associated with changes in other biomarkers mentioned above.

Participants will be allocated to intermittent fasting or smoking cessation based on inclusion criteria. Intermittent fasting encompasses a 16:8 intermittent fasting schedule. Food intake is limited to an 8 h window per day with fasting for the remaining 16 h. Within the intermittent fasting study, participants are randomised to receive a ketogenic supplement (medium-chain triglyceride fibre) or not. Participants in the smoking cessation study will be guided to stop smoking. All participants will receive 1:1 personal coaching throughout the study, and will be provided with an optional exercise programme. All participants will also receive nutritional advice from a professional dietician throughout the study. Participants are invited to donate samples every 2 months for 6 months.

Researchers will compare signatures at the start and after 6 months of intervention. Within the intermittent fasting group, researchers will compare effects in individuals that received the ketogenic supplement to those that did not.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background and study aims: A recent study reported that a majority of malignancies may be caused modifiable risk factors and could therefore be prevented. Smoking and diet are known risk factors for cancer but also other disorders such as cardiovascular or metabolic disorders and neurodegeneration, and may promote premature cellular ageing. The investigators and others have recently described epigenetic signatures for risk of being diagnosed, or developing future, women's cancers, as well as signatures reflecting cellular ageing and exposure to risk factors such as smoking. Utilization of DNA methylation biomarkers as surrogate endpoints indicative of current and/or future disease risk could improve future efforts in preventive medicine, both by providing information on disease risk and biofeedback. Few longitudinal studies have so far investigated the effects of lifestyle changes on DNA methylation and other biomarkers of health and disease.

TirolGESUND investigates the effect of two lifestyle interventions, smoking cessation or intermittent fasting (both with additional optional exercise), over 6 months for the promotion of health and reduction of disease risk, focusing on women's cancers.

Hypothesis: Intermittent fasting or smoking cessation for a duration of 6 months result in a modulation of scores of disease risk- and age-associated DNA methylation biomarker signatures in cervical samples, indicating a reduction of disease risk, exposure, or cellular ageing.

Study design: TirolGESUND is a baseline-controlled intervention study with two parallel arms, smoking cessation and intermittent fasting. Participants are allocated to the study arm based on eligibility criteria. Within the intermittent fasting arm, participants are randomised to receive a ketogenic supplement or not. Ketosis has been suggested to elicit beneficial metabolic alterations and could therefore further enhance beneficial effects in the dietary intervention.

Endpoints: The primary endpoint are score changes in epigenetic biomarkers of cellular ageing and disease risk, primarily recently published Women's cancer risk identification (WID) indices.

In secondary and subsidiary outcomes, the study will explore temporal and spatial dynamics of DNA methylation alterations in response to lifestyle interventions, comparing different surrogate samples (blood, buccal, cervical).

The study also investigates the impact of lifestyle intervention on other biomarkers of health and disease as a pilot study for future behavioural studies in the space of disease prevention and ageing research.

Intervention: Participants will be allocated to intermittent fasting or smoking cessation based on inclusion criteria. Intermittent fasting encompasses a 16:8 intermittent fasting schedule. Food intake is limited to an 8 h window per day with fasting for the remaining 16 h. Within the intermittent fasting study, participants are randomised to receive a ketogenic supplement (medium-chain triglycerid

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline scores of DNA methylation biomarkers of age, disease risk, and exposure

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Smoking cessation
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intermittent fasting
  - BEHAVIORAL: Intermittent fasting with ketogenic supplement

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05678426
