CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04039685
Title: The Effects of Chronic Exercise on UCP1 Gene in Human White Adipose Tissue
Official Title: The Effects of Chronic Exercise on UCP1 Gene in Human White Adipose Tissue
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 32
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Obesity is characterized by excessive white adipose tissue (WAT) that increases risk for disease. About 700 million adults are obese worldwide, designating the need of reducing excessive WAT in humans and subsequently the risk for disease. For this reason, previous research focused on the thermogenic capacity of white adipocytes in response to chronic exercise. It is suggested that the latter occurs due to increased demand of oxidation during exercise to maintain non-esterified fatty acids flux in the circulation, thus to maintain energy supply White adipocytes express the uncoupling protein one (UCP1), which dissipates chemical energy in the mitochondria to produce heat in response to cold exposure. UCP1 was thought that exclusively appears in brown adipose tissue (BAT), which during the mitochondrial electron transport chain process, bypasses the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase to produce heat, as a thermoregulatory mechanism of maintaining body temperature. Its presence in white adipocytes, indicates a thermogenic capacity of WAT, which could lead to similar health benefits as those reported for increased BAT activity; mainly reduced body mass index (BMI) and fat mass, which designate body weight loss and reduced obesity phenotype.

The investigators aimed to identify whether UCP1 in human WAT is altered by chronic exercise.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The investigators obtained three (baseline, post-exercise, post-de-training) subcutaneous fat biopsies from 32 healthy men who undertook three different eight week exercise programs \[aerobic (9 participants), resistance (8 participants), combined (aerobic+resistance, 8 participants)\] and a non-exercise group (7 participants), followed by an eight week de-training period. Exercise intensity was set at 65% of peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak) and 1 repetition maximum (1RM) throughout the exercise period, while the content of the exercise programs based on a previous study that examined the PGC1a gene, which is thought that increases UCP1 in human white adipose tissue (WAT). Exercise performed in three local gyms in Trikala, Thessaly, Greece, each for every exercise group to avoid cross-contamination between participants, while the exercise supervisors were blinded to the aim of the study. Measurements for anthropometry, body composition, resting energy expenditure (REE), and subcutaneous fat biopsy were obtained at baseline, post-exercise (week 8) and post de-training (week 16) periods while diet data were randomly collected for two weekdays and one weekend day at baseline, 8th and 16th week. VO2peak and 1RM were measured at baseline, 4th (to adjust the required exercise intensity at 65%), 8th and 16th week.

Anthropometry The participants visited the laboratory between 07:00 and 09:00 am and the following anthropometry measures took part: Height was measured using a Seca (Hamburg, Germany) device and weight using a scale (KERN \& Sohn GmbH, Version 5.3, Germany) while waist-to-hip ratio was measured using a tape measure and blood pressure through an acoustic method using an Aneroid sphygmomanometer. Percent body fat and fat-free mass were measured via bioelectrical impedance using a body composition monitor (Fresenius Medical Care AG \& Co. KGaA D-61346 Bad Hamburg, Germany).

Fat biopsies All biopsies were executed by an experienced surgeon following a previous methodology via a non-diathermy method. The participants underwent a subcutaneous fat biopsy after at least an eight hour fast and they were instructed to refrain from exercise, alcohol, and passive smoking in 72 hours prior the biopsy procedure in order to minimize the risk for misleading results. Each participant was positioned on a surgical bed in a supine position. The site of the incision was disinfected and a 10 ml of xylocaine 2%-no adrenaline was injected in the region of the incision for local anaesthesia. An incision on the skin and subcutaneous tissue until adipose tissue was revealed, was executed approximately 3-5 centimetres nearby the navel while the incision length was approximately 2-2.5 centimetres. Subsequently, the subcutaneous tissue was removed with an operating scissors and when the adipose tissue became visible nearly 500 milligrams of adipose tissue was captured and removed. The collected adipose tissue was immediately immersed in liquid nitrogen of -190° Celsius

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - UCP1 mRNA expression in white adipocytes
  - UCP1 protein concentration in white adipocytes

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Effects of an eight weeks aerobic exercise followed by an eight weeks de-training period on UCP1 gene of human white adipose tissue
  - OTHER: Effects of an eight weeks resistance exercise followed by an eight weeks de-training period on UCP1 gene of human white adipose tissue
  - OTHER: Effects of an eight weeks combined (aerobic+resistance) exercise followed by an eight weeks de-training period on UCP1 gene of human white adipose tissue

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 55 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04039685
