CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01826305
Title: Independent Exercise Compared With Formal Rehabilitation Following Primary Total Knee Replacement
Official Title: Independent Exercise Compared With Formal Rehabilitation Following Primary Total Knee Replacement
Status: TERMINATED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 23
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
In this study we plan to compare the efficacy of independent exercises performed by the patients at home to formal rehabilitation therapy following primary total knee replacement. Patients will be randomized to these two cohorts at enrollment into the study and followed prospectively. Patients randomized to the formal rehabilitation cohort will receive a prescription for therapy for twelve weeks. Patients randomized to the independent exercise cohort will receive online access to a twelve-week protocol of exercises to perform at home to strengthen and improve function of the replaced joint.

At enrollment, a baseline evaluation will be conducted to capture demographics, height, weight, primary diagnosis, medical comorbidities, and social supports as well as completion of the selected outcome measure, American Knee Society (AKS) Score, Knee and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS). Secondary outcomes will include the measurement of health status with use of the Short Form-12v2 (SF-12v2) and activity level with the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Activity Score. At the twelve-week, six-month and twelve-month follow-up visits, the study subjects will complete the KOOS, SF-12v2, and UCLA Activity ScorEQuestionnaires. Statistical analysis will be performed to compare the outcomes between the two cohorts.

Hypothesis:

There will be no difference in outcomes between formal rehabilitation and independent exercises at twelve months after primary total knee replacement surgery using the American Knee Society (AKS) Knee Score.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
We will randomize patients who are scheduled to have primary total knee arthroplasty to receive either a prescription for formal physical therapy (PT) or instructions for independent exercises. Inclusion criteria will be: scheduled for primary total knee arthroplasty, an age of eighteen years or older, speak English, and have a computer with access to the Internet. Exclusion criteria will be: any knee arthroplasty other than total knee, patients not planning to return for follow up care, patients relying on others for basic functioning, do not speak English, and do not have a computer with access to the Internet. Enrollment will occur at the initial clinic visit in the surgeon's office.

Informed consent will be received from patients who will participate in the study at the initial clinic visit and these patients will be randomized equally to either the PT/OT or independent exercise cohort using the REDCap website randomization feature. REDCap is a secure, web-based application for building and managing online surveys and databases that will be utilized for this study for data management. Patients that will be randomized to PT cohort will be prescribed formal therapy for twelve weeks with supervised exercises to regain knee strength and range of motion. Therapists will not be involved in the study design and therapists will not be informed that patients are participating in this study. The content, frequency, and duration of the rehabilitation program will be at the discretion of the treating therapist, consistent with usual practice.

The patients who will be in the independent exercises cohort will be registered on www.careforpatients.com, an online rehabilitation resource that provides computer aided rehabilitative exercises. Patients will follow a prepared 12-week protocol of exercises to perform postoperatively to gradually regain their knee strength and range of motion.

Post-operative weeks 0 - 1, the patients will perform three sets of ten repetitions everyday of: supine ankle pumps, supine heel slides, seated quad sets, supine glut sets, and supine hip abduction/adduction. The patient will also perform three sets of patella mobilization for one minute each and three sets of one repetition of supine knee extension.

Post-operative weeks 1 - 2, the patients will perform three sets of ten repetitions everyday of: supine heel slides, prone knee flexion, supine knee extension, supine SLR flexion, sidelying SLR abduction, prone SLR extension, sidelying SLR adduction. The patient will also perform three sets of patella mobilization for one minute each and three sets of one repetition of supine knee extension with weight.

Post-operative weeks 2 - 4, the patients will perform three sets of ten repetitions everyday of: standing knee extension, standing knee flexion, standing SLR flexion, standing SLR abduction, standing SLR extension, standing SLR adduction. The patient will also perform three sets of patella mobilization for one minute each, th

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - PROCEDURE: Formal Rehabilitation Therapy
  - PROCEDURE: Independent Exercise Cohort

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01826305
