CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06846931
Title: Comparison of the Efficacy of Shock Wave Therapy and Laser Therapy for Plantar Fasciitis
Official Title: Comparison of the Efficacy of Low Intensity ESWT and Low Intensity LASER Therapy in the Treatment of Chronic Plantar Fasciitis; Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of extracorporeal shock wave therapy and low-intensity laser therapy on pain, functionality, plantar fascia thickness and balance in patients with plantar fasciitis.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Plantar fasciitis is a pathology resulting from inflammation and/or degeneration of the plantar fascia of the sole of the foot. It affects about 10% of the population. It is one of the most common causes of chronic heel pain in the community and there is tenderness to palpation on the medial aspect of the heel bone. Patients complain of pain particularly with the first step in the morning and after rest. Mechanical overload and overuse can cause inflammation of the fascia. Diagnosis is usually made by clinical assessment and no further investigations are required.

In this study, 90 patients between the ages of 18 and 65 who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled and participants will be randomised into 3 groups. The 1st group will be taught ESWT and home exercises for 1 session per week for 3 weeks and will be asked to do it every day. The 2nd group will receive 3 sessions of low intensity LASER per week for 3 weeks and will be asked to do home exercises every day. The 3rd group will only be taught home exercises and asked to do participants every day for 3 weeks. Visual analogue scale, foot function index, plantar fascia thickness measurement with USG and balance parameters will be measured at the beginning of the study, at the end of the treatment and at week 12.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Visual Analog Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy
  - OTHER: Low Intensity Laser
  - OTHER: EXERCİSE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06846931
