CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07331649
Title: Comparative Effects of Modified Tabata Training and Fartlek Training in Amateur Football
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Modified Tabata Training and Fartlek Training on Strength, Power and Endurance in Amateur Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Background: Football requires players to excel in both high-intensity, fast-paced actions and slower moments of rest, which demand a range of well-developed motor skills, including power, endurance and strength. Endurance enables players to maintain prolonged physical effort without diminishing performance, a necessity given the sport's demand for players to cover 9-14 km per game, with up to 15% of this distance covered in high-intensity sprints. Strength is also crucial, helping players perform actions such as jumping, pushing during sprints, and maintaining stability, all of which enhance performance and resilience on the field. To adapt to the changing physical demands of football, training methods like treadmill sprint training and fartlek training (FT) are commonly used, each with different impacts on physiological development. Objective: The objective of this study is to compare the effects of treadmill sprint training and fartlek training on leg press strength, power and endurance on amateur football players. Methodology: A sample size of 42 football players will be randomly allocated to either fartlek training group or modified Tabata training group. A typical fartlek session begins with a warm-up, followed by intervals of intense effort (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 3, 2 minute hard and moderate runs) with recovery periods (2 minutes) in between, then concludes with a cool-down. This 2, 3, 4, 3, 2 interval set helps athletes improve endurance, strength and power and adapt to varied game-like conditions. The Modified Tabata training Program that will be carried out for 3 sessions per week over 6 weeks is as follows: there will be 3 training sessions in a week. In first two weeks, the 24-minute session will be divided into 6 sets, each set lasting 4 minutes consist of 8 rounds, with a 2-minute rest period between each set. The 4 minute exercise duration will consist of a work-to-rest ratio of 20 seconds of work and 10 seconds of rest. The level of exercise progressively increased throughout the 6-week program, by increasing the set of exercise Outcome measures in the both groups will be assessed by Squats test, Vertical jump test,3-min step up test and Yo-Yo Intermittent recovery test . All these measures will be taken at the baseline and again after 6 weeks of training to assess the effectiveness of the training program and the resulting improvements in strength, power, and endurance.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Study design: Randomized clinical trial Sample size: calculated by Epitool is 40 (20 in each group) Sampling technique: Non-probability convenient sampling Study setting Al-Musaddiq Institute of Higher Education, Kharian FG Degree College for Boys, Kharian cantt.

Inclusion:

Young Male football player aged 18-25 years Amateur football players (who are in practice from last 8 months) Athletes with BMI 18.5kg/m2 -24.9kg/m2 The participants not taking any supplements or anabolic steroids Engages in other physical activities (e.g., gym, running) at least weekly. Exclusion The participants with history of a severe injury (e.g. ACL tear, fracture ) in the last 6 months History of any lower limb surgery (e.g., ACL reconstruction or any major surgery) Any musculoskeletal disorder. Chronic respiratory conditions (e.g., COPD, severe asthma) affecting exercise capacity. Significant weight fluctuations in the past 3 months. Any diagnosed psychological and cardiovascular conditions that could affect participation. Tools For strength: squats test (ICC=0.99) For power: Vertical jump test (ICC = 0.968) For endurance: 3-min step up test (ICC = 0.913) , Yo Yo intermittent recovery Test (ICC= between 0.87 and 0.95)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Squat Test
  - Vertical Jump Test
  - 3-minute step-up Test
  - YoYo intermittent recovery Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Modified Tabata Training
  - OTHER: Fartlek Training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 25 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07331649
