CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05048862
Title: The Neuroimage Study of the Neuromuscular Disorders.
Official Title: The Neuroimage Study of the Neuromuscular Disorders.
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 500
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
The neuromuscular disorders could be briefly divided to neuropathy, myopathy, motor neuron disease, and neuromuscular junction disorder. In the past, the evaluation of the neuromuscular disorders depended on several ways (ex. electrodiagnostic studies and biopsy) to evaluate the pathophysiology and the pathological change. However, due to the issue of resolution, few image studies were available to evaluate the structure for clinical practice. With the growing techniques, there are two ways to see the nerve and muscle in vivo, the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and the ultrasonography. The availability of the machine, the high cost, inability to change the position for dynamic views of the nerves, and the relative invasion considering the large energy penetrating the patient might limit the clinical use of MRI. The nerve ultrasonography is a safe and easily available technique. The development of high-frequency transducers has led to an improvement in the resolution of ultrasonography and enables the exploration of peripheral nerve and muscle structural changes. In additional to evaluate the morphological changes, ultrasonography has been used extensively for the vessel status assessment through duplex ultrasound. In present study, we will apply variable approaches, including to muscle, nerve, and skin biopsy, electrophysiological study, quantitative sensory testing, autonomic functional tests, pain evoked potentials, MRI, and ultrasonography to integrally investigate the different aspects of neuromuscular disorders. The results of the study will provide integrated insights of (1) the neurophysiology of nerve and vessels and (2) pathogenesis of different neuromuscular disorders.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a prospective observational study which will be performed in both the inpatient and outpatient setting of National Taiwan University Hospital. Patients age at least 20 years, and have been diagnosed as neuromuscular disorders by the neurologist. Patients who are unable to read the questionnaire, fail to accept all the examinations, and refuse to provide inform consent are excluded from this study. The normal group (age at least 20 years) who had no neurological symptoms or signs were also recruited. The neurological examination performed by the board neurologist must be normal in the normal group.

Different interventions were performed periodically to see the serial change. The interval between the interventions is within 1 month and there is no new symptoms or any events.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Lean muscle volume and fat fraction in MRI
  - Muscle thickness and echogenecity in ultrasound

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Neuromuscular ultrasound
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Muscle MRI
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Nerve conduction studies and autonomic function tests
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Quantitative sensory test
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Skin biopsy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05048862
