CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03479866
Title: Personalised Responses to Dietary Composition Trial
Official Title: Predicting Inter-individual Differences in Biochemical and Behavioral Response to Meals With Different Nutritional Compositions Using Metabolomic and Microbiome Profiling.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 2500
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
The foods we eat - our diet - can affect whether we develop diseases during our lives, such as diabetes or heart disease. This is because the amount and types of foods we eat can affect our weight, and because different foods are metabolised (processed) by the body in different ways.

Scientists have also found that the bacteria in our guts (the gut microbiome) affects our metabolism, weight and health and that, together with a person's diet and metabolism, could be used to predict appetite and how meals affect levels of sugar (glucose) and fats (lipids) found in blood after eating. If blood sugar and fat are too high too often, there's a greater chance of developing diseases such as diabetes.

The gut microbiome is different in different people. Only 10-20% of the types of bacteria found in our guts are found in everyone. This might mean that the best diet to prevent disease needs matching to a person's gut microbiome and it might be possible to find personalised foods or diets that will help reduce the chance of developing chronic disease as well as metabolic syndrome.

The study investigators are recruiting volunteers aged 18 years or over from the TwinsUK cohort to take part in a study that aims to answer the questions above. The participants will need to come in for a clinical visit where they will give blood, stool, saliva and urine samples. The participants will also be given a standardised breakfast and lunch and fitted with a glucose monitor (Abbott Freestyle Libre-CE marked) to monitor their blood sugar levels. After the visit, the participants will be asked to eat standardised meals at home for breakfast for a further 12 days. Participants will also be required to prick their fingers at regular intervals to collect small amounts of blood, and to record constantly their appetite, food, physical activity and sleep using apps and wearable devices.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Choice of design: The study is a single arm mechanistic intervention study.

Study population: Twin participants will be recruited from the TwinsUK database and non-twins will be recruited via social media platforms and advertising campaigns.

Screening Assessment: Prospective participants will be selected based on the defined inclusion and exclusion criteria by the study management team. Recruitment will be done over the phone and via the Internet and emails and prospective participants will be booked in for their initial appointment to acquire baseline measurements.

Study duration: Each participant will take part in the study for a period of up to 3 weeks.

The PREDICT study will be divided into 3 protocol cohorts, where all participants (n=2,500) complete a baseline clinical visit as described below. Of this total, Cohort 1 (n=1,150) will complete a home-based dietary intervention lasting up to 2 weeks (June 2018 - May 2019). Within this group, 100 participants will complete an additional home-based dietary intervention lasting up to 3 weeks (February 2019 - May 2019).

Following completion of this first cohort, Cohort 2 (n=900) will complete a similar home-based dietary intervention lasting up to 2 weeks (June 2019 - May 2023). Within this cohort, 50 participants will also complete deep cardiometabolic phenotyping at their clinical visit (September 2019 - February 2020).

Finally, Cohort 3 (n=450) will only complete the baseline clinical visit (June 2019 - May 2023).

Dietary intervention:

On day one (baseline visit) participants will be given standardised meals for breakfast and lunch. Participants continuing onto the home-based intervention (n=2,050) will receive a dietary intervention lasting up to 12 days following their clinical visit. Each participant will be instructed to eat standardised meals for breakfast, which must be their first meal of the day. On some of these days the participants will also be asked to eat a standardised lunch meal. Participants are free to eat whatever they wish at all other times, although we may provide a list of recommended foods. The standardised meals will be provided to all participants by the study team on the day of the visit. The foods included as part of these meals will be foods that are commonly consumed and can be made from products sold in UK supermarkets. Participants will be reassured that the amount of food will be designed to ensure a stable body weight over the course of the study. Participants will be asked to consume the entire amount of food indicated for the standardised meals and to record any left-over food via a digital app for which training will be provided at the start of the study. For the remaining 2 days post the 12 day dietary intervention period, participants are free to eat and drink whatever they wish or choose from the list of recommended foods provided to them. They will be asked to track all meals, snacks and drinks on their digital app. Participants will also be advis

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gut microbiome profile
  - Lipids
  - Glucose
  - Sleep
  - Physical activity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Dietary intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03479866
