CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05282589
Title: Lumbopelvic Manipulation Effects on Fatigue in Chronic Low Back Pain Patients
Official Title: Effects Of Lumbopelvic Manipulation On Fatigue In Chronic Low Back Pain Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is determine the effects of lumbopelvic manipulation on fatigue, pain and disability in chronic low back pain patients. In this randomised clinical trial, lumbopelvic manipulation group was compared with conventional therapy group. Tools used in the study are numeric pain rating scale ,oswestry low back pain index and rating of fatigue scale.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Low back pain is an extremely common problem which causes morbidity in adults. It is more likely to occur in individuals around the age 20 to 60, this is partly due to the changes that occurs with aging. It can be acute (less than 12 weeks) or chronic (more than 12 weeks). There are many causes of low back pain one of the most common is the lumber disc herniation. Some of the most serious causes of low back pain include (infection, malignancy, vertebral fracture, cauda equina syndrome and inflammatory disorders such as axial spondyloarthritis). Mostly low backpain can be a result of injury such as muscle strain or sprains due to sudden movements or poor body mechanics while lifting heavy loads. Pain in low back can be the result of infection effecting the bony lumber spine, ligaments around the spine, the spinal cord, nerves and muscles of the spine, internal organs and skin around the spine.

Treatment for low back pain falls into three broad categories, multidisciplinary therapy is based on intensive exercises that improves physical function and has modest effects on pain physiotherapy treatment of low back pain includes laser, massage, multidisciplinary rehabilitation and spinal manipulation. Spinal manipulation is a high velocity thrust to a joint beyond its restricted range of movement. Spinal manipulation to lumber spine is a common intervention administered for patients with low back pain.

There is limited use of the technique in our society especially finding its effects on fatigue in chronic low back pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fatigue assessment scale (FAS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: lumbopelvic manipulation and conventional therapy
  - OTHER: conventional therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 60 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05282589
