CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03179098
Title: Immediate Effects of Superficial Heat Associated With Elongation in the Posttraumatic Elbow Contracture
Official Title: Immediate Effects of Superficial Heat Associated With Sustained Stretching on Post-traumatic Elbow Contracture: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
The elbow contracture is a secondary injury that can occur after direct trauma, causing the patient to have limitations in their range of motion. Objective evaluation protocols that help in decision making for the indication of these therapeutic resources have great value in rehabilitation, as they reduce unnecessary expenses and improve the assertiveness in the indication of this resource.

Objective: To verify the immediate effects of superficial heat associated with sustained stretching through muscle activity and range of motion in the posttraumatic contractures of the elbow seeking the best indication of orthosis.

Methods: Characterized as a randomized crossover type clinical trial. Sample of 20 adult subjects, of both sexes, over 18 years old, with elbow stiffness due to fractures and / or dislocations with indication of orthosis use. Patients will be divided into 2 randomly assigned intervention groups: the control group (CG) who will perform the 10 'sustained stretching drawn by a defined load through maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) and the modified Weeks Group (GWM) will perform 20 'of surface heat through the swirl and soon after the stretching sustained by 10' with already defined load. All patients will undergo an initial assessment and will participate in all 2 interventions while respecting a 7 day washout period. Goniometry and the visual analogue scale will be applied at the beginning and end of the interventions. The Delsys® brand equipment will be used to collect the electromyographic data. Placement and positioning of the electrodes will follow the determinations of the Seniam protocol. The activation of the brachial, brachioradial and triceps brachii muscles during the MVIC will be analyzed and also during the respective intervention protocols.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Range of motion of elboww

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Modified Weeks protocol
  - OTHER: CIVM
  - OTHER: GC- Sustained Stretching

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03179098
