CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06246318
Title: Effects of VR in Children With DCD: Randomized Controlled Trial
Official Title: Effects of Virtual Reality in Children With Developmental Coordination Disorder: Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 48
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to examine the effect of VR application on motor, cognitive and sensory-perceptual skills, and activity and participation levels in children with DCD.

The hypotheses on which the study proposal is based are as follows:

1. H0: VR application has no effect on motor skills in children with DCD. H1: VR application has an effect on motor skills in children with DCD.
2. H0: VR application has no effect on cognitive skills in children with DCD. H1: VR application has an effect on cognitive skills in children with DCD.
3. H0: VR application has no effect on sensory-perception skills in children with DCD.

   H1: VR application has an effect on sensory-perception skills in children with DCD.
4. H0: VR application has no effect on the functional independence levels in daily living activities in children with DCD.

   H1: VR application has an effect on the functional independence levels in daily living activities in children with DCD.
5. H0: VR application has no effect on participation levels in children with DCD. H1: VR application has an effect on participation levels in children with DCD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Within the scope of our aims;

* To determine the gross motor skill levels of children with DCD and to obtain the effect of VR application on gross motor skill levels.
* To determine the executive function skill levels of children with DCD and to obtain the effect of VR application on executive function skill levels.
* To determine the sensory-perception skill levels of children with DCD and to obtain the effect of VR application on sensory-perception skill levels.
* To determine the functional independence of children with DCD in daily life and to obtain the effect of VR application on their functional independence levels.
* It is aimed to determine the participation levels of children with DCD and to obtain the effect of VR application on their participation levels.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Test of Gross Motor Development-2
  - Sensory İntegration and praxis test
  - Motor-Free Visual Perception Test-3

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: virtual reality
  - OTHER: conventional occupational therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 5 Years to 8 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06246318
