CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04044456
Title: Combining Attention and Metacognitive Training to Improve Goal Directed Behavior in Veterans With TBI
Official Title: Combining Attention and Metacognitive Training to Improve Goal Directed Behavior in Veterans With TBI
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Veterans with mild traumatic brain injury continue to deal with symptoms that interfere with their ability to engage in productive activities. In combination with other psychosocial difficulties, impairments are found in cognition, such as attention and executive function. Few interventions are available to treat attention in Veterans with mTBI. Of the interventions available, none rigorously train attention combined with strategy training. This project will innovatively combine a strategy training called Goal Management Training with computerized attention training to improve tests of problem solving, attention and functional tasks compared to a control group.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a pilot study to test the effect of GMT plus Attention Training for Veterans with chronic mTBI. The research design is a parallel study with randomization to treatment or control with test administration at pre/post and six months following treatment. The investigators will enroll 50 Veterans with a diagnosis mTBI between the ages of 18 to 55, that demonstrate a deficit in attention, pass effort testing and have not changed psychotropic medication within the past two weeks. Treatment utilizes GMT for 10-weekly two-hour sessions and Brain HQ/Attention Process Training III for 10-weekly two-hour sessions. Control utilizes a complimentary Brain Health Workshop for 10-weely two-hour sessions and National Geographic movies for 10-weekly two-hour sessions.

Aim 1: Determine the treatment effect of attention training combined with GMT in Veterans with mTBI.

Hypothesis 1: GMT plus attention training will significantly improve performance on tests of cognition compared to the control group.

Primary measure: Computerized Tower of London (cTOL) total time, time to first move and optimal moves). The investigators have found significant improvement in cTOL following GMT in previous cohorts of Veterans with blast-related mTBI and anticipate improvement following a combined intervention.

Secondary measure: Attention Network Task (ANT) reaction time and errors for one or all dissociable components of three attentional systems (orienting, alerting, executive control) following intervention. There is little understanding of components of impaired attention and how it impacts executive function; therefore, there is limited guidance in shaping cognitive training. The investigators will conduct an experimental task (attention network task) that disassociates three attentional components (alerting, orienting, and executive control). The investigators will specifically target the orienting component of attention that is problematic for Veterans with mTBI and PTSD24, 26. Attentional processes are vital to goal-directed behavior. There is great potential in the use of these measures to identify individual differences (type of attention deficit) that could moderate treatment-related improvement and inform targeted interventions.

Hypothesis 2: Treatment gains will translate to functional activities compared to controls.

Primary measure of functional performance: test of grocery shopping skills (TOGSS) total time and optimal strategy use. The TOGSS captures efficiency in completing a real-world task and aligns with the strategy skills learned in GMT.

Secondary measure of community participation, the Community Reintegration of Servicemembers (CRIS) extent of participation. The CRIS demonstrated significant GMT treatment effect compared to controls in Veterans with mTBI. The combined treatment of attention training using drill training and implementing strategies to improve attention in a functional setting through GMT will potentiate treatment effect to functio

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Computerized Tower of London Average Time to Complete Problems/Total Time
  - Test of Grocery Shopping Skills

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Goal Management Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Attention Training
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brain Health Workshop
  - BEHAVIORAL: National geographic movies

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 19 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04044456
