CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02627586
Title: High-Intensity Interval Training Early After Left Ventricular Myocardial Infarction
Official Title: High Intensity Interval Training & Early Adverse Remodelling After Left Ventricular mYocardial Infarction (HIIT-EARLY): A Randomized Controlled Exercise Intervention Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 75
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Several studies have shown that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is more effective than moderate-intensity continuous exercise training (MICE) at improving functional capacity and quality of life in stable cardiac patients and can be performed safely.

However, its effect on patients after recent myocardial infarction is currently unknown. In these patients avoidance of a negative remodeling after an acute myocardial infarction is of upmost importance. Therefore, assessment of the influence of HIIT on post-infarct left ventricular-remodeling is urgently needed.

Therefore, the aim of this study is to determine the effect of HIIT on left ventricular (LV) remodeling (measured by LV end diastolic volume) compared to the effect of the more established MICE training modality.

Further measurements include other parameters of LV remodeling (LV contractility, and brain natriuretic peptide), prognostic parameters (peak oxygen uptake, exercise capacity), cardiac output, endothelial function, leg muscle function and scores of quality of life. Further, certain blood parameters and heart rate variability measured by electro-cardiogram are measured to assess the safety of this type of training.

Patients with first ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or equivalent with onset of symptoms of ischemia and treated by primary percutaneous intervention within the preceding 4 weeks will be included.

The HIIT and MICE is integrated in a 12-week exercise training program at the Inselspital Bern, consisting of 1) exercise training, 2) nutrition counselling and 3) psychotherapy. The exercise program will comprise 3 weekly exercise sessions lasting 90 minutes, supervised by experienced exercise therapists. The program focuses on endurance type exercises, strengthening and relaxation exercises as well as exercises to improve coordination skills. In the first 3 weeks (run-in-phase), all patients will complete three weekly MICE sessions. In the following 9 weeks, patients randomized to the intervention group will perform two weekly HIIT sessions and one MICE session per week. The control group will continue with three weekly MICE sessions for the 9 week intervention phase.

A total of 144 patients will be recruited. Measurements will be performed at baseline, after a 3-week run-in-phase, and after the 9-week intervention phase. Safety measurements will be performed during the 4th and 12th week.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background

Several studies have shown that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is more effective than moderate-intensity continuous exercise training (MICE) at improving functional capacity and quality of life in stable cardiac patients and can be performed safely.

It has therefore emerged as a new and important exercise modality in cardiac rehabilitation centres all over Europe for stable heart failure patients with LV dysfunction. Its safety and efficacy has not yet been tested in patients with acute LV dysfunction due to a myocardial infarction. In clinical practice, the difference between acute and chronic left ventricular dysfunction is often not made and patients with a condition after a recent myocardial infarction and LV dysfunction might be offered the same training regimens as patients with chronic heart failure, including HIIT, although its effect on post-infarction remodeling is unknown. On the other hand, avoidance of a negative remodeling after an acute myocardial infarction is of upmost importance. Therefore, assessment of the influence of HIIT on post-infarct LV-remodeling is urgently needed.

Objective

To determine the effect of HIIT on left ventricular remodelling (measured by end diastolic volume) compared to the effect of the more established MICE training modality in patients after a recent myocardial infarction and LV dysfunction.

Methods

After a 3-week run-in phase with MICE only training for all patients, patients randomised to the HIIT group will perform two HIIT and one MICE session per week while the MICE group performs 3 MICE sessions per week. Outcomes will be assessed before and after the 9-week intervention. End diastolic volume will be measured by 2-dimensional echography, peak oxygen uptake (peak VO2) and exercise capacity by cardiopulmonary exercise testing on a cycle ergometer, quality of life by questionnaires, vascular function by arterial stiffness measurement, leg muscle cross-sectional area by peripheral quantitative computed tomography, and leg muscle function by jumping mechanography. During the 4th and the 12th week of the rehabilitation training, heart rate variability will be measured in the morning following training, and blood samples will be taken after a training session to analyse markers of myocardial stress (Troponin T, MR-proANP, BNP).

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Left ventricular end diastolic volume

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: HIIT
  - OTHER: MICE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02627586
