CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06028607
Title: Feasibility of Consumption of Nutritional Supplementation in Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia
Official Title: A Study to Explore the Feasibility of Consumption of Specific Complex Amino Acid Supplementation in the Form of an Oral Gel With Additional Leucine (40%) and Vitamin D in Patients With Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia: a Feasibility Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 15
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Feasibility study to understand and gain preliminary information on tolerability and palatability of an oral nutritional supplement gel in a clinical Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia population. To determine if dietary intake is affected by the consumption of the nutritional supplement.

Explore possible future outcome measures that could be important in determining impact of this nutritional intervention on this patient group.

Participants will be provided with the gel supplements and alongside will have other standard and non standard care measures assessed lung function (FEV1%) number of exacerbation's during study period vitamin D status Bio impedance analysis (BIA) skin-fold measures (e.g. Tricep Skin-fold (TSF) Mid upper arm circumference (MUAC) Handgrip strength (HGS) quality of life measures 6-minute walking tests. Hypothesis Patients with PCD can successfully consume 2 gel supplements per day for a period of 3 months with no effect on dietary intake.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This is a single site study taking place in a regional PCD clinic. Participants are screened via patient online data system by lead consultants and contacted via telephone to outline study and provide information and contact for queries. participant information sheet and pre-test guidance to be sent to participant prior to next scheduled clinic appointment.

Participants attend their usual clinic appointments where routine care measures are completed by healthcare assistants and lead consultants. They then have opportunity to ask study coordinator any questions and complete consent for additional measures to be recorded.

This is followed by a trial of the supplement to check for immediate tolerance followed by completion of consent to partake in study and initial palatability and acceptability records.

3 month supply of supplement is provided along with storage and consumption instructions (consume 1 at breakfast and 1 at lunch) a waste box to retain consumed sachets and record time of consumption. Additional telephone appointment made for 1 month to collect further palatability and acceptability along with dietary 24 hour recall.

Participant is contacted via telephone at month 1 and 2 to recheck tolerability, acceptability, palatability and dietary intake. Participant can withdraw at any time if unable to continue to tolerate gel supplement.

Participant returns to clinic at month 3 to repeat all standard measures, additional outcomes and palatability, acceptability and dietary intake.

participant has completed study offered further dietary support through usual clinic route with registered dietitian.

Participants can withdraw from the study at any point without giving any reason. Any data collected from them up until that point can be used in analysis.

As this is a feasibility study a sample size calculation is not required. The PCD population within the regional clinic at time of recruitment is 54. All patients with PCD will be approached for inclusion in this feasibility if they meet the inclusion criteria until minimum number of 15 and maximum of 20 is reached.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Percentage consumption of supplement gels
  - Assessment of palatability of supplement gels
  - Measurement of dietary intake

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: QD-27

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 17 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06028607
