CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04751513
Title: Auricular Acupressure : Improves Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
Official Title: Auricular Acupressure Improves Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy and Quality of Life
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 76
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OIPN) is a common adverse effect that becomes worse as the drug dose accumulation impacts cancer patients' daily activities and quality of life.The result of this study will determine the immediate effects of the 8-week auricular acupuncture intervention on alleviating the participants' OIPN symptoms and enhancing their quality of life. This study will continue to evaluate the carry-over effects of auricular acupuncture after the chemotherapy course ends.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Objectives:

Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OIPN) is a common adverse effect that becomes worse as the drug dose accumulation impacts cancer patients' daily activities and quality of life. This study aims to evaluate the immediate and carry-over effects of auricular acupressure on OIPN symptoms and quality of life for colorectal cancer patients.

Methods :

This randomized trial will recruit 76 participants with colorectal cancer and OIPN from the oncology outpatient department in Taiwan. The control group will receive usual care, whereas the experimental group will receive usual care in addition to auricular acupressure for 8 weeks. Outcomes will be assessed by using the chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy assessment tool, neuropathic pain symptom inventory, pain visual analogue scale, and the European Organization for research and treatment of cancer-quality of life questionnaire-core 30. These assessment tools are used before the intervention, biweekly during the intervention, 2 weeks after the intervention, and one month after the end of the chemotherapy course.

Hypothesis:

Ultimately, the result of this study will determine the immediate effects of the 8-week auricular acupuncture intervention on alleviating the participants' OIPN symptoms and enhancing their quality of life. This study will continue to evaluate the carry-over effects of auricular acupuncture after the chemotherapy course ends.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0[NCI-CTCAE v5.0]
  - Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy Assessment Tool(CIPNAT)
  - Neuropathic Pain Symptom inventory (NPSI)
  - Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: auricular acupressure

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04751513
