CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01640821
Title: Dissemination of the "Choisir de Maigrir?" Program
Official Title: Dissemination of the "Choisir de Maigrir?" Program in Health and Social Service Centers in Québec: Evaluation of Its Implementation and Impact on Lifestyle Habits and Well-being
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 328
Topic: weight loss exercise

SUMMARY:
The Québec government launched in October 2006 an action plan (PAG) to reduce the prevalence of overweight and obesity among young people and adults by 2012. One of the five priorities of the PAG is to improve health services for individuals with weight-related issues. The development and implementation of sustainable weight-control strategies however remains a challenge, since weight loss is often regained by the majority of individuals over time. "Health-At-Every-Size" (HAES) interventions, which are mainly focusing on health rather that weight, have been proposed as an interesting alternative for individuals, mainly women, who are struggling with weight-related issues. Based on the HAES, "Choisir de maigrir?" (CdM?) program has been clearly identified by the PAG as one of the actions for improving health services and Quebec's government has already started a massive dissemination of the CdM? program in CSSS of Québec. In that context, it becomes imperative to rapidly assess the effectiveness and readiness of the program for a broad dissemination. The present research proposal falls directly within the scope of the PAG recommendation and the investigators general objective is to develop a population-based understanding of the effectiveness of the CdM? program in Quebec's CSSS by documenting the effects of the program on women's health in a natural setting.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The impact of "CdM?" will be assessed with each CSSS at three time points: at baseline (T=1), at the end of the intervention period (T=2), and at 1-y post-intervention (T=3). While data collection instructions and assessment materials will be provided by the research team, administration of the CdM? program will be totally under the responsibility of each CSSS, so that the program will occur outside of the research team control. Validated questionnaires will be used to assess nutritional profile, physical activity level, and psychosocial variables among the participants (N=168). Weight, height and waist circumference will also be measured for each participant. In order to ensure that our results are not due to the effect of time, women on a waiting list for CdM? program, will be recruited (N=84) for the short-term effect. All these data will be treated using sophisticated analyses strategies.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Food habits

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: CdM? program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01640821
