CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05465044
Title: Incremental Hemodialysis for Veterans in the First Year of Dialysis (IncHVets)
Official Title: Incremental Hemodialysis for Veterans in the First Year of Dialysis (IncHVets): A Pragmatic, Multi-Center, Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 252
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
In this pragmatic clinical trial, which will dovetail with Veterans' routine outpatient dialysis clinic visits in six VA medical centers, the investigators will study 252 Veterans with kidney disease who need to start dialysis treatment. If a Veteran is eligible for the study by making enough residual urine, he/she will have A-50% chance to be offered the usual three-times-per-week dialysis vs. twice-per-week dialysis that is gradually increased to three-times per- week over one year. The investigators will compare health-related quality of life, how long residual kidney function lasts, and other measures including safety in these two groups. By conducting this study, the investigators hope to understand 1) whether starting dialysis with less frequency is safe, effective, and can help Veterans and their care-partners to better cope with dialysis, and 2) if incremental dialysis can result in major cost benefits to the VA health care system, thus allowing more patients to stay in VA dialysis clinics vs. being transferred to outside clinics.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Each year approx. 12,000 Veterans with worsening kidney disease develop end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and initiate dialysis treatment. They comprise \>10% of the US incident ESRD population. Dialysis is costly and associated with impaired health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and high mortality risk, especially in the first dialysis treatment year. Currently, starting treatment with outright full-dose thrice-weekly hemodialysis (HD) from the outset of therapy is the standard of care regardless of patients' residual kidney function (RKF) and regardless of patients' and care-partners' suffering and preferences. Although not currently the standard of care, evidence suggests that gradual or incremental dialysis transition using an initial twice-weekly HD may confer substantial benefits including more dialysis-free time, longer RKF preservation, less trauma to patients' organs including their dialysis vascular access, lower frequency of intradialytic hypotensive events, less post-dialysis fatigue, and reduced patient suffering. Hence, incremental dialysis transition may result in improved HRQOL through better physical function, less fatigue, more energy, and better patient satisfaction and life participation by mitigating the burden of excessive dialysis in day-to-day life and on employment. Pragmatic studies with immediate impact are needed to shift the focus of dialysis from abrupt thrice-weekly HD start to a safe and effective personalized dialysis regimen.

In this multi-site, pragmatic, 1:1 randomized controlled trial (RCT), parallel with Veterans' routine dialysis therapy, the investigators will test the safety and efficacy of an incremental HD protocol, compared to standard-of-care thrice-weekly HD, in Veterans who meet the eligibility criteria. The investigators plan to compare twice-weekly (incremental) with thrice-weekly (conventional) HD initiation in 252 Veterans, who will transition to maintenance HD therapy in six VA centers. Assessing quarterly for up to 12 months, the investigators will study HRQOL physical health score as the primary endpoint, as well as dialysis symptom index and energy/fatigue score as secondary endpoints. Additional secondary outcome measures to collect and examine quarterly include preservation of the RKF, dialysis adequacy, nutritional status, and serum level of Growth Differentiation Factor 15. Safety assessments will include mortality, dialysis withdrawals, ER visits, hospitalizations, hyperkalemia, and major adverse cardiovascular events. In a substudy of 112 participating Veterans in three VA centers, the investigators will additionally examine cardiac measures including left ventricular mass, as well as mid-arm muscle circumference and physical performance.

This pragmatic RCT addresses a major unmet need in those Veterans who initiate dialysis by focusing on improving HRQOL and preserving RKF, the two strongest predictors of survival and patients' satisfaction. The results of the study may enable more Vet

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change over time in numeric scale of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) Physical Component Score (PCS) of SF36 questionnaire.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Twice-weekly hemodialysis with incremental crossover to thrice-weekly schedule
  - OTHER: Thrice-Weekly Hemodialysis

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05465044
