CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02761590
Title: Circuit trening on Knee Osteoarthritis Patients
Official Title: Influence of a Circuit Trining Protocol on Intermuscular Adipose Tissue of Knee Osteoarthritis Patients: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 60
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
Introduction: The increase in intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT) can contribute to muscle weakness and consequently on progression of knee OA. The prescription of exercise protocols has been used as a treatment strategy to minimize some of the bouts. Circuit trening (CT) involves the combination of strength trening and aerobic in the same session and has shown benefits in body composition and physical function. But the literature is unclear with respect to the influences of CT in the concentration of IMAT in the population with knee OA. Objective: To investigate the influence of a 14-week CT protocol in body composition and thigh IMAT concentration as well as cartilage degradation indicators and systemic inflammation and its impact on quality of life in patients with knee OA.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study presents a randomized controlled trial design. They will be selected 40 participants diagnosed with knee OA grades II and III, aged 40 and 65 years and BMI \<30 kg / m2 were randomly divided into two groups: participants underwent trening (trened group - TG) and not subjected to trening ( untrened group - NTG). The participants trened group will undergo a periodized CT protocol of 14 weeks load progression, 3 times a week, with sessions last 15 minutes in the first weeks and will arrive 35 minutes in final weeks, and added 10 minutes between heating and cooling down. All subjects will conduct pre and post CT variables: IMAT thigh (computed tomography); body composition (Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry - DXA), inflammatory biomarker concentrations: IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, leptin and adiponectin and joint degradation biomarkers (uCTX-II and sCOMP), performance tests functional (six-minute walk, 30 seconds chair stand test and stair climb test), muscle strength (maximum voluntary isometric contraction - MVIC), WOMAC and KOOS questionnaires, and catastrophizing pain scale. During the trening protocol, uCTX-II variables, sCOMP and MVIC will also be evaluated. To compare the groups will be applied the unpaired t-test. When found significant main effects, the Bonferroni test will be used to identify the statistically significant differences. To compare the collections times (pre, during and post TC) for uCTX-II variables, sCOMP and MVIC will be held repeated measures Anolva with post hoc Bonferroni, and the WOMAC variables, KOOS, DXA, IMAT, functional testing and inflammatory cytokines (pre and post CT) will be held the paired t test. A significance level of 5% (p ≤ 0.05) will be adopted.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline Intermuscular adipose tissue (IMAT) at 14 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Circuit trening protocol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02761590
