CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02724943
Title: Texas Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration (TX CORD) Project
Official Title: Systems Approach to Obesity Prevention in Underserved Children in Texas (Randomized Controlled Trial)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 549
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
A systems approach emphasizes the linkage between individual behavior change strategies and social and physical environmental changes, which act synergistically to facilitate (or inhibit) healthy eating and active living. The hypothesis of this study is that among low-income, ethnically diverse overweight and obese children, aged 2-12 years, a systems approach to child obesity will reduce body mass index (BMI) compared to primary prevention alone.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The goal of this project is to develop, implement and evaluate an integrated, systems-oriented obesity model for underserved, ethnically diverse children aged 2-12 years. The first step will include conducting an assets-based community assessment in low-income neighborhood catchment areas in Austin and Houston, TX with input and data-sharing from existing partnerships. Results from this assessment will inform and facilitate the implementation of both primary and secondary prevention efforts across multiple sectors (healthcare, school, and childcare). The demonstration project will include secondary prevention programs embedded within community primary prevention efforts. For primary prevention, a quasi-experimental approach will be used, where existing obesity prevention efforts are reinforced and optimized in healthcare clinics, Head Start Centers and schools in the catchment areas (NOTE: the primary prevention intervention study is further described in ClinicalTrials.gov at Texas Childhood Obesity Research Demonstration project Primary Prevention Intervention {TXCORDPRIM) under a different protocol \& record). Secondary prevention includes integration of the investigative team's evidence-based portfolio of family and community interventions, specifically the MEND/CATCH programs. For secondary prevention, a randomized controlled trial design will be used in which individual overweight/obese children are randomized to a 12-month community-centered, family-based obesity program or to primary prevention alone.

The hypothesis of this study is that among low-income, ethnically diverse overweight and obese children, aged 2-12 years, a systems approach to child obesity will reduce body mass index (BMI, expressed as %95th percentile) compared to primary prevention alone. The specific aims of the grant are as follows (see below).

Aim 1: To implement and evaluate the efficacy of a systems approach to child obesity on reducing BMI (expressed as %95th percentile) by embedding a 12-month family-based secondary prevention program within a community primary prevention program. The secondary prevention weight management program will target overweight/obese children and their families in the primary prevention catchment areas in Austin and Houston. Overweight/obese children (total n=576), aged 2-12 years, will be randomly assigned to either the 12-month secondary prevention program (experimental) or the community primary prevention program alone (control), in equal age subgroups (2-5, 6-8, and 9-12 years). Analyses will be conducted by age group, and outcomes will include BMI as expressed as %95th percentile), obesity-related behaviors, quality of life, and program use indicators.

Aim 2: To quantify the incremental cost-effectiveness of the 12-month family-based secondary prevention program relative to primary prevention alone for child obesity. Activity Based Costing methods will be used to quantify the incremental cost of delivering the secondary prevention

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in obesity as indicated by body mass index (BMI) expressed as %95th percentile
  - Change in obesity as indicated by body mass index (BMI) expressed as %95th percentile

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: BMI screening
  - BEHAVIORAL: Next Steps brief clinical intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: MEND/CATCH
  - BEHAVIORAL: MEND/CATCH trensition Phase
  - BEHAVIORAL: Next Steps Self-Paced Booklet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 2 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02724943
