CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04098484
Title: Biological Adaptations of Strength Training.
Official Title: Biological Adaptations of Strength Training to Obese and Normal Weight Middle-aged Men
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
A two-trial repeated measures design will be employed in this investigation. Both the control trial and the exercise trial will last for 3 months. During a week before the start of the study, participants will complete dietary recalls and record their habitual physical activity using accelerometers. Thereafter, body composition, ultrasound imaging of the muscle and liver, biochemical and hematological markers were measured. This range of measurements will be repeated the ended each month for both trials. Control trial succeeds exercise trial. An exercise intervention program will take place in the second trial, three times a week.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
A sample size of 30 volunteers, aged 35-45 years, will participate in the present study. Of them, 15 will be normal weight and 15 will suffer from fatty liver disease (BMI 29-35 kg/m2, waist size \>102 cm). The exclusion criteria will be a) medication, b) musculoskeletal problems that will prevent participation in the training program, c) known condition or medical condition preventing participation in the program e.g. hypertension, d) BMI\> 35kg / m2, (e) a severe family medical history up to first degree relatives with cardiovascular disease and / or diabetes at the age of less than 65 for women and less than 55 years for men and (f) smoking. After informing and receiving a questionnaire and medical history, volunteers will sign for their participation in the survey.

A two-trial repeated measures design will be applied in this investigation. Both control and exercise trials will last for 3 months. During the week preceding the commencement of the study, participants will complete dietary recalls and will have their habitual physical activity monitored, by utilizing accelerometers. Thereafter, body composition, ultrasound imaging of muscle and liver, biochemical and hematological markers will be measured. The same measurements will be repeated at the end of each month, in both trials. Control trial will be executed prior to exercise trial. An exercise intervention program, combining strength and cardiovascular exercises performed three times a week, will take place in the exercise trial.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in body composition
  - Changes in HDL concentration
  - Changes in LDL concentration
  - Changes in total cholesterol
  - Changes in triglycerides

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Control Trial
  - OTHER: Exercise Trial

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 35 Years to 50 Years
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04098484
