CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05707026
Title: Cross Fiber Fascial Manipulation and Stretching Techniques in Overhead Throwing Athletes
Official Title: Comparative Effects of Cross Fiber Fascial Manipulation and Stretching Techniques on Glenohumeral Internal Rotation Deficit in Overhead Throwing Athletes
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
Athletic training and sports participation is to enhance athletic performance. Performance is however multifactorial i.e., depending upon several parameters including warm-up practice, training regimes and other interventions. Stretching techniques that focus on increasing posterior shoulder soft tissue flexibility are commonly incorporated into prevention and treatment programs for the overhead athletes. GIRD is usually managed by stretching and soft tissue release of posterior shoulder capsule. Fascial manipulation is a manual therapy technique used in the management of musculoskeletal disorders. This study aims to evaluate the comparative effects of cross fiber fascial manipulation with stretching techniques in overhead throwing athletes

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This was a randomized clinical trial that was conducted at Pakistan sports board and Coaching center, Lahore. Non probability convenient sampling technique was used to collect the data as per inclusion criteria. 40 Participants of this study were randomly allocated into 2 Groups. 20 participants in each group. The group A received three sessions of fascial manipulation for two weeks. Group B received three sessions of sleeper stretch in a side lying position in 90o abduction, elbow at 90o flexion and then performed shoulder IR and cross-body adduction stretch in sitting position. Three sets of the each stretch positions were held for 30 seconds with a 1 minute break between sets. A universal goniometer was used to measure internal rotation, external rotation, horizontal abduction, ROWE score to assess function, pain, stability and motion, Numeric pain rating scale (NPRS) was used to assess pain. The data was analyzed via SPSS version 22.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Goniometer
  - numeric pain rating scale
  - ROWE score composite

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: cross fiber fascial manipulation
  - OTHER: stretching techniques(sleeper stretch and cross body adduction stretch)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 40 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05707026
