CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03872063
Title: Myofascial Induction and Eccentric Exercises in Volleyball Players
Official Title: Efficacy of a Physiotherapy Program Through Myofascial Induction and Eccentric Exercises in the Improvement of Mobility and the Perception of Nonspecific Pain in the Shoulder Joint in Volleyball Players. A Randomized Pilot Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Introduction. Myofascial therapy aims to improve fascial restrictions through the application of mechanical stimuli. The eccentric exercises involve the recruitment of fast fibers and help increase muscle volume.

Aim. Compare the effectiveness of myofascial induction intervention in the improvement of the range of motion of glenohumeral rotation and the pain perception, with respect to the use of eccentric exercises in volleyball players from 18 to 35 years of age.

Study design. Multicenter and single-blind randomized clinical study with follow-up period.

Methods. A random assignment of the 40 subjects recruited to the different study groups will be carried out: experimental (myofascial induction technique and eccentric exercises) and control (eccentric exercises). The intervention will last 4 weeks, with a weekly session of 17 and 7 minutes (in the experimental and control group, respectively). The dependent variables and measurement instruments will be: internal and external shoulder rotation (goniometry) and pain perception (visual analog scale). The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will calculate the distribution of the sample, using parametric tests (t-student to calculate the difference of means between the evaluations in each group and ANOVA of repeated measures to calculate the intra- and intersubject effect) in case of normal.

Expected results. To improve the range of motion of glenohumeral joint global rotation and of the perception of pain of the subject.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from baseline range of motion of shoulder after treatment and at month

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Experimental
  - OTHER: Control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 35 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03872063
