CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06558851
Title: The Effect of Systematic Endurance Training in Treatment of Women With Lipedema
Official Title: The Effect of Systematic Endurance Training in Treatment of Women With Lipedema - The LipidEx Study
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
Lipedema is a chronic adipose tissue disorder that primarily affects women. The etiology remains unclear and involves abnormal buildup of fat mainly in the lower limbs. It causes physical and psychological morbidity, often with significant impact of daily life. Effective treatment options are still limited, primary involving conservative measures such as compression therapy. Regular endurance training is known to have positive effects on pain management in other disorders, as well as beneficial effects on obesity management. Thus, LipidEx aims to explore the potential of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) as a novel therapeutic option for women with lipedema. We will now perform a cross-over randomized controlled trial (RCT) exploring the effects of 12 weeks of HIIT compared to a control period of usual care. Primary outcomes include changes in pain, and secondary outcomes include changes in adipose tissue mass and quality of life. Exploratory outcomes include changes in inflammatory markers, metabolites, and lipoprotein subfractions in blood and adipose tissue.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Design This study will follow the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials (SPIRIT) reporting guidelines.

Study design and participants We will conduct a crossover randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 58 women diagnosed with lipedema. To be eligible for participation, women must be between 18 and 65 years old and have a confirmed diagnosis of lipedema. Exclusion criteria include ongoing eating disorders and orthopedic limitations that prevent exercise training. Eligible participants will be randomized (1:1) using block randomization in eForsk to either the exercise intervention group or the control group. The exercise intervention group will undergo 12 weeks of high-intensity interval training (HIIT), tailored to each participant's fitness level and the severity of their lipedema. The control group will continue their usual lifestyle during this period. Following the 12-week intervention, there will be a 12-week wash-out period during which all participants will resume their normal activities. After the wash-out period, participants will switch groups, allowing all included participants to receive the exercise intervention and potentially experience the benefits of HIIT. In total, the study duration for each participant will be 9 months.

Recruitment Patients will be recruited in Trøndelag, Norway, primarily through The Clinic of Rehabilitation at St. Olavs Hospital and the social media channels of the Norwegian Lymphedema and Lipedema Foundation (NLLF). Additionally, posters will be displayed at general practitioner offices and various physiotherapy clinics in the Trondheim area. Eligible patients will receive comprehensive information about the study and will be given at least one week to consider their participation.

Exercise intervention Exercise testing and training will be conducted at state-of-the-art exercise training facility at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), the NextMove Core facility, supported by highly experienced staff. The exercise intervention group perform three sessions of HIIT per week for 12 weeks. HIIT involves 4 times 4-minutes intervals at 85-95% of maximal heart rate (HRmax) with 3-minutes active breaks (\~60% HRmax) between the intervals. Two HIIT sessions are supervised at the NextMove core facility, and performed on treadmills or spinning bikes, while the last session of HIIT is unsupervised. In this unsupervised session, HIIT in a pool will be recommended based on the potential benefits gained from compression. The criteria for adequate compliance to the exercise intervention program will be set to ≥80%. With standardized templated from the NextMove core facility, the participants are required to write a diary of their physical activity during the entire study period, including the exercise intervention period, the wash-out period, and the control period.

Data collection During the first study visit, participants will be randomized into groups and receive 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain levels

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: High intensity endurance training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06558851
