CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT00752102
Title: Vitamin D and Coronary Calcification Study
Official Title: A Phase IV, Randomized, Single-center Study of the Effects of Calcitriol and Paricalcitol on Vascular Calcification in Chronic Kidney Disease Stages 3 and 4
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE4
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: vitamin D muscle

SUMMARY:
Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have a higher mortality rate than the general population, with cardiovascular disease (CVD) accounting for approximately 50% of deaths. Vascular calcification is a common finding in patients with CKD. Furthermore, patients with CKD develop secondary hyperparathyroidism, partly because of a decrease of calcitriol synthesis on the kidney. Treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism includes use of activated vitamin D including calcitriol and paricalcitol. Recent evidence in dialysis patients suggest an improved survival in patients using paricalcitol compared to calcitriol.

Studies in uremic rats suggests that there are differential effects of calcitriol and paricalcitol in expression of markers of soft-tissue calcification independent of calcium-phosphorus product. Calcitriol increased calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells cultured in calcification media. There was also significant increase in pulse pressure in animals treated with calcitriol.

The investigators hypothesize that these different forms of vitamin D may have differential effects in vascular calcification progression in CKD patients.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is a risk marker for CVD and mortality. In animal models, calcitriol significantly increased the serum calcium-phosphate product and aortic calcium content, while paricalcitol had no effect. The objective of this randomized, blinded single-center is to determine the differential effect of oral calcitriol and paracalcitol on vascular calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD).

We performed a total of 89 screening visits and randomized 44 participants. Forty participants completed the final visit. Diagram 1 presents the recruitment schematic.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Coronary Artery (CAC) Score Progression

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Calcitriol (Rocaltrol®)
  - DRUG: Paricalcitol

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 25 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00752102
