CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02449577
Title: Identification of Biomarkers for Acute Intake of Beer and Alcohol and Acute Effects on Plasma and insulin Response
Official Title: Metabolomics in Beer Research: Identification of Biomarkers for Acute Intake of Beer and Alcohol in Individuals With a High or Low Habitual Intake, and Acute Effects on Plasma Glucose and insulin Response Compared to Regular Soda
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 19
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The objective of the study is to identify biomarkers for acute intake of beer and alcohol in individuals with a high or low habitual intake. Furthermore, we wish to identify compounds and metabolites in different types of beer and alcohol, which can serve as compliance markers for intake under the test conditions (blood tests and urine samples). We also wish to determine the acute effects of these beverages on plasma glucose and insulin response, compared to regular soda.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study is designed as a randomized, 4-way single-blinded cross-over intervention study. The participants are randomized individually to the order by which they shall receive 4 test meals. There will be implemented a standardized lunch which includes respectively 1) Light/alcohol-free (Tuborg Super Light 0,1% alcohol), 2) Regular lager (4,6% alcohol), 3) Strong beer(7,2% alcohol) and 4) a control drink without alcohol but with the same energy content (carbohydrate and protein) as the average of the other beverages ("sportsdrink"). Besides 330 ml of each test drink, each test meal consists of grilled cheese sandwiches (Tulip Food Company) and the amount of toast adjusted according to the type of drink served with each meal, so the content of macronutrients is the same in each meal.

The study includes 16-20 participants, randomized as to which order they will receive the 4 test meals with a washout period of at least 6 days in between test days. Upon arrival the test persons are asked to urinate (baseline sample), and at the 1st visit they are then weighed, height is measured and body composition (bioimpedance) is measured. After resting briefly, a baseline blood sample is taken and blood pressure is measured (1st and 4th visit). 45 minutes after start of the test meal the first postprandial blood sample is taken, and again after 45, 120 and 180 minutes. Urine is collected again at 0-90 min, 90-180 min and 3-24 hours after the test meal. Participants are provided with containers and equipment for this purpose, and must submit samples on an ongoing basis to the Dept. of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Area under the curve (AUC) for glucose

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Beverage sequence ABCD
  - OTHER: Beverage sequence CADB
  - OTHER: Beverage sequence DACB
  - OTHER: Beverage sequence CBAD
  - OTHER: Beverage sequence ABDC

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02449577
