CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06595225
Title: Nutrition Education Intervention for PLHIV
Official Title: Lifestyle and Nutrition Intervention for Patients Living with HIV Attending an Outpatient Clinic in Dubai, UAE
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The study tested two hypotheses, which are mentioned below:

Hypotheses: The project will test 5 hypotheses related to the various aspects of the study.

H1: implementing a nutrition education intervention will significantly improve the patient's nutritional knowledge, dietary practices, and attitudes (KAP) post-6 months of intervention.

H2: implementing a nutrition education intervention will significantly improve the patients' food intake of immune-boosting foods, physical activity levels, anthropometric measurements, nutrition-related biochemical biomarkers, and mental health status, post the intervention period.

Note: H2 is a complex hypothesis consisting of 5 sub-hypotheses corresponding to the five mentioned measurements (food intake of immune-boosting foods, physical activity levels, anthropometric measurements, nutrition-related biochemical biomarkers, and mental health status). Each of these sub-hypotheses will be statistically tested.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The intervention was guided by the Health Belief model. The topics to be covered and the content of the educational program were designed with input from dietitians working with PLHIV to ensure the relevance for the target participants. Participants randomized into the intervention group received individualized sessions with a registered dietitian once a month for 6 months. During the sessions, the dietitian elaborated on the medical nutrition therapy for each participant which consists of nutritional diagnosis and nutritional counseling services. Topics covered include general nutrition knowledge, MyPlate food groups, immune-boosting foods and nutrients, improving physical activity levels, the nutritional aspects of the existing co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, etc. The intervention provided by the dietitian (primary investigator) which was guided by the Health Belief Model (HBM) which suggests that an individual's beliefs about health threats, perceived benefits of acting, and perceived barriers to acting are key determinants of health-related behaviors. Each session lasted for approximately 30-45 minutes through virtual platforms or in-person, or a combination of both, using several teaching tools such as discussions, demonstrations, educational materials, and educational videos.

The participants were met with online once per month and they were followed up on weekly basis on Whatsapp to reinforce the last session message.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - KAP score (knowledge, attitude, and practices)
  - Improve in intake of immune boosting nutrients

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Nutrition education sessions

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06595225
