CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07342816
Title: Impact of Mindfulness on Athletic Performance and Functional Movement in Collegiate Athletes
Official Title: Exploring the Impact of Mindfulness on Athletic Performance and Functional Movement in Collegiate Athletes
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 126
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effectiveness of a mindfulness training program on sports performance and mental health in university basketball players. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does the mindfulness program improve basketball skills, body movement control, and psychological health?
2. Does the program's effectiveness differ between male and female athletes?
3. Is there an association between athletes' current psychological states and their athletic performance before training?

Researchers will compare a mindfulness group to a psychological skills training group and a standard control group to see if the mindfulness program leads to significantly greater improvements in performance and well-being.

Participants will:

1. Complete surveys about their mental health and stress.
2. Perform physical fitness tests, such as jumping, running, and strength exercises.
3. Perform basketball skill tests, including shooting, dribbling, and passing.
4. Play in standardized 5-on-5 basketball games that are video-recorded for analysis .
5. Attend 15-to-20-minute training sessions 3 times a week for 8 weeks (if assigned to a training group) .

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Stationary Free-throw Accuracy
  - 1-Minute Shooting Test
  - Stationary 2-Point Shooting Accuracy
  - Stationary 3-Point Shooting Accuracy
  - "I" Dribble Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness-Acceptance-Insight-Commitment (MAIC) Program
  - BEHAVIORAL: Psychological Skills Training (PST) Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07342816
