CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05459675
Title: Effects of Very Low-calorie Diet Versus Bariatric Surgery on Body Composition and Gut Microbiota Pattern
Official Title: Effects of Very Low-calorie Diet Versus Bariatric Surgery on Body Composition and Gut Microbiota Pattern in Obese Patients
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 54
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Obesity is a chronic disease characterized by the excessive accumulation of fat in body and it continues to be a major public health problem worldwide. Treatment options for obesity include lifestyle modification, pharmacotherapy and bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery is a highly effective treatment for obesity and results in rapid and sustained weight loss. Also, it significantly alters gut microbiota composition and function. A very low-calorie diet (VLCD) is a rapid weight loss program which calorie intake is severely restricted (\< 800 kcal/day). It has been shown to be very effective to induce rapid weight loss and result in comorbidities resolution similar to bariatric surgery. Therefore, this study was aimed to study the effects of 12-week VLCD compare to bariatric surgery (Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) or Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy (LSG)) on weight loss, body composition, gut microbiota pattern and other metabolic parameters.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The study will include obese patients (body mass index; BMI ≥ 37.5 kg/m2 or BMI ≥ 32.5 kg/m2 with comorbidities), aged 15-65 years at Ramathibodi Hospital, Thailand. The VLCD group will received total diet replacement for 12 weeks and the bariatric surgery group will undergo LRYGB or LSG. Study participants in both groups will be matched according to their age, sex, body mass index (BMI) and diabetic status. Body weight reduction and body composition, gut microbiota pattern, liver stiffness and steatosis, glycemic and other metabolic parameters (glucose, insulin, c-peptide, lipid profile, liver function test, kidney function test, complete blood count, electrolyte blood test, thyroid function tests, serum ketone and adiponectin), health-related quality of life, depression score and twenty-four-hour diet recall and physical activity will be assessed at baseline and at month 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in body weight

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Very low-calorie diet
  - PROCEDURE: Bariatric surgery

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 15 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05459675
