CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03685318
Title: Effect of Shortening the Palatal Extension of the Mouthguard on the Degree of Satisfaction of Water Polo Players
Official Title: Effect of Shortening the Palatal Extension of the Mouthguard on the Degree of Satisfaction of Water Polo Players: A Randomized Crossover Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
This study assessed the influence of a reduction of the palate extension of a custom-made mouthguard on the degree of satisfaction of elite water polo players. Eighteen water polo players wore a custom-made conventional mouthguard or a reduced palate extension mouthguard during the training sessions and for competing for two weeks. The sequence was randomized to obtain one-half of the participants started the first week wearing the conventional mouthguard, and the other half wearing the shortened mouthguard. The participants rated the degree of discomfort in reference to speech, breathing, swallowing, nauseas/vomiting, pressure/pain, loosening, aesthetics, and athletic performance, in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no discomfort and 10 maximum discomfort. After each session, players also rated the perception of protection and the degree of satisfaction in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no protection/satisfaction and 10 maximum protection/satisfaction.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This crossover intervention study aimed to assess the influence of a reduction of the palate extension of a custom-made mouthguard on the degree of satisfaction of elite water polo players. Eighteen water polo players participated in this study. Two different custom-made mouthguards were made, a conventional one and a reduced palate extension mouthguard. They wore them during the training sessions and for competing one type of mouthguard for the first and fourth week and the other type of mouthguard for the second and third week. The sequence was randomized to obtain one-half of the participants started the first week wearing the conventional mouthguard, and the other half wearing the shortened mouthguard. The participants rated the degree of discomfort or inconvenience in reference to speech, breathing, swallowing, nauseas/vomiting, pressure/pain, loosening, aesthetics, and athletic performance, in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no discomfort/inconvenience and 10 maximum discomfort/inconvenience. After each session, players also rated the perception of protection and the degree of satisfaction in a 10-point scale, considering 0 no protection/satisfaction and 10 maximum protection/satisfaction.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Degree of satisfaction with the mouthguard

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Use of conventional mouthguard
  - DEVICE: Use of shortened mouthguard

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03685318
