CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06206109
Title: The Effect of Tendon Tears on Lateral Epicondylitis
Official Title: Is There a Relationship Between The Common Extensor Tendon Tears and Clinical-Ultrasonographic Changes in Lateral Epicondylitis?
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 227
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
Common extensor tendon (CET) tears that can be detected with ultrasonography (US) may be associated with worsening clinical and other ultrasonographic parameters in patients with LE. In this retrospective evaluation of patients with lateral epicondylitis (LE), the effect of common extensor tendon (CET) tears revealed by ultrasonography (US) with demographic, clinical, and other US findings was investigated.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The files of 227 patients with LE who applied to Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinic and met the inclusion and exclusion criteria were reviewed retrospectively.

The demographic characteristics of the patients were recorded.

First of all, common extensor tendon tears, if it existed, were demonstrated with ultrasonography. Then, primary and secondary outcome measures were performed.

Maximum tendon thickness measurements (capitellar - radiocapitellar) and the presence of bone abnormality were detected with ultrasonography of the lateral epicondyle region of the humerus.

The VAS was used to assess pain and was evaluated separately for pain at rest (VAS-rest), at night (VAS-night), and during ADL (VAS-ADL).

Force was applied on the lateral epicondyle using a standard pressure algometer (Baseline®) to evaluate the patient's sensitivity to pain. The pressure at which the patient first felt pain and the average value in kg/cm2 (repeated three times) were recorded.

PRTEE consists of two sub-sections (pain and function): the severity of pain in the elbow and functional deficiencies. The Turkish version of the PRTEE questionnaire was used

The hand dynamometer (JAMAR®) was used to assess the hand grip strength. The patient was positioned with sitting, shoulder adduction, elbow 90° flexion, and forearm in a position between supination and pronation. The average value in kilogram-force (repeated three times). Between repeated measures 1-minute resting, periods were given.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Patient Rated Tennis Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  Not specified

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06206109
