CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04520490
Title: Brain Activation and Satiety in Children 2
Official Title: Brain Systems and Behaviors Underlying Response to Obesity Treatment in Children
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 63
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
Childhood obesity and related long-term effects are serious public health problems, but not all children with obesity do well in treatment. This study will test a new combination of family-based behavioral treatment (FBT) with a drug intervention using a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA) exenatide once weekly extended-release (ExQW, Bydureon®) in order to improve obesity intervention outcomes in 10-12-year-old children.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Using functional and structural magnetic resonance neuroimaging, this study will evaluate brain factors which could undermine treatment responses and long-term obesity intervention outcomes. Specific Aim 1 will test the effect of adding ExQW to FBT on change in BMI z-score over a total GLP-1RA treatment duration of 24 weeks and a subsequent 1-year observational follow-up period after treatment cessation. To provide mechanistic insight, Specific Aim 2 will test whether adding GLP-1RA intervention to FBT impacts neural activation by food cues. Finally, the proposed research will investigate the role of a cellular inflammatory process in the mediobasal hypothalamus-called gliosis-which might contribute to impaired hypothalamic function, attenuated satiety responsiveness, and potentially to worse weight management outcomes. Specific Aim 3 will test if hypothalamic gliosis is modified by FBT and/or FBT plus GLP-1RA in children and if its extent is related to immediate and/or long-term intervention outcomes.

Study Design: This double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled research study uses fMRI to characterize neural responses to a test meal before and at the end of FBT intervention, with vs. without additional GLP-1RA intervention. In addition, it uses structural MRI (sMRI) to test if MBH gliosis is reversible and/or associated with intervention outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change of BMI z-score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Family Based Behavioral Treatment
  - DRUG: Exenatide 2 mg [Bydureon]
  - DRUG: Placebo

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 12 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04520490
