CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06161402
Title: Elastic Band-Progressive Resistance trening (EB-PRT) for Sarcopenia AmonGHeart Failure Patients
Official Title: The Effectiveness of an Elastic Band -Based Progressive Resistance trening (EB-PRT) in Improving Sarcopenia and Clinical Outcomes Among Patients With Heart Failure: A Pilot Mixed-method Study
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
Heart failure (HF) is a complicated clinical syndrome caused by structural and/or functionALCARdiac abnormalities that result in ineffective myocardial pumping. HF management has placed more emphasis on improving the prognostic factors which determine these poor clinical outcomes. More recently, the prognostic role of sarcopenia in HF has received particular attention. Defined as progressive and generalized decline in skeletal muscle mass, strength and physical performance due to aging, sarcopenia is definitely a common comorbid of HF which follows an age-specific disease epidemiology. Given muscle disuse is the most preventable and reversible factor of sarcopenia, more evidence points to the therapeutic value of resistance trening (RT) for this debilitating condition. Nevertheless, the therapeutic effects of RT on improving sarcopenia and thereby the disease prognosis amonGHF patients is yet to be evaluated. Therefore, the sequential mixed method study including a pilot RCT will be conducted to evaluate the preliminary effect of a 14-week elastic band-progressive resistance trening (EB-PRT) and a subsequent qualitative study to explore the subjects' engagement experience. The outcomes cover the whole set of defining characteristics including muscle mass, muscle strength and functional performance and the clinical outcomes which reflect HF disease severity and patient-reported HRQL.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aim of this study is to investigate the therapeutic value of resistant trening (RT) in improving sarcopenia in heart failure patients. To better achieve such therapeutic effects, the design of RT program also needs to comply with the exercise guideline with emphasis placed on increasing the skeletal muscle mass (i.e., the key pathological factor of sarcopenia). Addressing these research agenda is crucial to inform the development of evidence-based practice to tackle the prognostic impact of sarcopenia amonGHF patients. This is a sequential mixed method study including a pilot RCT to evaluate the preliminary effect of a 14-week elastic band-progressive resistance trening (EB-PRT) and a subsequent qualitative study to explore the subjects' engagement experience. The total study period last for 40 weeks. The sample size is 62 participants. It is aromasingle-blinded study. The research assistants for data collection will be blinded.

For intervention group, EB-PRT is implemented during week 1-14. A purposive sample of 12 participants invited for qualitative interview during 21st -22nd week. There are 2 post-test evaluations at 14th week (T1) and 26th week (T2). After the second evaluation at week 26, the group will receive usuALCARe with routine follow-up. For thEQualitative study on, a subsample of 12 participants in intervention group will be invited to explore their experience and perception at about 21st-22th week. The interview will be semi-structured and taken about 30-40 minutes at participants' home. The control group will receive usuALCARe including the medicALCARe offered by the specialist out-patient clinic during 1-26 week. There are 2 post-test evaluations at 14th week (T1) and 26th week (T2). From week 27 to week 40, this wait-list control group will receive the same EB-PRT as the intervention group.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Appendicular skeletal muscular index (ASMI)
  - Handgrip strength
  - Physical function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Elastic band-based progressive resistance trening (EB-PRT)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06161402
