CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07329946
Title: Immuno-inflammatory Response of Erdosteine in COPD
Official Title: Erdosteine Effect on Oxidative Stress, Inflammatory Response and Immune Modulation in Patients With COPD. A Single Center, Open Label, Double Arm, Controlled, 4-week, Explorative, ex Vivo Study."
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: physical activity intervention

SUMMARY:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains a major contributor to global morbidity and mortality, exposing healthcare systems to a significant economical and social load. Indeed, acute severe COPD exacerbations are the events that contribute most to the overall disease burden. Current management strategies are aimed at maximizing symptom-free periods, reduce hospitalizations, improve exercise tolerance, overall health status, and quality of life. Key pathophysiological mechanisms involved in COPD exacerbations (defined as acute worsening of respiratory symptoms) include oxidative stress, acute on chronic inflammation, and mucus hypersecretion. Agents with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and mucolytic properties can help reduce exacerbation frequency. Erdosteine is a new-generation mucoactive molecule developed to overcome the limitations associated with traditional mucolytics. In fact, in addition to its mucolytic effects, erdosteine exhibits antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities and may reduce bacterial adhesion to airway surfaces - features that may be beneficial in the prevention and management of exacerbations. Preliminary clinical findings (EQUALIFE and RESTORE studies) suggest that erdosteine, in add-on to chronic inhaled therapy, can reduce exacerbation rates, shorten hospital stay, and improve health-related quality of life in patients with COPD. However, studies that have investigated the pathobiological mechanisms behind such clinical effects are lacking.

The present study was constructed in order to investigate the mechanism of action of erdosteine on inflammation, oxidative stress pathways and immune response in patients with COPD. The secondary objectives of the study are to evaluate the effect of erdosteine on lung function tests in patients with COPD; to explore the effect of erdosteine on respiratory and COPD-related symptoms in patients with COPD; to assess the effect of erdosteine on exercise tolerance in patients with COPD. In order to do so, the investigator designed a pragmatic, low intervention, two-arms, monocenter, open-label, prospective, randomized, controlled trial, set in clinical practice. A total of 30 patients will be randomized by means of a 1:1 random allocation.

The active group (15 patients) will be assigned to Treatment Arm A (Erdosteine \[Esteclin®\] 300 mg, 1 tablet twice daily for 30 days), while the control group (15 patients) will be assigned to Treatment Arm B (Standard of Care - current standard inhalation therapy in use).

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in transcriptomics of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in COPD patients exposed to erdosteine.
  - Changes in transcriptomics of oxidative stress signaling pathways in COPD patients exposed to erdosteine.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Erdosteine
  - DRUG: Standard of Care (SOC)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07329946
