CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02607033
Title: Exercise and Weight Loss in PAD
Official Title: Exercise and Weight Loss to Improve Mobility Function in Veterans With PAD
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
This study is designed to examine the added benefits of weight loss to an exercise program in older obese Veterans with peripheral arterial disease. The investigators want to determine if weight loss in addition to exercise will 1) improve walking ability to a greater extent than exercise alone and 2) determine the underlying reasons why walking ability improves by measuring blood flow and the amount of muscle in the leg muscles.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) affects an estimated 12 -15 million adults in the US and an estimated 20% of older Veterans. Those with PAD ambulate with slow gait and experience decreased leg strength, dysmobility, reduced quality of life, serious morbidity and often premature death. It is estimated that over 60% of individuals with PAD are overweight or obese. While PAD itself worsens mobility, obesity adds a further functional burden to older adults with PAD. Individuals diagnosed with PAD, who are also obese typically claudicate 40% more quickly than non-obese individuals and take 20% longer to recover after claudication. Studies of older obese adults without PAD have demonstrated that the combination of exercise and weight loss is more effective at improving physical function and body composition than exercise alone. While these findings likely translate to older adults with PAD, this hypothesis has yet to be tested. This study is designed to determine whether weight loss and exercise (WL+EX) versus exercise ( EX ) alone will 1) improve mobility function (walking ability) to a greater extent than exercise alone and 2) determine the mechanisms underlying changes in mobility function by measuring muscle microvascular perfusion and composition. The investigators hypothesize that a combined intervention of weight loss and exercise (aerobic and restive) will result in greater improvements in mobility function through improved muscle perfusion and reduced muscle fat infiltration than exercise alone in obese Veterans with PAD.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Difference in Time to Onset of Calf Pain (Claudication Onset Time) Pre-intervention to Post-intervention
  - Difference in Ankle Brachial Index Pre-intervention to Post-intervention

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Exercise
  - OTHER: Weight Loss

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02607033
