CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03277508
Title: Assistive Soft Robotic Glove Intervention Using Brain-Computer Interface for Elderly Stroke Patients
Official Title: Assistive Soft Robotic Glove Intervention Using Brain-Computer Interface for Elderly Stroke Patients
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: strength training

SUMMARY:
This research aims to integrate and develop a novel Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) controlled soft robotic glove, evaluate the ability of the glove in achieving common hand grasping postures and to assess the efficacy of the glove in assisting stroke patients with completing functional tasks. The BCI-controlled soft robotic glove utilizes patients' user intent to deliver specific electroencephalographic patterns that can trigger robot-assisted hand movement to the affected hand.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Hand motor impairment is very common after a stroke. These impairments include difficulty moving and coordinating the hands and fingers, which inhibits stroke patients from being able to perform daily functional tasks independently, resulting in a reduced quality of life. More than half of people with upper limb impairment after stroke will still have problems many months to years after their stroke. Therefore, improving hand function is a core element of rehabilitation. Many possible interventions have been developed; these may involve different exercises or training, specialist equipment or techniques, or they could take the form of a drug (pill or injection) given to help hand movement. There is limited evidence that suggests the following interventions may be effective: constraint-induced movement therapy, mental practice, mirror therapy,interventions for sensory impairment, virtual reality and a relatively high dose of repetitive task practice. Current hand rehabilitation robotic devices are typically driven by rigid linkages or joints, which subject the patient's fingers into a single plane of motion that will feel unnatural and uncomfortable. On top of that,these devices belong to the class of continuous passive motion (CPM) devices that only promote hand range-of-motion, but do not require the patient to play a semi-active role in performing the hand exercises. Furthermore, there is a huge demand for solutions assisting stroke patients with using the densely paralyzed hand to perform activities of daily living (ADL) in real life, which is not available at present. Most of the hand rehabilitation robotic devices available in the market cannot assist paralyzed hand to carry out ADL. To develop an assistive device to solve this unmet need, we decided to combine BCI technology with the wearable soft robotic glove, which enables actuation of paralyzed hand by motor imagery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Action Research Arm Test
  - Fugl-Meyer Assessment
  - Grip Strength Test

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: BCI Robot Assisted Hand Therapy
  - DEVICE: CPM Robot Assisted Hand Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 55 Years to 90 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03277508
