CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06432491
Title: The Association Between Core Temperature and Health
Official Title: Study to Explore How Core Temperature Reduction Influence Health
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 36
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if cold water drinking could promote body composition and further extend healthy lifespan in Chinese older adults. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does cold water drinking lower the body fat percentage?
2. Will cold water drinking positively extend lifespan in a long-term Researchers will compare cold water intervention group to a control group (drinking 37℃ water instead) to see if cold water drinking works to promote health and slow down ageing process.

Participants will:

1. Drink 4℃ or 37℃ water 4 times (9a.m., 12p.m., 15p.m., 18p.m.) every day for 6 months.
2. Visit the institute and health checkup department for tests and checkup at baseline, the end of the 3rd month, and the end of 6th month.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
According to pilot study, we found 4℃ water could significantly reduce core body temperature. Thus, we aim to explore whether 4℃ water drinking could promote body composition and further help to extend lifespan.

Participants will be randomly divided into intervention (drinking 4℃ water at 9a.m., 12p.m., 15p.m., 18p.m.) and control group (drinking 37℃ water at 9a.m., 12p.m., 15p.m., 18p.m.) for 6-month intervention. Tests will be conducted in Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, while checkup will be tested at Health Checkup Department of Shenzhen University General Hospital. Body composition will be tested by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Dual-Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DEXA), and TANITA (bioelectrical method). In addition, we will test participants' waist and hip circumferences using 3D scanning. Besides, we will test core body temperature and brown adipose tissue.

Apart from above main outcomes, we will also test their physical activity, food intake, metabolic rate, glucose, IL-6, TNF-alpha, HDL, LDL, insulin level. Meanwhile, ageing biomarkers, namely Phenotypic Age, eye fundus image, facial changes, bone density, gut microbiota, GlycanAge, will also be measured.

The whole intervention period will last for 6 months. All the tests and checkup will be tested at baseline, the end of the third month and the endpoint of the study.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Value of core body temperature in centigrade assessed by e-Celsius
  - Value of weight in kilogram assessed by Seca body weight scale
  - Value of height in meters assessed by Seca 217 stadiometer
  - Value of body mass index (BMI) calculated by weight and height
  - Body composition- volume of fat mass in cm^3 assessed by uMR 790

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Drinking cold water

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 50 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06432491
