CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05300620
Title: The Effect Custom Foot Orthotics on Comfort, Kinetics and Kinematics
Official Title: The Effect of Running Shoes With and Without Custom Foot Orthotics on Performance, Running Economy, Running Mechanics and Comfort
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: recovery exercise

SUMMARY:
The overarching aim of this project is to investigate the role of custom foot orthotics in a 'return to performance' framework as the ultimate part of the 'return to sport continuum'.

The aim of this particular study is to investigate the effect of Custom Foot Orthotics (CFO) made from different materials on Running Economy (RE).

Well trained recreational athletes (volunteers) will present to a physiology lab for a familiarisation running session where standard measurements (e.g. height, weight, shoe size, training history, foot shape) will be recorded. During this initial visit, our volunteers will also perform an incremental running test to determine the individual ventilatory threshold (VT). This will allow the use of individual speeds of a relative equal intensity that which will be used during the experimental session. A full explanation of the experimental procedures will be given and trialed. This session will last about 1 hour.

For the experimental session (minimum of one week after the incremental test and receiving the custom-made orthotics), our volunteers will report to the same lab minimal 4 hours post prandial, having done no strenuous exercise for 12 hours before data collection. After a 10-minute warm up, Participants will run four 6-minute trials (four footwear conditions) with plenty of rest (5 minutes) between running trials to recover and answer short surveys on footwear comfort and readiness to start the next session.

Also actual sprint performance will be tested. After a 10-minute general and sprint specific warm up twelve 5-second all out sprints (3 sprints per condition) with 4 minutes recovery between each sprint will be performed.

This session will last about 2 and a half hours.

The volunteers will run in four different footwear conditions:

standardized running shoes + original liner of the sport shoe standardized running shoes + a custom-made orthotic from an EVA/TPU material standardized running shoes + a custom-made orthotic from an EVA material standardized running shoes + a custom-made orthotic from an TPU material

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants will attend the laboratory on two separate occasions. The first visit is to determine the individual ventilatory threshold (VT) and corresponding running speed that will be used for next intervention session by performing a VO2 max running test. The second visit will consist of running at submaximal speed in four different footwear conditions in randomized order, followed by three sprints in each different footwear condition in randomised order. Participants will run with standardized (i.e., only shoe liner inserted) footwear (Control), Standardised footwear with a Hybrid custom foot orthotic (Hybrid), Standardised footwear with an EVA custom foot orthotic (EVA) and Standardised footwear with a TPU custom foot orthotic (TPU) . Participants will be asked to avoid strenuous exercise in the 12 h, as well as refrain from food and caffeine for 4 h preceding their visits to the laboratory and are encouraged to replicate their diet and training pattern prior to all visits. Laboratory conditions will be monitored and kept similar throughout all running sessions. Furthermore, time of day will be standardized for each participant for both sessions. The participants and the researchers who will be directly involved in guiding the runners during the running protocol, and the statistical analysis are blinded from the exact footwear condition.

Running bouts

Visit 1 - Incremental test Each participant will complete a continuous, maximal incremental running test to determine their individual VT1 and according running speed. Briefly, participants start running at 9 km.h-1 for men and 7 km.h-1 for women with speed increases of 0.5 km.h-1 every 30 s. The test ends with voluntary exhaustion of the participants. Verbal encouragement will only be given by the researcher guiding the runners throughout the session.

Visit 2 - Sub-maximal runs and sprints After a ten-minute warm-up at a self-selected comfortable speed, followed by a 3-minute break used to put on the mask to collect expired gas, participants will run four, six-minute trials at a speed 10 % below VT speed, with five minutes recovery in between sessions.

During this time, each participant will

answer a survey regarding the comfort of their footwear. have their shoes removed and replaced by one of the researchers. answer a survey regarding their readiness to perform before starting the next 6-minute trial The order in which shoe conditions are applied will be randomized across participants and sessions (eg. steady state runs and sprint).

After the four submaximal runs participants will have a short break before starting the sprint sessions and warm up. After a 10-minute general and sprint specific warm up including a warmup run, stretching including hamstrings, 3 to 5 second accelerations with subjective increasing intensity of their perceived maximal effort, 3-second sprint at 80 and 90% of perceived maximal effort will be performed on the treadmill.

Twelve 5-second all-out sprints (3 spr

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in running economy

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Custom Foot Orthotics EVA
  - DEVICE: Original Liner
  - DEVICE: Custom Foot Orthotics PU
  - DEVICE: Custom Hybrid Foot Orthotics

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05300620
