CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05982860
Title: The Effects of the MIND Diet on Oxidative Stress, Inflammation and Neurodegenerative Risk Biomarkers
Official Title: Evaluation of the Effects of the MIND Diet on Oxidative Stress, Inflammation and Neurodegenerative Risk Biomarkers in American Football Players
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 24
Topic: sleep athletes

SUMMARY:
American football is a high-contact sport, also known as a collision sport. American football players are exposed to various magnitudes and frequencies of head impacts throughout the season. Accordingly, during the American football season, there is an increase in biomarkers that may be associated with brain damage and the risk of developing neurodegenerative diseases later in life. In addition, oxidative stress and inflammation can also increase in athletes during the American football season. This study was planned with the thought that the MIND diet, which is beneficial for brain health with its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, may have positive effects on oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers in American football players.

The goal of this clinical trial is to examine the effects of the MIND diet on oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers in American football players. The main question it aims to answer are:

• \[Question\] Does the MIND diet lowers or reduce the levels of oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers in American football players?

Participants will be randomized into 2 groups MIND diet and control group. The current diet of the players in the control group will not be interfered with during the competition period, but the current nutrition of the players in the MIND diet group will be adapted to the MIND diet according to the food groups in the MIND diet components and their consumption frequencies.

The players in the MIND diet group will be asked to include the food groups in the MIND diet in their diet in accordance with their consumption frequency.

Researchers will compare the MIND diet and control groups to see if the MIND diet improves oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
American football is one of the contact sports with the highest risk in terms of exposure to repeated head impacts and the formation of neurodegenerative diseases that negatively affect the quality of life in the later stage of life. According to studies conducted in recent years, these athletes have a high risk of developing neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) later in life. It has been reported that there are increases in the levels of oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers and that some other biomarkers (such as BDNF, zonulin, telomere length, etc.) that may be associated with these may be adversely affected in American football players. It is necessary to develop new approaches to determine the preventive factors against the risk of neurodegenerative diseases that may occur in the later years of life due to contact sports such as American football. The Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet has antioxidant (vitamins, flavonoids, phytosterols, minerals, terpenes and phenols) and anti-inflammatory (oleic acid, polyphenols and unsaturated fatty acids) properties that are thought to be effective in improving oxidative stress, inflammation and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers. The MIND diet can also reduce intestinal permeability with its abundant fiber content (prebiotic effect). It has been reported that the supplementation of some nutrients (docosahexaenoic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, etc.) that have an important place in the composition of the MIND diet in this group of athletes has a positive effect on some of these biomarkers. However, the studies in the literature are limited, and there is no study involving the MIND diet in American football players. This study was planned considering that the MIND diet may have positive effects on oxidative stress, inflammation, and neurodegenerative risk biomarkers in American football players, who are exposed to repetitive head impacts as a nature of this contact sport.

American football players playing in the pro league will be included in this study. The sample size was calculated using the G\*Power V. 3.1.9.6 program. This study will include two groups and two measurements. Accordingly, a total of 30 athletes, 15 in each group, with 95% confidence (1-α), 95% test power (1-β) and f=0.6 effect size; with 80% confidence (1-α), 80% test power (1-β) and f=0.6 effect size, a total of 20 athletes, 10 in each group, should be included.

At the beginning of the research, a face-to-face questionnaire will be used to question the athletes' American football history and player positions, socio-demographics, general health and nutritional habits. Before the start of the study, a 7-day food consumption record will be taken from the athletes. MIND scores will be questioned before the study and every week till the end of the study according to the frequency of f

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Tau protein
  - NfL (Neurofilament light polypeptide)
  - S100B protein
  - BDNF (Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor)
  - Telomere

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: MIND diet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: MALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05982860
