CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04280705
Title: Adaptive COVID-19 Treatment Trial (ACTT)
Official Title: A Multicenter, Adaptive, Randomized Blinded Controlled Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of Investigational Therapeutics for the Treatment of COVID-19 in Hospitalized Adults
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 1062
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
This study is an adaptive, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of novel therapeutic agents in hospitalized adults diagnosed with COVID-19. The study is a multicenter trial that will be conducted in up to approximately 100 sites globally. The study will compare different investigational therapeutic agents to a control arm. There will be interim monitoring to introduce new arms and allow early stopping for futility, efficacy, or safety. If one therapy proves to be efficacious, then this treatment may become the control arm for comparison(s) with new experimental treatment(s). Any such change would be accompanied by an updated sample size. Because background standards of supportive care may evolve/improve over time as more is learned about successful management of COVID-19, comparisons of safety and efficacy will be based on data from concurrently randomized subjects. An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will actively monitor interim data to make recommendations about early study closure or changes to study arms. To evaluate the clinical efficacy, as assessed by time to recovery, of different investigational therapeutics as compared to the control arm.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study is an adaptive, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of novel therapeutic agents in hospitalized adults diagnosed with COVID-19. The study is a multicenter trial that will be conducted in up to approximately 100 sites globally. The study will compare different investigational therapeutic agents to a control arm. There will be interim monitoring to introduce new arms and allow early stopping for futility, efficacy, or safety. If one therapy proves to be efficacious, then this treatment may become the control arm for comparison(s) with new experimental treatment(s). Any such change would be accompanied by an updated sample size. Because background standards of supportive care may evolve/improve over time as more is learned about successful management of COVID-19, comparisons of safety and efficacy will be based on data from concurrently randomized subjects. An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will actively monitor interim data to make recommendations about early study closure or changes to study arms.

The initial sample size is projected to be 572 subjects to achieve 400 subjects with a "recovered" status (per the primary objective). The primary analysis will be based on those subjects enrolled in order to 400 recoveries. An additional analysis of the moderate severity subgroup (those with baseline status of "Hospitalized, requiring supplemental oxygen" or "Hospitalized, not requiring supplemental oxygen - requiring ongoing medical care") is also of public health importance. Hence, enrollment will be permitted until the date of April 20, 2020 to ensure 400 recoveries and provide additional data about this important subgroup. With recent enrollment rates, the total sample size may be 600 to over 800.

Subjects will be assessed daily while hospitalized. If the subjects are discharged from the hospital, they will have a study visit at Days 15, 22, and 29 as an outpatient. For discharged subjects, it is preferred that the Day 15 and 29 visits are in person to obtain safety laboratory tests and OP swab and blood (serum only) samples for secondary research as well as clinical outcome data. However, infection control or other restrictions may limit the ability of the subject to return to the clinic. In this case, Day 15 and 29 visits may be conducted by phone, and only clinical data will be obtained. The Day 22 visit does not have laboratory tests or collection of samples and may also be conducted by phone.

All subjects will undergo a series of efficacy, safety, and laboratory assessments. Safety laboratory tests and blood (serum and plasma) research samples and oropharyngeal (OP) swabs will be obtained on Days 1 (prior to infusion) and Days 3, 5, 8, and 11 (while hospitalized). OP swabs and blood (serum only) plus safety laboratory tests will be collected on Day 15 and 29 (if the subject attends an in-person visit or are still hospitalized).

The primary outcome is time to 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Time to Recovery
  - Time to Recovery by Race
  - Time to Recovery by Ethnicity
  - Time to Recovery by Sex

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Placebo
  - DRUG: Remdesivir

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04280705
