CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04711993
Title: Investigation of the Effects of Different Exercise Programs in Patients With Restless Legs Syndrome.
Official Title: Investigation of the Effects of Different Exercise Programs on Symptoms, Sleep, Cognitive Functions, Fatigue, Quality of Life, and Psychological Status in Patients With Restless Legs Syndrome.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 18
Topic: aerobic exercise

SUMMARY:
Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is a very common neurological condition characterized by an uncontrollable desire to move the legs. Due to the traumatic effect of RLS on morbidity, the patient is negatively affected in many different directions. The duration and quality of sleep of the patients decrease, and their cognitive functions change. The prevalence or risk of anxiety and depression increases in this population. At the same time, the quality of life of patients is significantly reduced. Among the different pharmacological agents used in RLS, dopamine agonists are the most widely used. However, the reporting of serious and common side effects related to this treatment has led to non-pharmacological approaches in the treatment of RLS and the effectiveness of many different approaches has been investigated. The exercise approach, which is determined to be effective in the treatment of the disease, is a subject that has been little studied. The type, duration and frequency of optimal exercise could not be standardized. In addition, the effect of exercise on RLS patients has been investigated in limited subjects. For this reason, the aim of our study is to examine the effect of different exercise programs on symptoms, sleep, cognitive functions, quality of life, psychological status and fatigue in patients with RLS.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Symptoms
  - Change in Sleep
  - Change in Sleepiness
  - Change in Sleep Quality

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aerobic exercise
  - OTHER: Stretchin exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 80 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04711993
