CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01832545
Title: Aquatic Exercise Program for Knee Osteoarthritis
Official Title: The PICO Project: Aquatic Exercise for Knee Osteoarthritis in Overweight and Obese Individuals
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 50
Topic: knee osteoarthritis exercise

SUMMARY:
The aim of PICO study is to design an aquatic exercise program specific for obese individuals with knee osteoarthritis which the main goals are OA symptoms management and the improvement of physical fitness. The author's opinion is that the musculoskeletal pain is the main constraint for any kind of mobility and its control should be considered as an important goal in the weight management's programs. Therefore the PICO project proposes an aquatic exercise program to controlling pain and other symptoms management, showing that it is possible to live with the disease, and motivating the change in lifestyle, thus preventing the installation or worsening of KOA. In this way, five hypotheses were formulated: H1. 3 months of aquatic exercise is enough to improve KOA symptoms and functionality in obese individuals; H2. The gait parameters of obese individuals with KOA can be improved by aquatic exercise; H3. Beyond the exercises skills, aquatic exercise group classes can work with an educational component, promoting lifestyles changes. H4: Pain reduction and a better psychological status can lead an increase of functionally, increasing amount of physical activity. H5: Even if the main goal is not weight management, the aquatic exercise program can lead a weight reduction or body composition change.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The PICO program is an overall body fitness and mind intervention through aquatic exercise involving as well an education component, created specifically for individuals with KOA. Its a single-blinded, one center, and randomized controlled trial with 3 months duration. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups: aquatic exercise (AE) and control group (CG) which will participate in an educational program with the same hourly load.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Knee Osteoarthritis symptoms
  - Health Quality of Life
  - Physical Function
  - Strength
  - Gait

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Aquatic Exercise
  - BEHAVIORAL: Educational Program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01832545
