CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02838979
Title: Trial of Oral Glutamine on Mitochondrial Function in CKD
Official Title: Randomized Cross-over Trial of Oral L-Glutamine vs Maltodextrin on Mitochondrial Function in Chronic Kidney Disease
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 11
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
The primary goal of proposed investigation is to study the impact of oral glutamine supplementation on muscle mitochondrial and endothelial cell function measured mitochondrial energetics and vascular function using 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy and optical spectroscopy (MRS/OS) among persons with moderate-severe CKD. The secondary objective is to describe the impact of oral glutamine supplementation on mitochondrial metabolic profile as well as inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers among persons with chronic kidney disease.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Chronic kidney disease is associated with endothelial cell dysfunction and muscle wasting contributing to the heightened risk of cardiovascular morbidity, mortality and functional limitation. Accumulation of toxins in renal disease may adversely impact endothelial cell nitric oxide bioavailability and endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase (eNOS) function consequently heightening oxidative stress and suppressing mitochondrial biogenesis. To date no studies have investigated potential therapies for endothelial and muscle dysfunction in renal disease target mitochondrial metabolic and energetic processes.

Animal studies of uremia underscore mitochondrial dysfunction as a potential precursor for endothelial dysfunction. In particular, uremia has been linked to a proteomic signature indicative of metabolic blockage of TCA cycle activity and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Both of these processes are localized to the mitochondria and may suggest that decreased mitochondrial mass or function may augur endothelial dysfunction in renal disease.

Glutamine, an anaplerotic agent and precursor to the antioxidant glutathione, is a potential therapeutic agent bypassing the metabolic block associated with reduced TCA cycle and improving antioxidant reserve. The primary goal of proposed investigation is to study the impact of oral glutamine supplementation on muscle mitochondrial and endothelial cell function measured mitochondrial energetics and vascular function using 31P MRS/OS among persons with moderate-severe CKD. The secondary objective is to describe the impact of oral glutamine supplementation on mitochondrial metabolic profile as well as inflammatory and oxidative stress biomarkers among persons with chronic kidney disease.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Muscle Mitochondrial Function

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: First Intervention (14 days)
  - OTHER: Washout (3 weeks)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Second Intervention (14 days)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 69 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02838979
