CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07350694
Title: Engagement of coMmunity Through Participatory Learning and Action for cOntrol and preVEntion of Type II Diabetes and Its Risk Factors
Official Title: Engagement of coMmunity Through Participatory Learning and Action for cOntrol and preVEntion of Type II Diabetes and Its Risk Factors [EMPOWER-D-Afg]: Feasibility Trial in Rural Kabul-Afghanistan
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 250
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
This project aims to adapt, implement, and evaluate PLA based intervention in Rural Kabul, Afghanistan for TIIDM prevention and control.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This approach centres on adapting, implementing, and evaluating a Participatory Learning and Action (PLA) based intervention for the prevention and control of Type II Diabetes. Mellitus (TIIDM). TIIDM is one of the fastest-growing health emergencies globally, affecting an estimated 589 million adults, with projections for 2050 indicating a 45% increase in diabetes. Approximately 80% of people with TIIDM live in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), placing further strain on already overburdened health systems.

Afghanistan shows similarly concerning trends, with an age-standardised diabetes prevalence of 11.7%, affecting 1.93 million adults in 2024 and projected to rise to 4.76 million by 2050, with 71.4% remaining undiagnosed. Prevalence rises sharply with age and varies by province for example, approximately 11% in Kabul, 11.8% in Nangarhar, and over 22% in Kandahar. These figures highlight the urgency of developing culturally appropriate and evidence-based interventions to prevent and control diabetes in Afghan communities.

The intervention draws on evidence from the "Community groups or mobile phone messaging to prevent and control type 2 diabetes and intermediate hyperglycaemia in Bangladesh (DMagic)" trial, which proved effective in rural Bangladesh. However, PLA-based interventions have yet to be tested in rural Afghan communities. Recognizing the distinct sociocultural context, geopolitical and health system challenges in rural Kabul, Afghanistan, a feasibility trial will be carried out in selected rural sites of Kabul Province.

This feasibility trial will evaluate the adaptability and implementation of the intervention within Afghanistan's context. By applying evidence-based practices and fostering meaningful community participation through PLA, the initiative aims to improve social and behavioural determinants of health, enhance diabetes prevention and control, and create a model for addressing other non-communicable diseases in Afghan communities.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - To culturally adapt PLA-based intervention (D-Magic) for primary prevention and control of TIIDM in rural communities of Afghanistan
  - To test the feasibility of the culturally adapted PLA-based intervention (D-Magic)
  - To test the acceptability of the culturally adapted PLA-based intervention (D-Magic)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: PLA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07350694
