CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01726777
Title: Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Glucose Tolerance in Subjects at Risk for Diabetes With Low Vitamin D.
Official Title: Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Oral Glucose Tolerance in Subjects Exhibiting Marginal Vitamin D Status and an Increased Risk of Developing Diabetes.
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 71
Topic: beta-alanine

SUMMARY:
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an increasingly common and serious condition. Studies show that low vitamin D levels are associated with increased diabetes risk and that vitamin D may protect against diabetes by reducing chronic inflammation and improving insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion. However, no studies have been able to show that vitamin D actually reduces post-prandial blood glucose levels, the most clinically relevant marker of diabetes. Previously the investigators have shown that cheddar cheese and low-fat cheese can be fortified with high levels of vitamin D and that this cheese is at least as a effective as vitamin D supplements in raising blood vitamin D levels.

The main purpose of this study is to see whether vitamin D enriched cheese can improve oral glucose tolerance (reduce blood glucose 2 hours after consuming a drink containing 75g sugar) in people who have low vitamin D levels and are at risk for developing T2D.

Other aims are to determine the effect of vitamin D may on insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, markers of inflammation, blood cholesterol levels, and safety markers such as urinary calcium excretion.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is an increasingly prevalent and serious condition whose risk appears to be increased by low serum vitamin D concentrations. Epidemiological studies show an association between increased diabetes risk and low serum vitamin D and studies suggest that vitamin D may protect against diabetes by reducing chronic inflammation and improving insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion. Although clinical studies show some of these effects, no studies have been able to show that vitamin D supplementation reduces post-prandial blood glucose, the most clinically relevant marker of diabetes and dysglycemia. Previously, the investigators showed that cheddar cheese and low-fat cheese can be fortified with high levels of vitamin D3 (28,000IU/ 30g portion) and that, in this form, it is at least as a effective as vitamin D3 supplements in raising serum vitamin D concentrations. Since post-prandial glucose is most sensitive to changes in insulin sensitivity the main purpose of this study is to determine the effect of vitamin D supplementation on oral glucose tolerance (ie. serum glucose 2h after 75g oral glucose) in individuals who are at risk for developing T2D. Secondary objective are to determine the effect of vitamin D supplementation on insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, inflammatory markers, blood lipids and markers of safety including serum parathyroid hormone levels and urinary calcium excretion.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in plasma glucose concentration 2 hours after consuming 75g oral glucose (2 hour PC glucose, or 2hrPC glucose)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Control
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin D

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 75 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01726777
