CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05041491
Title: Breaking up Sedentary Time to Improve Glucose Control in a Population at Risk for Developing Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Breaking up Sedentary Time to Improve Glucose Control in a Population at Risk for Developing Type 2 Diabetes
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: EARLY_PHASE1
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 66
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Newly released guidelines recommend increased physical activity (PA) and reduced sedentary behaviors (SB) to improve glycemia and prevent the onset and progression of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Typically, 30-60 min bouts of PA are advocated per day. Although this approach increases PA, it does not decrease the length of the sedentary periods through the day. This is important because recent epidemiological data suggest that frequently interrupting sedentary time improves glucose control even in people who achieve the recommended levels of PA. Preliminary experimental data suggest that breaking up prolonged sedentary time by performing multiple short bouts (5 min) of PA throughout the day, may improve glycemia more than performing a single continuous bout of PA, and thereby potentially be a novel strategy to prevent T2D. The improvement in glycemia was observed even when the total amount of PA and total energy expenditure were matched, suggesting that how and when PA is performed over the day may matter more than how much PA is done. However, important gaps in knowledge remain including: (1) whether similar benefits on glucose control would be observed in adults with prediabetes, a clinically relevant population that is at high risk of developing T2D; (2) whether these effects are sustained or diluted over time, and (3) what are the mechanistic underpinnings. To address these gaps, the investigators propose to measure the acute and chronic effects of PA breaks on glucose control and the underlying mechanisms in individuals at risk of developing T2D. Sedentary men and women with prediabetes (n=66, 50% F) will be randomized to either an intervention designed to interrupt SB with 5-min bouts of brisk walking performed hourly for 9 hours/day, 5 days/week (BREAK) or a control condition consisting of 45-min of brisk walking performed as a single daily continuous bout, 5 days/week (ONE). The two 3-months interventions will be matched for total active time.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycemia

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: BREAK
  - BEHAVIORAL: ONE

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 64 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05041491
