CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04774965
Title: The Effects of SlumberCurve™ Following Rotator Cuff Surgery: a Randomized Control Trial
Official Title: The Effects of SlumberCurve™ Following Rotator Cuff Surgery: a Randomized Control Trial
Status: WITHDRAWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 0
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of a novel sleep aid known as SlumberCurve™, which serves as an adjustable form of a wedge pillow, on sleep quality and pain management following rotator cuff repair. The researchers hypothesize that SlumberCurve™ will significantly improve sleep quality and reduce night-time pain.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Poor sleep quality is prevalent among patients undergoing rotator cuff repair surgery, and negatively affects the potential for proper healing. Without adequate sleep, the production of anabolic steroids and inflammatory cytokines are diminished. These anabolic steroids and inflammatory cytokines play a key role in postoperative healing, resulting in adequate pain regulation and increased patient satisfaction. Therefore adequate sleep quality is important not only for quality of life, but for postoperative healing. A recent systematic review revealed that some studies reported varying degrees in both the time and magnitude of change in return to adequate sleep quality following rotator cuff repair. This study hopes to address this gap in the literature by investigating a novel sleep aid, SlumberCurve, and its effect on sleep quality and night-time pain relief. SlumberCurve is a Class I Medical Device and is currently advocated to relieve tension and diminish pain in patients undergoing rotator cuff repair surgery. The device provides adjustable elevation of the torso as well as concave positioning, placing the shoulder in a more forward position. This novel sleep aid has the potential to increase sleep quality, and therefore enhance both patient satisfaction and postoperative recovery from rotator cuff repair surgery.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fitbit Sleep Data - Time spent awake, restless, and asleep
  - Fitbit Sleep Data - Sleep Stages
  - Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI)
  - Visual Analog Scale (VAS)
  - Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Slumber Curve sleep aid

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 99 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04774965
