CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03883815
Title: The Effect of Video-based Game Therapy on Treatment Intensity in Children With Cerebral Palsy
Official Title: The Effect of Video Based Game Therapy on Activity Amount and Energy Consumption in Children With Cerebral Palsy
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 20
Topic: muscle rehabilitation

SUMMARY:
In a recent review by Kolobe et al., It was reported that there was no study investigating the effects of treatment intensity on upper or lower extremity function in children with traumatic brain injury and cerebral palsy. In other words, any study in this review reported no studies on the amount of effort or the number of repetitions at high or low intensity.

This indicates a clear gap in the literature related to density, which is a dosage variable for cerebral palsy.

It is difficult to determine and increase density without having strong, practical methods to measure density during rehabilitation.

Therefore, there is a clear need for alternative measurements to measure density.

As the alternative measurements, the number of repetitions, the duration of active time during the sessions are used.

Energy consumption seen as a useful tool for evaluating functional capacity may also reflect activity intensity by measuring the intensity of activity during the session.

Because the ability to perform an activity when interpreted; It is considered as an indicator of fatigue and endurance.

Children with cerebral palsy have decreased selective muscle control, abnormal muscle tone, imbalance between agonist and antagonist muscles, and abnormalities in balance due to inadequate balance reactions.

Due to all these reasons, cerebral palsy in children has been shown to have higher energy consumption during physical activities such as walking compared to healthy children.

Children with cerebral palsy usually have difficulty in regular participation in treatment and adaptation to traditional home exercise programs. Active video games are recommended for use in addition to neurodevelopmental therapy and, in particular, for home use, because of the potential for increasing treatment dosage.

Researchers focus on evidence in terms of exercise games, Some games on the market (Wii Sports tennis and boxing and Dance Dance Revolution) have achieved that the physical activity measured by the metabolic equivalent, which is necessary to perform the tasks in individuals with cerebral palsy, is associated with the level of moderate severity.

In this study, it is aimed to compare the treatment intensity, performance and balance parameters of the patients with cerebral palsy in a planned neurodevelopmental treatment session and active video games.

In this study, the effects of clinical type, age and functional level on treatment intensity, performance and balance parameters during these sessions will be investigated.

Hypothesis of the study In line with the needs of children with cerebral palsy, there is a difference in terms of treatment intensity, performance and balance parameters between a planned neurodevelopmental treatment session and active video games.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - energy consumption

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Active Video Games Therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 6 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03883815
