CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05573594
Title: Efficiency of Muscle Energy Techniques
Official Title: Efficiency of Muscle Energy Techniques In Female Patients Mechanical Lower Pain: A Randomised Control Trial A Randomised Control Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Purpose: The aim of this study is to investigate the efficiency of the Muscle Energy Technique in female patients with mechanical low back pain.

Methods: A total of 40 female participants aged 30-45 were randomly divided into two groups (Study Group and Control Group). Control group participants were under 10 sessions conventional physical therapy and rehabilitation (TENS, US, hot pack) and performed standard home exercises. Study Group participants were under 8 sessions muscle energy technique in addition to conventional physical therapy and standard home exercises. Pain (Visual Analog Scale-VAS), spinal mobility (Modify Schober Test-MST), flexibility (Fingertip Floor Distance-FFD, Right and Left Lateral Flexion Floor Distance-LFFD), quality of life (Nottingham Health Profile-NHP), disability (Oswestry Disability Index-ODI), kinesiofobia (Tampa Kinesiofobia Scale-TKS) and depressive symptoms (Beck Depression Inventory-BDI) were measured at baseline, after the treatment and 3th months.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
There are many epidemiological and statistical studies showing the high incidence and prevalence of low back pain, which is a common problem all over the world (Manga et al 1993). Mechanical causes constitute 90% of the factors that cause low back pain (Diamond and Borenstein 2006).

Mechanical Low Back Pain (MLBP) is musculoskeletal pain of soft tissue origin that can be seen in the posterior lumbal region, sacral region or paraspinal region. MLBP, which is characterized by tendonitis, trigger points and muscle spasms, increases with movement and decreases with rest.

Muscle Energy Technique (MET) is a manual therapeutic procedure that creates voluntary contractions in skeletal muscles by creating force against the practitioner by the patient. MET is used to lengthen shortened muscles, mobilize restricted joints, and strengthen physiologically weakened muscles (Chaitow 2013).

Treatment methods generally applied to patients diagnosed with MLBP; physical therapy modalities, manual techniques, exercise therapy, medical therapy, psychological therapy and patient education. It is recommended that MET be used to reduce pain when administered to the spine (Wilson 2003) or muscles (Ballantyne et al. 2003).

The aim of our study is to investigate the efficiency of Muscle Energy Technique on spinal mobility, flexibility, pain, disability, fear avoidance behavior, quality of life and depressive symptoms in female patients with mechanical low back pain.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain Assessment
  - Modified Shober Test
  - Fingertip-Ground Distance
  - Lumbal Lateral Flexion Distance
  - Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Muscle Energy Technique
  - OTHER: conventional physical therapy and rehabilitation

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 45 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05573594
