CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05848518
Title: Exercise for Health in Patients With Post-acute Sequelae of COVID-19
Official Title: Effect of Different Types of Supervised Exercise Programs on Cardiorespiratory and Muscular Fitness, Pain, Fatigue, Mental Health and Inflammatory and Oxidative Stress Biomarkers in Older COVID-19 Survivors. (EJerSA-COVID-19)
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: exercise muscle mass

SUMMARY:
Background: Many patients with COVID-19 present the so-called post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 such as fatigue, post-stress discomfort, dyspnea, headache, pain mental impairment, incapacity to perform daily physical tasks ant exercise intolerance. This study aims to investigate the effects of different exercise programs on physical and mental fitness, physical condition and biomarkers of the immune system and oxidative stress in older COVID-19 survivors. Methods: The sample will be made up of 120 eligible participants, over the age of 60 years who have had COVID-19 disease and are survivors and present persistent COVID-19 symptomatology diagnosed by the corresponding physician. The participants will be randomly assigned to the experimental groups: supervised endurance group (SEG, n = 30), supervised strength group (SSG, n = 30), supervised concurrent group (SCG, n = 30), which will perform the corresponding exercise program 3 days a week compared to the control group (CG, n = 30), which will not carry out a supervised exercise program. The design of this project will include assessment of cardiorespiratory fitness, muscle fitness, pain and mental health, and biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This project will carry out a randomized controlled trial to determine what type of supervised exercise program is the most effective compared with a control group (CG): supervised endurance group (SEG), supervised strength group (SSG), supervised concurrent group (strength and endurance) (SCG) and CG. The project will be divided into 3 subprojects and performed in coordination by three institutions as follows:

i) Subproject of the consolidated research group on pain, physical activity, nutrition and health (Acronym: DAFNiS) of the Campus Sant Joan de Deu. University of Barcelona. "Effects of a physical exercise program (aerobic, strength or combined/concurrent) on muscle fitness, pain and mental health in older COVID-19 survivors".

ii) Subproject of the Hospital of Matar: "Evaluation of cardiorespiratory and muscular fitness in older COVID-19 survivors".

iii) Subproject of the Department of Physiology and Immunology. University of Barcelona. "Evaluation of biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress in older COVID-19 survivors".

The sample will be made up of 120 eligible participants, over the age of 60 years who have had COVID-19 disease and are survivors and present persistent COVID-19 symptomatology with sequelae of fatigue, muscle weakness, pain, difficulty in performing daily life activities, etc. diagnosed by the corresponding physician. The participants will be recruited from Hospital of Matar. Candidates fulfilling the study inclusion criteria will provide signed informed consent prior to inclusion.

To calculate the sample size of this project a type 1 (α) error of 5% and a 95% confidence interval with a level of precision (d = 0.095) was established for the test of proportional hypotheses resulting in a sample size of n= 108 persons, increased by 10% (rounded up to n=120) to compensate for possible dropouts along the study period.

To know the sample size more precisely in the hypothesis test of means it will be necessary to carry out a pilot study which will provide the size of effect and statistical power (0.80), determine the analysis to perform, obtain delta values in the units corresponding to the principal study variable as well as know the standard deviation.

Program of supervised exercise The intervention will consist in a program of supervised physical exercise performed 3 times a week for 12 weeks. For the planning and control of the exercise program the progressive individualized planning model will be applied based on the subjective perception of effort and cardiorespiratory parameters (heart rate and ventilatory threshold determined in the evaluation tests) of the participants. This program has been used by our research group in previous studies for improving cardiorespiratory and muscle fitness. The basis of this periodization model establishes an initial period of individualization to obtain the personal parameters used for the training load

The COVID-19 survivors will be randomly assigned to 3 programs of supe

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness: absolute oxygen uptake
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness: relative oxygen uptake
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness: ventilation
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness: ventilatory equivalent for oxygen
  - Cardiorespiratory fitness: ventilatory equivalent for carbon dioxide

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Rehabilitation program

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 60 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05848518
