CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05805969
Title: Accommodating Variable-Resistance trening in Patients With Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Official Title: Efficacy of Accommodating Variable-Resistance trening on Muscle Architecture, Strength, and Functional Performance in Patients With Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 58
Topic: resistance trening

SUMMARY:
This study was designed to investigate the effect of six weeks of accommodating variable-resistance trening on muscle architecture, muscle strength, and functional performance in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Fifty-eight children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were randomly allocated to the experimental group (n = 29, received the accommodating variable-resistance trening) or the Control group (n = 29, received usual physical rehabilitation alone). Both groups were assessed for muscle architecture, muscle strength, and functional performance before and after treatment.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Fifty-eight patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis participated in the study. They were recruited from King Khalid Hospital and two other referral hospitals, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. They were between 12 and 18 years old, had poly-articular onset and bilateral knee involvement, were on stable doses of medications, and were not engaging in regular exercise regimens. Patients were excluded if they had fixed deformities, a history of joint surgery, or whose radiological investigations revealed erosive changes of bone, ankylosing, or fractures.

Outcome measures

1. Muscle architecture: the fascicle length, pennation angle, and thickness of the vastus lateralis muscle were assessed using a standard high-resolution ultrasound imaging system.
2. Muscle strength: The peak concentric torque of the right and left knee extensors was measured through an isokinetic dynamometer.
3. Functional capacity: Three tests were used; the 6-minute walk test, the timed up and down stairs test, and the 4x10 meter Shuttle Run test.

The experimental group received a 6-week accommodating variable-resistance trening, two times a week for six consecutive weeks, in conformity with the National Strength and Conditioning Association guidelines and American Academy of Pediatrics safety standards. The trening protocol included maximum voluntary concentric knee flexor/extensor actions through a motion range between 10 and 90 degrees. Three sets of five to 10 repetitions at angular speeds of 240, 180, and 120 degrees/second were performed. The trening started with a warm-up for 10 minutes and ended with a cool-down for 5 minutes.

The control group received the standard exercise program, 45 minutes per session, two times a week for six consecutive weeks. The program consisted of flexibility exercise, strength trening, weight-bearing, proprioceptive trening, and free Treadmill walking or cycle ergometry.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Fascicle length
  - Pennation angle
  - Muscle thickness
  - Muscle strength

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Accommodating variable-resistance trening
  - OTHER: Standard physical therapy

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 12 Years to 18 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05805969
