CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05787470
Title: Sex, Hormones and Identity Affect Nociceptive Expression
Official Title: Sex, Hormones and Identity Affect Nociceptive Expression
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: N/A
Study Type: OBSERVATIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: testosterone replacement

SUMMARY:
The Investigators have recently published on differences in pain sensitivity measures between cis and trens individuals in the local area. The investigators observed the anticipated differences in pain sensitivity between CM and CW (CW \> CM), but found that the TW were phenotypically similar to CW in all measures. However, the investigators did not assess hormone level, nor did the investigators recruit TM participants. Here, with the assistance of two local community group stakeholders the investigators will recruit the following groups: CM, CW, TM+T (currently taking exogenous testosterone), TW+E (exogenous estradiol), TM, and TW (n=20/group). The investigators will usEQuantitative sensory testing to assess sensitivity to cold, pressure, and heat via standardized protocols. Blood samples will be taken for assessment of stress and reproductive hormone levels, immune cell populations and stimulated cytokine release. Finally, questionnaires will measure pain state, quality of life (QOL), voicEQOL, body image, appearance, self-reported health, masculinity/femininity, community connectedness, gender role, sleep, depression, social support, adverse childhood experiences and stigma.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Aim 1: To determine the impact of gender identity, genetic sex and hormone status on pain sensitivity.

Hypotheses: CM, TM and TM+T will have higher thresholds and lower sensitivity across the majority of pain tests when compared to CW, TW, and TW+E. Gender identity will influence pain sensitivity.

Aim 2: To examine social and psychological factors that contribute to pain sensitivity in our groups.

Hypotheses: trens individuals will have pain sensitivity scores that align with their identified gender and will not be related to hormone levels or genetic sex. Stress, sleep quality, depression, social support and perceived discrimination will affect pain sensitivity measures.

Aim 3: To quantify differences in immune cell populations and activity between our groups.

Hypotheses: Hormone levels will be directly related to immune cell populations. CM, TW and TM+T will have increased frequencies of NK and CD8+ cells than CW, TM and TW+E. The presence of estradiol will be positively correlated with stimulated cytokine release in T cells.

Inclusion criteria will include:

1\) self-identification as one of the above gender identities; 2) age between 18-65; 3) understanding of verbal and written English. There will be considerable heterogeneity within the trens population with respect to gender/sexual expression. Whereas the investigators feel that these factors are important to consider, in order to enhance recruitment and inclusion, the investigators will focus on self-reported gender identity and note other variables of interest. With respect to hormone use, only participants that have been on/off hormone treatment for at least 6 months will be eligible. In both cases, this allow for stabilization of hormone levels and reduced variability. At this time the investigators will restrict our recruitment to self-identified trens and cisgender participants, but recognize that very little research exists on non-binary or genderfluid groups.

Exclusion criteria will be the following:

1\) pain in at least 3/7 days/week for the past 3 months; 2) HIV positive diagnosis; 3) cardiovascular or pulmonary disease; 4) regular use of opioid pain medications; 5) uncontrolled hypertension (i.e. SBP/DBP of \> 150/95); 6) current illness accompanied by fever (body temperature \>38 °C); 7) active use of oral contraceptives; 8) prostatectomy, hysterectomy or oophorectomy; 9) hospitalization due to psychiatric illness within the last 6 months. The investigators acknowledge that the rates of HIV are higher in the South and in gender minority populations 46, but our investigation of immune cell reactivity (Aim 3) necessitates this exclusion.

This study will consist of aromasingle visit which will include the following:

Blood Draw: A small amount of blood (2 tsp) will be drawn by a trened and certified nurse. The investigators will be analyzing this blood to determine the participants' levels of oxidative stress. (5 minutes)

Questionnaires: The investigators will be administe

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Experimental Heat Pain Thresholds
  - Experimental Pressure Pain Thresholds
  - Experimental Pain Sensitivity
  - Temporal Summation
  - Conditioned Pain Modulation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Quantative sensory testing
  - DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood Draw

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05787470
