CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02479373
Title: Exercise and Body Composition in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis
Official Title: "Joint Fitness": A Double-Armed Controlled Intervention to Assess the Safety and Effectiveness of Resistance Exercise Training on Muscle, Bone, Strength, Symptoms, Quality of Life and Biological Parameters in Children and Young Adults With JIA
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This research is being done to see if resistance exercise (RE) is safe and has a positive effect on children and young adults with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).

JIA is an inflammatory autoimmune disease that can cause severe impairment and disability. JIA can cause bone loss and decreased muscle strength. The medications used to treat JIA can also have negative effects on growth and development, strength, and ability to function. RE is performing movements in a slow and controlled fashion (i.e., no speeding up or using force in the lifting and lowering of the weight) to lessen force on the joints and tissues. This study will be using Ren-Ex exercise equipment to perform RE.

Currently the American College of Rheumatology recommends exercise for patients with arthritis. This exercise includes range of motion exercise to protect joint mobility as well as low resistance and aerobic exercise (AE) to protect muscle mass, bone health, and fitness. However, a recent study showed no major differences in functionality or quality of life between patients who performed AE and those who did not perform AE. There is a need for more data on the impact of RE on children with JIA. Children and young adults aged 10 to 21 with juvenile idiopathic arthritis may join.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Total Body Dual-Emission X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) Scan
  - Change in BMI
  - Change in Lower and upper extremity strength testing

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Ren-Ex Machine
  - OTHER: Dual-Emission X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan
  - OTHER: Biodex dynamometer
  - OTHER: Sub-maximal test
  - OTHER: Quality of life questionnaires

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 10 Years to 21 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02479373
