CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06363942
Title: A Personalized Video-based Exercise Program for Fall Prevention in Frail and Pre-frail Older Adult
Official Title: A Personalized Video-based Exercise Program for Fall Prevention in Frail and Pre-frail Older Adult
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 100
Topic: sarcopenia intervention

SUMMARY:
This is a randomized interventional clinical trial, whereby 100 participants will be randomized to either follow the SAFE exercise program (experimental group) or not (control group). At the end of the intervention, the experimental group will be encouraged to continue doing the exercises, and the control group will have the opportunity to participate in the SAFE exercises. 12 weeks post-intervention, the investigators will follow up with participants by telephone to follow up whether they are still following the SAFE program or not.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
For this study, the investigators will recruit 100 frail men and women aged 75 and over from the greater Montreal area. Enrolled participants will have 4 visits at their residence. The first visit, is a screening visit, the second is a pre-intervention assessment of cognition and functional abilities and explanation of the exercise program. The third visit will be a virtual visit, by phone call, and the final visit will be a post-intervention assessment of cognition and functional abilities.

Participants in the experimental group will engage in the SAFE exercises three times a week for 12 weeks at home while continuing their activities of daily living (ADLs) without any changes. Participants in the control group will not engage in the SAFE exercises but will be asked to maintain their ADLs without any changes. Before and after the 12-week intervention, all participants will complete a comprehensive battery of assessments to evaluate changes in their muscular strength, functional capacities, cognitive abilities and quality of life. At the end of the intervention, the experimental group will be encouraged to continue doing the exercises, and the control group will have the opportunity to participate in the SAFE exercises. 12 weeks post-intervention, the investigators will follow up with participants by telephone to follow up whether they are still following the SAFE program or not.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Objective 1
  - Objective 2

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: SAFE program (exercise intervention)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 70 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06363942
