CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06663501
Title: Effects of Vibration on Motor Function of Survivors of Chronic Stroke
Official Title: Effects of Vibration on Motor Function of Survivors of Chronic Stroke
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: tendon injury

SUMMARY:
The aim of this study is to evaluate how vibration of the tendons enhances arm and hand training in survivors of chronic stroke.

The investigators hypothesize that wrist/elbow robotic training, combined with body awareness training will improve arm and hand function in individuals with chronic stroke.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Each year, more than 600,000 U.S. citizens experience a major stroke. Following acute care, 30-40% of these survivors sustain permanent motor disabilities. The motor symptoms of stroke include loss of muscle control on one side of the body, spasticity, and loss of coordination ("dyssynergia"). Within days of the stroke, surviving patients begin physical therapy to restore motion, with some recovering completely. However, there are over 5 million individuals in the U.S. alone who have not recovered and are severely incapacitated for the remainder of their lives. Recovery of function typically reaches a plateau within 6-12 months following a stroke. This recovery of function presumably involves "plastic" changes in the cerebral cortex, in which new neural circuits organize to replace those damaged by the injury. The origin of paralysis or paresis (i.e., partial loss of movement) and the cause of spasticity are unclear in many stroke patients. In a small subset, the brain tissue injured by the stroke is localized to the "primary motor cortex", which contains the nerve cells that send movement signals to the muscles. Loss of movement is easy to understand in these individuals. However, in many strokes, the injury is located in other parts of the brain or is more diffuse, and loss of movement is not as easy to explain. In many regions of the brain, sensory information from various sources, including the proprioceptive system, is integrated and then relayed to the motor cortex to produce movement.

Proprioception is the sense of body position and movement, which originates from sensory receptors in muscles, tendons, skin, and joints. Research carried out over the last two decades indicates that proprioception is intimately involved in motor coordination. In fact, individuals who suffer a rapid loss of proprioception they are functionally paralyzed for a period of time. The hypothesis underlying our approach to stroke rehabilitation is that, in many survivors of stroke, the damage to the brain disrupts one or more feedback loops that connect the proprioceptive receiving areas of the primary somatosensory cortex (Areas 1, 2, 3a, and 3b) to the primary and pre-motor cortex (Areas 4 and 6). Without proprioceptive information feeding into the motor output center, the brain cannot "locate" the muscles needed for movement to occur. We hypothesize that the synchronous and repetitive activity of the input and output areas of the cortex stimulates the reorganization of the brain pathways, thereby closing the feedback loop(s) disrupted by the stroke. In this context, the aim of our research is to identify the effect of a wrist/elbow robotic assisted training combined with proprioceptive training provided by repetitive vibratory stimuli in the tendons of the muscles involved in wrist/elbow flexion and extension on voluntary movement like the reaching movements in individuals with chronic stroke.

In this approach to stroke rehabilitation, the investigators aim to 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change in Fugl-Meyer Assessment for the upper extremity score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Assisted Motion with Enhanced Sensation training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06663501
