CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02347696
Title: Diet and Physical Activity on NAFLD and Erytrocyte Membrane Lipid Profile.
Official Title: Effect of Two Programs of Physical Activity of Different Intensity, Mediterranean Diet and the Combination of Both on NAFLD and Erytrocyte Membrane Lipid Profile.
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 240
Topic: resistance training

SUMMARY:
This study aims to evaluate the effect of two programs of different intensity level of physical activity, of low glycemic index Mediterranean Diet and of the interaction of both, on NAFLD score and on the lipid composition of the erythrocyte membrane.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The surveys conducted on the populations of Castellana Grotte and Putignano (Bari, Italy) evidenced that Non-Alcoholic Fatty liver Disease (NAFLD) reaches a prevalence of 30%, especially among aged and male individuals. Being a crucial outcome of several metabolic alterations, it becomes imperative for Public Health to adopt strategies aimed to control the factors responsible for NAFLD onset.

The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of two programs of different intensity level of physical activity, of low glycemic index Mediterranean Diet and of the interaction of both, on NAFLD score and on the lipid composition of the erythrocyte membrane.

Study participants responding to the inclusion criteria of this trial will be chosen both in the hospital setting and in the general practitioners' clinics. At the enrollement, anthropometric and biochemical variables will be measured, as well as bioimpedenziometric and calorimetric parameters; participants will also undergo Fibroscan-CAP to measure the outcome and will be asked about their medical history and life-style. Subjects will be randomized to the different arms of the trial and be followed-up at the end of the sixth and the twelfth week of enrollement.

All data will be statistically analysed by applying the Chi-Square test and t-test for discrete and continuous variables, respectively. As it deals with the analysis of data repeatedly measured on the same subject, the Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) will be applied to evaluate the effect of the intervention on the outcomes.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Non-Alcoholic Fatty liver Disease (NAFLD) score

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Control
  - BEHAVIORAL: LGIMD
  - BEHAVIORAL: Endurance Activity (EA)
  - BEHAVIORAL: EA+Resistance Training (RT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: LGIMD+EA

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 30 Years to 60 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02347696
