CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05394935
Title: The Effects of High-intensity and Moderate-intensity Exercise on Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Official Title: The Effects of High- and Moderate-Intensity Exercise on the Cerebrovascular and Cardiometabolic Health of Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 34
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This study will investigate the impact of high- and moderate-intensity exercise on the cardiometabolic and brain health of women with Polycystic Ovary syndrome (PCOS). The aim is to measure and compare normal, healthy women without PCOS, to those with the condition.

All participants will undergo a blood test. The investigators will then assess the participants cardiovascular fitness by means of a maximal exercise test and measure body composition through height, weight, and hip-to-waist ratio.

Participants will undergo an MRI, where the investigators will assess the participants brain structure and how the brain responds to a number of tests. The investigators will also conduct some tests that will assess the participants cognition, such as IQ, memory etc.

The investigators will measure the blood vessels leading to the brain and the blood flow through them to measure how much blood the brain receives when rested, using ultrasound.

The investigators will use a number of tests to look at brain function, measure the responses to these tests, and compare them between the normal, healthy women and those with PCOS. This will show if women with PCOS have a similar brain function when rested and when their brains are tested to those without the condition.

The investigators will use exercise as an intervention, where the aim will be to investigate whether women with PCOS respond similarly to those without the condition to both high-intensity and moderate-intensity exercise. The tests of brain function will be repeated following the exercise, and see if both normal, healthy women and those with PCOS have a similar response to the brain function tests.

All tests and measures will be compared between the PCOS group, and the healthy control group to establish any potential differences or similarities as a result of the condition.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Cerebrovascular Reactivity to Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
  - Cerebrovascular Reactivity to Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
  - Neurovascular coupling (NVC)
  - Neurovascular coupling (NVC)
  - Dynamic cerebral autoregulation (dCA)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: High-Intensity Exercise
  - OTHER: Moderate-Intensity Exercise

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 16 Years to 50 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05394935
