CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT03461926
Title: A Combined HAPA and mHealth Intervention to Increase Non-Sedentary Behaviours in Office-Working Adults
Official Title: Using a Combined Health Action Process Approach and mHealth Intervention to Increase Non-Sedentary Behaviours in Office-Working Adults - A Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 62
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
Societal changes have resulted in reduced demands to be active and increased daily time spent sitting. Sedentary behavior (SB) has been linked to many health problems such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Office-working adults are a high-risk population for excessive SB. Increasing the length and frequency of breaks from sitting and increasing the time spent standing and engaged in light physical activity are ways to decrease SB. The purpose of this study is to determine whether combining a Health Action Process Approach-based (theory-driven), specifically action and coping planning intervention, with a tailored text messaging intervention can reduce workplace sitting time among adult office workers. Participants in the intervention group will receive one behavioural counselling session, followed by daily, tailored text messages over a 6-week period, with a focus on encouraging them to reduce their occupational sitting time by increasing their frequency and duration of breaks from sitting, as well as time spent standing and engaged in light-intensity physical activity. It is expected that office-working adults who receive the planning intervention and tailored text messages will report greater increases in non-sedentary behaviours (e.g., break frequency, break duration, standing, light physical activity) than those who do not receive the intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Using a randomized controlled trial design, the purpose of this study will be to examine whether combining a HAPA-based intervention, specifically action and coping planning, with a tailored text message intervention can reduce workplace sitting time by increasing frequency and length of breaks from sitting and non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) behaviours (i.e., standing, light-intensity physical activity) among office-working adults. A secondary purpose will be to examine the effects of the intervention on participants' action planning, coping planning and action control regarding reducing their workplace sitting time, as well as self-rated work performance and health-related outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due to personal or emotional problems, emotional well-being, and energy/fatigue). Another secondary objective will be to determine if action and coping planning and action control towards reducing workplace sitting time are related to actual break behaviour, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity.

If successful, participants in the intervention group (sedentary intervention group) will report reduced workplace sitting time, and greater break frequency and break duration, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity, compared to participants in the control group (no treatment). In addition, it is hypothesized that participants in the intervention group will report greater action and coping planning and action control towards reducing workplace sitting time, as well as improved work- and health-related outcomes.

This study will employ a prospective, 2-group, repeated measures, randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. Participants will be full-time adult, office workers primarily recruited from large businesses and office spaces.

Potential participants (estimated enrolment: 112) will be recruited by Andrew Scott Rollo, Principal Investigator, for this study. Relevant contacts/liaisons and/or senior executives (i.e., Head of Human Resources, President, Chief Executive Officer, Office Manager) at potential businesses of interest will be sought out via publically available sources (e.g., London Chamber of Commerce Business Directory, company websites, etc.) and contacted via email. The email will include a letter of information (LOI) and recruitment poster and request the individual's assistance with recruitment. For each business/office, if the individual accepts the invitation and informs the researchers that he/she is willing to aid with the recruitment process, the individual will then be asked to email all full-time employees in their respective office/business and offer them the opportunity to participate. In this recruitment email, the recruitment poster and Letter of Information will be provided. Participants will be instructed to contact the researcher via email and/or phone if they wish to participate or receive additional 

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in Frequency of Breaks from Sitting at Work
  - Changes in Duration of Breaks from Sitting at Work
  - Changes in Time Spent Standing at Work
  - Changes in Time Spent Engaged in Light-Intensity Physical Activity (i.e., walking) at Work
  - Changes in Time Spent Sitting at Work

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: (SB-related planning + daily text messages)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03461926
