CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT01965795
Title: Whole Coffee Fruit Concentrate Pilot Study 1
Official Title: Effects of Whole Coffee Fruit Concentrate On Cognition and Mood In Healthy Adults: A Pilot Clinical Study
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 39
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the potential effects of whole coffee fruit concentrate (WCFC, Neurofactor), a product that elevates circulating brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), on cognition and mood in healthy adults.

The projected outcome of this study is that self-administration of Neurofactor for 28 days (or even 14 days) will be associated with an improvement in mood and scores on cognitive tests, and that the change will exceed that observed with administration of Nutrim (placebo).

Volunteers will be recruited from the greater Los Angeles community. Participants will be middle-aged nonsmokers, in good health, and between the ages of 40-55 to enhance the chance of demonstrating pro-cognitive effects. Younger participants, whose cognitive performance is expected to be higher, may perform at a ceiling level, with less room for improvement by the product under study.

Participants who call our lab will be told about the study in more detail, and will complete a 5 minute phone screener to determine preliminary eligibility. After the initial telephone screening, participants will visit Dr. London's laboratory at UCLA to provide written informed consent.

The first study visit will be an in-person screening visit to determine full eligibility. The evaluation will include a psychiatric diagnostic interview, using the SCID, blood tests, urine samples (to test for drug use and pregnancy). Participants will also be interviewed about their prior and current drug use, including tobacco use. In addition, participants will be interviewed about the nature of their employment and physical exercise habits: endurance training has been shown to increase plasma BDNF in young men.

Participants meeting the inclusion criteria will attend the Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior at UCLA to take part in baseline measurements, and to be randomized to receive either WCFC or placebo. During the active treatment time (28 days), they will visit the UCLA Semel Institute on a weekly basis. At each of these weekly visits, questionnaires regarding compliance will be completed, and blood samples will be taken for assay of BDNF. A cognitive test battery and mood-rating scales will be completed at baseline and at 14 and 28 days of treatment. At the midpoint assessment (14 days) and at completion of treatment (28 days) blood will be drawn for assay of a blood chemistry panel (as at baseline) as well as for biomarkers in addition to BDNF.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Participants (n=23; 20 completing with usable data) will come to UCLA for 1 in-person screening visit and 4 weekly study visits, culminating in a total of 5 study visits. Those who meet eligibility criteria will take part in a baseline test session (before randomization) to collect cognitive and behavioral data as well as baseline plasma BDNF level. There will also be two test sessions at 14 and 28 days of treatment to collect data on the effects of the active and placebo treatments. The questionnaires, cognitive tasks, and diagnostic interviews will be conducted on an outpatient basis at the Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, and the medical procedures will take place at the UCLA Clinical and Translational Research Center (CTRC).

In-person screening procedures:

First, investigators will thoroughly explain the study and obtain informed consent from interested participants. Immediately after consent is obtained, the following questionnaires/ diagnostic interviews will be completed:

* Study Admission \& Intake Form- This questionnaire administered at intake collects demographic information (i.e. ethnicity, education, employment), general and mental health history, as well as substance abuse history. This questionnaire takes approximately 15-45 min to complete.
* Psychiatric evaluation using the SCID-IR-TR. The SCID will be administered during intake screening to determine whether the participant meets the DSM-IV-TR criteria for drug dependence and to rule out any major psychiatric disorders (e.g., affective disorders, schizophrenia; Spitzer et al., 1995).
* The International Physical Activity Questionnaires (IPAQ). The purpose of the IPAQ (Craig et al., 2003) is to record any exercise that participants engage in as this may impact findings. It takes approximately 5 min to complete.

Urine testing (40 ml) will be done to test for pregnancy (females only) and drugs of abuse. Urine testing will be done at screening as well as each of the study visits. Once the urine has been analyzed, it will be disposed of in a sanitary manner.

Medical Procedures completed during in-person screening:

Participants will give a blood sample taken for Rapid Plasma Reagin (RPR), and Hepatitis blast and cruise testing \[25-ml sample to including a complete chemistry panel (5 ml), hepatic panel (3 ml), Hepatitis blast and cruise, RPR test (7 ml), plasma BDNF (0.1 ml)\]. The study physician will inform participants of the implications if their status for RPR, hepatitis B or hepatitis C test results is positive, and will refer participants to further information. Study staff will inform participants with negative RPR, hepatitis B and hepatitis C test results of their health status. Height and weight will be assessed, as body mass index (BMI) values provide inclusion criteria (18 ≤ BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2). In addition, vital signs such as heart-rate (ECG), pulse, and blood pressure will be measured. Plasma BDNF (and other biomarkers) will be measured by a blood sample (finger sti

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Biochemical measures of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Whole Coffee Fruit Concentrate (WCFC)
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrim

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 55 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT01965795
