CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05362071
Title: Remotely Supervised Exercise Program in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes
Official Title: Cardiometabolic, Functional and Psychosocial Effects of a Remotely Supervised Exercise Program in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 33
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The present study, characterized as a randomized clinical trial, aims to verify the effects of a remotely supervised exercise program, compared to a control group, on cardiometabolic, functional, and psychosocial outcomes in individuals with type 2 diabetes (DMT2). Males and females with T2DM from the city of Pelotas/RS who meet the study eligibility criteria will participate in the study. Participants will be randomized into the intervention group (IG) and control group (CG). The IG will perform a 12-week exercise program supervised remotely via video call, while GC will receive recommendations for physical activity. Participants will be evaluated at baseline (week 0) and after intervention (week 13). Initially, data for sample characterization, blood pressure, capillary blood glucose, and functional tests will collect during a home visit. In a second moment, participants will be invited to go to a specific laboratory for collecting glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c). Subsequently, a third date will be scheduled to apply self-administered questionnaires (online via GoogleDocs) related to thEQuality of life, sleep quality, depressive symptoms, emotional stress related to diabetes, level of physical activity, and eatinGHabits. Additionally, acute glycemic responses will be evaluated before and immediately after an exercise session three times throughout the intervention. Capillary blood glucose will be collected in sessions performed in the initial period of mesocycles 1, 2, and 4. At week 13, reassessment will be realized by the same baseline assessors. Over the 12 weeks, a combined trening will be carried out with remote supervision. Participants will perform strength exercises at usual and maximum execution speed and aerobic exercises at a rating of perceived effort between 11 and 15 on Borg's scale. The sessions will have a total duration between 37 and 57 min and a weekly frequency of two weekly sessions in the first six weeks and three weekly sessions in the remaining six weeks. Data will be expressed as mean and standard deviation. Data analysis between pre-and post-intervention moments, as well as between groups, will be performed by Generalized Estimated Equations, with Bonferroni post hoc, considering both per-protocol (including participants who meet 70% of frequency in the intervention) and intention to treat analysis (including all randomized participants), assuming an alpha level of 5%.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Glycaemic control

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Remote Exercise Group
  - OTHER: Group control

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 45 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05362071
