CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05870007
Title: Atorvastatin and Alkali Therapy in Patients With Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease
Official Title: Atorvastatin and Alkali Therapy in Patients With Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease, A Pilot Trial for Safety and Feasibility
Status: ENROLLING_BY_INVITATION
Phase: PHASE2
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 30
Topic: creatine supplementation

SUMMARY:
Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD) is the most common genetic disease leading to End Stage Kidney Disease (ESKD), affecting between 1 in 500-1000 individuals from every ethnic group. The autosomal dominant (ADPKD) form arises from a two-hit downregulation of proteins encoded by either PKD1 or PKD2. Although many potential therapies have been studied to slow progression of ADPKD, none to date have been proven to be both safe and effective in slowing disease progression. Cholesterol-lowering agents called statins have shown promise in the treatment of younger ADPKD patients, reducing inflammation and progression as assessed by kidney growth, but their utility appears to be limited in older populations and those with more advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recent evidence suggests that acidosis, as often seen in patients with worsening CKD and which may enhance CKD progression, limits the effectiveness of statins and enhances their potential toxicity. The investigators thus hypothesize that correction of acidosis along with statin treatment will be a safe and effective therapeutic regimen to slow CKD progression in the adult ADPKD population and improve overall quality of life in these patients. To test this hypothesis, the investigators will conduct a pilot open-label randomized clinical trial in ADPKD patients with estimated GFR \>45 min (Stage 1-3a CKD) comparing three treatment groups: control, atorvastatin (20 mg po qd), and atorvastatin plus sodium bicarbonate tablets (upto 1800mg po total daily dose) over one year. At the beginning of the study, the investigators will determine the genotype of the trial participants. During the study period, through study visits along with serial blood draws and urinary measurements, the investigators will evaluate safety and tolerability of these treatment regimens, follow renal function and investigate the role of these treatments on acidosis, inflammatory and metabolic biomarkers in patients enrolled at an outpatient facility. Serial follow-up imaging study will also be done in selected patients. This study will establish the framework for larger clinical trials in ADPKD. Moreover, if the results of this study suggest safety/tolerability or potential benefits of statins and alkali therapy in this ADPKD population, the investigators will seek extramural funding for a larger clinical trial to test this therapeutic strategy in ADPKD.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Changes in kidney function in patients enrolled in different arms of the study
  - Changes in kidney function in patients enrolled in different arms of the study
  - Changes in kidney function in patients enrolled in different arms of the study
  - Changes in kidney function in patients enrolled in different arms of the study
  - Changes in liver function in patients enrolled in different arms of the study

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Atorvastatin 20 Mg Oral Tablet
  - DRUG: Sodium Bicarbonate 600 Mg Oral Tablet

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05870007
