CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04139200
Title: Long-term Activity Coaching in Patients With COPD
Official Title: The Long-term Effects of a Tele Coaching Intervention in Patients With COPD: a Randomized Controlled Trial
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 150
Topic: caffeine exercise

SUMMARY:
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity around the world. Studies revealed that patients with COPD are less active than age-matched healthy controls and activity level decreases with disease severity. Higher levels of physical activity is related to important health-related outcomes, such as lower mortality rate and hospital admissions. Additionally, increasing physical activity is related with substantial health benefits. Patients with COPD have a higher risk of developing insulin resistance, hypertension, dyslipidemia, osteopenia, leading to chronic diseases such as coronary heart disease, type 2 diabetes and osteoporosis, which have been related to physical inactivity in the healthy population. Moreover, physical inactivity has been related to the occurrence of comorbidities in patients with COPD. Therefore, improving physical activity levels is a recommended treatment in the disease management in all patients with COPD and is implemented in the recent GOLD guidelines for all patients with COPD, regardless of the disease severity.

The research group investigated the effect of a 3-month semi-automatic tele-coaching intervention on physical activity levels in patients with COPD. The tele coaching intervention led to a significant improvement on physical activity in the intervention group. Although this trial showed positive results on physical activity, further research is needed, mainly to investigate the long-term (12 months) effectiveness of such interventions and the added value of a smartphone application on top of a simple step counter providing feedback. Additionally, since physical activity is related to the development of comorbidities, the investigators aim to explore the influence of improving physical activity levels on the occurrence of cardiovascular, metabolic and musculoskeletal comorbidities. Finally, this study will explore baseline characteristics (such as social support, self-efficacy, dynamic hyperinflation, etc.) that can predict success in this intervention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The aims of the present study are:

1. primary objective: To investigate the changes in physical activity after a 12-month tele coaching intervention (including individualized goal setting, feedback, motivational contacts with coach and a step counter providing direct feedback), compared to a sham group receiving a light coaching intervention (feedback from step counter and static goal setting, without additional motivation or contact with the coach).
2. secondary objectives:

A. Investigate the effect of a 12-month tele coaching intervention on exercise capacity, muscle force, quality of life, physical activity from a patient's perspective, dyspnea-related fear and comorbidities.

B. Confirming previous findings on short-term effects (or lack of effect) of the tele coaching intervention on physical activity, exercise capacity and quality of life, assessed at 6 months.

C. Identifying possible baseline characteristics that are determinants of the change in physical activity after the 12-month tele coaching intervention.

D. Investigating the association between the pattern in vital signs (including physical activity, restinGHeart rate, heart rate variability, heart rate recovery, oxygen saturation, respiratory rate) as measured by a wearable and the onset of an exacerbation.

E. To explore the relation between dynamic hyperinflation as measured during the six-minutes walk test, physical activity measured at baseline and change in physical activity as result of the intervention.

F. Investigate the effect of an acute exacerbation on functional performance (only in Ghent).

G. Investigate the association between a change in physical activity and autonomic function (only in Ghent).

H. Validity and reliability of wearable devices to measure autonomic function, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation (only in Ghent).

Therefore, the study will include stable patients with COPD (post bronchodilator FEV1/FVC \< 0.70) with no moderate or severe exacerbations in the past month, across all disease severities.

For patients in UZ Leuven and UZ Ghent, the study will consists of 4 clinical visits:

* Visit 1 screening visit
* Visit 2: randomization visit, scheduled 1-2 weeks after visit 1
* Visit 3: short term follow-up visit, scheduled 6 months after visit 2
* Visit 4: long-term follow-up visit, scheduled 12 months after visit 2

Only for patients in UZ Ghent: to investigate the effect of an acute COPD exacerbation on functional performance, an additional visit will take place when the patient experiences an exacerbation after the first 6 months of the study. This visit will take place as soon as possible and maximally 14 days after onset of the symptoms.

If the patient does not experience an exacerbation during the first year of the study, the patient will be followed-up until occurrence of the first exacerbation or up to 30 months (whichever occurs first) with intermediate visits at 18 months and 24 months.

All patients included in the study will be ran

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Daily number of steps at 12 months

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Type 1 physical activity tele coaching intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Type 2 physical activity tele coaching intervention

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 40 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04139200
