CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT02150330
Title: Effects of Dehydroepiandrosterone Supplementation on Cumulus Cells Gene Expression Under Controlled Ovarian Hyper-stimulation in Patients With Diminished Ovarian Reserve
Official Title: Effects of Dehydroepiandrosterone Supplementation on Cumulus Cells Gene Expression Under Controlled Ovarian Hyper-stimulation in Patients With Diminished Ovarian Reserve
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 40
Topic: DHEA supplementation

SUMMARY:
Diminished ovarian reserve (DOR) is one the challenge in the field of artificial reproductive technology (ART) while there is still no effective resolution of this disorder. In patents with DOR, the pregnancy rate is about only 2-4%. Eventually, patients with DOR turn to adapt children instead. In recent studies, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEAS) supplement might play a role in reverse diminished ovarian reserve and improve the prognosis of ART. Cumulus cells, formed cumulus-oocyte complex (COC) with oocyte, play a important role in folliculogenesis, oocyte maturation, oocyte meiosis and ovulation. Growing evidences disclose there are crosstalks between oocyte and cumulus cells as paracrine regulations. Aberration the crosswalks between oocytes and cumulus cells would be associated with poor prognosis of folliculogenesis and further pregnancy outcomes. In patients under ovarian hyper-stimulation protocol, the assessment of cumulus cells might be reliable indicators of folliculogenesis, embryo development, pregnancy rate and pregnancy outcomes. These genes (indicators), such as Hyaluronan synthase（HAS2), Versican (VCAN), Thrombospondin 1 (THBS1), Runt-related trenscription factor 2 (RUNX2), Chromobox homolog 3 (CBX3),Tripartite motif-containing 28 (TRIM28), B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2)，BCL2-associated X protein (BAX). This study was assess the gene expressions of cumulus cells after the DHEAS supplement in patients with DOR under ovarian hyper stimulation protocol.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
This study was designed as a prospective case-control study to assess the gene expression of cumulus cells after DHEAS supplement. Patients with diminished ovarian reserve under ovarian hyper-stimulation protocol were evaluated at Kaoshiung Veteran General Hospital from January 1, 2013 through October 31, 2013. Approval for the study was obtained from the hospital's ethic committee, and informed consent was obtained from all patients (VGHKS13-CT11-17)

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Gene expressions of culumuls cells under ovarian hyper-stimulation protocol.

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DRUG: Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEAS)

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 20 Years to 40 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02150330
