CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06566144
Title: Standard Treatment for Non-specific Low Back Pain Combined With Multimodal Osteopathy Treatment on Pain Intensity and Functional Capacity
Official Title: Effect of a Standard Treatment for Non-specific Low Back Pain Combined With Multimodal Osteopathy Treatment on Pain Intensity and Functional Capacity: A Randomized, Controlled, Blinded Trial"
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: low back pain exercise

SUMMARY:
Background: Low back pain is one of the most common musculoskeletal health problem with the highest prevalence in the adult population; globally, it represents a relevant cause of medical, social and economic burden. The aim of the proposed study is to determine the effect of a standard treatment for non-specific low back (CNSLBP) combined with multimodal osteopathy treatment on pain intensity and functional capacity.

Methods: This will be a blind randomized clinical trial, with 44 patients with CNSLBP, randomly assigned into two groups: Experimental group (EG) treated with therapeutic exercises and multimodal osteopathy treatment (n=22) and Control group (CG) treated with therapeutic exercises (n=22). Participants will receive treatment twice a week (total of 16 sessions). The primary outcome is pain, measured by numeric rating scale (NRS: score 0-11 points). Secondary outcomes are: Patient-specific functional scale (scored from 0 to 30), Oswestry Disability Questionnaire (ODQ), finger-to-floor distance test (FFD). Participants will be evaluated pre- and post-treatment and after 1 and 3 months (follow-up).

Results: Analysis will be by intention to treat using linear mixed models. Comparisons between groups before and after treatment will demonstrate whether osteopathy treatment exerts a supplementary effect on pain and functional capacity in patients with CNSLBP. The data will be published after the study is completed. The study will support the practice of evidence-based physical therapy for individuals with CNSLBP.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Not provided

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Pain intensity

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Standard treatment
  - OTHER: Osteopathy treatment

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06566144
