CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05648383
Title: Promote Health With Digital Tools Among Adults With Type 2 Diabetes/Prediabetes and/or Hypertension
Official Title: An Intersectoral Innovative Solution Involving DIGItal Tools, Empowering Families and Integrating Community CARE Services for the Prevention and Management of Type 2 Diabetes and Hypertension
Status: UNKNOWN
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 992
Topic: exercise intervention diabetes

SUMMARY:
The DigiCare4You project will use digital tools for early screening, prevention and management of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and hypertension (HTN). An implementation study will be conducted, targeting more than 10,000 families in two Middle Income Countries (Albania and Bulgaria) and two High Income Countries (Greece and Spain), considering vulnerable groups. Schools will be used as an entry point to the community. Building on an existing procedure for children's periodic growth assessment, conducted by school nurses or in collaboration with local community health centers, parents/ caregivers will be screened via a non-invasive self-reported digital screening tool. Those identified at high risk for T2D will be referred for glycaemia testing (fasting plasma glucose and glycated hemoglobin, HbA1c), as well as blood pressure (BP) measurements, at local community health centers. Parents/ caregivers confirmed to have pre-diabetes or diabetes (and possibly high BP) will be invited to join a mHealth self-management intervention coordinated by the community healthcare workforce. The goal of this intervention is to involve high-risk adults in the treatment process and decision-making on personalized behavioral goals (e.g. diet, physical activity, smoking, alcohol, medication compliance) that meet their needs, and ultimately improve the health status of parents/caregivers, as well as the lifestyle of the entire family.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
The rising burden of diabetes poses important public health challenges to health systems nowadays. The age-standardized rates of diabetes prevalence have stabilized in many European countries in recent years, especially in the Nordic countries, but they have gone up in Southern, Eastern and Central EU countries. However, in the vast majority of countries, national diabetes plans are poorly (or not) implemented and underfunded and although T2D is preventable, its prevalence is expected to reach 66 million by 2030, and 68 million by 2045. According to the World Health Organization (WHO)'s "Framework on integrated people-centred health services", integrated people-centred health services put people and communities, not diseases, at the centre of health systems, and empower people to take charge of their own health rather than being passive recipients of services. People-centred care is one of the main goals of health systems, and it is oriented towards the needs of people and their involvement in the treatment process and decision-making. This is expected to result in better care as experienced by people, less inequality, health promotion, better disease prevention, and treatments targeted to people's needs. Health system transition to people-centred care requires empowering citizens and integration of services. The growing digital transformation of health and care offers great opportunity to achieve this transition. Innovative solutions involving digital tools have the potential to improve people-centred care through self-management, goal orientation and shared decision-making. The DigiCare4You project is in line with the WHO's conceptual framework, and is oriented to health promotion and disease prevention through empowering families and integrating care services in local communities to deliver people-centred care for the prevention and management of T2D and HTN. Ultimately, the DigiCare4You project aims to involve high-risk adults in the treatment process and decision-making on personalized behavioral goals (e.g. diet, physical activity, smoking, alcohol, medication compliance) that meet their needs.

The DigiCare4You project proposes a people-centered health service model to prevent and manage T2D and HTN by using the existing resources and adding digital tools for empowering both the existing healthcare workforce and the healthcare recipients. The proposed model aims to integrate two fragmented primary care services, i.e., (a) the children's growth and development monitoring and (b) the early screening and prevention of T2D and HTN. The first one is implemented across all countries in Europe from birth through late adolescence, it includes a physical examination (eye, oral and hearing), anthropometric measurements (weight and height), vaccination evaluation and a brief family medical history, and it is usually linked with the school (primary and secondary education). The latter primary care service related to the screening and prevention of T2D

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Change from Baseline in fasting plasma glucose [FPG] at 12 months (1st follow-up)
  - Change from Baseline in fasting plasma glucose [FPG] at 24 months (2nd follow-up)
  - Change from Baseline in glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c] at 12 months (1st follow-up)
  - Change from Baseline in glycated hemoglobin [HbA1c] at 24 months (2nd follow-up)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: mHealth intervention
  - BEHAVIORAL: Standard care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05648383
