CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06490016
Title: Menstrual Health Education for Visually Impaired Adolescent
Official Title: Effect of Web Based Menstrual Health Education on Menstrual Attitude, Menstrual Symptoms and Anxiety Among Visually Impaired Adolescent
Status: NOT_YET_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 35
Topic: high intensity interval training

SUMMARY:
This study was planned as a two-group randomized controlled interventional study to determine the effect of face-to-face and web-based menstrual health education given to visually impaired adolescent girls on menstrual attitude, menstrual symptoms and anxiety.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Menstruation is a physiological and natural process of the reproductive system. It is reported that more than 300 million individuals menstruate every day worldwide. On average, a woman menstruates for approximately 3,000 days, or 8 years, between the ages of 11 and 49. Therefore, menstruation is an important issue that requires physical, spiritual and social adaptation for women. It is known that the majority of menstruating individuals have serious problems in managing their monthly menstrual cycles healthily and effectively. However, the menstrual needs of girls and women with different types of disabilities vary compared to individuals without disabilities.

Since the sense of sight has an important place in performing daily activities, visually impaired girls and women are one of the disabled groups that experience various difficulties during the menstrual process. In the literature, it is seen that visually impaired individuals have negative myths and beliefs about the menstrual period, have difficulties with self-care, do not comply with hygiene rules during the menstrual period, and talk about menstrual hygiene management with their mothers, sisters, friends, etc. It is emphasized that there are deficiencies in their knowledge and practices regarding menstrual hygiene, that they see the menstrual period as a shame, and that they experience difficulties such as social isolation and forced sterilization. In this context, the menstrual period emerges as an important global public health problem for visually impaired girls and women.

Menstrual health/hygiene management is important in order to cope with the problems experienced during menstruation. United Nations International Children\&#39;s Emergency Fund underlines that menstrual health and hygiene management should be addressed within a broader framework, reconciling health, well-being, gender equality, education, social equality, individual empowerment policies and human rights. The only point that distinguishes visually impaired women from sighted women regarding menstruation is menstrual hygiene management. Menstrual management in visually impaired women; It varies depending on the use of materials such as pads and tampons, hygiene training, degree of social support, disability status of the person and symptoms related to menstruation. Different methods and tools can be used in training for visually impaired individuals. When providing education to visually impaired individuals, changes should be made in the tools used rather than the content of the education. Because lack of vision does not constitute an obstacle to their education. Training can be provided using models, printed brochures containing the Braille alphabet, voice recordings and assistive technologies.

The comprehensive menstrual hygiene management training to be prepared will guide health professionals, special education teachers and institutions. Studies have reported that nurses have difficulty and experience communi

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Primary Outcome Measure 1
  - Primary Outcome Measure 2
  - Primary Outcome Measure 3

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: web based education
  - BEHAVIORAL: Face to face

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 11 Years to 19 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06490016
