CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT07223242
Title: Tailored Exercise Training Study Among Adults With HFpEF
Official Title: Tailored Exercise Training Study Among Adults With HFpEF
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: PHASE2, PHASE3
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 120
Topic: fat loss muscle

SUMMARY:
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is associated with a high morbidity and mortality burden. There are limited pharmacological options available for the treatment of HFpEF. Exercise intolerance (EI) is the cardinal symptom of HFpEF, which manifests as dyspnea and fatigue. EI leads to functional deconditioning and reduced quality of life (QOL), both of which elevate risk of death and hospitalization in patients with HFpEF. Supervised exercised training is associated with improvements in exercise capacity and QOL in adults with HFpEF. However, supervised exercise has not been widely utilized for the treatment of HFpEF due to logistical and fiscal barriers.

This study will investigate the effects of a remote exercise training intervention on exercise capacity and skeletal muscle composition in patients with HFpEF, or those at risk for it. In addition, it will compare four different lifestyle interventions for their effects on exercise capacity.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Heart failure (HF) portends substantial morbidity, mortality, and health care costs in the United States and the prevalence of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) relative to HF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) has been increasing. HFpEF is associated with a high morbidity and mortality burden. There are limited pharmacological options available for the treatment of HFpEF. It is now recognized as a systemic, multi-organ, geriatric syndrome, with exercise intolerance (EI) and functional impairment as the key clinical manifestations. EI leads to functional deconditioning and reduced quality of life (QOL), both of which elevate risk of death and hospitalization in patients with HFpEF. Supervised exercised training is associated with improvements in exercise capacity and QOL in adults with HFpEF. However, supervised exercise has not been widely utilized for the treatment of HFpEF due to logistical and fiscal barriers.

This study will investigate the effects of a remote exercise training intervention on exercise capacity and skeletal muscle composition in patients with HFpEF, or those at risk for it. In addition, it will compare the effects of four different lifestyle interventions on exercise capacity.

The study will be carried out in two phases. In Phase I, 120 participants will undergo three months of home-based moderate-intensity continuous training (MCT), using tailored exercise videos on a mobile or tablet. Participants will also have weekly virtual meetings with a coach to discuss their progress. This will be followed by 3 months of no intervention, to assess the effects of detraining.

In Phase II (at the 6-month mark), 100 participants will be randomized to one of four extended training strategies for 3 months -(i) MCT alone; (ii) MCT plus resistance training; (iii) MCT plus weight loss, or (iv) MCT plus resistance training and weight loss.

The co-primary outcomes are (1) peak VO2, and (2) short physical performance battery score. In addition, participants will undergo CT chest/abdomen/pelvis at 3 months and 6 months to assess change in skeletal muscle composition with MCT

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Peak Exercise Oxygen Uptake (VO2peak)
  - Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB)

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Moderate-intensity continuous training (MCT)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Resistance training
  - DRUG: Weight loss

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT07223242
