CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04036331
Title: Dyad Plus Effectiveness/Feasibility
Official Title: Effectiveness/Feasibility of A Coordinated Parent/Child Dyad Weight Loss Intervention:
Status: RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 90
Topic: sports nutrition

SUMMARY:
The purpose of this research is to determine the effectiveness of a coordinated program (Dyad Plus) that would help to facilitate self-monitoring, positive communication, joint problem solving, and social support to increase physical activity, healthy eating, and weight loss. Participants of the Brenner FIT (Families In trening) pediatric weight management program and their parent/guardian will co-enroll in weight loss programs. Parents/guardians will receive the components of By Design Essentials.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Brenner FIT is a family-based pediatric weight management clinic for youth 2-18 years old referred by a physician for overweight or obesity. By Design is an adult (\>18yrs) weight loss clinic that includes tailored dietary and physical activity behavioral counseling. The preliminary data suggest that most adolescent youth who enroll in Brenner FIT have at least one adult caregiver who is eligible and would benefit from enrollment in By Design Essentials.

Participants will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups. This include Brenner FIT standard care, Brenner FIT standard care+ By Design Essentials, or Dyad Plus.

Brenner FIT Standard: After referral, families attend an orientation, in which they are then scheduled for an initial introductory 2-hour intake group session and cooking class; these occur within 2-4 weeks of the orientation. Monthly 1-hour long visits with the dietitian, counselor, and physical activity specialist are held for 6 months, in which the child and caregiver see the pediatrician. During the 6 months of treatment, they attend 4 group classes, choosing from topics such as meal planning, physical activity, and parenting. Specialized visits with the physical activity specialist or dietician are scheduled as pertinent issues arise. Clinic visits include individualized goal setting (for behaviors family/clinician have agreed to address), healthy eating and physical activity education, and behavioral counseling to implement changes at home.

By Design Essentials: A dietitian provides each participant with a detailed program manual that describes the prescribed diet. The dietitian utilizes standard behavioral techniques to promote lifestyle behavior changes that enable participants to implement and maintain behaviors necessary to adhere to the dietary prescription. Participants also receive a standard exercise program designed to promote exercise energy expenditure of approximately 600 kilocalories\*/week. The exercise prescription includes resistance trening for 2 days per week and aerobic trening for 3 days per week, to meet a 600 kilocalories\*/week expenditure goal. Behaviorists meet with participants to provide individual and group-based counseling to learn the skills necessary to adopt the prescribed dietary pattern and exercise plans. Group sessions will be delivered consecutively over 6 months (20 total; 1.5 hours each).

Dyad Plus (combination of Brenner FIT and By Design Essentials):This will include all components of the standard Brenner FIT program and By Design Essentials. In addition, group sessions, one-on-one parent/child communication sessions, joint goal setting/tracking, and home environment assessment. Dyads will attend 6 meetings that will last approximately 1 hour each.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - BMI z-score
  - BMI z-score
  - Feasibility and Acceptability of Implementation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Brenner FIT Standard
  - BEHAVIORAL: By Design Essentials
  - BEHAVIORAL: Dyad Plus

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 13 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04036331
