CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT06255353
Title: Effect of Different Feeding Modes in Intracerebral Hemorrhage
Official Title: Effect of Different Feeding Modes in Intracerebral Hemorrhage: Improving Clinical Outcomes and Safety
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 118
Topic: protein supplementation

SUMMARY:
This was a multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled clinical trail involved tracheostomized patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage.The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the clinical effect of Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding vs Nasogastric Tube Feeding in Tracheostomized Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Compared to Nasogastric Tube Feeding, can the Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding better improve the nutritional status, extubation of tracheostomy tube, pulmonary infection, neurological deficit of Patients with Intracerebral Hemorrhage Compared to Nasogastric Tube Feeding, is the Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding safer.

Participants will be divided into two groups randomly, with different nutritional support respectively.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Safe and efficient enteral nutrition support for tracheostomized patients with intracerebral hemorrhage continues to be a challenge. Nasogastric tube feeding has been the mainstay in China but has a significant risk of adverse events. Intermittent oro-esophageal tube feeding is an established enteral nutrition mode that can be used to replace Nasogastric tube feeding. This study reports the clinical effect of Intermittent oro-esophageal tube feeding vs Nasogastric tube feeding in tracheostomized patients with intracerebral hemorrhage receiving basic medical treatment and comprehensive rehabilitation therapy.

However, in the field of intracerebral hemorrhage combined with tracheostomy, research on Intermittent oro-esophageal tube feeding is still relatively limited. Therefore, this study was carried out to explore the clinical effect of Intermittent oro-esophageal tube feeding vs. Nasogastric tube feeding in tracheostomized patients with intracerebral hemorrhage, mainly on nutritional status, extubation of tracheostomy tube, pulmonary infection, neurological deficit, and intervention-related adverse events.

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Number of cases of successful extubation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DEVICE: Intermittent Oro-esophageal Tube Feeding
  - BEHAVIORAL: Basic treatment
  - DEVICE: Nasogastric Tube Feeding

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT06255353
