CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05346575
Title: TOTAL: A Multisite RCT
Official Title: Teaching Obesity Treatment Options to Adult Learners (TOTAL): A Multi-site RCT
Status: ACTIVE_NOT_RECRUITING
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 440
Topic: exercise intervention obesity

SUMMARY:
Nearly 8 in 10 Veterans meet criteria for overweight/obesity. Three evidence-based treatment options are available within VA (behavioral weight management \[MOVE!\], obesity medications, and bariatric surgery).

However, all treatments are significantly underutilized. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a novel intervention designed to increase obesity treatment initiation and subsequently weight loss within VA. The intervention, Teaching Obesity Treatment Options to Adult Learners (TOTAL), involves an educational video and multiple motivational sessions delivered via telemedicine. If effective, TOTAL could be implemented throughout VA without requiring significant resources and could be integrated into the existing VA behavioral weight management program, MOVE!, which is present at nearly every VA medical center.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Background: Nearly 80% of Veterans meet criteria for overweight (body mass index \[BMI\] of 25-29.9 kg/m2) or obesity (BMI 30). VA offers three evidence-based obesity treatments at little to no cost to Veterans: MOVE! (to improve dietary intake and physical activity through behavioral modification); obesity medications; and bariatric surgery, but all are significantly underutilized: \<10% of Veterans with obesity participate in MOVE!; 2% receive obesity medications; and 0.3% of those who meet BMI criteria for bariatric surgery (BMI 35) undergo it. There is an urgent need to increase use of all three treatments to improve Veteran health.

Significance/Impact: Nearly 4,000,000 Veterans meet BMI criteria for overweight/obesity. It is essential that Veterans with overweight/obesity are aware of the three treatment options and are motivated to pursue them. Currently, no interventions in VA seek to increase use of all three evidence-based obesity treatment options for Veterans not currently participating in MOVE!. The TOTAL intervention (Teaching Obesity Treatment Options to Adults Learners), if effective, would increase obesity treatment initiation for Veterans, lead to greater weight loss, and improve quality of life. Given that TOTAL is deliverable via VA telemedicine, it could be implemented throughout the VA healthcare system without requiring significant resources and could be integrated into the existing VA behavioral weight management program, MOVE!.

Innovation: The research in this proposal would be the first adequately powered RCT in VA testing an intervention to increase use of all three evidence-based obesity treatments: MOVE!, obesity medications, and bariatric surgery. It would leverage the power of the VA electronic health record and would improve access to care by expanding use of a recently developed telemedicine technology - VA Video Connect (VVC) - which was developed by VA researchers. It could be implemented and disseminated efficiently within VA given that MOVE! is available at every VAMC and is supported by NCP.

Specific Aims: Aim 1: Compare the effectiveness of TOTAL vs. usual care for increasing obesity treatment initiation among Veterans with overweight/obesity who are not participating in MOVE!; Aim 2: Compare the effectiveness of TOTAL vs. usual care for increasing sustained MOVE! participation, receipt of an obesity medication prescription or bariatric surgery referral, and weight loss; Aim 3: Inform future dissemination efforts of TOTAL via interviews with key stakeholders, a "Reach" analysis, and cost analysis.

Methodology: Study population: Veterans at two VAMCs, age 18-75 with a BMI 30 or 27-29.9 + an obesity related comorbidity who have not had a MOVE! visit within the past 12 months and thus are not participating in obesity treatment will participate in the RCT; Intervention: The TOTAL intervention consists of an 18-minute obesity treatment educational video and three motivational sessions (all delivered via VA Vid

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Obesity treatment initiation

INTERVENTIONS:
  - BEHAVIORAL: Teaching Obesity Treatments to Adult Learners (TOTAL)
  - BEHAVIORAL: Usual care

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 70 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05346575
