CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT04663633
Title: The Effect of Eight-week Specific Core Training on Core Stability, Balances and Jumps in Young Rhythmic Gymnasts
Official Title: The Effect of Eight-week Specific Core Training on Core Stability, Balances and Jumps in Young Rhythmic Gymnasts
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 44
Topic: athletic performance

SUMMARY:
The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of an eight-week specific Core Stability Training (CST) on young rhythmic gymnasts. The literature suggests CST may help improve sport performance, however, more studies implementing functional CST and accurate methodology are needed to validate this statement. Little is known about Core Stability (CS) and Rhythmic Gymnastics (RG). The study intends to find out whether CST contributes to the Rhythmic gymnasts core stability, balances and jumps execution enhancement, very important RG performance determinants. It is hypothesized the rhythmic gymnasts will increase their CS, balances and jumps performance once the specific CST is conducted.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Gymnasts were recruited from the Gymnastics Club "Gimnàstica Muntanyenc". All participants were rhythmic gymnasts who had at least two-year experience competing in RG at regional federated and school competition level and trained three times per week. Individuals who didn't meet these criteria or were injured at the moment were excluded. The participants were invited to take part in the study voluntarily, and along with their parents were informed verbally and in writing as to the characteristics of the program. Parents or legal guardians signed informed consent forms, and a document that explained the objectives and planned activities of the provided program. The study was approved by the FPCEE Blanquerna Research Ethics Committee. All protocols applied in this research (including the management of the personal data of the participants) complied with the requirements specified in the Declaration of Helsinki of 1975 and its subsequent revisions.

The specific CST program is aimed for Rhythmic gymnasts between 8 and 15 years of age who train in the competitive group and their goal is to improve their RG level. All the study participants were asked to sign an informed consent document that was drafted in keeping with all applicable research ethics protocols, including a guarantee of the confidentiality of personal data and an assurance that participants can choose to abandon the study at any time.

Control group (CG), experimental group (EG) and pre-test, post-test methodology was selected. EG performed the specific CST while CG carried out the traditional RG training.

The CST intervention had been carried out over the course of one academic year (2018-19). The first 3 months allowed investigators to recruit the participants and design the CST adapted to the Rhythmic gymnasts and pursuing the highest specificity for the CS exercises. This design took into account prior experiences of a CS physiotherapist expert and a RG national coach. The load of the sessions was controlled according to a Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE) scale, a valid method of quantifying exercise training during a wide variety of types of exercise. A training protocol trial will be applied where the subjects will be asked to point out which is their perceived exercise intensity, thirty minutes after the training ends. The repetitions will be adjusted to the 7-8 RPE scale values (very hard) allowing the correct execution of the exercises to the participants and yet permitting adaptations produced by the training. The conclusions drawn from this initial experience formed the scientific basis for the definitive version of the CST.

During the fourth month a pre-test was carried out including an anthropometric study of the gymnasts, three CS tests, seven balance tests and six jump tests. The participants warmed up before each test except for the anthropometric study and the order of the subjects and the order of the applied tests were randomly determined using a true random number

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Core stability results on Lumbo-pelvic motor control (LPMC)
  - Core stability results on Core strenght and endurance
  - Balance results from a force platform (Center of pressure area)
  - Balance results from a force platform (Sway velocity)
  - Balance results from expert judging

INTERVENTIONS:
  - OTHER: Core stability training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 8 Years to 15 Years
Sex: FEMALE

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04663633
