CLINICAL TRIAL
==============
NCT ID: NCT05295719
Title: Combining HIIT and n-3 PUFA to Reduce Inflammation and Improve Metabolic Health
Official Title: Combining Fish Oil and Exercise to Improve Obesity-associated Inflammation
Status: COMPLETED
Phase: NA
Study Type: INTERVENTIONAL
Enrollment: 129
Topic: omega 3 exercise

SUMMARY:
The goal of this project is to understand the combined effects of fish oil and exercise in obesity-associated inflammation. The investigators hypothesize that fish oil will improve gut bacteria profiles, which will in turn potentiate the benefits of an exercise program and improve energy utilization and reduce inflammation and metabolic risk.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION:
Incidence of obesity continues to increase in the United States and worldwide, making its prevention or reduction a public health priority. Nutrition research that can lead to effective prevention strategies is greatly needed. Inflammation is a major underlying cause for obesity, and it is imperative to understand how anti-inflammatory food sources, such as fish oil, could aid in reducing obesity. Moreover, exercise is effective at reducing systemic inflammation and improving insulin resistance. Both exercise and diet can influence health through changes in the gut microbiome; however, no studies have investigated how together these affect gut microbiome and overall metabolic health. The goal is to understand the combined effects of fish oil and exercise in obesity-associated inflammation. The investigators hypothesize that fish oil will improve gut bacteria profiles, which will in turn potentiate the benefits of an exercise program and improve energy utilization and reduce inflammation and metabolic risk. These studies will provide the foundation for development of novel strategies for obesity, inflammation, dyslipidemia and dysglycemia.

The first aim of this study will focus on determining the combined effects of n-3 PUFA and HIIT on improving metabolic risks such as obesity-related markers of inflammation, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance.

The investigators will test the hypothesis that n-3 PUFA, in addition to HIIT, will have beneficial effects on energy utilization, as well as obesity-related markers of inflammation, dyslipidemia and insulin resistance.

Aim 2.1: Investigate the influence of n-3 PUFA and HIIT on body weight and composition Aim 2.2: Investigate the influence of n-3 PUFA and HIIT on serum markers associated with obesity Aim 2.3: Investigate influence of n-3 PUFA and HIIT on energy utilization/ markers of insulin resistance

The second aim is to determine the combined effects of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) and high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on improving gut dysbiosis.

The investigators will test the hypothesis that n-3 PUFA supplementation will improve gut microbiota composition and related metabolites, which will result in reduced inflammation and ameliorate the metabolic response to a HIIT exercise intervention in an overweight population.

Aim 1.1: Investigate the influence of n-3 PUFA and exercise on gut microbiota composition

Aim 1.2: Investigate the influence of n-3 PUFA and exercise on microbiota produced metabolites

Participants will be randomly allocated to 1 of 4 treatment groups (n = 120), each balanced for sex, BMI, lipid profile, and dietary intake. The goal is to conduct the study in smaller cohorts, such as 10-15 participants/group (n = 40-60).

Participants will first be allocated to two groups: One group will take 4 grams n-3 PUFA (AlaskOmega®) per day (3000 mg EPA and 1000 mg DHA) and one group will take placebo (safflower oil, AlaskOmega®, from Organic Technologies Inc.) for 4

PRIMARY OUTCOMES:
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein at 4 weeks
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Interleukin (IL)-6 at 4 weeks
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Interleukin (IL)-10 at 4 weeks
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 at 4 weeks
  - Mean Change from Baseline in Tumor necrosis factor at 4 weeks

INTERVENTIONS:
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid
  - BEHAVIORAL: High-Intensity Interval Training
  - DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Safflower oil
  - BEHAVIORAL: Low-intensity training

ELIGIBILITY:
Age: 18 Years to 65 Years
Sex: ALL

---
Source: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05295719
