I was in full-blown heart failure with fluid in my lungs. >> Randy Mcnite was 35 years old when his care team in Jacksonville, Florida, discovered he had an enlarged heart. >> My son was I think he was he must have been eight or nine and I kind of knew that I had to survive, you know, to help raise him and support him. >> Randy needed a transplant. >> Well, I was originally listed in Rochester, Minnesota, you know, and waiting up there for a transplant. >> Randy spent almost three years traveling back and forth for care, waiting for a heart. Then in 2001, Mayo Clinic in Florida started a heart transplant program that would give Randy a chance to be closer to home. After listing and waiting several more months, the day finally came. >> I had my heart transplant on May 27th of 2002. When you have someone who is literally a death's doorstep to be able to live a full healthy life back to things that they want to do, going back to work, you know, raising their children, going to graduations, going to weddings, um, raising their grandchildren, that is very, very satisfying. >> Dr. Daniel Yip helped launch the heart transplant program at Mayo Clinic in Florida. He's seen a quarter century of progress in heart transplantation from advances in medications to new options for patients with the greatest need. >> Being able to expand the donor pool using organs that in the past we would say maybe we shouldn't think about using them but knowing with time with research with innovation with technology to be able to use these organs. Now we're able to go a lot lot farther even across the country to be able to get the right heart for a patient. I think that's the biggest thing to be able to serve patients who need our help. >> For Randy, he's grateful for the years he's been given and he's made it his mission to help others. He's even running marathons. >> Before transplant, being sick, being limited was really hard because I'm a go. I go all the time. 24 years out, life's been good. For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Alex Ositis.