Hi, I'm Steve Moran and this is Dick Ber, risk guru. I'm here to tell you about our upcoming Mayo Risk course. This is a trianual course that's been going on for 40 years. It's a course that begins with a very simple examination of the wrist and will go all the way to very complex diagnoses. We're very excited to have it happening and it's coming up in May. And Dick Ber is going to tell us a little bit about the special precourse that involves anatomic dissection. Thank you, Steve. As you know, since we've uh oh, probably the last decade, we began to recognize that individual learners wanted to have a little bit more exposure to the anatomy and mechanics of the wrist and some surgical exposures. So, we've designed this precourse to fill that need. And what it is is we'll spend the day in the skills lab working with a cadaavver specimen. uh each of you will be working on a cadaavver specimen and I'll be leading the discussion amongst other faculty members and we'll try and cover from A to Z the anatomy and mechanics of the wrist as well as some of the common surgical procedures. Not only that, but at the end of the course, we're going to have some of our international faculty come into the lab and show you how to pu per perform some of their procedures such as tenadesis, capsuleadesis, vascularized bone grafting, as well as some more advanced techniques in TFCC repair. And speaking about that faculty, Dick, it's pretty amazing. Oh, it is amazing. When you look at the list of faculty members, uh, in addition to our own Mayo Clinic faculty in both plastic surgery and orthopedics, I want to tell you, it's an impressive list. It's a who's who of wrist experts from around the world that will be joining us. I'd encourage you to go to the website to see a full list of the faculty. And in addition, this year, we're also having a special new component of the course. will be having educational sessions set aside for your mid-level practitioners. So, your PAs or your NPs can come and we have a full day set aside for wrist injection, diagnosis of carpal tunnel, wrist fractures, dressings, and treatment of fingertip injuries. So, bring your mid-level staff with you. We think they'll be very valuable for them. It's a great opportunity for some team training uh which we uh think of as being extremely valuable. Uh and we want to see you here in Rochester, Minnesota for the Mayo Clinic Disorders of the Risk Course. And we're honoring again uh Jim Dobbins and Ron Lynshide. Thanks, Dick. We hope to see you there. Thank you.