- Dr. Malcolm Bell: Welcome again to our listeners and viewers for another in our podcast series of interviews with the experts. I'm delighted today to welcome back Stan Hankin, who's an associate professor in our division of vascular medicine within our Department of Cardiovascular Medicine. And we're, this is gonna be the first of two podcasts focused on peripheral arterial disease. Stan, welcome. Again, it's, it's really good to have you back on the program and, and taking the time to be with us. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Thanks, Dr. Bell. Really excited to discuss this topic with you. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Okay. Well, today what we're going to, to cover is the peripheral arterial disease guidelines of 2024. So these are the first updated guidelines, as I recall, since 2016 and Stan may, maybe I'll just ask you, why is it important that, well, why was it necessary to update the guidelines in terms of the treatment? Obviously there must be some new advances, some new information that we need to be aware of, but maybe you could just summarize for, for our listeners why this was important. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, no, that's, that's a really good place to start because it, it almost took 10 years to update the new guidelines and there was a lot of research that came out in this time. And, you know, when I think about treatment of individuals with peripheral artery disease, you know, we can think from many different perspective perspectives. We can think from the medication perspective in order to reduce the risk of major adverse limb events. We can think about from the symptom perspective, which is very different than the medication aspect of things. And I think the new really large overarching theme from these 2024 guidelines, which is really important, is the PAD risk amplifiers and the social determinants of health. You know, we sort of do these in our office every day as we meet patients and figure out what their social aspect of health is, how they're able to get medications, what they're able to do. But this is really the first time, at least from the peripheral art disease perspective, that this is really amplified in the guidelines. I think it's really important to know what's going on in the United States with this. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Well, I look forward to hearing more about that, but we'll, we'll come to that in, in a few minutes. But as is very typical, particularly in cardiology, vascular medicine, you know, guidelines tend to be really extensive, you know, a lot of guidelines, you know, class one, class two A two B three, and very often, you know, with pretty maybe sort of low levels of evidence, you know, to, to support them. Yeah. So maybe you could just briefly summarize or highlight the really important new class one recommendations in, in these new guidelines. Yeah, obviously we go through all of them, but I, I'm sure you really have a handle on what are the most important ones. - Dr. Stan Henkin: So I, I think that let's be really high yield and let's think of these really important things that we need to do in our primary care physician's office, cardiology office, vascular surgery office, to really optimize these patients. Now the big one that I wanna first start with is antiplatelet therapy. And antiplatelet therapy has always been a class one recommendation going back to many years. But I wanna make two important caveats here with antiplatelet therapy in the new guidelines. First one is that when we talk about antiplatelet therapy, we're talking about single antiplatelet therapy in symptomatic peripheral disease. And this is really the first guideline where it says we should consider clopidogrel compared to aspirin for single PLD therapy and symptomatic peripheral disease. Now this goes back to the Capri trial, which I'm sure you remember quite well that compared - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And long before the 2016 guidelines. - Dr. Stan Henkin: That's exactly right. That's exactly right. But as we have gotten more literature in the peripheral space, in the coronary space, you know, we understand that single antiplatelet therapy of clopidogrel, better efficacy and probably even better safety compared to aspirin. So this is the first big highlight. You know, whenever I see a patient with symptomatic peripheral disease, I start clopidogrel really easy to use generic, you know, especially in an older patient, you know, people always worry about aspirin and we sort of have a nice discussion about the risks and benefits of aspirin versus clopidogrel and I think they feel better that way. Actually hearing a lot of the data that's behind in this, remember even in the cap pretrial there were a lot of patients with peripheral disease and the Bose pain for your buck in that study was the peripheral artery disease patients, not the coronary patients or the stroke patients. So I think this is a really nice first highlight. The other highlight from the interplate therapy is that you do have a choice of aspirin plus rivaroxaban 2.5 milligrams twice daily. Now this is from the COMPASS trial, which did include patients with stable coronary disease, history of stroke or peripheral artery disease that showed in those patients combination of aspirin plus rivaroxaban 2.5 milligrams twice daily compared to aspirin alone, significantly reduced the risk of major adverse cardiac events and limb events. So you have a choice either clopidogrel or aspirin plus Xarelto 2.5. Now when you choose - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Maybe Stan, I could just interrupt you there. Yeah. So I mean that's a really key thing. So two options. Have they been compared to each other? - Dr. Stan Henkin: They have not of course. Course. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Isn't it the same, the clopidogrel wasn't a third arm in the COMPASS trial. - Dr. Stan Henkin: I agree with you a hundred percent, a hundred percent. And you know, this is I think where real world effectiveness data will have to come into play. But because as you and I know very well, there's probably never gonna be a trial of clopidogrel compared to aspirin plus rivaroxaban 2.5 milligrams twice daily. There's not really a taste for trials like this unfortunately. But this is, I think, where a lot of individuals do use either one or the other combination. We will have real world effectiveness data, which has a time and a place in studies like this for sure. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: But I think what we can take away from this is that I, well, both of those options are better than aspirin as monotherapy. - Dr. Stan Henkin: That is exactly correct. That is exactly correct. I will tell you, I use very little aspirin in my practice now and, and even in the coronary practice, you know, we can certainly, you know, you, you know this more than I do, but you know, even in the coronary practice, especially after PCI, there is a time and a place for long-term G clopidogrel monotherapy as well too. But I think that in peripheral artery we have a lot of this data and it's long-term data as well too. So don't be afraid of using G clopidogrel. The safety is at least the same as aspirin, if not better. And efficacy is definitely better. So this is the first thing that I do with these patients now. - Dr. Malcolm Bell:Yeah. And definitely less probably GI bleeding as well. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Absolutely. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: So what other guidelines do you wanna highlight for us? Because I mean this is key, but - Dr. Stan Henkin: That's key. And so the other one couple that I wanna highlight is lipid lower in therapy. So in individuals with PAD, they need to be on high intensity statin. Okay? The key word is high intensity statin to achieve at least 50% reduction LDL. So the important point that we had in the past is that you need to get to, if your LDL is 70, well maybe you don't need to use a high intensity statin, you just, you can just go with a more moderate and low intensity statin. That's absolutely incorrect. And we have lots of data with PCSK nine inhibitors, ezetimibe, all the new lipid lowering therapies coming out that you need at least 50% reduction, LDL. So please individuals, no matter what their LDL is, please use high intensity statin and your LDL goal should be at least less than 70 milligrams per deciliter and high. I'll highlight just a little bit difference between our guidelines and European guidelines that they actually suggest an LDL goal of less than 55 milligrams per deciliter, - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Which is now for coronary disease. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Exactly. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: So, so high risk patients, - Dr. Stan Henkin: You know, and what I think is sad actually, is that if you look at real world data, and this is actually true from Mayo data as well, that we've taken a look at, only 50% of individuals with PAD at Mayo Clinic are in high intensity statin. So although we're a number one hospital in the world will in a real world practice as well too. So please, you know, this is the one thing that we can absolutely do to decrease the risk of both cardiac and limb events. Critical. Absolutely critical. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: And in this population of patients, have there been studies looking at PCSK nine inhibitors as as alternatives or additives lyran? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, absolutely. And even these guidelines, you know, provide a class two indication for use of ezetimibe and or PCSK nine inhibitor to achieve LDL goal of at least 70 milligrams per deciliter. But if you take a look at studies of, you know, these are substudies of PCSK nine inhibitors in the PAD population, the mantra is basically the lower you are, the better it is. You know, there is no too low in population of PAD patients with on PCs scan inhibitors. And the reason for that is probably because these are most likely poly, meaning that if they have peripheral disease, they're likely to have vascular disease, they're likely to have coronary disease. You know, these are patients that have systemic atherosclerosis. So we know that the lower the LDL, the better the outcome. So absolutely get comfortable with using ezetimibe, get comfortable with using PCSK nine inhibitors on, you know, even prescribing basis. It is much easier these days to prescribe PCSK nine inhibitors than it was five to 10 years ago when we had very few indications. So you absolutely have the mantra and the guidelines to back you up to get LDL at least less than 70, probably more like less than 55. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Do you have one more guideline class one recommendation to share with us? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Absolutely. I just wanna highlight one more and I think that that's diabetes control. Now diabetes control was always a class one recommendation no matter what guideline you went to. But these guidelines get a little bit more specific, which is really nice for us. And they suggest the use of GLP one agonist and SGLT two inhibitors as a class one recommendation for a diabetes. And with that, I wanna highlight something that's more groundbreaking, that's not including these guidelines, which is a stride trial, which was just presented at a CCA few months ago, which randomized patients to semaglutide versus placebo and functional outcomes and patients receiving semaglutide walked significantly more with more pain-free walkin time compared to placebo. So now we have one more indication for GLP ones that we use here, and that will certainly be provided an even stronger recommendation for class one in the future guidelines. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah, it seems so. No end of indications and efficacy of the GLP one A. And so this is, this is really important information and, and of course, you know, the types of patients that you share with us, you know, that coronary disease, peripheral disease, I mean, these are the ones who really need the maximum control of, of those risk factors. And of course, you know, with lipids, it's not just the LDL lowering, it's, it's all the pleomorphic event effects as well, your plaque stabilization. And - Dr. Stan Henkin: So Absolutely. And I, and I'll just add one more thing, even, you know, the one thing that there's also more data coming out on, not in the guidelines, but about lipoprotein AI'll just sort of put it out there for our future discussions. Yeah, yeah, definitely. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah. - Dr. Stan Henkin: And you know, because now more and more data coming out about lipoprotein a in peripheral art disease, and it's not just about LDL control, it may be, you know, there is residual risk with lipoprotein a and as we have drugs in trials right now, specifically controlling lipoprotein a really something to watch out for the next couple of years. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Yeah, that's gonna be really exciting. And we're desperately waiting for that. And, but it's very interesting is that the very few people get screened for PUL delay. And, and I think in our own practice we're seeing that sort of gradually becoming more frequent. So you, you touched on earlier that something you, that you described as novel in terms of the guidelines, and that was exploring the health disparities in patients with peripheral arterial disease. And, and that may be in terms of the presentation, the prevalence of disease and treatments that they may or may not receive. So I'll, I'll just let you explain why this was, you know, in the guidelines here, and again, what are the key take home messages there? - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yeah, and I think we can really divide it into two buckets. We can talk about PAD related risk amplifiers, meaning risk of major adverse cardiac and limit events is higher, these individuals. And then on the other perspective, the social determinants of health. So when we think about PAD risk amplifiers, those are things that sort of come easy to us that we don't even think about, but we should. That's things like higher age diabetes, vascular disease, poly disease, chronic kidney disease. But the other really important one is actually depression and anxiety. And that's something that we need to be very mindful of when we see these patients because we wanna be able to walk, you know, we're used to walking through our life. So having pain with walking, not being able to do what you're used to doing leads to more depression and anxiety. So as we think about these patients in our office and we think about, well, how aggressive do we really need to be with treating them if they have chronic kidney disease? We need to be more aggressive. If they have coronary disease, cerebrovascular disease, we need to be more aggressive Diabetes, we really need to be careful about it. Please take your patient's shoes off every single visit, by the way, class one recommendation in these guidelines. How many of us do that? We're limited by time, you know, we talk to patients, but taking shoes off, you will find crazy things. I promise you, you know, wounds that you never knew. - Dr. Malcolm Bell: So taking shoes off is now in the class one recommendation. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Yes. So foot exam, regular foot exam is now a class one recommendation and guidelines. Absolutely. So, and again, think about your patients that you see coronary patients, even peripheral artery disease patients. You know, we see them, we talk to them about their symptoms, maybe we'll examine and get their femoral pulses but we really need to remember to take their shoes off, especially in those with diabetes and neuropathy who may, you know, who may not have feeling that's critical to do because they may not even know that they have an ulcer. And if you catch an ulcer late, now you're at risk for amputation and more depression. Anxiety is so critical thing here, - Dr. Malcolm Bell: Stan, I think it's unfortunately all the time we have for this. And again, thank you so much. You, you're always so eloquent and so clear in terms of the message you want to get across. And I think sort of ending with make sure the shoes are taken off and we're examine these patients or when we see these patients really amplifies that, but, but again, the antiplatelet therapy, those amplifiers, diabetes, lipids, all those are so important. So thank you again and look forward to having discussion on another topic, which will be intervention of peripheral arterial disease. So once again, thank you. - Dr. Stan Henkin: Thanks Dr. Bell.