involved with living donor transplant is one of the most inspiring parts of my job. There's nothing else in medicine where somebody steps forward to undergo a surgery that they don't actually need to save the life of one of their loved ones or even in some cases somebody they don't know. Thank you very much for your gift and for being here. Thank you for saving a life by doing one of the most selfless things a human being can do by donating a kidney or a part of your liver. I cannot thank living donors enough, and I feel so privileged that I get to see such wonderful people every day. You're amazing. I just want to say thank you to all the living donors. Donation is the cornerstone of transplantation, and without it, we just wouldn't have a functioning transplant program program across the nation so thank you i want to extend my utmost gratitude to all of our donors three words come to mind when i think of our living donors generosity bravery and strength and truly what you do in transforming the lives of your recipient is one of the most uplifting parts of my medical practice. Thank you for all that you've done. Thank you to all the donors that I've worked with over the years. You're amazing. We thank you for your incredible gift. On behalf of the Transplant Social Work at Mayo Clinic, we thank you, Living Donors. living donors are the true definition of heroes you are the most giving generous human beings on this planet thank you for being you and for being amazing it's truly an honor to get to work with living kidney donors we're so grateful that you helped to give the gift of life to patients in need and we can't thank you enough for your contribution to our field. So thank you. So we'd like to thank you, our living donors. And every day we witness the gift that is given to our kidney transfer recipients. It's such a great thing for the patients who are able to receive the kidney and live the normal life. So thank you from the bottom of our hearts for all the children. I see firsthand the results of living donation. So we are very grateful to our living donors. On behalf of the pharmacy team, thank you for donating. One of my favorite donor stories involved two sisters, identical twins. One needed a kidney transplant. The other was an identical match, obviously, and was her donor. Later that year, we got a phone call from the Minnesota twins. They went out and threw out the opening pitch for Twins Day. quite memorable for those two sisters. Your generosity means everything to us and the community we serve. Thank you again so much. On behalf of the research team, thank you for your incredible gift. Your generosity drives discovery and changes lives. On behalf of Mayo Clinic, thank you, living donors. I'm so glad you could gather in a sense of community this evening. We want to extend our eternal gratitude and thanks to all of you who have given the gift of life. Some of you know who you've given that gift to and some of you don't know. I think of nothing more noble, not only in medicine, but outside of medicine than that. Your contributions are immeasurable and the impact you have on our care. It's something that will live in eternity. Thank you. On behalf of Mayo Clinic, we would like to thank all of the living organ donors. Do you all know how amazing you are? Thank you so much from Mayo Clinic. The most exciting components of my job at Mayo Clinic has been the ability to work with the living donor transplant program the opportunity to interact and work with such an amazing group of selfless individuals whose dedication to the well-being of others is rewarding beyond measure thank you for all that you've done for the program but most importantly for the patients whose lives have been forever changed by your incredible gift thank you again Living Donors inspire us by their decision to undergo surgery, not for personal benefit, but to save someone else's life. Living Organ Donation is one of the most courageous and selfless we witnessed. Thank you to our Living Donors. Your gift gives hope and inspires our care team to give their very best each and every day. You are our true heroes. like all potential and past living kidney donors the true pioneers of kidney transplantation the first ever transplant performed was between two identical twins that means a living donor gave that first kidney without that landmark procedure and that person willing to donate we would not have kidney transplantation thank you so much from the bottom of our hearts you give me hope for a day without a wait list for kidney and liver transplant for a beloved community for a world defined by generosity and compassion thank you living donors you are the true superheroes of the program selfless generosity for giving the gift of life Thank you for being a donor. Thank you to Living Donors. I'm always impressed by people's desire to help the recipients change their lives and you stepping forward makes such a difference to those people who we see year by year waiting for a kidney. Thanks so much. On behalf of 10-2, thank you for being a Living Donor. I'd like to thank all of the living donors for their generous gift for our transplant recipients. Your kindness and generosity is unmatched and so greatly appreciated. Thank you very much from the bottom of all our hearts. Say thank you for donating on behalf of our DUS team. on behalf of the transplant social workers we want to thank all the living donors you've given not only your organ but a gift of hope and life and it's made a true impact it is the best gift you could ever give someone hello donors from Mayo Clinic thank you so much for being here today you are truly heroes and for you all the patients that we are able to help and you were able to help would not be possible so thank you for your gifts thank you for being a living donor it's been an honor to take care of you and at the countless lives that you've saved thank you for your gift for your living donor gift especially liver kidney and everybody that's gone above and beyond to make a change in someone else's life Your gift has truly inspired us. It made us better providers and what you have done has touched so many lives. It's just a beautiful thing. I cannot thank you enough. To all the living donors that have come before, we thank you from the nursing perspective for all you've done for all of the recipients out there. To our donors, generosity and giving others another chance of life you are inspiring us all our donors are inspirational and selfless i hear that we have a lot of living donors in the audience about half the people who don't have a living donor actually never make it to transplant they actually die on the waiting list so living donation is life-saving so thank you for everything you've done Thank you to all living donors. Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious. It was always an inspiration to the transplant team to see the effort in time, travel and personal commitment and sacrifice that all of you made to donate an organ to someone in need i hope the experience has been beneficial for you as well as the recipient that you have had healthy and productive lives you are real superheroes thank you i wanted to use this opportunity to thank all the donors reunited today for what they did Donene is saving somebody's life. It is to me akin to jumping into a river to rescue somebody. You had an opportunity to change a loved one or a friend's life and you did it. So you are our heroes and I'm sorry I cannot be there with you today but we all love you and we are very grateful for what you did.