My name is Madeline Osell, and I was a participant in the Research Experiences for Teachers program here at Mayo Clinic this summer, researching under the mentorship of Dr. Hugo Botha and Dr. Renee Utyanski in their use of artificial intelligence in remote diagnosis of speech and language disorders. Here at Mayo Clinic, the neurology department has developed a web -based tool called the Mayo Speech Test used to support research in remote speech and language assessment. Due to the presentation of many neurological diseases and injuries manifesting in speech or language difficulties, this test makes it ideal for remote diagnosis and monitoring and allows patients to complete it from home on their own devices. My work on this focused on improving the automated systems that analyze recorded speech to turn it into clinically useful data, which we were then able to use to refine the parameters in place for analysis of current and future patient data throughout these tasks. We used natural language processing, a branch of artificial intelligence that helps computers to understand and work with human language. This technology makes it possible to study speech and text for patterns that may reflect changes in communication, thinking, or brain function ASR, automatic speech recognition. My role was primarily to work on the naming task, where patients are given a series of 10 photos, and one by one they go through individually labeling the photos and clicking next and recording themselves labeling these photos. On this poster that's shown with the pencil, the chair, and the stethoscope. So once they complete this task, that audio transcription or that audio is put into whisper, which is a program used to create a transcription of it. And then that transcription is analyzed for accuracy, semantic relevance, and the patient is assigned a score based on this. My role was to improve the automated systems that we currently use to analyze speech and turn it into clinically relevant data in order to refine what we are using to score these patients. So I would go back through, manually transcribe patient responses, check for accuracy in semantic error scoring, and then once we had that data, we were able to change some of the parameters that were used to analyze patient data. So before these refinements, 21 patients were identified as having misalignment issues in their responses. Once we had identified that and adjusted that parameter. This was reduced to 13 patients. Prior to the modifications, 25 patients had responses that were correct, but they were flagged as incorrect due to things like being a homophone when they were shown a picture of a man and they said male. It was transcribed as M-A-I -L and something like an envelope or a letter, a piece of mail would have no semantic correlation to a man. So while that answer is technically correct, the system was processing it as wrong. Following these adjustments, that number was reduced to two patients. Prior to modification, 38 patients failed the ASR pipeline. Following adjustments, 22 of those patients were able to be processed. There were 49 patients where part of the recording was cut off, meaning that their scores were not accurate. Following identification and adjustment of those parameters, these patients are now identified and their score is calculated out of the items that they could name. 32 out of 117 sound level errors are now accepted as correct as they were homophones or very close and 13 out of 17 had new error types assigned and we are then able to work with that data to continue to identify those issues in the future. Future implications of this research are um to continue the project in order to differentiate between motor speech disorders and aphasia patient and then the program takeaways i will go back to a cohort of speech pathologists across southeastern minnesota and throughout the course of this summer i've developed a series of professional development modules aimed at bringing AI into the educational speech world and educating these SLPs on how to ethically and practically apply AI in the educational setting based on how it's currently being implemented in the medical setting. So thank you again to my mentors for allowing me to participate in this research, and thank you to Mayo Clinic for offering the Research Experiences for Teachers program.