Hi, my name is Naomi Hughes. I am a school library media specialist participating in the Research Experience for Teachers program summer of 2025 through Mayo Clinic. My project this year was to develop a book recommendation engine that specifically focuses on books that have representation of characters with disabilities and characters with mental health issues, characters on the spectrum, those sorts of things. And my reasoning for wanting that book is because I wanted a way to pair library professional knowledge with the power of that AI generation and the ability to very quickly get results. So the first thing I did to do to create this project was to build a database of books because my idea involved curating a specific list of books with good representation of those issues because unfortunately there is a lot of bad representation out there, particularly the further you go back for the publication date. So I wanted to ensure that my book recommendation engine would have access to those kind of vetted resources and recommend books from that curated database. So I built that database on Google Sheets, and I used some APIs to fetch metadata from sources such as Google Books. I also used some of our library vendor non -copyrighted knowledge, such as to pull information like the book genre and the summary and things like that. Once I had a list of about 100 books with that metadata, I uploaded that Google Sheets into a custom GPT that I made on ChatGPT. And as you'll see in the challenges section, one of the things that I learned a lot about from this project is how important those instructions are. So I worked a lot with tweaking how YARN, the Youth Archive for Representation and Neurodiversity, how that generates those recommendations and what it looks at, how broadly or narrowly it searches. So when I built it, I had intended for it to only pull information from my curated database, but that ended up being too limited. Because of issues with retrieval augmented generation, I was limited on how many books and how much metadata I could include before I started getting into issues with things like needing to do embeddings or chunking, or things that are kind of beyond my coding skill for this summer project. So what I did instead was I kind of made it a blended GPT to where it's going to first check for a good match for whatever the user is asking in my curated database. And if it can't find a good match, then it's going to search the internet and it will have some specific restrictions to make sure that it still gets really good quality results, books that have been vetted by like library professionals, in order to make sure that it's giving recommendations that have that good representation that we're looking for. And I will show it to you here. It is public. So here's a query that I just gave it. I said, tell me some sweet romantic young adult books with neurodiverse representation. And it gave me these results here. And these are all books from my database. And here it links to the professional reviews. It gives a quick summary. So works just as I had intended. So I'm really happy with that and I intend to continue working on it and seeing some different ways it can be utilized in my field. As you can see in the classroom section, I was also inspired by this to create a AI literacy unit for the schools that I oversee so that they can kind of benefit from those skills which I think will become more and more important the further they go in school and as they get into the workforce. So huge thanks to Mayo, to Dr. Kevin Peterson, to Nancy Van Erp, and to everyone who helped make the research experience for teachers and this project possible. Thank you.