Hello, my name is Jennifer Hurley-O'Hara, and I am a high school biology teacher. I was a fellow in the 2025 Research Experience for Teachers at Mayo Clinic. I would like to first acknowledge Nancy Van Erb and Emma Walsh and the entire RET team. I also thank Dr. Andrew Rule and Dr. Alexander Denick, who were my mentors for the research part of this experience. I worked as part of their team researching the use of artificial intelligence to improve kidney disease diagnostics. The goal is to train an AI model to better recognize and classify structures of the kidney. In my case, we were looking specifically at the glomerulus, a key structure in the nephron, and we used digitized kidney biopsy images. pathologists play a critical role in diagnosing kidney disease but the process is time-consuming and can vary between experts for example scoring chronic damage can differ widely depending on who's reviewing the biopsy this variability can impact patient care so the project aims not to replace but to support pathologists private by providing a tool that can analyze more glomeruli more consistently and more quickly than is currently possible, and in the future provide quantification that currently is not possible by human evaluation. We used Aphoria, an AI-powered image analysis platform, to train models to recognize microtraits in kidney biopsies. The process starts with annotating specific structures. The model is trained through repeated iterations of annotation, training, validation, and verification until it reaches high accuracy. Shown on the right is an example of a biopsy where the region of interest is traced in black. That tells the machine where to look. And then the orange is a healthy glomerulase, and then the green is an empty Bowman's capsule. So that's an example of the annotation. we used a layer tree to organize tissue types and structures before i joined the project the model had already been trained on tissue versus non -tissue cortex versus medulla arteries and other structures when i started we had three subclasses of glomeruli shown on the left highlighted in green but during my time in the lab we expanded the model to identify five subclasses of glomeruli shown here. So we would have normal or non -sclerose glomeruli, ischemic glomeruli, other abnormal glomeruli that would be partially sclerosed, for example, the empty capsule, and then globally sclerosed glomeruli, which are showing sclerosis throughout that glomerulus. To measure how well the AI performs, we use the F1 score, which is a balance of precision and recall. Precision is really asking how often is the AI right when it says it's found something, and then recall asks how often is it finding everything that it's supposed to. The F1 score combines both to give an overall rating, with 100 being perfect. This table shows the f1 score from early training with a sample size of 100 biopsies to five trainings later using 435 biopsies in the training you can see that the f1 score improved across all classes in addition false positives that fp score and the false negatives fn were reduced the tool isn't meant to replace pathologists but instead to enhance their work by scanning entire biopsies and creating visual maps of all the glomeruli, the AI can help pathologists get a more complete picture. It can quantify features like inflammation and sclerosis and generate a more accurate chronicity score. These types of insights can help predict which patients are at risk for chronic kidney disease or kidney failure, leading to earlier interventions possibly and better outcomes for the patients. The ultimate goal is to create a clinically useful tool that pathologists can trust and use alongside their expertise to improve patient care. In addition to the research component of the RET experience, I developed a curriculum for my honors anatomy and physiology class. The experience will be woven into my introductory units in the class and will culminate in a unit on the urinary system where students will gain experience in annotation and machine learning to explore the use of AI in health care. We will explore AI potential throughout the year and will discuss the effective and ethical use of AI in health care and in education. I want to again thank Mayo Clinic, the RET team, my mentors in nephrology, and Dr. Mark Zarella for writing this grant to make this work possible. Thank you.