Standing here at the Bears Innovation Summit, surrounded by surgeons, scientists, innovators, and investors, is an honor. Because this is where the next chapter of surgery is being written. The summit, by design, is meant to kind of break down barriers and break down walls that often limit collaboration. But this is a one -day opportunity for us to really take a step away from the practice and fully focus on clinical innovation, specializing in surgery. The energy here is fantastic, and the tenacity of everyone here is at an all -time high, right? When we're dealing with Mayo Clinic, we know we're dealing with the best of the best. Everyone's goal here is surgical innovation, so we're all here with a common interest. Individually and independently, we all have great solutions, but it's only by coming together that we actually can multiply the beneficial effect of our individual solutions that ultimately will benefit the patient. You know, I think the best ideas come from the bedside, there's no doubt. And the bedside for me was my time as a military surgeon. And if it's an innovation, by nature, it's going to disrupt the status quo. And is the clinical community ready for that disruption? I mean, ultimately, as physicians and surgeons, you want to change practice. What Mayo has to offer is really world -class. You have the clinicians, you have the investors, you have the innovators. And so I think this conference does a great job of bringing these communities who are often siloed in their day-to-day life together to have open and engaged dialogue about how we can all work towards impact. It's a challenge to take things from idea to patient impact. And this is hopefully going to help to synergize that amongst a lot of different companies and a lot of different providers. What is for sure is that everyone in this room is looking at innovation and technology as a tool that's human -centered, that's patient-driven. One of my favorite parts about the summit is watching change over time of various technologies. You know, four years ago when we were talking about AI and surgery, some of this seemed very far off. And now those integrations, they're here. They're in my operating room. They're in my clinic. and I can only imagine what the next two to four years would bring. I think the history of the Mayo Brothers wanting to innovate is still alive and well. As we look to the future, we're reminded that we stand on the shoulders of giants like the Mayo Brothers, like Ollie Beers, who saw every challenge as an opportunity to improve care. I mean, this is the biggest and I would say the best event we've had so far, and I say that every year. It just keeps getting better.