Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Current AASM guidelines for laboratory accreditation require that hypopneas be scored according to the 3% desaturation and or arousal criterion. For simplicity in this podcast, we'll call this the 3% rule today. But the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recognize only the 4 % desaturation rule. How should sleep practitioners navigate this landscape? To help answer the question today, my guest is Dr. Tim Morgenthaler, a board-certified sleep specialist and professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic in Tim, thank you for being on today. Thanks for having me. Before we start, I think it's important for us to recall the history here. As I was personally involved in some of it, let me recapitulate. In the early 2000s, Dr. John Shepard from Mayo Clinic, who was then president of the AASM, negotiated with CMS to reach a standard national definition of hypopneas and to set up criteria for the payment for CPAP. The 4% rule was agreed on, and this remains in place today. Let's fast forward seven years. During my presidency of the AASM in 2007, the AASM Manual for the Scoring of Sleep and Related Events was finalized. The Respiratory Scoring Group, under the extremely capable leadership of Dr. Susan Redline, advocates strongly for a change to the 3% rule based on scientific evidence. I resisted this change because I felt it would lead to confusion amongst practicing sleep specialists who were managing patients both on Medicare and those on private insurance. The AASM accepted my arguments, and the manual was published with the 4% rule being recommended and the 3 % rule being optional. However, in 2023, the AASM reversed its policy, and now the 3% rule is the recommended one and the 4% optional. Therefore, all accredited laboratories are required to score hypopneas by the 3% rule. So most laboratories now report both values, and they're often quite discordant, and a certain amount of confusion arises among practitioners, patients, and the field in general. So Tim, let's start, as we often do and always like to do in sleep medicine, with the science. Is there strong evidence that AHI defined with the 3 % hypopnea rule is associated with adverse outcomes? Well, Michael, thanks for reviewing that history. I can't help but interject that about eight years after you were president, I was president of the AASM, and we once again were faced with what to do with this issue because the reality is that there is solid evidence that the 3% oxygen desaturation, the 3% rule, has merit but there also are a lot of practical implications of moving that forward and that's really what brings us together on today's podcast - is okay it's here now how do we deal with it so answering your question directly yes there is I think solid evidence that using the 3% desaturation threshold or including arousals does capture clinic clinically meaningful events - there are studies from large cohorts like the Sleep Heart Health Study that show that patients who meet the 3% criteria but not the older 4% threshold still have increased risks of hypertension, daytime sleepiness, and other adverse outcomes. And some other studies, large cohort studies, one key study showed that perhaps as many as 40% of such individuals went on to develop hypertension over a period of five years. Those are patients who had been missed by the 4% rule. And yet other studies have shown that these individuals often report significant sleepiness with elevation of the upward sleepiness score and so forth. So yes, there is merit to the 3% rule. It does improve sensitivity in finding patients who likely have disease, and it does have prognostic value for the risk of developing future cardiovascular and other complications. So the problem, obviously, is that using the 3% rule is going to increase the number of patients diagnosed with obstructive sleep apnea with obvious considerable interest in terms of payment to both private insurers and CMS. So do we have epidemiologic data to tell us exactly how much increase the prevalence would be if we define according to 3% rather than 4%? Yes. And the change, as you have suggested, is very substantial. There are multiple studies, again, including the Sleep Heart Health Study and others that show that switching from the 4% to the 3% rule nearly doubles the prevalence of diagnosed OSA. For example, one cross-sectional study found that about two-thirds of the participants who were classified as normal under the 4% rule were reclassified as having at least mild OSA by the 3% or arousal rule. This shift in prevalence is, you know, you can view it as a significant change or maybe significantly important for certain populations that have often been thought of to be a little bit underdiagnosed by the 4% rule. I'm thinking of women, older adults, non-obese adults, these tend to have a bigger discrepancy between, you know, who would meet criteria with the 4% criteria versus the 3% criteria. So the AASM, you know, as you stated, they've embraced the 3% or arousal definition as the standard because it better captures symptomatic patients who may benefit from therapy. However, CMS still uses the more restrictive 4% threshold for reimbursement, which leads to a big disconnect and some unpleasant conversations for the clinicians and their patients. So, wow, the numbers will go up significantly. Yes. And I guess we have to take into account the financial implications of this in the healthcare system as a whole. But that's where we are now. So let's consider some practical examples. Let's take a 55-year -old normotensive patient on private insurance with snoring and sleepiness who's found to have a 4% AHI of 7 and a 3% AHI of 23. As they're sleepy with a 4% AHI greater than 5, there should be no difficulty getting coverage for CPAP. But let's now say that the patient does not find sleepiness particularly troublesome and does not want to have any treatment unless essential. Do we consider this patient to have mild OSA, AHI of 7 with 4% or moderately severe OSA, 3% AHI of 23. That will make a difference as I think we all agree that mild OSA is probably not a risk factor for vascular disease, whereas moderately severe OSA may well be a risk factor. What do we tell this patient? Yeah, so that's a terrific question and it really goes to the heart of this kind of ongoing tension in our field. First, I would gently push back a little bit on the idea that mild OSA, even when defined using the 4% criteria, is entirely benign. I mean, the large studies do show that even mild OSA is associated with increased risk for hypertension and cardiovascular disease. I think what's missing there is a link that shows that treating those patients without symptoms actually reduces their risk. And so that becomes an issue. So, but when we're talking about bringing in the 3% AHI of 23, so now we're, you know, if we're going to say that's our definition, we're in the territory of moderately severe OSA by that definition. So that raises the dilemma. Do we escalate the perceived severity simply because we're being more inclusive or, you know, what? I think the truth is the biology of the patient hasn't changed which definition we use, right? The biology of the patient is what it is. So changing the label probably doesn't change. The key issue is really more of prognostication and being able to have a transparent discussion with the patient about what might they expect from treatment. So if we want to go with that, what I would probably tell this patient is, you know, sir or madam, you have an objective evidence of a sleep disordered breathing problem. Depending on which definition we use, you know, you have mild sleep apnea and it's, it may, I'm not quite sure from your history, but it may be contributing to your sleep quality, even if you've adapted to the symptoms. So while your risk of heart disease or stoke isn't dramatically elevated, it's not zero either. Treatment is available. I can't prove to you that this is going to reduce your risks downstream, but it may improve your symptoms. So then we can have a shared discussion about what should we do with regard to treatment. The problem with the AHI that we're trying so hard to define, 4%, 3% plus arousals, is that I think we have to, as the field has matured, we have to be humble and admit that it's not the best tool that we could have for prognosis, or even necessarily deciding who has therapy. It's just what we have. I think the field is still working towards better ways to risk stratify and to personalize those treatment decisions. I think that's such an important point. And you certainly did a very important podcast for us a little earlier, looking at new ways of thinking about sleep apnea and stratification and different phenotypes. And I suspect you're right in that in the next couple of years, we may be looking at different metrics in estimating prognosis. Well, let's change the scenario slightly. Let's make the 4% AHI 3 and the 3% AHI 9. The patient you recall has private insurance and is sleepy and does want to try CPAP. Is the sleep specialist justifying in certifying the presence of obstructive sleep apnea on the certificate of medical necessity for payment with a 4% AHI of 3 and a 3% AHI of 9. Right. So again, you know, digging a little bit deeper into a complex conversation with the patient, you know, what I'll often kind of arrange that conversation to go with is I'll look the patient in the eye and I'm going to assume for the moment that they have symptoms. That's why they're trying CPAP. And I'll say, so you know here's a reality there are three people in the room right now you just don't know it.  There's me as a sleep medicine specialist, you as a patient, and there's this other person back here is the insurance company. If it's just up to the sleep medicine specialists the diagnostic criteria of the american academy of sleep medicine would say that you have symptoms and you have test abnormalities that mean that you have sleep apnea and you might benefit from therapy and we should consider doing that - I just don't know if your insurance company is going to agree to pay for it.  And so, I think, am I justified in certifying that they have sleep apnea? Yes, I think I am. I have a diagnosis that should hold water. That doesn't necessarily mean that my patient is going to get coverage for their treatment by the insurance company. That is unfortunately a different matter. Good, that's very clear. So let's, well, let's, of course, this patient, let's assume that this patient with the 4 % AHI of 3 and the 3% AHI of 9 was a Medicare patient. So coverage for CPAP would be extremely difficult. Is there any way around this? If this diagnosis had been made, say, by a home sleep apnea test, would you put the person in the laboratory and try and see if we could get that 4% AHI up to five? How do you go about it? Symptomatic, AHI of 4% of 3, 3% of 9, and yet clearly doesn't fulfill Medicare criteria? Yeah. Yes. Well, so, you know, here again, you know, we have the three people in the room, but we have a fourth person now that just entered the room. And that's what are the guidelines for doing home sleep apnea testing? And we do fortunately have pretty good guidance, I think, from the American Academy of Sleep Medicine. Hopefully and supposedly, we would not have asked for a home sleep apnea test on this patient if we didn't already have a strong clinical suspicion that they have obstructive sleep apnea. And what our current guidelines say is that in those instances where we have a home sleep apnea test that is negative, and here the negativity of it is negative with regard to the insurance person that's behind me, that in those instances, we should pursue an in-lab polysomnogram. And so at that point, I would advocate for doing an in-lab polysomnogram, probably using a split night program, only if the criteria are met during the first part of the night. I think one could say maybe just do a full night diagnostic polysomnogram, but that's a clinical choice and depends on how you're thinking about the treatment of the patient. So, you know, I don't know that that's really a way around it. I think that's actually following the guidelines that we currently have that are based, I think, on reasonable science. Good. That makes complete sense. So let's now consider a third measure often used, the Respiratory Disturbance Index, which I think we define as a combination of apneas, hypopneas, and the elusive respiratory effort-related arousals or RERAs. Is this still a relevant metric if we're now going to be looking at 3% measurements? Now, you participated in a recent study at Mayo looking at this exact issue. What did you find and what are your conclusions. You're spot on. This is exactly why we wanted to do this study, because we saw this mandate for 3% hypopneas that include respiratory effort -related arousals, or things that look very much like them. And so I was curious to see what effect that would have on them. Maybe one thing to just mention before I give a direct answer to your question for our listeners. You know, the respiratory disturbance index in the sleep diagnostic manuals are exactly as you stated. It's the apnea index plus hypopnea index plus RERA index. In some of the Medicare insurance paperwork, they initially called the apneas plus hypopneas divided by recording time of home sleep tests as the respiratory disturbance index. And one must be very careful to think about the differences between them. That's one of the reasons that the AASM asked that on a home sleep apnea test, where we're looking at apneas plus hypopneas per hour of recording, that we would call that a respiratory event index. But that's very specific terminology. Getting back to your question, if we're talking about polysomnographically defined events where we can actually see arousals, then what our research found is that, yes, you know, many of the 3% hypopneas sort of take the place of the RERAs that might not quite be a 3% hypopnea. They might not have quite met a hypopnea rule, but there are still a small number of RERAs left, but the two, the 3% AHI very much starts to converge with the RDI. And in our research study where we had technologists and clinicians who were looking at this and scrutinizing it very carefully, there still was a difference of maybe one or two events per hour. But what I'm seeing now, you know, maybe a year after we've instituted this in our own institution is that the difference between the 3% AHI and the RDI is almost negligible. So I think they're very close. It's just a very small difference between the two. Well, that's in a complex field that simplifies things just a little. So, yes, very helpful. So, you know, Tim, thank you for trying to work through this really complex landscape. Do you have any messages for the practicing sleep clinician in 2025 as they try and work through this issue? I do. You know, I think we all face this quite often, this problem that we believe we have a good idea about what's in the patient's best interest. And then there's other entity, a regulatory or an insurance entity that is sort of a headwind against that. And so I would just first of all, ask all of us to trust our clinical judgment, really lean into this is a clinical judgment. An insurance company, a government cannot make a clinical judgment. The AHI, whether scored by 4% or 3%, it's a helpful index. It's not the full story, the symptoms, the comorbidities, the patient goals still really matter more than that single number. And I expect, as we've discussed, I think the AHI will someday, maybe soon, give way to a better metrics in the coming years. But our clinical judgment still remains very important. We are clinicians caring for patients. I think second thing is, yeah, know the criteria, but don't be boxed in by them. You know, we've already seen in our discussion today how we can flavor that and make sure that we know what we're really trying to do for the patient. And third, I would say that probably we ought to be using the 3% or arousal rule when it serves our patient the best. You know, I think in some circumstances where I practice here, where you and I practice, most of the private insurers don't yet really honor the 3% rule, but I think when they do, and again, if the patient is clinically symptomatic and we've had an open discussion with the patient, we should probably be willing to use that. In other parts of the country, the 3% rule is quite acceptable or even preferred by some of the insurers. So I think we probably are in the process of adapting to that. Fourth, just communicate uncertainty without fear. Patients can understand this. Certainly after all the things we've been back through as a nation over the past five to six years, they can understand if there's some gray areas in the science and we just have to be very honest with them. And I suppose the final thing is stay humble, but hopeful. You know, we're, everybody's working hard. Let's find our way through this kind of gray mess and things will get clearer over time. Wise comments. Thank you so much for participating today. Thanks so much for having me, Mike. We hope you enjoyed this podcast. If so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.