My name is Alan Burn. Um, just recently turned 48 years old. Um, I found out I had a liver disease back in 1987 when I was in the service. Um, I had some elevated liver enzymes at that time and they did a biopsy of my liver and found out that I have alpha 1 antitrien enzyme deficiency which is a relatively rare genetic disorder. Um, and at that time they told me I had uh early stages of cerosis and I was only 24 years old at that time. And so, but I felt good. You know, I thought there must have been a mistake or something because I I was probably in better shape than the doctors were at that time. Um, and up until uh this past fall, it's always been fine. I've never I've always been too healthy for a transplant. Um but then about five or six months later in November I found out that I had cancer um because of some elevated alpha protein blood test and I did an M MRI and found out that I had several tumors on my liver but I wasn't sure if they would be able to do anything about you know my situation because I knew it was pretty pretty severe situation for me u I knew I had too many tumors to be eligible for a liver transplant uh because the criteria the Milan criteria specifies you can only have three tumors or less. And that Dr. Walzer had been uh recently using a new uh technique called laser ablation using an MRI. And he felt like I'd be a good candidate for his uh his procedure, his treatment. I was aware of that procedure because I'd read looked at the website and read his video clip or saw his video clip and you know I was just so elated or hopeful that you know that this treatment would be successful for me and it certainly did give me an opportunity to be put on the transplant list. The previous place where I was seen at in North Carolina, they told me that ablation techniques that they performed or that anybody else performed would not be an option for me because of the the difficult location of the tumors, they said. And so I was just so fortunate that I happened to be in the right place at the right time and Dr. Walzer was able to to treat me. Um and he was successfully able to burn I think two of the tumors um that helped put me within the Milan criteria and made me eligible for a liver transplant. A month after being placed on the transplant list that they called me one morning and told me they thought that uh they had a liver uh for me and it was just kind of a you know a dream. I really didn't think uh you know that it was real at first. didn't have time to get too nervous about it. I mean, they were so great. Uh, even take me to the O. I felt so reassured by the staff. They they were all very professional and made me feel like I was in good hands. But also, in the back of your mind, you realize that somebody had to die, too, in order for you to receive this gift. And so, there's some of that, you know, kind of mixed emotions in there, too. You feel bad for their family and what they must be going through. Um but you know it's it's something that you you know you know that you're not responsible for what happened to that person and it's um but it's a chance for that person to be able to you know save maybe five or six lives and so it's a it's a heroic act by that by that individual and by that family to to be willing to donate or to be an organ donor. Um and so I've just been very blessed in so many ways. Um, this past, you know, the last Christmas was a very sad time for me. Um, excuse me. But, um, you know, I've just been so lucky throughout this whole procedure, you know. Um, you know, it's just been such a miracle really in so many ways that I hope to be able to, you know, if not pay it back, at least pay it forward and try to help other people maybe that are that are going through the situation that I've had to go through and give them hope that they can make it to that they can get through this.