The moment my sister told me that she was in kidney failure and needed a transplant, I knew immediately that I would do anything to help her, we told each other, "Can we do this?" From that moment on, we were all in. >> Many minorities face barriers to donation like lack of awareness and access to different information. Unfortunately, nearly 60% of people on the transplant waiting list are from these minority communities. It's important that we are able to give out get the information in an appropriate way to these communities not only to increase donation rates but to also increase the ability for them to access transplant overall. >> Some people couldn't understand why I would still donate even if I couldn't donate to my sister. Spoiler alert, God showed me the bigger picture. >> June 20th, 2024. That was like one of the best days of my life because I had a chance to share part of me with my wife. Me and my sons, we depend so much on her. She's truly my hero. >> There's some fantastic resources available both online as well as throughout the community for organ donation. One of the best is going to the Mayo Clinic website so that you can learn a bit more about being a living donor. There are also excellent registries. The National Kidney Registry being one that has some wonderful information about living donation and can also connect you with a mentor to describe and discuss the process of being a donor. >> I understood the marital virus and sickness and health and when she got sick, we got sick. We're in this thing together. I'm looking forward to have her here for a very long time. I wanted to donate my kidney to my sister Sabrina because I saw too many of my family members on dialysis and I didn't want her to experience the same thing. So I was asking her questions about the living donor and a deceased donor. What's the difference between both of them? And then she told me that the living donor is um you have a longer life. So a longer chance that she can be with us. My culture background influenced my decision positively. Seeing my family go through diialysis, I didn't want my sister to go through the same thing. Some of my family members went to dialysis three times, three times a week, four to 6 hours a day. It took a lot of toll on their body and spirit. They they were tired. Their veins were shot. They didn't have any feelings in their legs and hands and they were unable to carry their grandchildren. Also, since the development of these minimally invasive techniques in donor neurrectomies, the patients are having their outcomes improved. That has really led to more donors being willing to come forward and donate to their friend or their loved ones. With minimally invasive surgery, now these donors are recovering much faster. their outcomes are excellent and they're able to return to their day-to-day life after about six weeks or so with really no restrictions afterwards. >> They educated me so I can educate my friends and family about how being a living donor will not affect my life. Mayo Clinic answered all them questions. Not only show that I'm a good candidate, but also that I'll be good even after I give my wife a kidney. So, it made the whole transition a lot easier through all the team they have at Mayo to help me out so I can help others out. >> When you give someone a second chance, it's not just them, it's their whole circle. That person is someone's husband or wife, someone's mother or father, someone's brother or sister, someone's son or daughter, someone's friend. When you donate a kidney, you give hope to all of those who love them. >> Becoming a living donor gives someone a chance to live, grow, and be with their family. Six of my family members were on dialysis. My cousin spent four years on dialysis before passing away at 39. There are so many people on the registry waiting for kidneys. If you are on the fence, do it. Start the process. See where it leads. Not everybody can donate, but if you can, know that you'll be okay.