Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology [music] podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host Dr. Brittney Scrugs >> and I'm your co-host Dr. Eric Bothan. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. Today we are excited to welcome Stacy Shamblot, the aging eyes coordinator and low vision rehabilitation specialist with the Minnesota Department of Employment [music] and Economic Development State Services of the Blind. Tune in as we discuss helping individuals with vision loss through community programs, low vision aids, and specialized training. >> Today's guest, Stacy Shamblot, is an aging eyes coordinator and low vision rehabilitation specialist with the state services for the blind through the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development. A certified therapeutic recreation specialist with nearly 30 years of experience, Stacy has devoted her career to creating inclusive community programs that promote independence and well-being for people with disabilities and with vision loss. She previously founded and directed programs such as the community center for vision loss resources. Her leadership extends beyond clinical work. Stacy has served on numerous accessibility and aging committees and through her work with the aging eyes initiative, Stacy helps patients adjust to vision loss by offering personalized training, low vision devices, and support ensuring they can live independently, safely, and with purpose. Welcome to the podcast, Stacy. >> Thank you. All right. So, we are all really excited about learning from you, but also I just want to thank you for providing these services to our patients and our community. And I was hoping to just jump right in to kind of understand your story. What and what is it like to be a vision rehabilitation specialist? Walk us through your your career. >> So, um so I like as a wreck therapist, I I like to create programming. And so in um all the vision experts came together to Humphrey Institute and thought about what we could do for the boomers. And in that group we decided that we needed partners throughout the community because we cover the host state of Minnesota. So every county is covered and with a lot of boomers that's a lot of people right. So um the aging eyes program was developed in 2014 from that think tank and I was already at courage Kenny rehabilitation institute. So after covid in 2021 I rejoined state services for the blind and I got to be the aging ice coordinator. So, kind of full circle to kind of help seniors who are already retired, nonworking, but also that they want to maintain their independence as much as as possible and the things they like to do for fun and and you know, vision loss is a piece of who they are. It's not who they are. And so, really helping them through that. So, my co-workers um go into their homes and do a free home assessment because everything's free out of the state of Minnesota. and then develop what what helps them. That's our goal. What can help them? So, two people, even husband and wife, will get different things because they have different needs. >> And every state is different. Correct. Every state is different. >> Can you walk us through maybe the listeners who aren't in Minnesota? What can you expect from a just a a state service program and what's the range here across the United States? >> So, we have the most robust program in the United States and we are the only AGIS program in the United States. Everybody, every state gets money from a a federal grant and how they use that money is their choice, but the state of Minnesota is as great as we are in social services is we really believe that um we need to help people with social services. So we have a very robust program for that and that's how we're able to provide all this stuff for free is through this support of the state. So for ophthalmologists seeing patients in their clinic and wrestling with either a new diagnosis or understanding that their current patient even with a chronic diagnosis is struggling in different ways. What are the best approaches or what advice would you give listeners who are eye doctors in the clinic for how to guide their patients you to find the right resources in their community whether in Minnesota or in another state? What would be the first call, first reference handouts? What would you recommend people do? The first thing is to realize that when you give someone a diagnosis of this kind, it is earthshattering, right? And it's a lot to take in. And so what does that mean? You're going to go blind. Well, we know that that could mean legally blind, totally blind, no light perception, right? There's a lot of words that go with that. And so what we want people to understand is even though functionally we can help them. Maybe acuity wise they won't be able to see as much but we can still help them. They don't have to give up their life with a diagnosis of a vision condition. They have to do things differently. So the best thing to do is I'd look for your state services for either senior services or if they're children um um the children's services through the state and see what programs they have. school districts by law have to serve them under the age of 14 for some services and after 14 they do the transition program um and that's where they might be sent to a rehab center. So every state is different but again all states have some money to provide for this and it doesn't matter if it's from diabetic retinopathy or they had a stroke and they have a field cut. It's anybody whose vision is impacted that glasses are not going to be helpful. And when you say impacted them and just for me I don't deal with a lot of the aging community like my retina colleague here um um dealing with some of these very challenging diagnosis but are there certain vision threshold or vision visual field thresholds that for you would say below this visual acuity or below that visual field or below XYZ you should be referring your patient. What would >> anybody that's going to be technically legally blind, right? That has a legal blindness d that will go that way progressively. And you know, we see people with low vision 20 40 in the in the best eye, but not worse than 200, but also that you know, maybe it's helping someone get books on tape because they get a diagnosis of MACD or any other eye condition. Some of them will be able to drive early on onset yet, but maybe knowing that somebody can help them later on is gamechanging. We had a woman who presented very well. We went to her house. I was with my coworker. I was shadowing her. She had a beautiful house. She was widowed. She didn't have family and we gave her a magnifier and books on tape from the National Library for the Blind. She wrote my boss a letter and said two weeks later, we got it two weeks later that she was going to commit suicide that day because she couldn't imagine going blind by herself, but she didn't need to do that anymore was her letter because she knew that state services for the blind or SSB would be there to help her. So even though she was really early onset, she could still drive. That thought for her was overwhelming to her. So, at any time, I think just to know that they're there and whether they they know our name or we go to see them, it can still be as impactful. And again, it's a free service. So, it's not it's through insurance. It's not through if you have coverage, none of that. It's just from your state tax dollars. So, for Minnesota, you have to be a Minnesota resident and pay taxes in Minnesota. Even if you're a snowbird, you live in Minnesota. So, that's how most of the states work. So again, it's just having knowledge that someone's there to help you. >> So one thing that I found really helpful, Eric, to go back to the question of, you know, when you're a clinician and you're you're talking to these patients and you want to empower them, you want to refer them. We we don't do this perfectly. I think this is a work in progress here. Um because we're we're thinking about these things and we're trying to be mindful. But one thing that we have done well recently is we have all of the state services contact information, their phone numbers, their website for all of the surrounding states. And we have that in a folder in addition to some low vision handouts. And so immediately, you know, I don't have to go print it for them. It just it doesn't weigh me down in clinic. I just go and I grab the low vision folder and I can empower them and say, I want you to call them and I want you to get, you know, set up with your state service if they live in South Dakota or North Dakota, right? >> Um, so that's really helpful. One question that I have for you. Say a patient is sitting there in clinic. I would love to know, okay, this person is the perfect person for a telescope or this person would really be uh like impacted by having the CCTV like to really understand the technology. I'm going to go real quick to a personal story. [snorts] Sorry to digress a little bit, but I recently had hand surgery um a few months ago >> and I'm not used to being a patient. Um but it was a major hand surgery. I had a cello string go through my finger um very intense and so that required me to have physical therapy and I'm still in physical therapy twice a week. Um which is hard for me. But what I've realized is it's individualized. uh they they spend a lot of time teaching me, empowering me, finding the resources I need for this little tiny little finger. Um and I don't feel like we do that very well in opthalmology of saying this person's life could change if I just sit down and figure out the individualized resource for this person. And so I'm trying my best to do this better as a clinician, but I would love to know how to do it better. I think for the the equipment, we take your guidance on that. But sometimes when we go into their homes because we do home assessments, unless they don't want us in their home, right? That's a choice. >> But their lighting is different than in your office. >> And so sometimes we can see things differently in their house environment or, you know, even saying to them after your six-month checkup, you've given them the diagnosis of visual loss. Were you able to reach out to state services for the blind? Because every counselor in Minnesota covers counties and in the Twin Cities zip codes, right? Because we're, you know, by zip codes, but for counties, so they know the resources in Chicago County, Almstead County, Brown County, and so they know who to connect them with. Maybe it's Meals on Wheels to help until we can get them some adaptive teaching to learn how to be independent in their kitchen. And so all that stuff is really what we do to help them. And we're not 12 months out of bookings, right? We're pretty quick to see somebody and I back everybody up as well. So if you know they can't come and someone needs someone to be seen, maybe it's my co-orker in Duth that's coming down to Rochester to see someone because they have an open schedule and they need to be seen now. Um so it's really, you know, what happens for them. But if we don't work together with like we'll pick your hand therapy, right? If you're visually impaired and she hands you, we'll pick a girl therapist. She hands you print instructions. Well, you can't see them. >> Mhm. >> So, are you going to do them at home? So, that's why we have to work with everybody to understand that we dy work with dual diagnosises. So, if they've had a stroke and they cause vision loss, we want to work with the therapy on that because we want them to be able to do the therapies and how can we get them accessible resources for that. >> And it's um remarkable to appreciate how each state, but at least here in Minnesota, we appreciate your services to be able to step in and evaluate and whether in the home or in their whatever settings they are, what the needs are, whether with the lighting and their physicality. So the opportunity is there. I mean it's sort of we need to continue to encourage opthalmologists to remember and communicate and as you're saying follow up with patients say did you contact them? Was it resourceful? But in that then when you get hear comments either from providers or in the community what are the most common misconceptions besides you being incredibly helpful. What are the most miscon misconceptions that you hear that would help if we would address it better with patients or with our profession? >> So I start support groups around the state of Minnesota and I asked all of my support groups because I was train I was doing some training for a big opthalmology group in the Twin Cities and I said what would you say if you had no holds barred to your opthalmologist? What would you want to say? >> Send me to a specialist right away. Tell me about SSB right away. Don't tell me there's no hope. >> Tell me that I can get through this. And overwhelmingly, those were the stories that people felt like, why didn't I know who you were or I had an artist, a very gifted artist, and she got rid of all of her painting supplies. And then she called us and she said, "Well, I was an artist." I said, "Well, do you still want to be an artist? You know, I'm going blind." I said, "Yes, I I do know that, but I can help you adapt that." And she was so taken back. She said, "I just I sold all of my stuff." >> And so, you don't have to give up. Besides driving and I had a pilot, so no flying as a pilot. I will those are two things you can't do if you're visually impaired. But everything else we just have to really do differently. And so giving them the hope that it still can be there, I think, is what they really want to hear. Is it hard? >> It is. Yeah. >> Do they have to grieve for their eyes? >> Absolutely. But they can continue to go on and we meet them where they're at. It's just like you don't know the future of their vision, right? You don't know how fast they're going to go or what's going to happen. We just meet them where they are in whatever stage they're at. And then we can always bring in trainers, orientation mobility, how to get around safely, how to um do cooking and daily living skills. SH is our trainer. So there's a computer assisted technology. All those things can be very intimidating as you start to lose your vision. But we have certified professionals that can do that. And so knowing that someone's going to safely come in your home that knows what they're talking about is also, I think, very comforting to clients. And so overwhelming they just said, "Help me understand >> because maybe I don't know those words that you're saying." >> So it sounds like you have a wide range of resources. You have the home visits which allows patients to, you know, have maybe resources they didn't know about that could help them with daily living. You have these workshops. You have cooking classes. Let's talk a little bit about adaptive technology because I feel like I have patients ask me about that all of the time. I recently gave um a talk and it was to the star summit and it was a beautiful experience where I got to meet so many patients who were just wonderful. But when I looked out into the audience with several hundred people there, a lot of them were wearing like head head like devices that they were wearing adaptive technologies um headwear and it was so beautiful to see that that they were able to have increased functionality by wearing those devices. I know that some of them are expensive. So I am curious how do you partner with patients when they want those resources and potentially it would change their life but they are maybe cost prohibitive. >> So right now in the senior unit the not the vocational rehabilitation or workforce unit has different parameters right they're a fedally funded program so they have work goals for our senior unit specifically. So we're 55 non-working. Um for us they have a criteria to get a closed circuit TV or a reading machine where it's magnified. um our assist of technology we can provide some echoes so they can do um Alexa with books on tape and we have our own radio station radio talking book in Minnesota so we're very thankful for that that can all be done on Alexa now metag glasses we right now are not buying those but we will surely show you how to use them um laptops cell phones will help you learn how to use those things we don't buy those things um just because of the, you know, the physical constraints of that. But we'll always show you how to use it. I do have several clients on meta glasses of varying ages and and for some who are older, they just embrace technology. For some, it's very scary. And think about when COVID hit, if you weren't using a cell phone and now all of a sudden we're throwing you, hey, let's do Zoom. You know, it's a it was a pretty fast curve for them. The other great app I think is seeing AI and that's where it actually reads to you whatever is it's whatever you put over it this the cell phone over the the shoe or the whatever it will read everything to you and so that's given a lot of people who don't know Braille who don't have you know a lot of this technology to just be able to do that to navigate where am I can put it up and they'll read a sign it can read my tennis shoes like New Balance tennis shoes or if I have socky tennis it could tell me which so shoes they are there's so many great things about that but there's also another app which came first was being my eyes and that's where a live person somewhere in the world you take a picture and they tell you what it is so there's two choices of that but they have to kind of start to get comfortable with technology and so we have assist of technology experts who are um trained on all of that and and can really break it down to people's level, >> right? Not always. >> Some of the access would be through private industry or other opportunities. >> We have a foundation that we work closely with the EyeLink Foundation and they help fund a lot of stuff that we cannot provide. >> Yeah. I was recently at a Lions event and celebrate what the Lions do here in Minnesota and beyond. Um, and one of their members allowed me to put on his glasses that, you know, you just look at a page and it read the page to me in my ear. It was just a wooden >> freeze. You can touch the side of your head or the glasses and it freezes it and then you can see it and then you can magnify it or cams. I mean, there's so much technology that's coming. You know, when I think about when I started in the field, it was $500 for a color identifier. Today, it's an app. >> You know, if you're a senior and you're on a fixed income, $500, >> that's a lot of money. >> And now to have it free for technology, that's huge. So, we will help you with technology. And there's tons of YouTube videos. Um, Hadley School for the Blind has great resources across the world that you could easily download and directions on how to do a lot of stuff. So, that's a great resource for people, too. >> A plug in that we we'll have a podcast in a few weeks on Hadley and Hadley helps. >> Oh, yeah. Hadley helps. I love Hadley Helps. >> Rewarding. >> Yeah. So, they're really great, too. So, that's a and and anybody can use that, too. Again, >> it's a a free service that people from around the world can I had a woman learn Braille. >> Yeah. >> From Hadley. So, you talk about these adapted technologies and all the creative um options that people have. You brought some tools, some toys with you. And again, for those of you listening uh to in an audio version of the podcast, we're going to I'll ask Stacy to describe some of the key ones she brought with. If you would like to see any of them, remember um go to YouTube or other modalities by which this podcast is is has also a an a video component. But why don't you what did you bring with us is is ideas for individuals with low vision that you might tap into to help them. >> So one of the biggest things with vision loss is glare. And so when you wear regular sunglasses the the glare always comes in the side of your eye, right? That's doesn't matter where you are, it just comes in. In Minnesota, the snow is really bright. So these glasses um they're plastic. They go cover the whole side and then also a little bit on top. So, I'll put them on as styling as they are, but as you put them on, it really takes down the light of it and also where that sun would directly come in your eyes. So, we have both indoors and outdoors, >> they look good on you. I think they look good. So, we have different colors for, you know, diff, you know, people have preferences, but the indoor ones, especially in doctor's clinics, you know, that is hard. Guys wear a baseball hat, maybe, >> but a lot of ladies are not wearing the hat. So, this is a great way to do that. So, we have those. Um, you know, I'm a wreck therapist, so I have to say wreck. But we also have books on tape. This can give you a Bible in any religion. And it talks to you. And so when you press the colored buttons, >> I like this is a a module that >> player on. >> It's like a tape recorder, but you add large Yes, exactly. Large buttons, easy to identify. [clears throat] >> Three. Player off. >> Has a USB drive in it. And so we can put five books on a on a quote cassette. And this is a physical player. We also have a downloading service called Bard from the National Library for the Blind and physically disabled. So someone not able to physically hold a book. Um this is also available to them and so they can download. Now our books do not expire. When I say are I mean National Library for the Blind. They don't expire. So in 21 days if you haven't read your book on Libby for Bard, it won't take off your system. When you're done with it, you take it off your system. Now, there's a jillion books on this as long as well as some large print books. The other thing is we can record things for you. So, you decide to write a book, but you decide you don't want it to be audiobased, we can still record it by federal law and that's how people go to school and they maintain work. So, you can get those smaller books or, you know, personal stories, things like that. um church like the big church magazines for 150th anniversary or all of that can be recorded through our system. Um and so then it goes into the national system as well. So again this is all free. So I think that's giving someone their their passion back is not going to change their eye condition. But if I can change their enjoyment for an hour or two hours that's really important. A needle threader. So this um it's very small. I don't know. I'm not very good with sizes, but tiny. They have two rubber tops. One is white and one is black. And what that is is that's the eye of the needle. So, some eye needles are bigger than others. You put the eye down the thread in the valley. Then there's a white arc that comes out. When it comes out, it's metal, which is sharp, not, you know, if you put your finger over it. And then you pull out the needle and it's threaded. >> Wow. >> My mom's a quilter. Even without vision impairment, I think she >> This is super. I can do this. This is >> I love knowing about that. >> This is super good. I like that. Playing cards, playing games. Same size, >> large print cards. >> Large print, same size physical card. >> So when you use a cereal bowl as a disc card, >> you know where they're located and you just call it your ace of spades, ace of hearts. And so you just call them up. But everybody at your table can't get the cards off the table either. Like that's hard for people. So >> people with vision loss always feel like I don't want to impede other people. But the reality of it is everybody will benefit from the same things. So >> So discarding into a bowl >> into a bowl. >> Okay. >> Calling out your bridge, your majon, your canastan >> cribage pegging. We have tactile cribage boards. >> Love it. >> So lots of different things. So I think those things magnifiers. This is a handheld. Ours does have a light. Um and so that helps when it goes directly onto the paper, but you have to move this till you see the right sweet spot. The other one we have is called a stand magnifier. It sits on the paper. So before they get a closed circuit TV or personal magnification, these are usually what they get first. And so we want to make sure it's the right power for them. So the bigger the head, the less magnification they get. >> So when you're do when you're having these discussions, where are you showing them these different magnification and magnifiers and like is there a store? Is there a place that they go? >> So, we go to their home and we bring them with you. >> You take it with you. >> So, those big suitcases, >> that's what they bring those to their homes and and we we ask questions before we get there because I want to know what you really want to focus on. You know, I love to cook and bake, but I can't do that anymore. Then I'm going to bring everything I have goodies that are appropriate for them. >> I'll have everything else in my in my in their suitcases, but we're going to focus on what they need right now. or I don't feel safe in my house >> because I don't know how to get to the door. I don't know how, you know, I I don't know how to get to my mailbox. That's all I want to do is get to my mailbox. Then we can have orientation mobility show you how to use your get to your mailbox. >> So, how many staff members are doing these home visits? >> So, we have 14 staff members through that do home assessments, two assisted technology specialists, two orientation mobility specialists, Char our certified trainer, and myself. And all specialists cover the state. And then once you do a at home evaluation and come up with recommendations is is there a normal schedule by which you do followup reconnect to see how they're doing. What would that look like at home? >> So the counselor will make the referral to what they need. Okay. >> For some technology, a lot of our counselors can do some basic technology teaching. Um some can do some basic, you know, we can give support canes, things like that. Um and so then we make the referral and and we're pretty quick to turn. Orientation mobility is a little bit different um as we share with Voke Rehab as well. But there is a level of priority. And so I had someone discharging out of a hospital and couldn't go home until she could safely use her walker and her collapsible cane. And so they went right away over there to make sure she was safe. She could use her cane. She was a longtime cane user. She's been totally blind all her life. She hurt her arm, >> so she had to learn how to do it differently. So our my co-workers went out right away to help her and then they she was able to discharge in her home and they followed up in her home then. So she was able to discharge out of the hospital to be safe to the next location. >> So we can go into the hospital, you know, we can we can go anywhere, right? We cover the states. So wherever you want to see us is where we go. Yeah. >> All right. You have more goodies. I want to keep learning. [laughter] So, the large print calendar, and when I mean large, I mean huge. >> Uh-huh. >> This also has a nail hook. And so, when you write on it, you can use a low vision pen. It's a cross between a 20 a felt tip and a Sharpie, but it won't bleed >> so that you can write your appointments on things. Now, this is pretty big. So, not every >> four times the size of a normal calendar. That's what you're showing us. Yeah. So they make us there is a smaller one that a Lutheran braille workers provides for free. Um and so you can order that but it's on cream paper so and it has Lutheran messaging and so if that's okay with you that's a great service but it's smaller than this so that's an option. >> And the calendar says low vision store. So >> so the Minnesota low vision store is in St. Paul. It's two doors down from us. Y >> and that's where we would send people if they need to buy something but we like to assess you first because we provide what we can. Now, we can provide a lot of this stuff once. Um, we just can't afford to. Last year, two years ago, we're waiting for new numbers. We served 3,969 people. We're on tap for 4,000 when our numbers come in now. So, financially, we can't continue to give needle threaders and calendars every year because I would love to do that for all of our clients, but they can go next door. But they can go and buy it. Yep. It's I think I don't know 12 to$15. >> Yeah. But the other thing is Eric is very honest >> and so he knows vision and >> Eric the owner is the owner of the vision store >> and his father started it so he's second generation versus when you buy on Amazon nobody knows anything and you can't return it. So magnifiers we provide that always as you as your vision decreases we will continue to replace it. The other thing we do is we take back equipment that you're not using and we put it in our treasure cube. So, when you break your needle threader or your magnifier cuz you dropped it accidentally, we'll send out a donated one that's been clean, tested, it works out to somebody. And so that way, and we work with the VA very closely, um, and we take back their stuff because they're not allowed to take back their stuff either. Um, and we do a lot of the training for them, too. So, we work in tandem with people, a lot of public health nurses, occupational OT's, things like that. Um, we're here to help people however we get them. >> Right. >> You've showed us a lot of wonderful toys and I think that it'd be fascinating to go take a a doc school trip up to the low vision store and >> I went recently and I I love that. >> There's a lot of good stuff. >> So, they have a lot of different reading systems. They have those wearable devices. You can sit down with the owners and they'll spend time with you. for patients listening in if you want to call them they'll give you you know 30 45 minutes of their time just like understanding what's individualized for you >> I loved it um but they also have a lot of daily living >> and he will connect you with a store in your state >> so I had someone that was really looking from um Wyoming and so he connected them with where they could try something in that area to do that I mean he would ship but sometimes he liked to try >> so I have a question about driving we've talked about that a a little bit today and that's really hard for patients to give up independence in that way. Um and it's hard to ask for help. My question to you is from a state services for the blind standpoint and a state um is are there any programming to help get people plugged in to help get them the options to continue to be mobile and walk us through that. >> So you guys are the ones that have to pull the license, right? We don't pull license. Um, we encourage you if depending on your acuitities not to drive, but I also think if you're going to tell someone they can't drive, you better provide them some other resources. So, we provide other options for transportation. In Mstead County, Rochester, you have paratransit zips. In the twin cities, we have metro mobility. So, we have paratransit systems in every county of Minnesota and most states have federally funded paratransit systems. Sometimes you have to have someone certify them, right? Um, and I can do that. But also the option of why is it safe to take? People are hesitant about Uber and it's and Lyft and those are expensive options. But what else is there? Can you go to your friend at church and have them pick you up so you can maintain your your church experience. Then you can have coffee with them. So now we've gotten out of our house. We've done the thing we we love and we got to be social, right? And so lots of ways to continue to keep people in their homes. Do they want to learn to take the city bus? Our orientation mobility specialists can provide that training, too. Have they never even thought about the city bus? That could also be an option. So, and different states have different parameters on how long their services run. Um, Minnesota's law is if the city bus runs there, their paratransit runs at the same time. So, a city in the Twin Cities ends city bus at 6:30 at night. Metro Mobility ends at 6:30 at night. >> So then if they want to stay later, they have to find a different version to get home. So you know, you want to be if you if you're going to take paratransit system, you want to be in an ADA location where they have to provide that service and there's there's maps on those in every state. Um, but I just think, you know, use your resources. If you're in a small town, and I'm from a small town, you have to be creative. Um, sometimes we have taxi companies, sometimes we have retired people that want to drive. Maybe they can take me to the cities or maybe they can take me to Mayo and you pay for their gas, right? Just different creative ways of thinking outside of the box of how to provide transportation. And also today's world, people are driving fast. People are erratic. I mean, I just came from the cities. Three cars cut me off and without, you know, so if my vision is impacted, I'm not seeing as fast as I should, right? We know that as a fact. So giving them the understanding and we can you know you can limit where they can drive, how fast they can drive, the speed limit, you know, you can go no more than 55, you can go no more than 30. Those are parameters that doctors can put on for their license. So that's another way to think about it. >> And there are bioptic telescopes which some states will allow you to get fit for and to drive with and it does increase clarity in the distance for reading signs. And I do have a few patients who have been fit for those. We have a telescope expert in the state which is nice. >> Um, but I just wanted to put a plug in. We recently had a speaker here at Mayo, Anna Zartz. She's a disability advocate and low vision herself and she really talks about driving and her book is called when driving is not an option. So for the listeners who want a a quick read maybe on a plane, it's it's easy to read. I think for me it empowered me to really understand um some some options and how to talk about this with patients >> and and remember this is their independence and if they're widowed, if they're don't have family members, it's intimidating and scary. So they're going to keep driving unless we provide options. And so we have to provide some options or some choices because for their safety, for our safety, but it also is very scary. That's a grief and loss process because you've you you're losing your ability in their mind to be independent by driving. So it is it is a big topic as big as a white cane. >> But for the one second for the physicians listening, it is really important to remember that driving is the most dangerous thing that we do as humans for sure. And sometimes taking someone's license and talking about driving, even though it's really uncomfortable to do, you could be saving multiple lives. Correct. >> Super important. and you're the only and DMV those you are the only two that can do that. You could take a driving test in many states. Courage Kenny has one. Um there's another school that does one. Um Health Partners has one up in the cities. I think there's one down here. Um that do driver's assessment and so they have certified drivers in the car like you did road you know when you were younger that will evaluate you even they cannot pull your license. >> Those are helpful including not only for vision impairment but if there's other associated cognitive components or other um things that would affect driving. Um, we're almost out of time, but just can you touch on guide dogs? You know, talking about resources, um, compliments to people's lives, but, um, what are the qualifications and training requirements for an individual that might be interested or in a setting where you want to explore that option for a patient? >> So, in Minnesota, we don't have schools. So, you have to be able to, you know, give up several weeks to go to a school. Now the schools pay for everything, housing, plane tickets, everything like that. You have to go through extensive psychological battery of tests and the reason why is they match your personality with your dog. Also, you have to be a you have to be certified by an orientation mobility specialist to be able to use your cane because you are the words for the dog. The dog follows your command. So, if you're not a good cane traveler, you can't handle your dog very well. And then also, um you have to be able to exercise your dog so many days, you know. someone to take care for the dog. And so those are the criterias for that. Again, it's not necessarily an age thing. Um, but the the you cannot train your own dog >> because they're trained from birth to follow commands. >> So guide dogs can go anywhere in in a person can go. They sit right there. They never shake. I'm highly allergic to animals and I work with guide dogs all the time. I've never had allergic reaction because they don't shake. They don't jump on you when they're in harness. They're considered like think of a wheelchair. You don't talk to them, you don't touch them, you don't do any of those things. When they're out of harness, they're a dog >> and then you can have as much fun as you want. >> Another plug for a book that I just read. Uh so Steven Custo is uh low vision. He had retinopathy of prematurity and he's been blind his entire life and he recently wrote a book called Have Dog Will Travel and it's all about guide dogs. >> Guide dogs. Yep. >> And it's about the training process. Um, and it was it was beautiful story, but he was on our podcast recently, uh, the the Read Talk Grow Mayo podcast. So, for those who want to listen to it, doc, uh, Stephen is on there talking about guide dogs and it's like a 45minute podcast about guide dogs. So, yeah. Yeah. >> Well, this has been a joy. Do you have one other question? >> No, no, no. I'm just so excited to have you here. >> I have one. Can I plug? Yeah. Okay. So, we start groups in the state of Minnesota. So, if you're interested in Minnesota having a support group, you can just call me. My cell phone, I'll tell you, too. 651-249-5118. And remember, our services are free. If you have someone that's younger and you need services, you can call me. If you need help finding one in your state, I'm happy to help you that, too. I don't know what I can do about around the world, but I'll be happy to figure it out. >> Phenomenal. it just speaks to your heart towards this mission and um certainly your your gifting and equipping and and how you bless patients shared and displayed here even virtually on the table and we just thank you for being here with us here at the Mayo Clinic on this podcast. >> Yeah, thank you for being here supporting patients with vision loss. We so appreciate the empowerment of learning what to do next. [music] So, >> thank you. Yeah, >> you can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. >> Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.