Difficulty staying on task, being easily distracted, constantly losing things, and never finishing projects. All are telltale signs of adult attention deficit disorder. Lots of people think they may have adult ADD, but sometimes symptoms are the result of other issues. Let's go to Mayo Clinic to find out more about adult ADD. Because I've always had issues with concentration. This is my craft room. Lydia Gaml has adult attention deficit disorder or ADD. When you have ADD, sometimes it's overwhelming. Her symptoms are classic. She'd start one task, get distracted, start another, get distracted, and another. That you end up with a lot of started projects and nothing gets finished. Lydia's symptoms began to disrupt life at home and at work. It's data entry right now. That's when she went to Mayo Clinic for help. The notion of adult onset ADD is a bit of a misnomer. The diagnostic criteria for ADD require the onset somewhere prior to age 12. Dr. Glenn Smith says to have ADD as an adult, you have to have had it as a child. So people who come and say, you know, I I have new attention problems that started only after age 20, we need to investigate further because it could be something like a mood disorder, depression, or even sleep deprivation. Lydia can trace her symptoms to childhood. Her treatment is twofold. The first is behavior modification. She's devised routines to help keep her organized. For example, when I do laundry, I dump it out on my bed to fold. And that means that I have to fold the laundry and put it away before I can go to bed. And she color codes everything. Her craft room at work. I do make this, but sometimes I forget where I put them. She even color coded her kids. My oldest son, Joshua, his colors were blue and black. Justin wears earth tones, Andrew's green, and Alex wears reds. And it's the colors that they like. Being organized and not taking on too much at one time helps keep Lydia focused. You have to figure out what is really bothering you and figure out a solution that you can turn into a routine so it happens automatically. Lydia also takes prescription stimulant medication. You might wonder how a stimulant helps keep you focused. Dr. Smith says the theory behind these drugs is this. One of the tasks of the frontal area of your brain is to determine what to focus on and when to act. Like a circuit breaker, it blocks out distractions and suppresses impulses to act without thinking. Stimulant medication works by activating this area of the brain, increasing the blocking activity, which helps you stay focused. And for me, it it works. Lydia will likely have to deal with symptoms of ADD for the rest of her life. But thanks to treatment and effort on her part, that life is happy and full. Anti-depressant medications are also sometimes prescribed for ADD. Dr. Smith says adult ADD affects approximately 3% of the population and it can be hereditary. So, if you suspect you might have it and it's disrupting your life, see your health care provider. That way, you can find out the underlying cause of your symptoms and get the help you need. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian Williams.