What I would say to referring providers is that we're really here as a resource for you. If you refer your patients here, they're going to get a comprehensive evaluation and recommendation. It can reaffirm what you were going to do. It can make you think about something in a new way. It can open the line of communication for a clinical trial the patient may benefit from. The Breast Center at Mayo Clinic is a unique model where all the specialists that are involved in the care of our breast cancer patients are co-located in the same space. So the mammograms and ultrasounds, breast MRIs are all done around the same location and it also allows the patient to be seen by a variety of experts. There's a lot of situations where we have the opportunity to to bring in, from a surgical perspective, multiple different surgical teams into the same case at the same time. When it really becomes top of mind is when you have a patient who has other serious medical comorbidities who needs an operation or needs some kind of an intervention. That is definitely a sweet spot for us, and that's because we leverage the expertise of the other multidisciplinary, multi -specialty providers that we have on campus. There's just so many options right now in terms of clinical trials, and you can think about the metastatic setting and the chemotherapy and the immunotherapy but even from a surgical perspective there's de-escalation of surgical therapy from a radiation perspective there's de-escalation of radiation does every patient need radiation how do we decide which patients will benefit which patients won't it's really a new era of personalized medicine immunotherapy is relatively newer in the field of breast cancer it is currently only approved for a subtype called triple negative and it results in better outcomes compared to chemotherapy alone. And that has been shown to have higher survival and improved rates of reducing the risk of the cancer coming back. Our goal is to offer each patient that enters our door a clinical study that may either directly benefit the patient or may benefit their community in the future. This is a really exciting time at the Mayo Clinic. We have a couple of enterprise initiatives that are in the process of being developed and really being launched at a large scale. The Mayo Clinic platform is this incredible repository of data. We've digitized all of our archives of slides from all of our years past. What that means is we have over 20 million slides. What can we unlock from the archives of tissue in the past, and how can we then take these slides, again ask a question a patient with a specific diagnosis, run AI algorithms on the digitized slides which will clearly show us things that we didn't otherwise pick up. It will impact how we design clinical trials in the future. It is enormous what Mayo is contributing to the science and to patient care. I mean we always say the needs of the patient, the needs of the patient, but it's not just the needs of the patient, it's the needs of humanity.