All right, I want to welcome everyone. We have quite a few people joining us. I see people connecting to their audio, so we'll give everybody a minute to kind of log in. All right, so I'm Jeanette Davenport. I'm one of the social workers with your kidney pancreas transplant team. Nice to see everybody. A few quick reminders for today's session. Of course, we're probably all familiar with Zoom by now, but just remember if you have your camera on um which we love to see your faces if you do have your camera on totally great but just of course be aware of whatever's in your background can you hear me i can hear whoever's speaking yes okay i don't know where to i already already um so i mean i already registered do i need to do anything else no you're just gonna you're just gonna listen in so if you're not if you're not speaking i'm going to ask everybody to go ahead and mute yourself to make sure you're on mute for this. If you do have a question, I want everybody to be comfortable asking those. We will probably save those for the end, or you can also put them in the chat, or I'm happy to monitor the chat for our speaker today, and we'll make sure we get to everyone's questions. We do record these presentations so that we can put them on our YouTube page for other patients who weren't able to join us live today, so just be aware of that. So if you don't want to be included, I believe my colleague kind of edits everybody's faces and names out, but if you speak, like if you unmute yourself at the end and ask a question, your voice may be on our recording. So just some things to be aware of. Our speaker today, we are so happy to have Susan Ruddy Mason -Natt. She's one of our fabulous nurses. She's actually with our spine center here at Mayo Clinic, but she's graciously agreed to join us to share some information that she has as far as her expertise on advanced care planning. So I will give the floor to her. Thank you so much, Jeanette. Well, good afternoon and welcome everyone. I want to make sure that you know that this is definitely not just me talking. This is going to be very interactive. So I'll be asking questions. Please jump in if you want to either answer or if you know how to raise your little hand, you know, through Zoom. But I really, really, as much interaction as we can do is better than just listening to somebody sit up here and talk to you all. My name is Susan. I'm a nurse now for about 40 years, almost 20 of them now here at Mayo Clinic in Florida. And if my R's haven't given me away yet, I am from up north. from Brooklyn, New York, prior to being here in Jacksonville, Florida. Hello, Daryl. I see you shaking your head. So yes, welcome again. And thank you. So tell me before I go on to the next slide, who can tell me what advanced care planning is? Do you know what it's all about? What it involves? What is it for? And just jump right in there. If anybody, we in agreement that it's planning for future events? Everybody's quiet today. I know. That's okay. I'll be pulling words out in no time. I see Daryl unmuting. He wants to say something. I believe it is planning for in the future. Your healthcare, people that might have to come in, nurses that come in to help you, medicines, what plans are best for you for your prescriptions things like that absolutely it's kind of planning for the what if it's it's like when you take out right an insurance policy and and you have it you hope you never need it right but it's there if you do especially if for some reason whether it's short term or long term that you're no longer able to express your own wishes right and tell your family, your loved ones, and your healthcare team, what it is that you want and maybe don't want. So that's what we're going to talk about today. We're going to bring up a couple of different things within the advanced directive, which is choosing somebody to be your voice, but also, you know, some medical options that you might think about that you may know today. It's something that non-negotiable or negotiable, depending upon what's going on, you know, with your health at the time. Okay. So every person has a personal sense, right, of what quality of life means to them, what's important to them. Not everybody has the same answers or the same goals. and um there are no right or no wrong answers to this um it's important though to make sure that we're starting the conversation with loved ones and can i be so bold as to ask um who here has filled out one of these things or at least started the conversation i have yeah okay great and you know um even just starting the conversation is important um the documents themselves are the end goal but we're also going to talk about if you have a document and you haven't had the conversation with the people that you put right in charge of being able to speak for you, if that conversation hasn't happened, it's like not having a document at all. So let's go on to what is it? Planning for future medical care in the event that you are unable to express your own wishes. Now, that can be something that's temporary. Let's take, for instance, even you going in for surgery, right? You're going to be underneath anesthesia for a period of time right if there was any change in the plan um being that you're already under the health care team wouldn't be able to have a conversation with you and therefore they might be looking towards somebody else your next of kin or your health care proxy so i'm going to talk about that. And or for a future state, if there ever comes a time when you're unable to tell the healthcare team what it is that's important to you, that you choose the right person to express those wishes for you. We as healthcare team members want to know what it is that you would like or not like you could imagine with technology new medicines the amount of things that we have available to us today let's say maybe for our parents right they didn't have so with one hand it's it's really great stuff the the additional options that we have, but it's also important for you and that person that you put in charge to ask the right questions to your health care team, right? So, Dr. So -and-so, you're saying that's, and I'm going to keep using myself as an example, I'm going to just say, you know, Sue, you said if Sue chooses plan A or plan B, and these are different care options, right? um what does what does that mean for her what does her quality of life look like if she chooses pathway a or pathway b because it's it would be important depending upon what you consider to be quality of life and only you have the right answer for that you have a right to participate in your care whether or not you're able to express it at the time. It's a matter of, again, starting those important conversations while you can, while you're healthy enough, while you have what we call capacity, while you know what's in front of you and can weigh out different options that doctors may present. Many people change their wishes regarding life-sustaining treatment over time? Would you have an idea of what might affect you? Let's say if you filled out these documents five years ago, and now it's five, 10 years down the line, what might change or make you change your mind? there's not going to be a wrong answer out there I guarantee you I'm hoping I can see everyone Jeanette because I don't I can't I don't think I can see everyone I'm trying to but if you see somebody either raising their hand or trying to talk please let me know okay so a couple of examples um five ten years ago maybe they didn't have the kind of treatments that they have today That might be a reason for you to change those choices that you made some time ago. It might be that the person that you placed in charge of making those decisions for you maybe is no longer around. Maybe you're not as close to them as you were before. Maybe they're not the same best person to speak on your behalf. um different experiences through life whether if it was for you with changes in your well-being or you learning of other people's challenges with their health and maybe experiencing it through a different set of eyes saying wow you know my friend sally um had this diagnosis and she decided to go um this route and she had a really tough time with things or oh my um sally's children she had four children and they couldn't seem to all agree on what sally wanted and that created a little bit of turmoil so um if any or a large majority of you have completed these documents and you haven't looked at them in the last five years, I'm going to encourage you to take it out. Don't wait for you to really need it. But every five years, you put a timer on that to say, you know what, let me just go back and look. And if you filled out the advanced care directive that we're most familiar with, which is from Florida, that can be changed at any time. You just need to know that when you complete a new set of documents that you tell everybody that has either the documents or knowledge of what's in those documents to know hey listen I've updated this I've made changes to it and for the ones that you want to have a copy make sure that they have an updated copy as well. You can imagine, or can you imagine, a family member having to make a decision for a mom, dad, excuse me, sister or brother, but not really having had a conversation. so uh i'm sitting at my desk one day and um all of a sudden i can't seem to to type correctly i can't seem to hold a pen in my hand right hand right um slurring my words i'm just not feeling right does anyone know what those might be signs of come on i don't want shyness come on jump out in there what if i got weakness on one side go ahead perry what do you got i can't hear you it's a ****** could be a ****** right was that what you were going to say perry okay and you're absolutely right. So, um, here I am now saying, wow, you know what? Uh, I need to go down to the ED, right? I need to get evaluated, make sure everything's okay. Um, I call my husband when I'm on my way down to the ED, they checked me out. They said, Sue, you know, uh, you were, you were lucky. It was, it was a tiny ******. Um, uh, thank God you're not going to have any, you know, long lasting weakness on that side. And this is me not having, let's say, an advanced care directive or having had that serious conversation, right, with my husband or my kids. And I had the opportunity, right, to call my husband and tell him, hey, George, you know, I'm not feeling well, I'm going downstairs. What if you change the scenario now? And I'm at my desk, same thing is happening but now i slump over in my desk right now my co-workers are freaking out and they're calling um essentially a code uh right for emergency purposes oh my god susan's not responding we got to get her downstairs now my husband isn't the one getting a call from me but he's getting a call from a physician a physician telling him george susan's had a massive ******. We don't know what the residual is going to be. We don't know how alert she's going to be. We're doing everything that we can. No one knows what's in store for us, right? From day to day, we can hope we can plan if we feel relatively good. Especially our younger, our younger folks. And mind you, I speak to everybody from 18 years and up because 18, you're considered an adult. And if you look at the statistics for Florida on the amount, sadly enough, of donors that we have young Oregon donors, I'm talking about people on motorcycles, they don't wear helmets they get into these massive accidents um and all of a sudden you know your life is essentially in in an instant we we don't know from day to day and can only hope and pray that we're as prepared as possible in that event i know that i would want my husband to be as prepared including my daughters, as prepared as possible to make those tough decisions for me if I can't. And you could imagine the stress and the burden on them if all of a sudden they were hit with really bad news all of a sudden. But mom was great yesterday. She had no symptoms, just going along her day. And then boom, all of a sudden something happens. it's it's life -changing not just for the patient but for your loved ones so who should start the conversation a lot of people might say my doctor should really bring it up to me but your doctor has several hundred patients right um it's it's our responsibility And I would challenge you that if you don't have documents filled out yet or you haven't had a conversation with your doctor, is on your next visit to him, bring it up. When he says, hey, do you have any other questions, say, hey, doc, guess what? We were just talking about advanced care planning and advanced directives. I need to know where to get started. Mayo Clinic, we have documents that do not require a lawyer to sign, only require two witnesses. And staff is more than willing to be the witnesses for those documents. We wouldn't want you to fill out anything without having those serious conversations with your loved ones who will be in charge to make decisions on your behalf but we i'm sorry may i ask a question sure please jump in if the documents that you're referring to right now are they preferable as outside of mail to maybe another hospital or yes yes so um any if um do we have non-Floridians yes I'm from Georgia I can't I can't work my computer today my husband's not here I couldn't get the mute off and I can't get my picture on so I'm just not on but I'm here that's okay what's your name I'm from Georgia that's Denise Denise from Georgia yes okay thank Thank you. I couldn't tell who was talking. Denise, thank you for the question. So if you fill out the documents for here in Florida, right? And if you live in another state, and you filled out documents in another state, Florida Mayo Clinic still wants a copy of those documents. They're valid. And we're going to follow your wishes as long it's within the letter of the law and that you're not asking us to do something that's ******* so and the documents that we use here at mayo clinic um there's probably about five different systems here in northeast florida that all agreed to use the same documents so if you wound up at baptist if you wound up at saint v's they're all using the same documents and it should be familiar to them so okay go ahead um do i need one in both states or just one one is sufficient but i would make sure that that one is uploaded at uh because i don't know would mayo clinic be the place you come for an emergency or would it be a hospital in georgia that you go to if there was an emergency it would be there if i had time to get there i mean i'm about an hour and a half away okay i would go there i you know so so both places should have it georgia is close enough to florida um i don't see any major um things that we wouldn't recognize that's right you know that's acceptable in georgia and vice versa okay thank you want yeah if you wanted to have two documents the tricky part about that is you want to make sure that both documents are saying the same thing and that's where it can get a little tricky especially if it's a different document that's asking questions maybe in a different way okay i'll fill one with fill one out with mayo i've not filled one out okay and then if you have a copy and you should have a copy of mayo's make sure that when you go to the georgia hospital or clinic whatever it might be that they have a copy on file for you okay thank you okay you're welcome so what's some of the reasons why we don't talk about this every day or you know you go home this evening over dinner and just say hey family you know what um i think we need to talk about what would happen if i wasn't able to express my wishes anymore with that set off an alarm at your dinner table oh yeah absolutely absolutely and it doesn't even have to be death itself but anything that um is going to challenge the the the healthy right so they might be oh my god did you have an appointment today did you get bad news today it kind of sets off an alarm uh and what we're trying to do is to make it less scary to talk about it if we talk about it more often right make sure that those close to you know what's important to you and if they're that close to you more than likely they know they know what your likes are what your dislikes are what you consider quality of life and i'm talking about it's more important for me to be awake and interacting with my family than maybe getting medication for pain where I would be very sedated. Somebody else might say, you know what, I am not going to be in pain. So if it means sedating me and giving me pain medication, that's what I want. And I understand that it might be that I won't be as interactive with my family. But talking about advanced care planning, talking about the what ifs. It is very scary. None of us really want to talk about it. Some people, they're very young and they're going, oh, I'm healthy. I'm 23, you know, but who's to say there wouldn't be a car accident, right? That might happen, God forbid. Not enough time. It's not a conversation that you can drop on the table very easily and get done in five minutes. It's also a conversation that you'll probably have to have more than once and not just in one sitting. I don't know. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. I can. The situation, my mother was 88 years old and she had to have bypass surgery like I did. And like three or four days after her bypass, she coded. And I guess the only thing that we can go on that that was good about the whole situation was that we were following her predetermined wishes. So, you know, those tough conversations are hard to have. But in the time that you're telling the doctors and all what your wishes are for your mother, then that's the only thing we had to draw upon was that we were following her wishes, not ours. Right. And that's a good point, Ed, because it takes that burden off. you can imagine you may not be in agreement right with well let's put everybody that's on this call how many of you would be the one to speak for a family member now we're not even we're not even talking about you choosing somebody but how many of you would be the one to speak for a spouse right a child so if you all haven't had the conversation with those that you're going to be representing now's the time to start that conversation i don't care how old they are because you never know it's such i call it like the recipe book it's such a relief when you know you're bringing to the table back to the doctors back to the care team this is what my mom wanted right and even if it's not the exact you know she wants to be intubated she doesn't want to be intubated she wants dialysis she doesn't want dialysis but if you're um confident that you know susan said that she is willing to try anything if she's got a good chance of whatever it might be right quality of life being able to be awake and alert speaking and knowing who you are and who others are again it's that asking the doctors well doc you gave me two or three options which one gives my mom the best option to you know for her wishes right we never want to impose our own wishes right on somebody else the same way that I'm pretty sure those that you're going to put in charge of your care you want them to follow what's important to you so if you happen to have somebody that is very against your beliefs very against what you would choose and sometimes choosing means choosing not to do things it's not just what i would want but what i would not want for instance for me it would be it would be horrific if i needed to spend the rest of my days on this planet in a bed restrained on a ventilator and my kids know that and my husband knows that. So if any one of those options meant the likelihood of Sue coming off of this ventilator is not good at all, then they know how to respond to that. Now, if the care team came and said, you know what, we're going to trial Sue for about two weeks to see if this gives her lungs a rest that she needs to fight an infection right or to get rid of fluid in her lungs and then we'll revisit in two weeks to see what direction has Sue improved or are we now at a point where Sue is not going to come off this ventilator then my family knows what my choice would be. Those are really tough conversations to have. And mind you, I'm a nurse. One of my daughters is a nurse. And we don't, the care team does not expect you to know each and every option that's out there and understand it. I'm a nurse and I don't understand it all. You know, there's new technology, especially in cardiology, you know, um, and, and different systems that I'm not very knowledgeable about. So I'd be very much relying upon physicians to break that down for me. So for you and your loved ones, I want you, I want you to be Brooklyn. If you, and when I say that is, I want you to have the confidence to tell the physician, Doc, I don't understand what you said. I need you to break this down in terms that I can understand. What does this mean for mom? What does this mean for dad or my brother, my sister, my mother, my father? Okay. Sometimes healthcare team members forget that not everybody understands the complexities of medical options, medical care. Denise, did you want to say something there? I can't hear you. I'm not on you. There I am. I just wanted to say that I recommend that every person who is on this call get an advance directive because I was in a situation where my husband was in a coma and we had had the discussion but he didn't have anything in writing so fortunately he had told myself and he had told his brother what his wishes were but he hadn't told his mother so we were in the we were literally in the hospital going back and forth because his mother wanted to do something different than what i wanted to do and because um he had had a discussion with his brother then that that made her understand that he had told me what what was going on and it would have been so much easier if he had just put it all in writing so i just i want to just say just recommend it from my experience i've got one so i made sure that my parents my people would not have to go through what i went through when um when my husband um was in a coma denise thank you for sharing that and i'm so sorry um and it only takes one time to have an experience like that you know what i mean to to i said you don't know how much you need one until you're in the thick of it and you need one so in in your case um it's your husband technically in the state of florida you are the next of kin and you would be the one making the calls but look at the turmoil look at the, like the family dynamics, right? You have his brother, who he was probably close to, and you have his mom, who was still alive. And there's probably quite a few parents on the call here, right? And I always say, a parent is always, right, you love your children unconditionally. And I don't care if the parents, I'll give you for instance, my mom's 97. I'm in my 60s, my mom's still alive okay so i don't care how old you get but um a mom is probably gonna pull out or ask the doctor to pull out every single trick they have in their pocket because that's their baby there right now all of us being adults right all of us having lived um a good life i'm gonna say up to now. We're all spring chickens, right, on this call. So we know what quality of life or should know what kind of quality of life we want. We've been able to, right, get up, walk, talk, have relationships, right, love, work, and to know that there might come a time whether it's an accident or a disease process that might change all of that you've had a taste of what your life has been like and the quality that you've had so you are less likely to want to bargain with that versus a mom or a dad that at any and all costs, we find have a tougher time making those decisions. So if you can imagine a parent in the state of Florida, and I'm going to show you the order of surrogacy, isn't very, they're high up on the list of who would speak for you if you can't speak for yourself and you don't have that written, but they're not at the top. Okay, so we just got an example, right, of what bad can come from not having these discussions, right? You, especially nurses, the worst thing that we experience for our patients and their families is seeing a family outside of a patient's room and everybody's arguing. Everybody's, you know, you can't make that decision for mom. You can't do that. No, we got to try something else. When we don't have everybody on the same page and there's no directive, Mayo Clinic is going to try their best to bring everybody together to make sure that everybody understands. Like with Denise, Like she had, thankfully, it was her, I guess, brother-in-law, right? That was able to help support you that, hey, yes, listen, he wouldn't want this stuff. And it was probably a tough thing for the mom to come to terms with, you know, this is what he wanted. It can't be what you want. We have an ethics committee here at Mayo Clinic. An ethics committee is sometimes called upon when we have those disagreements, when we don't have a clear cut direction on where to go with a patient that is unable to express their own wishes, and we don't have guidance. that's when we try to bring everybody together we try to make sure everybody has a good understanding of where the patient is what the prognosis is and what like option a or option b might look like you don't want to miss that opportunity to leave your loved ones with that recipe book saying hey these are the things that i know i want are non -negotiable these other things are negotiable. And again, it doesn't have to be specific treatments, but it could be expressed in what does it mean for you? How would Susan be after option A or after option B? We're trying to avoid conflict. We definitely don't want to give you any treatment that you wouldn't have wanted had you been able to make the decision on your own and having that recipe book for your loved one takes that burden away from them that they're trying to figure out oh my god what is it that susan would have wanted in this situation if they have it in front of them and they have at least a guide that that means everything in the world um yes i was i was just going to say that make sure that you give a copy to your loved ones a situation I experienced with my sister she couldn't express her wishes she had previously expressed her wishes to me but her husband really didn't want to follow her wishes and said he could not find her paperwork but you know we're nobody else has it so you know i just i just let it go i just let him have his wishes and and i know today that it was not my sister's wishes but for the family dynamics and all i just backed off i'm sorry to hear about that experience so make sure absolutely that you know especially if you're out of town and they can't retrieve your wishes from the hospital that that has it on file make sure that family members have it not just you know not just one not just two but three or four that's right so that the our feelings don't get in the way of what your loved one wants. And that's important. And actually, the whole thing about this talk is while we each have the right to make decisions for our own lives, right, it's fine and dandy when we're able to tell the doctors and the teams, right, what we want and what we don't want. The challenge comes when you lose that capacity to express them. so this is in Florida I put court appointed guardian is up on top if for any reason there was a court declaration for maybe somebody who was mentally challenged or whatever the case may be A court is going to supersede anybody on this list at any time. But traditionally, we're looking at your spouse being the next person. So in Denise's case, she had the right to make decisions, but I'm pretty sure that she was morally distressed because of the inability to get mom on the same page. and who wants to break the mother-in-law's heart right and and more importantly you know she was battling for what she knew uh her husband wanted your adult children equally so if you have four or five kids and you don't have a document oh boy right your four or five children may not all agree You might have two or three that want option A and another two or three that want option B. And again, at Mayo Clinic, without a document, we're going to need to bring together those children and try to work through everybody understanding what's going on with mom or dad and hopefully come to an understanding and what is it that your mom or dad would have wanted. That's what we need to look at. I'm not ready to let mom go yet. I know I haven't been here to go to doctor's appointments. I live out of state. It can't be that person's personal plight with what's going on. We still have to remember that our duty as somebody else's voice is to be the voice of that other person. So we have spouse up there. We have adult children. And then we have parents, mom and dad. So they come in third. Then brothers and sisters, other blood relatives. And believe it or not, we've had a couple of cases at Mayo Clinic where despite our best efforts to try to get a hold of a family member, sometimes a friend, sometimes it's a church member. Sometimes that's all the person has. And in the event that they don't have anybody, then our social work team, along with social work teams from other hospitals, we all work together. So if we had somebody that wasn't being represented at all by another family member, and they couldn't speak, we would be asking a social worker from another hospital to be the voice for that person. The same way if another hospital needed one, they might ask Janet to be the voice. And the reason why we do it from a different institution is that so there's no bias. It's not a Mayo Clinic employee deciding a Mayo Clinic patient's future. It's somebody from the outside not connected um and able to look at the facts and then hopefully make make the decision based on the interest of the patient so now the reason why i say that is because it's the focus is a little bit different what i what might be in my best interest right I may opt, you know, maybe putting me on a respirator is in my best interest to keep me alive. But do I want to be alive for another two to three years on a respirator in a bed? No. So you not having that document, you're taking away that part of you being able to what we call self -determine. That isn't that isn't negotiable. That's something I don't want. okay so it's the best thing for you to be the one to determine who's going to be your voice right you reduce any kind of uncertainty when you have those conversations and you know who it is that's going to speak for you on your behalf hopefully they know your wishes and they're going to share that with the team they're going to help direct the care that you would like or not like based on your goals. Hopefully avoiding future confusion and conflict. Now your person, most of us might default to say my husband or my wife knows. And that might be a hundred percent true. I'll give you a, for instance, uh, love my husband dearly. He is not number one on my list. He's number two. My daughter's number one. The point I'm trying to make is you need to pick the person that under the circumstances at the time, right? Emotion, fear, letting go, getting through a really, really difficult time. Is your spouse the best person to make those decisions for you? I tease my husband all the time. I love him dearly, but I think he'd keep me plugged in in the bed for several years. So he's not number one. He is number two. My daughters very much know and understand what my wishes are. I'm hoping that they can work kind of like what Denise's family did, work together to remind my husband, remember, this is what Susan wanted. It's not what you want. And as difficult as the decisions might be, it's what mom would have wanted. so i just always ask you just ask yourself who is the right person and does anybody on the call have um more than two kids okay it gets really tough when the state of florida some documents let you pick two people some documents let you pick three people right in a certain order how do you pick out of your four kids or five kids who's the one that's going to be the ultimate decision maker what do you think any helpful hints how do you do that how do you pick one out of four they pick the best decision maker absolutely the one who can keep maybe the other ones all on the same page right remind them that it's mom's wishes for sure and it's not about loving one kid more than another we know that we all love all of them equally but it's a really tough job and it's it's a blessing and a tough job at the same time double-edged sword right to be the one to speak on your behalf or you to be the chosen one to speak on somebody else's behalf it's a big deal it's a really big deal and until you've done it, it's a challenge. You want to make sure that you know that person well, the one who's speaking on your behalf. And if you're speaking on somebody else's behalf, again, you need to get off this call when you get off this call and have a conversation today saying, hey, listen, by the way, but if I'm going to be the one that's going to make decisions for you, if I have to, you and i need to talk um you want to make sure that the person that you're picking knows you're picking them right not fair if they get a phone call saying hey shirley's in the emergency room and we're calling you because you're her surrogate and then that person's going to go oh my god we kept talking about this and we said that we were going to talk about it and we kept putting it off putting it off and we never sat down and spoke about it my i was going to say in the case of my mother that i shared earlier um i have seven siblings and she had chosen she had chosen one of my sisters and at the time my sister was in agreement all of us were in agreement for my mother's wishes. But my sister was not the one who told the medical staff our decision was going to be based upon what my mom wanted. She wasn't able to do it. And I was surprised that it was left up to me to do it. So you have to make sure that you feel the person that is going to make the decisions can emotionally be strong enough to make the decisions without all the emotions overwhelming them absolutely and good good good point the people that you appoint the either two or three people that you appoint because you appoint them doesn't mean that they have to do it right they can easily tell the team i don't think i can get through this i'm going to default to the next person that's you know named um and sometimes it's our team sitting down even with somebody who isn't a hundred percent um ready to talk about next steps for the patient but um our care team is going to work with you and or your family members or significant others as best as possible. Susan, I have a question. Sure. But if you have the directive filled out and it's in writing, do they even go to ask the person or they just do what they already have in writing? Oh, no. First of all, we're going to make a call. With the exception of, does everybody know what a do not resuscitate order is? Yes. Okay. That means that you, yourself, not anybody else right you yourself had said that if god forbid um you know i have a terminal illness i have no chance of recovery i do not want to be resuscitated and that is um filled out and it's filled out in two different ways for the community it's on a yellow piece of paper and that's important because we don't have that yellow piece of paper on in our home on the refrigerator in the freezer. They're going to try to bring it back to life. In the hospital, it's in order. So if there is a do not resuscitate order, community or hospital, we're not going to resuscitate. But at the same time that we're handling an emergency, there's another team member getting on the phone to let that family member know what's going on. So it's not just leaving the recipe book out and nobody contacts you know what i'm saying it it is getting in contact with the next um next of kin without the document or the surrogates that have been appointed but that person cannot override what's in writing like they get emotional like i don't care what's in writing i don't want to do this that they're going to go by the paper i hope or else that's yeah so that's a really juicy question so here's where the ethics team is going to come into play because technically the person that you've appointed right to be your voice becomes your voice at the time that you are no longer able to express yourself so it's important for you to make sure that that person knows your wishes because they can address the team and say hey listen i know that this is what suzy wanted but and what it will do is delay things it means getting the team together getting um family members together trying to make you know have an understanding of why would this family member go against the wishes of the patient and we're going to battle for the wishes of the patient but it's not it's not so cut and dry you want to make sure that you're not leaving somebody in charge that can't handle this when the time comes and that no matter what you know they're going to follow your wishes. Now, there's two different documents out there. There's the healthcare, what they call designation of healthcare surrogate, the person that you're going to decide to be your voice, right? Then there's another document called the living will. And the living will expresses, if this happens, do this. If that happens, do that. there's different questions different scenarios on there i always say that the best thing that you can do if you don't know or have enough information to fill out both is to fill out the one where you're choosing your voice if you're picking the right person then that person based on the information that the doctors and the team is giving him or her and based on knowing you your goals right your values what's quality of life they should be able to make a decision when you're filling out a living will and it's ideal to fill one out if you know for sure that your end stage not going to have a good outcome and you don't want resuscitation you don't want dialysis then absolutely fill that out i just never want to hear that somebody didn't fill out the who's going to be my voice because they didn't know how to fill out the living will. Does that make sense? Sometimes you need a lot more information, both from your healthcare team or from your doctor to have a good understanding on the living will, what you're saying yes and no to. The one where you're picking the person to speak for you, nobody can choose that person better than you. Does anyone have any questions? We have a question in the chat for you, Susan. There's one that is asking, how do we get these documents if we are not near Mayo? Can they be mailed to us or emailed? Okay, well, if you're coming to Mayo Clinic for your care, I don't see why we couldn't get one to you yeah and everybody on this call is a kidney transplant patient so you receive a copy of the advanced directive anytime you've seen your social worker you received a blank advanced directive either in a paper folder packet or if you saw us virtually over a zoom call then you would have received it as a message through your portal and there was an attachment there that would have had a whole social work packet and that advanced directive is included if you no longer have that and you want to receive a copy of the advanced directive just message through the patient portal any one of us from the social work team and we're happy to send it to you again you can also access advanced directives online through the honoring choices florida website so that's another version of it but that would be another way to get it if you don't want to go through the portal that would be another option in the state of florida the Community Hospice of Northeast Florida, if you contact any of their offices, they'd probably be more than willing. They even have people to help patients in the community. So we have a service here at Mayo Clinic. If you're receiving care here at Mayo Clinic, that team members that can sit down and help facilitate that conversation with you. If it's, let's say, for a spouse or a relative that isn't a Mayo Clinic patient, Northeast Florida could get a document to you for a loved one if they're not a Mayo Clinic patient. And I just put the Honoring Choices website in the chat, but it is honoringchoicesfl.com. So that you can either print it directly from their website, or you can contact them and fill out a little form if you want to request like them to mail you a paper copy. But again, we're happy to send you the Mayo Clinic version. Our version is pretty simple, so just kind of you're choosing your people and saying, you know, checking some boxes, yes, no, what do I want? The Honoring Choices version is a bit more in-depth. It allows, it has more spaces to kind of write things in, so if you want to write a more in-depth document as far as what your wishes are, the Honoring Choices one is, allows that and has space for that. Ours is kind of that simple direct version, the one that we provide here at Mayo Clinic, but any version, you know, it would be accepted. It's just according to your preference. absolutely does anybody have any questions about anything we talked about susan i had a question about what part of brooklyn you're from i have someone daryl's from flatbush really daryl i used to work at brookdale hospital oh okay this is down um east new york oh wow wow good absolutely that's that's home for me they they taught me everything i know you're tough to steal if you look at that hospital it was a level one trauma center and we had our fair shares of trauma oh don't I know East New York, Brooklyn I got even more respect for you yeah my daughter who was born and raised here in Jacksonville I lost her to White Plains oh i'm sorry she loves it up there yeah well i certainly want to thank um everyone for joining us and of course we all want to thank susan for um for joining today and giving us this wonderful presentation all this great information um you guys know we'll have another topic again next month so keep an eye on your patient portal for those invitations um but yeah we'll look forward to seeing everyone again next month and thank you again so much, Susan. You're welcome. Thank you all. Thank you. All the best to you. Yes. Take care, everyone. Bye-bye.