Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Thank you all for joining us for today's podcast titled "Adventures with CPAP: A Physician's Journey". Many patients struggle with CPAP therapy and experienced sleep clinicians often develop multiple strategies to help their patients tolerate CPAP with variable success. My guest today is Dr. Michael Silber, who is both a board-certified sleep specialist and a patient with obstructive sleep apnea who has agreed to describe his personal experience with CPAP for us today and what it has taught him about helping other patients. Mike, thank you for agreeing to share your personal journey with sleep apnea and CPAP. Could you tell us a little bit about how your original diagnosis was made? Yes, well, thank you, Mithri. You know, I think we all realize that patients take quite a long time from the onset of symptoms of sleep apnea until they actually get a diagnosis. And despite more than 20 years experience at the time of treating people and diagnosing them with sleep apnea, it took me quite a while as well. I became aware probably about 10 years ago insidiously that I was becoming sleepier. I found that I was dozing in noon conferences, but then I looked around the room and there were two or three other people dozing as well. And if I have administrative time in the afternoon, I found I often put my head down on my arm and dozed for 20 minutes. Coming home from a busy day's work, I would doze reading before dinner and became aware this is not probably what it should be. Then my wife said, well, you know, you're snoring. I said, well, my BMI is under 25. I'm not the typical sleep apnea build at all. But I took a flashlight and had a look at the back of my throat in the mirror, noticed I had a very prominent soft palate, which was quite erythematous, a Friedman or modified Mallampati 4. So, you know, I asked my primary care doctor, order me an oximetry, and it came out borderline. So I spoke to one of my colleagues in the sleep center, who was also a bit skeptical about whether I would really have sleep apnea. We agreed to do a home sleep apnea test, and it came back with an AHI of 14, RDI a little higher than that, minimum saturation 85%. So I had at least mild OSA. So I said, okay, no big deal, and we'll start treatment. Very interesting story indeed, so tell us how you've adapted to CPAP and a little bit about what problems might have arisen and how you managed them. Well my colleague first said do you really want to use CPAP maybe we should get you a dental appliance I said no I know that's at best 70 % effective in reducing the severity of sleep apnea - let's go for the definitive thing I'll do fine on CPAP. So we ordered it. And I said, well, I'm going to start with the least intrusive of the interfaces. And I think back then it was the Respironics Dreamwear, which you'll remember just goes under the nose. It doesn't even go into the nose. And the air comes from the back around these tubes that come around the side of the face. So I got it the first night, and I'm not a claustrophobic person. It was - I panicked. I mean, I could not get air in through the tubes, or at least that's how I perceived it. And after two nights of struggling with this, I said, there is absolutely no way that we are going to be going with this. And I said, let's let's go to masks next. So, indeed, we went to masks and I tolerated masks very nicely, both nasal and full face masks. But every single mask I tried: soft, firm - eroded the bridge of my nose. Now, I don't have the most handsome nose in the world by any means. I think I've got a little bump at the top of my nose. But every single one caused a red, painful abrasion. Now, at that time, our nurse supervisor was Wendy Moore, a wonderful, wonderful person who worked for years. And she took on her personal job to see that I got onto CPAP properly. And people remember, this is now about seven years ago, we had lots of samples of masks in our sleep center. I think most sleep centers did. I don't think that's so today. But back then, lots of samples and no mask worked at all. So I said, OK, no problem. We're going to go back and we're trying nasal pillows now. So I started with the conventional ones. I don't remember. There was the P10 that we have now, which goes in the nose and the tube comes out from the front. But I tried a couple of them. And, you know, most of them, I found the straps over the head were very flimsy. And it was coming off in the night, not because I was pulling it out of the nose. Multiple times I had to adjust the straps on my head. And that wasn't working very well at all. And then what happened next was the F30i came out, which you remember is a sort of hybrid mask. It is a full face mask, but instead of going over the bridge of the nose, it curves over the top of the nose. So I said, this is wonderful now because it won't erode my nose. And I got this and I struggled. I was amazed. I struggled with coordinating nose and mouth breathing with this. I don't know why, but I did. And my AHI went up on my CPAP machine. It started going between seven and ten. It didn't seem to be centrals, but somehow I wasn't coordinating it properly. And if a patient had told me that, I'd have thought, I don't know what's going on here. Why should this happen? But it happened. So I went back to nasal pillows, and eventually I hit on the Swift LT nasal pillows, which you'll remember has the tube coming up over the face. There's a little clip on the forehead, so it curves up over the face and goes behind you. and that didn't entangle me at all, going behind and it worked beautifully. And then my wife says, well, you know, it's working. You're still snoring. Your mouth's dropping open. You're snoring through your mouth. So I said, well, I know what to do next. We need a chin strap. And Wendy provided me with a chin strap, the best we have available. And it was strangulating. I'd never realized that before, and I'd recommended chin straps to so many patients. It's thick, it's heavy, it pushes the jaw shut, it works. But I found it so uncomfortable. So Wendy said, well, you know, I've just had been sent something new, mouth tape. Never heard of this before, but we've got a sample. And the mouth tape she had, which was provided for snoring and CPAP use, was a sort of very thin mouth tape which went right over the mouth with a little slit in the center. It's still available, a horizontal slit, so you can still breathe through it. And I tried it, and it worked beautifully, just beautifully. My lips kept shut. My snoring went away. I'm actually using today a different type of commercially available mouth tape, which is actually an X that fits over the center of the mouth. It's cheaper than the other one. The other one's fairly expensive, not covered by insurance. This one works perfectly just as well. I just order it every few months on the Internet. But the one I started with is fine as well, and there's a whole series of them available. And this worked very well. And then, of course, ResMed stopped making the Swift LT nasal pillows about a year ago. decided it wasn't the brand they wanted to do. So I thought, oh, no, I'm back to the beginning again. So my vendor, the technician there, said, oh, well, we've got an equivalent. The P30i also goes to the back, so you won't get entangled, firm straps. But the P30i, of course, is like the Dreamwear. It has these tubes going across the cheek to the back. And I thought, oh, no, this is what I started with and couldn't tolerate it. But I said, I'll try it. So I tried it and it was quite different. I think I must, over the years, have just adapted to the whole concept of air coming in and everything. I didn't feel claustrophobic or strangulated with it at all. And I'm doing beautifully now with a P30i with a nice residual AHI of usually less than one, actually, and no problem using it at all. So I don't know how interested everybody's going to be on this journey, but I really found - I thought it was worth sharing because we sometimes quite blase about our patients' experiences. Quite the journey that you experienced, Mike. Thank you for sharing that. What do you feel that your personal experience has taught you about how to work with patients that are using CPAP? Do you feel like this personal experience that you have had has changed your approach at all? Well, that's really the reason I thought I should talk on this podcast about it. You know, we all think we can treat patients' illnesses based on knowledge, of course, and for older physicians, years of experience, without thankfully experiencing the illnesses ourselves. And we all feel pretty comfortable. We can do it. We know what patients go through. And, you know, what this taught me is I'd been doing this for over 20 years. I didn't know. And a lot of the things I was telling patients or thinking about with patients weren't necessarily correct. And perhaps I wasn't as tolerant with patients' problems with CPAP as perhaps I should have been. I hope I was, but perhaps I wasn't. So I've learned a lot of things. I've learned about some of the things I didn't know that chin straps for some people are uncomfortable, that that it is very hard sometimes to find the optimal interface that you have to teach patients to persevere and tell them right from the beginning the first one probably isn't going to be right and you've got to work with patients and help them and certainly when they tell you that this is wrong and that's wrong they're almost certainly correct that it is wrong and try help them through it so I've learned different things I tend to use more nasal pillows now than I did with patients in the past and far fewer full face masks. I mean, the other issues we can talk about full face masks, including the tendency in some people to push the lower jaw backwards and actually exacerbate sleep apnea, which is possible. What happened when I tried that hybrid mask and had an increase in my AHI. And I'm teaching a lot more about mouth tape and less straps. And my whole approach to how I counsel patients, how I follow them has subtly changed from my own experience. Now, obviously, I don't wish sleep apnea on any sleep physician or providers. And certainly, I don't wish any other illnesses on anybody. But I think we have to be aware of that sometimes we cannot fully get into our patients' minds and thoughts and bodies and experience what they're experiencing. And we have to be humble about it. And we have to be very tolerant. So yes, this has been a very helpful experience for me. And I thought it might be worth just talking about it and sharing it a little. Yeah, I mean, I think that that's very helpful to hear, especially with your perspective. Are there any final messages that you would like to leave for our listeners today, Mike? Well, I think just what I've said up till now, listen to patients, be tolerant with them, and be aware that what they are experiencing is real and generally real, and that we need to realize that we don't always understand what a patient goes through even after treating an illness in many patients for many years. Thanks very much Mike this is super helpful and thank you to our listeners for joining us today as well. We hope you enjoyed this podcast, if so please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health. Thank you.