Welcome to Mayo Clinic Sleep Medicine Podcasts, a series for physicians, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other health practitioners treating sleep disorders or interested in learning about state -of-the-art advances in sleep medicine and sleep health. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Silber. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Mithri Junna. We are both consultants at the Center for Sleep Medicine at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Traditionally in the United States, high schools have started early in the morning. However, research has clearly shown a physiologic delayed sleep phase pattern in adolescents whose biologic rhythms work in favor of a later bedtime and a later rise time. advocacy for earlier high school start times has expanded over the last few decades with slowly increasing success. To discuss this important public health problem. My guest today is Dr Robert Auger, associate professor of psychiatry and a board certified sleep specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota Rob thank you for coming on today. Thank you. Rob, surveys studies have suggested that as many as 68% of U.S. high school students sleep 7 hours or less on school nights, despite research suggesting that they require not 7 hours but actually 8 to 10 hours per night. Despite this epidemic of short sleep, a Sleep Foundation survey in 2020 found that 83 % of U.S. public high schools still start before 8.30 a.m. What are the reasons why school districts and states have been so slow at moving high school start times forward? I think there are a few. I think one issue is just, you know, you mentioned that the research is well established about the delay and circadian rhythms that occur with adolescents, but many people really just view it as adolescent laziness. And so there's a lack of education in that regard and a lack of awareness. I think that's one reason. I think that related to that, that there is a lot of political resistance to change. And so when you disturb the rhythm of a community with these schedules, the school board or the superintendent are worried that they might lose their jobs if the community is polarized as a result - so I think that's another reason. After school employers often express concerns that their students won't be available until later time - coaches or other directors of extracurricular activities express concerns about lack of availability for practice time in the example of sports and then there are some other factors, sometimes parents will express concerns that that individual who used to be home to care for the younger sibling is no longer home at a certain time. So really a variety of factors. But I think the biggest one, honestly, is just a lack of awareness of the biological delay. Right. The other factor I've heard and experienced is the finite school bus resources. If you move adolescent starting time later, you've got to move elementary school starting time earlier, and there have been concerns about first -decade kids standing outside in the dark in winter waiting for the school bus. And those are reasonable concerns, and I think one of the – you have to involve all stakeholders at an early stage, I think. Well, Minneapolis was one of the earliest school districts to make a change, altering high school start times from as early as 7:15 a.m. to as late as 8:40 a.m. - and that was put in, oh, it wasn't put in place, but was decided in the 1997-1998 school year and rapidly introduced, I think it was really that Mark Mahowald, you know, who was such a well-known sleep researcher and clinician in Minneapolis played a large role of that, as I recall, but it's a long time ago. And because it's so long ago, there have been follow-up studies. So there are follow-up studies from Minneapolis and more recently from elsewhere, can you tell us what they showed? Was this worth all their effort and the disruption? Definitely. So the name to know for all of this educational research is Kyla Wahlstrom. She's a University of Minnesota educational researcher. And I think you're right. It probably was Mark Mahowald or maybe Carlos Schenck. But there was a resolution from the Minnesota Psychiatric Society that was then adopted by the Minnesota Medical Association to contact all these school districts and tell them that these early start times were adversely affecting students' health. So actually, the first district to respond during the 1995-96 school year was Edina. and it showed and and after they showed favorable outcomes it then expanded to Minneapolis which is a much larger and much more diverse school district and those studies were conducted from I think the 97-98 school year for about four years and they showed that that much - what many believers thought would happen that students were sleeping about an hour longer, that students were less sleepy in class, particularly during the early morning periods. There was less tardiness. There was better academic performance. Parents and students thought that their pupils or their students or their children were better behaved. And one really important thing, in a diverse school district like Minneapolis, they showed improved continuous enrollment, i.e., decreased dropout rates, and it was about 8%. And so that same author, after that study, there was a pretty, that was covered by the local newspaper in Minneapolis and eventually was received by other major news outlets, and that resulted in more publicity and more pressure on some school leaders and slow trickle into a later start times and some other school districts across the country. But that same researcher, Kyla Wahlstrom, she got funded by the CDC in 2010 and did a very large study involving over 9,000 students in over half a dozen school districts, high schools, three different states. And that one showed many of the, all of the same positive outcomes that I just mentioned. But also, and this really brings attention to educators' ears, it showed increased GPA during core classes, during first period core classes, and showed some improvement in these scholastic aptitude tests as well, in addition to a variety of other measures showing enhanced well-being. So that's pretty clear-cut. There's no question. It's quite clear-cut. Okay, so then in 2022, California became the first state to mandate high school starting times no earlier than 8am. And interestingly, Florida was the next one and passed similar legislation in 2023 with a planned start date in 2026. But if we go back to Minneapolis, Edina first, for those who don't know the geography of Minnesota, Edina is a independent town that merges into Minneapolis and St. Paul, the twin cities, slightly more affluent than Minneapolis itself. But it took a quarter of a century for this legislation in California to pass following the changes in Minneapolis. Now, in the late 1990s, I participated in a task force that the Rochester, Minnesota Public School District, the home of Mayo Clinic, put together to decide whether following Minneapolis, we should change school start times. And they put together a very representative task force, parents, school administrators, community representatives and sleep experts like me. And I remember well the heated discussion, strongly held opinions. People got very upset over this whole thing. And in the end, a majority recommended no change at all. So I was quite unsuccessful. Then you participated in a further district effort, which resulted in approval this time of an earlier start time in June 2023. It took effect in the fall of that year. So I think it's important for our listeners to understand the reasons for your success, because I think more and more across the country, sleep specialists are going to be asked for their opinion to participate in such task forces. So from your experience, how should sleep specialists advocate as you did for successful change? Well, let me first say that I think part of the reason, the large reason for my success were there was a couple of seminal studies that came out after you made your attempt. There was something called, that's done bi-annually called the Youth Risk Behavior Survey. And the data from that was published in 2011 and very clearly showed a cutoff with eight hours of sleep and risky youth behavior, drug use, risky sexual behavior, etc. And it was pretty clear that with every hour less than eight hours that the risk increased. And so that study was published in 2011. There are also two studies that were published right around that time, I think 2008, 2011 that showed increased motor vehicle accidents among teens in districts that started earlier rather than later and pretty dramatic increases. And even one study that showed those rates decreasing once a later start time was adopted. So those are very provocative studies. And then in 2014, I think in response to that CDC study funded study that I mentioned, the American Academy of Pediatrics put out a statement that essentially said that if you care about the well-being of your children and adolescents, then high school should start no later than, or I'm sorry, no earlier than 8.30 a.m. And that's what they, what California for high school is, they actually can't start any earlier than 8:30 a.m. I'm not sure about Florida. Then after the American Academy of Pediatrics came out with this statement, other medical societies followed suit. So that was a big issue. As far as what I did personally, we had a colleague of ours, Suresh Kotagal, who used to speak at the local high school just because he enjoyed doing so. And there was a psychology teacher at one of the high schools who was interested in sleep and invited him to talk. And then when Suresh stopped doing that, I did it for five, maybe more years. And it was always about the biology of the circadian delay and teen sleep. And I would mention the benefits of start times. And after doing that for about three or four years, I got asked by the school board to present the findings at a meeting. I did it one year and it was nothing really happened at all. I got asked to come back either the next year or the year after that. It was a packed school boardroom. There was local press. And things just kind of cascaded from there. And ultimately, it was successful. Well, congratulations. I'm sure your excellent preparation and your passion for it played a role in that. But it is perhaps easier now with better information and a little more understanding and more experience with other school districts but I think this is very important information for other sleep specialists especially in smaller communities around the country if they are asked to help with this and try advocate, so thank you for sharing this expertise. Are there any final messages you'd like to leave with our listeners? I think that really just education at the local level with school educators and the school board is the most important thing. The National Sleep Foundation has very good resources to use if you want to come up with presentations or present data locally. And I think it's just important to remember that this is just a very key aspect of adolescent health. Well, thank you very much. Thank you we hope you enjoyed this podcast if so, please tune in again through wherever you receive your podcasts as we discuss further topics in sleep medicine and sleep health, thank you.