Well, welcome again to another episode of the interviews with the experts here at Mayo Clinic. I'm Malcolm Bell, your host today, and I'm delighted to have my colleague Dr. Patty Peler joining us today. Dr. Peler is a former uh chair of the division of cardiovascular ultrasound. She's also currently the editor-inchief of the journal of the American uh society of echoc cardiography. So welcome Patty. >> Thank you Malcolm. Nice to see you. >> Yeah. And uh we're here to uh to discuss a recent study that uh you and your collaborators I note uh many international collaborators uh recently published but it's a a work you related to AI assisted algorithm to assist in the diagnosis of cardiac amaloidosis. you know, another example of how AI can help with the the diagnosis of cardiac diseases. Um, so again, this is really an intriguing and fascinating topic, and I just wonder if uh you could tell us uh um you're going to tell us more about this uh um screening tool, but really as a background, how did you get into this? I mean, how why did you explore this and uh recognizing that you know echo has really sort of been a pivotal tool in the diagnosis of amaloidosis particularly early on but uh now maybe you give us again some background how you got into this. >> Oh thanks Malcolm. Uh yes, I was involved with the project uh the AI ECG project to detect reduced ejection fraction ejection fraction less than 35% by a standard 12 lead ECG. And that got me to thinking about what we could do if we applied AI to echo cardiography which contains of course so much information um you know sometimes 500 megabytes in a single study. So um when the American Society of Echo cardiography foundation put out a call for grants uh I applied for a grant to apply uh AI um to build a deep learning model to apply AI to echo images to detect heft pep and I chose that because diastolic function is such a conundrum we spend so much time trying to evaluate it in the echolab and it's so important clinically so that was my my plan and that I received the grant and we built the model it was approved by the FDA and um by their breakthrough pathway. This was a collaboration with an AI echo company. Um and then the next logical thing to build seemed to be a model to detect amaloid cardiammyopathy that is also a difficult diagnosis and we're capable of missing the disease. We now have treatments for cardiac amaloidosis. So it's important not to miss it and that was the focus of our next study. >> No. So it's and you made the point that uh you know you don't want to miss amaloidosis. It's easily missed and you know up until recent years of course uh it's not always been easy to diagnose and very often we don't even suspect the the disease but as we all know there are other you know newer imaging you particularly with you know transaren and uh with nuclear scanning um but we also have treatments now you know and uh that will improve outcome in in patients so it's become very very important So tell us about this model that that you built. I mean and then how did you validate this against presumably other uh scores which incorporate echoc cardiography? >> Yes. Well, we built a model hypothesizing that we would be able to detect um both f hep and both amloidosis from an apical fourchamber view. Just that single view and no other information. Of course that view contains so much information. You can see the wall thicknesses, valve thicknesses, valve motion, motion of the um mitro and tricuspid annulus. That apical fourchamber view um contains so much information as well as systolic function. So um so that was the the view that we used and we trained our amaloid model using about um 1,300 patients with amalloid in a simil sim similar number of controls um with conditions that might be phenotypic [clears throat] mimics of amalloid including hypertensive heart disease, aortic stenosis is hypertrophic cardiammyopathy um as well as other patients without thick walls including patients with hepath. So that was the model that we built uh training the computer with these carefully labeled amaloid cases and controls and then we validated it um with international data from 18 sites um using various ultrasound systems um and all these various centers um and we're able to establish that the model had um an AU of 93 and that was in a population with a 22% prevalence of cardiac amaloidosis. Sensitivity was 85% sensitivity was not impacted by the type of amaloid cardiammyopathy. Specificity was also very good at 93%. and um the performance of the model so was very good among AL uh wild type and hereditary amaloidosis. Then we wanted to see if it helps us compared to clinical tools, the clinical scoring systems that we currently use to estimate whether someone might have cardiac amalloidosis. And for that we used the trans thyetin cardiac amalloid score which was validated at Mayo Clinic that uses a variety of clinical variables as well as echo cardiographic variables to give a ass a sign a particular score about the likelihood of amaloid. And then we also compared it against the increased wall thickness score or bulrini score which includes echo variables as well as clinical variables. And the echo variables there include strain and ed prime uh the base to apical strain ratio and capsi. So uh our model was superior uh to those models for identifying patients with amaloid cardiammyopathy. I mean certainly an AUC of 0.93 is really impressive isn't it? I mean we don't see a lot of screening tools for most diseases um you know above 0.9. So this is really impressive and I guess you're similar to what we saw with the AI ECG you know assessing LV dysfunction. Um you you were talking about the trans thyroid cases you know wild type hereditary etc. I I'm not sure you mentioned light chain disease amoid I mean these were cases also included in your patient population. Yes, we trained the model to just detect amalloid cardiammyopathy without differentiating the types, but it is possible um that it might be able to be further refined or trained to even differentiate the types. >> Did it seem to be equally uh accurate for each of those types? Yes, the sensitivity ranged from 84% to 86% across all the types. >> And obviously this was a retrospective study. Did you have cases in there that were very very early amaloid that you may have been missed, you know, completely not even suspected? Um, and I mean I'm not sure how you'd identify those, but uh did you find any of those in your study? >> Yeah, that's a great question. We tried to pick the earliest case in which amalloid cardiammyopathy was detected in order to train our model. I think that um that's important because a very advanced case of amaloid cardiammyopathy might be easily recognized and we didn't want to make a model that would be um unsophisticated or only be able to detect late disease. a as you look at this, you know, what the potential again obviously a very well-conducted neo study, large patient population. Um, and it sounds like you had patients from outside of the United States and so lots of different ethnicities, I assume. When you look forward, Patty, is this an algorithm that you would just leave on all the time or is it an algorithm you turn on and off, you know, depending on what your suspicion would be and in a busy echol lab? And again, I'm just trying to think that you got patients that you suspecting and you want to uh maybe accelerate the the diagnostic um you know, algorithm for or pathway for these patients. And so this would be really uh uh helpful. But as you said, you you talked about patients with LVH for example, aortic stenosis, other you know diseases that may cause increased thickening. Um so who who would you target? Is it is it on all the time or is it just selected patients? And if so, which which patients would you be selecting? >> That is an interesting question and we still have to learn more about that. But I can tell you how this um FDA approved model is being used throughout the United States. Now it's um being applied to um in some institutions all comers and then those in which it is positive for hep the amaloid algorithm is also being run. Um, but we need more information about, you know, age limits, age parameters. Perhaps this is best applied to people over the age of 55, for example. And perhaps um adding some parameters for wall thickness or halfp will make it um the most effective and um appropriate use of the technology. We also want to study it to see if it identifies the patients response to treatment and patients that may be um most appropriate for one therapy versus another. There's so much left to learn. It's super exciting. >> Yeah, there truly is. and and and obviously this is a very selected uh you know carefully selected you know population um in people's current experience with it and certainly looking forward when we think about in in the real world I mean obviously the prevalence of cardiac amaloidosis then is going to be lower than what was in your study do you have plans to uh to look at this going forward in real world patients or even any randomized study to to see how it really performs in terms of you know cost effectiveness, accuracy. >> Yes. Yes. Indeed. I think we need to be conducting these studies and um are looking at uh a variety of options to continue this line of research. But with our decision analysis curve, decision curve analysis that we did report in our European heart journal paper, we were able to identify more um cardiac amalloidosis patients correctly with our algorithm compared to these clinical scores. So it would mean about 36% uh more patients correctly classified and fewer uh referrals to PYP for example. I think it's important to think of these strategies and how to practice most efficiently and coste effectively and also to save our patients from um any unnecessary radiation exposure. >> Yeah. but also clearly identifying the patients who are going to benefit from treatments that are available and uh and as we both know and listeners know from experience we often overlook this you know diagnosis and uh and too often it's it's not made until you know quite late in the uh the the disease uh progression. Patty um I we're sort of running out of time here. I don't know if there's any other points you want to make before we wrap up here. No, I think it's truly exciting that we can now be able to detect disease from a single apical fourchamber view that could be acquired potentially with a point of care device and it can really extend uh the reach of echo cardiography beyond the walls of our institution. >> Yeah, in fact uh I was going to ask you about point of care and whether it's going to be applied there. It may be too early obviously but uh but even you know the image quality and getting the you know the right views and and uh and as I understand you know there are methods now sort of uh to to try to optimize those views and probably also increase the the accuracy of this perhaps even further. So, I really want to thank you for taking the time uh to to share this experience uh and and again, congratulations on the work that you and your colleagues uh uh have achieved and with that recent publication. I think this is just another really intriguing and exciting example of how the emerging AI assisted algorithms can help with more accurate diagnostic testing and and particularly with cardiovascular diseases. So once again, thank you so much. >> Thank you, Malcolm. >> Well, thank you and thanks again to our viewers and listeners for joining us and another of this series of interviews with the experts. I look forward to uh presenting other colleagues and their work in the future. At [music] Mayo Clinic, relentless learning fuels worldclass care. I'm Dr. Mark Molen, wound clinic director of the Gondavascular Center at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do [music] for your patients. Head to cbeducation mayo.edu and [music] explore our live and online programs, quick ondemand modules, and CME accredited master [music] classes. All created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've [music] already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cbeducation.mo.edu. edu.