What is health? Have you ever thought about that? We use the word every day. And uh but like beauty or happiness or sadness or quality, you might know what health means, but it may be very difficult, in fact impossible for you to define it. So, I've spent several years of my life collaborating with a worldwide network of people interested in trying to come up with a definition or or with a conceptual approach to health that would help us uh make decisions. And uh we are abandoning a definition that was proposed by the World Health Organization in 1948 that has remained unchanged uh since that time that said that health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not just the absence of disease or infirmity. And that definition created a big problem for us because nobody can claim to be healthy. Who could say I have complete physical, mental, or social well-being? Nobody. So, if you have a little pain on your shoulder, if you're a little stressed, that's it. If you're wearing glasses, you are unhealthy. And you are condemned for the rest of your life to be unhealthy. If you develop a chronic disease, same thing because chronic diseases by definition are incurable. So the result of our work led to a new conceptualization of health that suggests uh that health is our ability, our capacity to adapt and self-manage when we are facing physical, mental and social challenges. So if you are wearing glasses, you can be healthy, you are adapted. If you have diabetes and you can self-manage your disease, you can be healthy. You can have multiple chronic diseases and be healthy. And uh that has enabled us to push the envelope even more because that conceptualization of health is reactive. You need to have a challenge. So what if you're adapted and you can self-manage? Well, there is room for well-being for the pursuit of a full life to engage proactively in activities that would make you happier. So perhaps perhaps we need to expand our concept of health to include that proactive effort to be happy and to concentrate on happiness more specifically to ensure that we can all live uh a long and full life.