Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your co-host, Dr. Brittni Scruggs. And I'm your co-host, Dr. Eric Bothun. We are here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today, we're joined by Dr. Lindsay Warner, a pediatric and adult anesthesiologist at Mayo Clinic, and an expert in everything from fetal surgery to ophthalmic anesthesia. We'll cover how anesthesiologists think about eye surgery, sedation strategies, pediatric versus adult considerations, and what ophthalmologists can do better in the OR. Don't miss this one. Today, we're excited to introduce Dr. Lindsay Warner, a board-certified anesthesiologist and division chair of pediatric anesthesia and perioperative medicine at the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Warner brings a truly impressive range of experience specializing in fetal surgery, pediatric, and obstetric anesthesia. Dr. Warner serves as director of performance improvement for the pediatric surgical practice and chairs the Pediatric Patient Safety and Quality Group here at the Mayo Clinic. Her clinical expertise includes managing anesthesia for highly complex procedures, like surgeries for twin-twin transfusion, as well as everyday challenges across a wide range of surgical specialties, including ophthalmology. In addition to her clinical work, she leads efforts in safety, quality, and pain management, including inpatient and outpatient pediatric pain services. Welcome, Dr. Warner. Thank you. Such a generous introduction. If only I got that introduction every morning. Oh, we could try that. Every time we see you in our operating room, I'd like to give you that introduction because we appreciate you. You could just press play on the podcast. Every time I need to be hyped up in the morning, I'm going to play that. Yeah, we're really glad you're here. And I think we're both really excited to learn from you. Yeah, there's a lot to learn about anesthesia when it comes to ophthalmology. We're really excited that you're here. So one of our first questions is your journey. And you've done two fellowships, correct? So obstetrics and pediatrics. So walk us through your journey and how you got to be the expert in all of these complex surgery anesthesias. Of course. So I've always had a love for children. I thought about being a pediatrician for a while. And so when I was deciding on my training pathway, it was between going into pediatrics or going into more of a procedural specialty and so i decided to go into anesthesia so that i could play with children in addition to all the other fun things we get to do in the operating room and then through training through residency and through that initial fellowship in peds anesthesia i really fell in love with fetal surgery practice and so anything that is a smaller more vulnerable population something that just needs even more kind of detail -oriented, lots of calculations, lots of doses, those sorts of things get me all excited. And so fetal surgery was the way to go. Those are the ones that make me the most nervous. That's why we're excited when you show up in the OR. Why the passion for that? Like what many people and like to stay in their sphere and do what they're routinely comfortable one why do you like the complex what drives you in your day that balances that nervousness that you're delivering the care that you need to with the joy that you able to were able to step up in a way that delivered you know the outcome that we all hope for yeah i think there are just like people in in all ways some people really like the adrenaline of certain things so i may not be like a roller coaster ****** but i do like a little bit of adrenaline in in my procedural spaces i think the more the the smaller the patient the more careful we have to be the more i feel like i have to just kind of tune everything else out that is going on and really just focus on one thing at a time and i just get a lot of joy and fun out of that that's amazing okay so anesthesia 101 okay so a lot of people listening uh to this podcast might be you know general ophthalmologists doing cataract surgery maybe 15 17 cases a day um and so maybe if we could go to the basics and including for me like just going from like mac to general and like explaining the terms and what does that really mean yeah and can we just start with the basics here paralysis deep extubation like terms that we hear but could you just walk us through okay so first things three different types of anesthesia um so there is local anesthesia um so that would be if we were just doing numbing medicine in some area we know you do some of the numbing medicine too some of the local um but not every subspecialty does. So there are some where we just provide a block or numbing medicine and that would be one type for us. The second type is a MAC or sedation. So that means that the patient is getting sedation, they're sleepy or comfortable in some way. We're providing some sort of like anxiolysis or we're trying to make them sleepy enough to tolerate a procedure. They usually have to be numb in some way for that to work for any kind of procedure that's painful right so you can't just sedate somebody through something really painful that would then turn itself into a general anesthetic really quickly and so if you're getting to a point where you would need something more than just a little bit of I don't care medicine as sometimes we call it or some sleepiness just to kind of take the edge off of being nervous in the procedure room that's when we're talking about more of a general anesthetic that is what i describe to families as all the way off to sleep breathing device ventilator what you think of for an appendicitis it's kind of just what most people think of when they think of anesthesia so those three types they're kind of they go up by invasiveness so local obviously being the one that they're fully awake they're not getting any medicines from us sedation being kind of in the middle and then general anesthetic is where we take them fully under our control we make sure that we are able to tweak everything that's that's needed by breathing blood pressure all the things so let's start with the local block I mean so often there's a potentially a mild sedation that gets administered for a short period while a periorbital or a retro bulb or block is given and yet there's different cocktails even in that and whether alfenta or propofol or I know some are gone for many exactly we We miss it. We miss it. Oh, we miss it. Can we find some more? But share with us your current. If you were going to pull one off the shelf, what would you grab for a short block and why? Yeah. And what alternatives do people use? Yeah. So a couple of different ones that I really, really like. I like a nice bolus of propofol because we, it's the medication that we use the most often. It's probably the one that anesthesiologists are somewhat the most comfortable with. We really like it. And so that's the one where you can give it through the IV. It's going to work. We know how quickly it's going to wear off. We know how much support that we need to give from a breathing perspective. And then it's going to wear off. And usually the patients are going to feel good after it. They're not going to feel necessarily groggy. There isn't a lot of a, like a tail effect to it. The other one that we really like were like the L-fentanyl, sue fentanyl some of the ones that are more in that that pain bolus type medication and so one of the ones that we have also that i like to pull for would be remifentanil and so that's another medication that just really quick onset pain relief enough to be pretty fully out of it and then it's going to come right back down and wear off and they're going to be back to themselves really quickly. Well, I don't give blocks that often. I'm a strabismus surgeon. I do a fair bit of adult strabismus, and sometimes I give it locally. So I'm not giving them all the time. But what I've been struck by is how there are times that propofol is given for a block, and some's given, and you're waiting for it to work. And then they give a little more, and then a little more, and then a little more. And they're giving these boluses that they obviously thought the first dose was sufficient, and it wasn't. And then other times, it seems like people with more experience are giving a a dose that really works from the get-go comments on that suggestions for people in surgical centers because i feel like so often i'm going it's not working as well as i wanted to do yeah it's going to be so provider dependent so in general we know the amount that's going to get somebody fully asleep um on a per kilo basis so we know that about four per kilo is probably going to get most kids asleep um we know that adults need a little bit less and so some of that is in that like art of anesthesia part of when you look at somebody when you eyeball somebody right and you think okay are they are they frail are they a young little kid and they're really revved up and they just look so energetic that they're going to run around the room a few times all those things are playing into our mind and then just like everything else there's a spectrum of how how much somebody might want to give is also based on how reluctant they may be um to want to get into too much sedation or how comfortable they feel in giving a little you know having them be a little bit more sleepy than they're planning on i have a question about mac yeah all right so everyone's a little bit different on what that means to them at least what they're hoping for right their expectations some people are like the patient's moving they're awake or breathing they're breathing yeah and then other people like no i want my patient to talk to me the entire time i want them to be able to change my music right if they don't like it yeah um so my question to you is like say someone is wanting mac but then the patient starts talking and moving they're like no deeper like what does that really mean it's like a general level of mac like and what are you giving in those situations when the when the physician's like the the ophthalmologist is like i need more yes yeah and then the case is maybe 34 45 minutes more How do you manage these very anxious situations? So MAC definitely has some gray area, but I would say most of the time a MAC means that somebody is sedated enough to be able to talk to you or be ******* if you have a question. So if you poke them with a sharp object in a MAC and they didn't have a numbing block or anything on board, they would move. That's how we know that they're under sedation and they're not under general anesthesia. general anesthesia if you could do pretty much whatever you wanted and nothing would happen and so there are some macs that are considered minimal sedation we've maybe just given a little versat a little fentanyl they're feeling a little disinhibited but they're otherwise fully there their other a little bit deeper of a mac would be like if we were running an infusion like a propofol infusion and everybody does want something a little bit different so some people really want an awake patient those are going to be the ones where we probably can't run an infusion on them because they'll go in and out of sleep but maybe we'll give them just a little bit of versed make them kind of forgetful maybe a little chattier you know maybe maybe they'll just feel a lot more comfortable they probably won't remember being in the procedure room at all but they're still able to talk to you versus if you wanted them quieter, maybe more still, just because while they're talking, they might be, you know, like I am, you know, I'm moving those sorts of things. Like if you want somebody who's a little bit less interactive, we can do just kind of some background medications. But then we always have to be careful that they don't fully fall asleep because just like you or I, if we fall asleep and all of a sudden we wake up, we move. So I think the heart put is from an ophthalmology perspective at least for me it's difficult to know ahead of time which one I need because it's oftentimes patient specific and even though you've understood them preoperatively there are times in the OR that you realize this is a harder case because the movement is more because the dynamics of the case and so sometimes having that flexibility and having expertise like yours present is important to get us through. So when it comes to general anesthesia. We have LMA versus intubation. And I guess maybe walk us through when we're planning and preoperatively, who's a good candidate for one versus the other? Who's not a candidate maybe for like deep extubation? Sometimes we ask for that because we don't want the patient to wake up bucking and potentially have a hemorrhage on the table. So yeah, more of like pre-op planning and patient considerations? Yeah. So for an LMA, so we're just sliding this little piece of plastic basically, you know, down past the pharynx and it's just going to sit above the vocal cord. So we think of it as somewhat less invasive. Sometimes patients have less of a sore throat. It kind of depends on how it fits in. I would say most patients can probably get an LMA. it depends to on what head position is going to be for you guys and so if there was going to be a turned head or if some there was going to be some kind of manipulation or movement going on sometimes the LMAs don't stay in as well as we move them they kind of have a sweet spot and then otherwise we get things like leaks and our ventilator beeps the whole time and we just struggle the whole case. There are also some times where if it's a really small kid or if they have other medical problems that sometimes just putting in that endotracheal tube is going to be easier or safer for them. But I would say most for eye surgeries are pretty equivalent. In our procedure rooms I would say we mostly defer to the team members like what you guys tell us that you like or don't like and we we can usually make either one work here at Mayo and say we are very much as you I we all appreciate very team oriented and I've appreciated in the preoperative process the importance of having others help me in the complexity of the planning for surgery and preparing for anesthesia what if many people might be in a setting where they understand general anesthesia is going to be indicated for a particular case or even maybe a Mac but with the health issues involved there might be concerns and certainly seeing your primary doctor to have an evaluation is a fallback we commonly do but from your perspective what communication maybe we talk about peds first and adults second or grouping together but what are the what's the most things that come to mind of I wish you would have told me prior to the day of surgery for people that don't have a perioperative assessment team for their patients? I would say the things that I always want to know about would be for kids I would always want to know about congenital heart disease so if they've had some sort of cardiac surgery before I kind of want to know about all of them if they're minor or major we can determine that but those are going to be just it's there's going to need to be some more planning ahead of time we need to make sure we have the right person in that room to take care of that kid and that we've optimize them before coming to the procedural area. Other ones that I would think of would be syndromes, difficult airway syndromes. You wouldn't have to know them off the top of your head, but if it seems like you meet the patient and maybe they don't have like a face that looks like exactly like what you would expect or you see a lot of deletions from genetic deletions or a lot of other things, those are also kids that can sometimes need some pre-planning for airway. we may have to do things a little bit more awake maybe not fully go off to sleep might not be safe so GLP one agonist kind of everywhere it changes protocols right and so we now have different protocols for when they should stop those agents and even MPO status is a little bit different for patients who are on those just for people that don't you know again from my own clarity too Is it that you should be off your GLP-1 agonist for a week? So it's a moving target. It's a moving target. It's a moving target. So initially when they came out, we said everybody needs to stop them or they need to have a quick intubation, which is what we call rapid sequence intubation, and they need an endotracheal tube because we're afraid they're going to aspirate. So that was just across the board everyone thought that. then we realized that we were telling everybody to stop something that was really important obviously for their health so some are on it for diabetes management some some people are on it for other chronic health reasons and by stopping it we maybe were doing a little bit of harm so if they were on it specifically for something other than just weight loss those are the people who can likely stay on it longer but if they're just on it for weight loss we would love for them to hold it for a whole week but it's more about we want them to actually go 24 hours without food almost like if you're coming for your colonoscopy or something and we just kind of pound liquids and have lots and lots of clear fluids that's going to give you the best chance of having that empty stomach and being at the lowest risk for an aspiration an lma not a good option in those patients if they haven't stopped it if they haven't stopped it exactly okay yeah understood I mean it comes up I imagine on call situations we have cases all the time where we add on urgently you know they come in with new symptoms we're doing the surgery the same night yep um so I mean and you can all this is the risk yep we talk about that risk with the patients we do everything we can to prevent it and but if it's an urgent or an emergent procedure we're always going to go ahead we're not going to cancel for that reason it's not a a reason to have some sort of like permanent eye damage or you know something about your eyesight we would never delay for that sort of a reason but if it's something that can be delayed we would want to but otherwise yeah we just take all of our precautions just like we when we have a kid who follows off their bike and just ate a cheeseburger like we're still we're still going to help them in that situation if they need it and we'll help you guys too from a quality side and talking about preoperative planning and assessments you know i've appreciated your leadership and partnering in the preoperative assessment when they get to the hospital and certainly mayo has continued to invest in quality efforts to make sure that all of the items that we're trying to check off that review not just the consent and not just the site mark but all the other aspects of their health history are addressed before they actually get to the operating room. Comment on that, because you help to lead efforts, I think, and it involves even the pregnancy checking and the checkoff, but what were the lessons learned for you, and what advice would you have for other systems that maybe don't have as robust perioperative stop points for why we should be so intentional preoperatively in evaluating patients? So the more time and effort you put on the preoperative side, the fewer cancellations you're going to get. And that's going to help everybody from patient satisfaction to efficiency. So we put a lot of effort on that side to make sure that our patients know what they're allowed to eat or drink. They are given all those instructions, and we're actually redoing them right now to be even better. But that's always kind of the target for all anesthesiologists is just to make sure that they get there. They're not dehydrated, but they haven't had food. So drinking up to two hours before for a general. Yeah, exactly. So we want to make sure that if there's a kid and they had dinner the night before and they're an afternoon case or they're a later morning case, that they got some water that morning. They got some apple juice. They got some Gatorade because that's really going to help us trying to find those little tiny IVs. if they haven't had anything to drink since dinner the night before you can really tell and so we try and make sure that those instructions are as clear as they can be we also want to know their past medical history past anesthesia history what what's gone well what hasn't gone well and then on that morning of we do things like pregnancy testing which is somewhat newer to mayo that wasn't something that we always had but just making sure that each of those things, each of those tasks are completed, that they're all completed the same way for every patient. I would say if you're in an institution that doesn't have as many clinic resources or you're not necessarily seeing patients beforehand in like a preoperative area, that you would just know your criteria. So you would just have a set criteria. Here are the patients that somebody has to review beforehand. Here are the patients that you can just fast track them right through they're going to do great almost no matter what you do with them and then here are the ones in between and what do you do with those i have a question about blocks okay so in my or we i normally do retroblower blocks and i love a good block um but i also block during my when it's general um and so my question is you can do cases without blocking right the patient's not going to feel it what is it like on your end when someone blocks versus doesn't block for a general case in terms of how much medicine you give them etc i would love if everyone was blocked so i think that we can we can tell the difference i think everything is so much more consistent when you know that they are blocked while asleep so even though they're not necessarily feeling pain we can tell just in vital signs we're not having to treat pain the same way we're not having to see heart rate changes blood pressure changes so everything just kind of stays a lot say more linear that doesn't mean necessarily that anything's wrong if we didn't have a block and we did see some of those changes but that just means that the body has a stress response when it's not blocked and if we if you can block almost in a lot of pediatric surgeries that But we just see that they tend to do a little bit better. And I'm curious, for my cases, when I have adults, sometimes we talk about MAC, too. And you touched on this a little bit. What are the, oftentimes for me, in strabismus cases, under general or even under MAC, you can tell the patient's having anxiety or stress or whatever it might be. In general cases, they're getting light, potentially, and their eyes start rolling up. But on your end, what do you see? Because oftentimes, I'll mention, I think this patient's getting light. and oftentimes the CRNA or the anesthesiologist will admit, yeah, we're tracking that already. What are you looking for the most in your machines where you can tell, I mean, heart rate is obvious if there's a stress response or feeling or seeing, but what else do you monitor in your machines? It may be general anesthesia in particular. Yeah, so we're looking at all the vital signs. So I think sometimes we're so used to hearing all of the heartbeats that even if we just notice a 5 or a 10-beat difference, it kind of goes to our ear immediately and so we can tell right away if there's a stress response just by hearing it not even by looking at the screen we'll see the blood pressure go up as well but a lot of times what we're looking at on our ventilator is if a patient was breathing with the ventilator or the ventilator was supporting and then all of a sudden they had a pain response they might take try and take a breath that they weren't otherwise so they were just calmly letting the ventilator do its job they were sleeping and then oh we touched something all of a sudden they might start trying to take a breath and not sinking as well with the ventilator so you can kind of tell those things right away that might be some of the alarms you might hear too is all the breaths were going great with the ventilator and now the ventilator saying hey this person's trying to trying to help us you know maybe you need to switch modes the last thing that we look at is it's called the MAC value, which is a little confusing because MAC also is like what we talk about for sedation, but it's a number and it's an average of how many patients would move at that particular level of gas. And so we can tell is that number low, medium, or high. And so sometimes you'll say, wow, they're on a lot of gas. Like their MAC number is really high, meaning there are two standard deviations above what other kids would normally not be moving on but okay well you know we're still gonna keep going up other times we're trying to wean down and we know that they might be close to being light but we also know you're close to being finished so we're trying to kind of like thread that needle really carefully and so if then all of a sudden you're saying oh i think they're a little light we're like yeah okay maybe maybe maybe we went down too much okay can we talk about that in terms of communication what do you want from us as ophthalmologists in terms of communication like how many minutes before we start closing would you like to know like what would be the most helpful for you that's a great question I think if you could give us a heads up just when you think about it like if you are in a case and you know that you are still have a ways to go even that communication would be really helpful because sometimes we're just looking at the case duration that is listed on the listing and we can't tell necessarily in ophthalmology surgeries like when you guys are closing versus if I was watching like a big belly case be closed I can time that down to the last 30 seconds when that last you know suture is going in and being tied in eye surgery we're not as sure when everything is finishing and so if we can get that heads up that I'm I'm closing or I think it's going to be another 10 minutes i think it's going to be another 15 minutes that's going to give you guys a faster wake up because we're going to be able to we call it like land the plane right like we have to start at some point hitting the descent um because if we go straight from flying the plane to like needing to wake up it doesn't it's not as smooth it's not going to be as fast i was going to ask another safety issue question if it's okay yeah so um operating room fires they happen and I'd say some operating rooms are better at when the ophthalmologist uses cautery they'll say shut off the oxygen and then other times it's not as quick or fluid I think most of us respect that some cases are at higher risk ocular plastics doesn't always drape as tightly around the ocular structures and say retina I mean you have a very tight seal so if there's have any air coming through so in but in that regard what communication and being preoperatively or do you think operating rooms generally have that that pattern down because it's a real risk it happens in most any operating setting especially in cases with acoplastic since an unknown risk but thoughts from an anesthesia perspective on how we can balance that risk or mitigate I think talking about the fire risk like we do before when we're doing our pause before we start the procedure is always helpful so knowing if you are at a lower risk or a higher risk I think it's also important from the anesthesia side we we are taught about airway fires it's something that those questions are on our boards like which thing do you turn off first do you first like unhook from the ventilator do you extubate like those are all the multiple choice questions that we're even sometimes getting I think the the most important thing would just be to maybe simulate it too that's something that we've also tried is it's such a rare event that when it happens somebody's not likely to have done it recently so even just the idea that you know the first step which in most ways is just in some way disconnecting the oxygen source so that might mean just disconnecting the lma or the endotracheal tube just from the circuit that means that we didn't even have to turn off the oxygen we just simply unhooked it so that it wasn't and then we can worry about the airway and other things later but i think simulation's really helpful for that as well just those things that happen you know one in a million times if you can have your teams go through those scenarios you're going to be a lot faster in real time and if i'm in surgery doing an aqua plastics case and i say we're going to use cautery and you know stop cautery or stop oxygen yeah isn't there going to be a certain duration by which it might be blow by in this situation or might be. It takes time for that. You shut off the oxygen for the oxygen in the tubing or at the surgical field to dissipate. How long should you give it? Because I see shut off the oxygen and then we write it back to, you know, in some videos or cases or examples. But how long should you wait? You know, you should probably wait at least, I mean, I don't have an exact number in mind, but I mean, 30 seconds. It shouldn't be instantaneous just because we can see when we're shutting off the oxygen, when we have breathing devices and we have other things, for like a tonsil or something per se, like how long it takes to get down to that room air level of oxygen. I'd say somewhere between 15 and 30 seconds is usually when they're ready to start. Okay, good tip. So, yeah, don't be too quick. Yeah. So my question is regarding all of the different specialties that you're an expert in And anesthesiologists in general are just amazing. You can walk in and there's so many different complex surgeries and you're good at all of them. So when it comes to ophthalmology, I guess it's kind of a two-part question. Answer what you want. But, you know, say you're training someone to go into an eye room. Are there special considerations that you talk about? And is there something specific that maybe people, like they go in an eye room, they're like, I'm a little bit uncomfortable because of this. And I wish I knew more about ophthalmology. and there's a little discomfort from your end. So maybe walk me through specialty-specific considerations on your end. Yeah, so if I have a learner or somebody who hasn't been in an eye room in a while, we usually talk about two to three things. So one of those is we make sure that they know that there can be bradycardia. So we just up front make sure that we have something like atropine that is out, not necessarily in the drawer where you have to remember what drawer you have to pull things out from but just knowing that there's a risk that we're going to pull on a muscle we're going to do something and that all they have to do is say stop like you know we're having a heart rate problem or can we let up on the muscle or however they want to say it but even by just preemptively saying that they they're they're ready they're ready to know that if there's a bradycardic response at some point they know the first thing to say and they know the medication to grab for wake-ups are probably one of the other things that um when we think of when we think of eye surgery especially in children is we get we get a lot of delirium in kids when they wake up from eye surgeries it's one of the highest risk cases that we know of and it tends to be for kids that are toddler age early elementary school age but when they wake up after an eye surgery they tend to be more likely to be angry they're delirious and that they they're not even saying that they're having discomfort or pain but they're just outwardly mad so about 15 to 20 minutes I just preemptively tell each parent that this is something we see it's not a complication it's not a side effect it doesn't mean that something went wrong it's just the way that children in that age group wake up to feeling groggy and then something about changing the way that they're seeing can really make it so that that grogginess and that disequilibrium of waking up in a new place just seems to be a little bit worse um let me think of what else so bradycardia and the eye reflex As a person that sedates a lot of kids, and you helped me with many of my cases, I'll just say that those two topics are spot on because the bradycardia, for those of you that are hooking muscles, even for rupture globe exploring, even if you're not normally doing strabismus cases, but the bradycardia can be truly flat-lined. And you have to be able to have a trigger, a communication in the operating room to say, let go, we're not seeing a heart rate. I mean, it's not just a slower heart. It can just be a flat line. And it's amazing how successful those cases and less stressful they are when you have communication between the two. And then certainly the number of moms and dads I talk about, their kids are going to be drugged angry cats when they wake up. But it will all settle down. And yet no matter how much you tell them, I remember when my son had his tonsils out, it was about an hour after, and they looked at me, and I think it's time to start getting ready to go home. And as a parent, I thought, you can't send my home right, child. He's just a crazy drug cat right now. Anyway, it's remarkable how hard that window can be, but then how quickly it recovers. And the communication tool with families are critical. Yeah. I think if you don't warn the families in an eye procedure, either it being the ophthalmologist or the anesthesia team, it's a disservice to the family because it's scary to think that they're in pain or you know something went wrong but really we see it so commonly that I tell them that I expect it and then if they happen to be the kid that that doesn't get delirious I'll be really happy for them but but I'll be surprised. Can we talk about opioids for a second like post-operatively and is there a difference in ophthalmology cases and whether or not you use it less or more than other cases. I personally don't use opioids in my practice. Um, I like to think Tylenol is pretty good for the eye and opioids don't really touch eye pain as well as some people think. Um, so I'm curious your thoughts. Yeah, I agree. It's not something that we reach for a whole lot. Um, if anything, we give it just initially while we're doing a block or while there's like initial incision where we, we see that there's a response to it, but it's not enough that it's going to really touch the eye pain as much as just kind of smooth out the anesthetic. So I think you're right on. We try and give Tylenol beforehand, Toradol if we can, and then ibuprofen if they didn't get Toradol when they were asleep. Just looking ahead, I mean, again, I so appreciate the teams you have, but things are always changing in ophthalmology too. But what about in anesthesia? When you look at innovative trends or things coming. What are you excited about in either technology, drugs, monitoring systems? What's coming that's changing your field? Yeah, so we have a lot of really fun, short-acting drugs that are coming out. So while we used to use a lot of Versed, we have remimazolam now, which is like the shortest version of Versed. So you could give a bolus of it and you'll get this great anxiolysis they you know they won't remember anything they'll feel really calm and then it's gone it's not like they're waiting in the recovery room for an hour or two for it to wear off so that one's really exciting for us it's being used more and more I think in pediatrics we're still lagging a little bit behind the adult practice but we still use it in kids we also have remifentanil which again is that really short-acting opioid. And so I think we're going to see a big shift over time in these things that we've been using that have slower wake-ups or you have to really metabolize them off. We're going to have all these cool tools where it's going to be a burst of whatever we want it to do and then it's going to be gone. That's really cool. So if a patient is under general anesthesia and they start moving, bucking, can you walk us through what you're doing on your end and how long that can take and just to for us to have realistic expectations during those kind of scary moments. So that that brings me to another thing that sometimes we talk about when we have newer people in our procedure rooms which is a lot of times the patients are paralyzed and how important that sometimes really is in eye surgery knowing that what you're doing is so delicate and so if our paralysis has worn off and we don't know necessarily so we check it often but we might not have checked it like that minute before that it's about to wear off then all of a sudden they might move and so from our perspective we are they're likely trying to breathe over that ventilator or do something that they weren't doing before on the ventilator so we'll be quick trying to change the mode so that they are less uncomfortable with the ventilator trying to breathe for them and them trying to breathe for themselves there's kind of this like awkward dyssynchrony that happens and so we're probably trying to switch that mode and then it depends on how far you are into the case so if you're in the middle of the case and you have a bunch of time it kind of doesn't matter what we give we can give like a big amount of something that's going to just put them back to sleep and we won't worry about it it's usually 10 minutes but it's usually but no matter what it's like right as we're trying to wake up yeah so we're trying to we're trying to land that plane but we're trying not to go fully back up where we would be completely asleep um by just giving a small amount so we're grabbing for medicines which is why sometimes it might take just a little bit longer if we're on the end of the case because we're trying to keep our really nice wake up time you know be as efficient as we can but also get them to stop moving as fast as possible so those are kind of like all the things that we're working on helpful I guess my last question was wake up you know I have patients that share that their last time they went to sleep it was really difficult post-operative nausea vomiting and and my appreciation is that your teams are great at amazing augmenting that and I it's just routinely I can look at patients say we're gonna do a better job that whether it was at our own institution or somewhere else modalities and how that change I know you have cocktails you change you know versus you scopolamine patch for what's what are your sort of the best ones you turn to when you know nausea has been troublesome before yeah I love ativa or just a plain like a propofol infusion I think the more we can stay away from the anesthesia gas, the less chance of nausea. So if that's a teenager that's coming in and they're a little bit on the fence about an IV, they will try and convince them to do the awake IV so that they never have to have the anesthesia gas. So if we can get an awake IV in whatever age kid that is and we just hook it up and use propofol the whole time, that's probably going to be the highest benefit but we do have three other medications that we give we like to give zofran to pretty much everybody a steroid dexamethasone and then we also use a really low dose held all which is helpful but then again we have the patches we have a ponvi and so there's there's lots of options so usually it's it's pretty rare now that we're having to admit patients for nausea afterwards but you guys definitely are the highest risk area. So you're number one. I guess on that note, one other thing I remember you talking about the patch is caffeine. If you're a caffeine drinker commonly, it's a reasonable idea to ask your anesthesiologist to give you a little caffeine during your surgery. And that's something that I know my patients have been helped by. Yeah, definitely. Any other ones for you? This has been wonderful. Yeah, I'm very educated now. Thank you very much. I guess my last question is, as ophthalmologists, what could we potentially do better? What could we train, you know, your team on better? What potentially could we, I don't know, be better communicators at? Just one last final parting. Yeah, I think telling us up front if you have concerns about the patient. So if they're really sick to begin with, trying to give us a little bit of time to make sure we have all the things in place beforehand. I think it's going to make our lives easier and and yours as well. Things about being asleep would be we'd love to know when you think you're going to be finishing just so that we're we're not guessing we're really trying to watch um and and seeing when it looks like you're closing but unfortunately I may need to talk from you guys on how to know what to look for as we're getting close what to look for because we're so used to seeing other bigger procedures that we can time really well and eye surgeries are a little bit more difficult for us to know. Well I just want to say thank you Dr. Warner for being here. You've certainly for countless patients blessed us and your teams here at you know the the takeoff of the flight and the landing and along the way being you know co-pilots with us to I mean just maximize care for our patients here at the Mayo Clinic. Thank you we all enjoy it so much. Yeah thanks for joining us and for all the care that you give our patients. Yeah, happy to be here. Thank you again. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website, YouTube, or on most podcast platforms. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more on our next podcast.