Hi, I'm Laura Raffles. I'm a gastronurologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. I specialize in treating patients with inflammatory bowel disease. I just want to take a moment to talk about a study that was published this past fall in inflammatory bowel diseases that looks at the influence of high school diet on the development of inflammatory bowel disease. This was a study that was published by Dr. Antha Krishnan and colleagues and what they did was they took a large database of women from the nurse health the nurs's health study that enrolled over a 100,000 women that have been followed prospectively and administered surveys over time. In this particular study, these women were offered the opportunity to complete a survey describing their diet when they were in high school using a validated survey um to look at this. And this has actually been used in prior disease states as well to see how the influence of one's diet in high school may influence them later in life with regard to their health. What they did was they categorized dietary patterns into two basic categories. There was the prudent diet, which is a diet that's high in fruits and vegetables and simple grains, poultry and fish. And then the western diet, which is a diet that is high in processed foods and sweets and processed meats and red meats. Then they looked to see if these dietary patterns might influence or be associated with the disease. And what they found was interesting. They did see that in those individuals who had a diet that was very prudent, so a high prudent diet, their risk for developing Crohn's disease was 53% lower. They found that this association seemed to be associated with a higher in increased intake of fruits and vegetables and the fibers as well as fish. This makes sense theoretically because we do know that diets high in fiber, particularly fruits and vegetables, may have a positive influence on one's gut microbiome or the bacteria that live in the gut. And this potentially could influence the health of one's gut. So theoretically, it makes sense that a diet high in fiber might provide some benefit later on in life. Similarly, a diet high in fish seemed to be associated with this lowered risk of developing Crohn's disease. And again, it's thought that fish may have some anti-inflammatory benefit as well. What they also noted was that a western diet in and of itself did not seem to influence or increase the risk of developing Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis. The take-home message from this study is that diet indeed may have some influence on the development of IBD, particularly Crohn's disease. So, I counsel my patients with IBD who have children to encourage their children to eat a healthy diet, particularly diets high in fiber, eating their fruits and vegetables and high in fish. So, again, just one more study that suggests that you should eat your fruits and vegetables. Thank you.