- Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Welcome back to Mayo Clinic cardiovascular podcast series, interviews with the experts. I'm your host, Sharonne Hayes. I'm a noninvasive cardiologist and vice chair of faculty development in academic advancement for the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine in Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Today I'm joined by Keri Zieminski, who is a nurse practitioner and holds a doctorate in nursing and the rank of instructor in medicine. She practices in the CAD clinic here in Minnesota. Welcome, Keri. - Keri Zieminski: Thank you so much for the kind introduction. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Today Our topic is anticoagulation monotherapy in patients with chronic coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation. Keri will share an overview of anticoagulation monotherapy in patients with chronic CAD and atrial fibrillation, including recently published trials and the management of patients on anticoagulation monotherapy undergoing non-cardiac surgery. So, Keri, to start, for the purposes of today's discussion, how have we defining chronic coronary disease or CAD? - Keri Zieminski: So for patients that have chronic coronary disease, this is gonna include patients that are post ACS, that have completed at least 12 months of their dual on antiplatelet therapy or dap. It's also going to include those that are post elective PCI or have undergone cabbage and have completed at least six to 12 months of dap. And then it also includes those that have stable angina that have not required coronary interventions for these patients. We typically don't start dual antiplatelet therapy, so you don't need to be mindful of a timeframe of adapt duration for these patients. You'd be able to just move forward with the monotherapy approach. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Thanks. I mean, I, I think what we've seen with the rise in prevalence of atrial fibrillation and our aging population, this combination of CAD and AFib is just much more common in our practice. But why has there been a shift towards redefining this antithrombotic medical therapy? What's changed? - Keri Zieminski: So it's all about balancing the ischemic versus bleeding risk. We know that these are very common complications post PCI for patients. And typically, for example, if you're trying to reduce the ischemic risk and you're prolonging or intensifying the dual antiplatelet therapy, in turn you're counterbalancing that by increasing the risk of bleeding. And now we're really focusing on the risk of bleeding because we know that the risk of a major bleeding event, the mortality from a major bleeding event is equal to or greater than the mortality from having an mi. From a bleeding risk standpoint, our patients are getting older and in turn with that increased age, they also have more comorbidities and they're becoming more complex. Most of our patients that we see are older than 65 and they have other comorbidities such as kidney disease, liver disease. For these patients, they may have atrial fibrillation and are on anticoagulation, and in turn, all of these things will increase the bleeding risk. But then we're taking them to the cath lab and performing interventions and putting them on more medications afterwards that will continue to increase that bleeding. And now there's also been this shift from the ischemic risk standpoint because that has been starting to reduce over the decades from a variety of factors. Number one, our stents have just gotten better as time has gone on. We've moved from the bare metal stents in the early two thousands to now our current second generation drug eluting stents. There's also more technologies that we use in the lab such as IVUS and I-F-R-F-F-R and the world of preventative cardiology. And A SCD risk factor management has made leaps and bounds where all together all of these things are reducing that ischemic risk. And so just to summarize, our patients are getting older, they're becoming more complex, have more comorbidities that bleeding risk just continues to increase with time. But the risk of an ischemic event just has continued to reduce because of all these advancements. And so now we're at this crossroads where we can start individualizing the medical approach for these patients. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Keri can you share some of the results of recently published trials regarding anticoagulation monotherapy? So Doax and warfarin in chronic CAD who also have AFib? - Keri Zieminski: Excellent question. So there have been three major studies that have looked at this over the last couple of years. The first was the a fire trial. This looked at rivaroxaban plus aspirin versus rivaroxaban monotherapy. There was also Epic CAD that looked at Edoxaban, which is a doac. It's in the same family as Apixaban. And Rivaroxaban looked at edoxaban plus aspirin versus edoxaban and monotherapy. And then the aquatic trial looked at any oral anticoagulant, so doac or warfarin plus aspirin versus any oral anticoagulant plus placebo. And the findings from all three of these studies consistently demonstrated that oral anticoagulation monotherapy reduced bleeding events without likely increasing the risk of ischemic events. Keeping in mind that that included embolous stroke, stroke systemic embolism or ischemic events from a CAD standpoint. Two out of the three of these trials, the HIR trial and the aquatic trial were actually terminated early because there was more mortality in the aspirin groups. So more people were dying when they were aspirin plus the anticoagulant. And so now that we have these three studies published, I think that this is really, really changing the landscape of how we're managing these patients. And we can start discontinuing the aspirin and have them stay on anticoagulation monotherapy - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Specific to early PCI patient population that we're talking about. So they got AFib, they get a new drug-eluting stent, they're still getting some type of anti-platelet agent early on, correct? - Keri Zieminski: Correct. So usually post PCI, they would be on an anti-platelet, typically a P two i 12 inhibitor plus that oral anticoagulant for a period of time, depending on the setting for which it was placed. So a CS versus elective. But then once they've completed that therapy, then they can discontinue that P two Y 12 inhibitor and stay on the oral anticoagulant alone. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Yeah, thanks for that coagulation. Okay. So now we've got a patient who needs non-cardiac surgery. They're on anticoagulation monotherapy. They've got, you know, maybe a, a six or eight month old stent as well. So what's our, what, what do you recommend we, we advise patients and the surgeons? Right. - Keri Zieminski: So this is an excellent question and it's actually quite simple. So the first step would be stopping the anticoagulant per your institution's protocols. When you stop that anticoagulant, you would begin aspirin 81 milligrams daily in its place and continue that throughout the periop setting. And then once the patient is post-op and that immediate bleeding risk has resolved, you would stop the aspirin and resume the anticoagulant. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: That sounds very simple, and it sounds like our surgeons would be comfortable with that as well. - Keri Zieminski: Absolutely. It, it's very simple. It's easy for patients to follow along with. It's, it's very easy. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Well, it's actually very similar to what they do now. They just stop the, the anticoagulation based on the protocol. But they wouldn't typically, if they don't have coronary disease, start an aspirin and that, that would be the only add - Keri Zieminski: That is correct. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Right. Well, I really appreciate, this is really helpful because I do think that those of us who are not practicing this every day maybe not have seen this shift as much unless it's a patient we're seeing that was cared for elsewhere. And we're saying, why, why aren't they on dual antiplatelet therapy plus their anticoagulation and now, or even single antiplatelet therapy and this, because we have some data and evidence to inform this practice. - Keri Zieminski: Right. And I think that we are really gonna start seeing this implemented more often. For example, here at Mayo Clinic, we've actually really tailored our, our cath lab documentation and actually outlining antithrombotic recommendations for the patient for that immediate post PCI period. But then also for, for their indefinite plan as well. And that's really helpful for the patient's primary provider or local cardiologist back home that they can look at that and kind of have some direction as to where to go. And I think that this will also just help kind of open up the conversation about starting to use anticoagulation monotherapy for these patients because it, it really is gonna improve outcomes for people. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes: Thank you so much, Keri. - Keri Zieminski:Thank you. - Dr. Sharonne Hayes:This wraps up this week's episode of interviews with the experts. I'd like to thank Keri for joining me today and responding to this important topic. We look forward to you joining us next week for another interview with the Expert, be well - Announcer: At Mayo Clinic Learning Fuels World Class Care. I'm Dr. Peter Noseworthy, the chair of the Division of Cardiac Electrophysiology. I hope you enjoyed today's episode and I wanna let you know about the full courses that we have available. Head over to cveducation.mayo.edu and explore our live and online programs, quick on-demand modules and CME accredited masterclasses. Join the thousands of clinicians who've already turned their curiosity into expertise at cveducation.mayo.edu.