- Announcer: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment Making Waves Continuing medical education podcast. Join us for a lively discussion on the latest and greatest in the field of Electrocardiography. We'll discuss some of the exciting and innovative work happening at Mayo Clinic and beyond with the most brilliant minds in the space, and provide valuable insights that can be directly applied to your practice. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment making waves. In this episode, we examine the complex intersection of cancer and atrial fibrillation. Two conditions that when they coexist, present a unique clinical challenge. Our discussion will focus on stroke prevention in this high risk population where the decision to anticoagulate must balance be its bleeding risk and the cancer related complications. We'll also look at the overall prognosis with this rhythm disorder. Now joining us as a cardiac electrophysiologist with deep experience in this space here at Mayo Clinic, he's kind of leading this space and helping us learn about how to manage these patients. We're gonna explore the link between the cancer and atrial fibrillation, what makes it difficult to around anticoagulating these patients, and then the emerging role of left atrial appendage closure as an alternative strategy. So let me introduce our guest today. Dr. Nicholas Tan is a cardiac electrophysiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Tan's journey began with biomedical engineering degree at John Hopkins University. He then earned his medical degree and a master's in biomedical investigation from the Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine. His training continued here with internal medicine residency, cardiology fellowship, and cardiac electrophysiology fellowships at Mayo Clinic in Rochester. More recently, Dr. Tan completed a master's degree in medical device innovation from the University of Minnesota, and he's now continuing to push the boundaries in heart rhythm treatment with research on device-based therapies and in this cancer population group. Dr. Tan, thank you so much for joining us again. - Dr. Nicholas Tan: I appreciate it. Thanks a lot. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Now, you know, we keep having you back and we really enjoy, I think this is a special group of patients, you know, and we've talked about, about radiation therapy in the past and, and, you know, many should go back and listen to those episodes if they haven't. Now we know patients can develop rhythm issues and, you know, atrial fibrillation, is that common one that comes up? What is that relationship between the two, the cancer and AFib and how you see it? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: I think we are beginning to understand some of the intricacies between atrial fibrillation and cancer. Some common themes that we often see between the two is that they're both associated with a pro inflammatory state. So patients who who have cancer and active cancer at that are often oftentimes subject to degrees of inflammation, and that is a breeding ground, if you will, for atrial fibrillation. So that's one aspect. The second is that patients who are treated for their cancer are often using therapies that can be associated with cardiac side effects, atrial fibrillation being one of them. So that can be some direct toxic effects that trigger arrhythmias as a result. Now, the, the third, the third element is, is somewhat of a mixed bag in the sense that because we are much more able to treat cancer patients with newer drugs, newer therapies, these patients are living longer and, and so they have the propensity to develop atrial fibrillation as they get older, which is again, something that we will see in the general population. So it's probably a combination of these reasons that leads to atrial fibrillation being something that we not infrequent, infrequently see in in cancer patients and, and maybe in patients who are even younger than we typically expect in a general population due to some these other special practice. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: And so you kinda mentioned this pro-inflammatory state in, in these patients cancer patients with atrial fibrillation, what makes stroke prevention particularly tricky and maybe even from the anticoagulation side? Are there challenges that you face as a clinician? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: There, there is a classic teaching in medical school of the Virchow triad, and, and that's where we, we think about the, the factors that lead to, to clot formation. So one of them being increased inflammation, one of them being increased venous stasis, and one of them being in a pro coagulate three state. Now cancer patients have all three risk factors and, and that makes them vulnerable to forming clots and developing strokes as a result. Now on the other end of the spectrum, there are also a patient population who may be at risk for bleeding. So if they receive chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation, for example, they are subject to anemias thrombocytopenias and, and those patients are very difficult to anticoagulate. So the typical treatments that we would think of using for stroke prevention, warfarin being the classic example, but nowadays using one of the novel anticoagulants, those are, can be quite challenging to use in this patient population just because they're walking a fine line, if you will, between having a stroke and having a bleed. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: It is this fine balance of, as you mentioned, the au triad and also preventing them and minimizing or avoiding that risk of bleed. And that kind of brings us to this left atrial appendage closure. And this is becoming considered, you know, how do you see this fitting in more of the broader stroke prevention strategy in these patients? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: Yeah, so I, I think this will be a very interesting space to explore in the future. Now, left atrial appendage closure has been around for some time. It has its ups and downs over the past few years, but it's definitely on the rise again in the general population for stroke prevention. As an alternative to systemic anticoagulation, we don't have a lot of experience in cancer patients on our part. We published our own series of patients who underwent left atrial percutaneous, left atrial appendage closure and tried to compare them in patients with no active cancer. And for what it's worth, we did not see any major increases in complications related to the procedure itself, nor do we see any significant differences in terms of stroke medication. So they compare fairly favorably to patients who, who were, do not have any active cancer. Having said that, this was a retrospective study, so more information will be needed. Now, we actually wrote up a, a, a review article recently regarding this question, and we've been embedded within that review article. We, we expanded on a, on a case that we saw over the years, patient receiving left atrial appendage occlusion and did well initially he came off anticoagulation afterwards, as we normally would with in the general in, in most other patients. And then when he returned for a zero trans esophageal echocardiogram, we actually saw thrombus form on the other side of the device. And so we had to put them back on anticoagulation. The thrombus went away, we took them off the anticoagulation, and then the thrombus came back. And again, this goes back to what we mentioned earlier where these patients are just so vulnerable to, to forming clots that despite this percutaneous treatment, the, the, the risk of stroke is not completely mitigated. The other aspect to think about is that not only can they form clots on the arterial side, which is whereas strokes can occur, but they can also develop venous clots and, and that is something that left atrial appendage closure closure cannot fix. So if they develop venous clots in their legs or develop pulmonary embolism, that's a completely different situation and they will need to be on systemic anticoagulation as a result. So that's some of the limitations that we have to keep in mind with regards to the utility of left atrial penetrant closure in cancer patients. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Wow. Really, really complex intersection between these vulnerable patients and also rhythm strategy, especially atrial fibrillation as we think about preventing strokes and how to best serve and take care of these patients. Dr. Tan, thank you for joining us. It was really interesting to see, you know, the challenges that you're seeing with these cancer patients. The factors complicating risk assessment, this potential for left atrial appendage closure as maybe an alternative strategy and maybe in the right patient as with most of our devices. Again, I hope you come back. We really appreciate having you and continue to look forward to your, your work in the field. Thank you again for joining us. - Dr. Nicholas Tan: I appreciate it. Thanks so much. - Announcer: Thank you for joining us today. We invite you to share your thoughts and suggestions about the podcast at cveducation.mayo.edu. Be sure to subscribe to a Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast on your favorite platform, and tune in every other week to explore today's most pressing electrocardiography topics with your colleagues at Mayo Clinic. This has been a Mayo Clinic podcast.