Hello everybody. This is Kyle Clarich. I'm a consultant in cardiovascular medicine at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And we are joining you today with interviews with the experts. Today I have Dr. Vu Anand who is here to talk to us about the remodeling that occurs in aortic regurgitation. Dr. Anand is an associate professor of medicine and board-certified cardiologist with expertise in multiodality cardiovascular imaging. She completed her degree at the post-graduate institute of medical sciences in road India followed by an internal medicine residency at the University of Minnesota. She then pursued both general cardiology and advanced training at multimodality imaging at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Hernand is board certified in internal medicine, cardiovascular disease, echo, nuclear, cardiac CT and cardiac MRI. She has authored nearly 80 peer reserve reviewed publications, book chapters and research interest focus is generally on valvular heart disease, advanced cardiac imaging and pulmonary hypertension. She's also actively involved in national committees of the American College of Cardiology and the American Society of Echo cardiography and is passionate about advancing research and medical education. I can say firsthand that I have observed all of these qualities and we are so pleased VidU that you could join us today with interviews of the of the experts. >> Thank you so much for having me. >> Oh, you're welcome. We're like I said very pleased that you could be here. So today we're talking about assessing left ventricular remodeling using left ventricular volumes rather than uh dimensions in aortic regurgitation. You know your work has shown that the role of imaging markers can really help detect early myioardial dysfunction in patients with severe aortic regurgitation. I wonder if you could walk us through how those markers are used, how they can assist in our risk stratification and even determining you know the time of intervention in chronic aotic regurgitation. >> Yes. So the current guidelines recommend intervention in aotic regurgitation once there is development of symptoms or ejection fraction uh falls below 55% or there is significant left ventricular enlargement with an systolic dimensions over 50 mm. [snorts] But there has been research uh recent research by our group and others uh that have shown that we can detect the myioardial dysfunction earlier than these guideline thresholds. Uh we have looked at left ventricular volumes and found that at a threshold of an systolic volume more than 45 ml per meter squared there was an increase in mortality and significant uh increase in severe symptoms. And nearly a third of the patients who had left ventricular size below the guideline criteria by dimensions actually had enlarged volume. So we may be missing significant remodeling in nearly a third of the patients. Similarly, there are other imaging parameters that have recently been shown to be associated with early mocardial dysfunction and those include abnormal global longitudinal strain uh mocardial fibrosis by cardiac MRI and also a higher threshold of ejection fraction 60% rather than 55%. Now the criteria in guidelines are derived from uh studies uh natural history studies in aotic regurgitation that were conducted between 1970s to 1990s and early 2000s and since then there has been significant advancement in both surgical technique as well as imaging technique and we are now able to detect the mocardial dysfunction early on. So I think it's really a high time to reook at the guideline criteria and assess the role of these novel parameters. >> Oh yeah, that is great. I mean I think um all of us have had those patients in our practice from time to time where we thought we were following the guidelines took them to surgery and then unfortunately they did have you know consequences postoperatively either with heart failure or their ejection fraction went down and didn't come back and as we would have expected it to with this uh entity. So the guidelines >> absolutely >> yeah and the guidelines have you know traditionally focused on dimensions and ejection fraction both of thing both are things that we in any imaging modality are quite used to using and the average consumer is quite used to using to make decisions um but we may as you pointed out we may not be capturing the state-of-the-art at this point in time I wonder if you could talk a little bit about your Jack imaging paper it showed the survival penalty uh penalty that we encounter when uh intervening on patients who are currently at class one even class 2A guidelines um and that there is a role for novel both echo cardiographic markers I think you kind of alluded to this with strain um that we can use to assist in that risk stratification particularly if surgery can be offered now as you alluded to at a much lower risk in centers where they're used to doing these kinds of surgery. Maybe you could expand upon that just a little bit. >> Absolutely. Uh so our study included nearly 700 patients with asymptomatic chronic severe aotic regurgitation and we found we looked at predominantly the echoc cardioraphic parameters that can help us detect early myioardial dysfunction than the current guideline criteria. So the three parameters that we used were uh LVF ejection fraction less than 60% rather than 55% that is in the current guidelines um left ventricular volumes and systolic volume more than 45 ml per meter squared and abnormal global longitudinal strain. And we found that one or more of these criteria were present in about 75% patients. So uh nearly 3/4 of the population and we noted that there was a significant increase in mortality uh when patients attain the class one or two guideline indication for surgery. The mortality was increased with presence of one or more of these novel parameters, but there was a significant increase when uh they attained the class one or two way guideline criteria. And our data and results suggest as you mentioned that while operating at the current uh guideline criteria, there may be a survival penalty. And since there has been an significant advancement in surgical technique or operative mortality has decreased from 10 to 20% when um you know some of these natural history studies were conducted to about 1 to 2% for particularly for low-risk patients. So it is uh really uh a high time to look at these uh criteria and hopefully some of these will get incorporated in the guidelines and uh will change our clinical practice so we can have the best patient outcomes. And so it sounds like there's additive uh mortality benefit by using these newer guidelines. And you also said there were three uh of the main criteria. The ejection fraction less than 60% rather than 55. The left ventricular and systolic volume being greater than 45 cc per meter squared. >> Um and then using left ventricular strain by echoc cardiography. >> So if you have one it's a bad thing. If you have two it's worse. If you have three it's really bad. >> Yeah. In fact, uh you're you're absolutely right. When we looked at, you know, the number of abnormal criteria, we found that when just one was present, there was an increase in mortality, but it didn't reach statistical significance. When two of these novel criteria were present, there was an increase in mortality. And by the time or in those patients in whom all three were abnormal the mortality was actually similar to class one or 2A guideline criteria for intervention. So if you have a patient who whose ejection fraction is uh less than 60 but more than 55 say 58% but he has abnormal strain and dimensions are normal but volumes are increased that patient has the mortality similar to somebody who has ejection fraction less than 55% or somebody who has significantly increased volume while an systolic dimension. So when there are more number of these criteria that are abnormal, there is progressively higher mortality. >> That's fascinating really and I think it's also [clears throat] coupled with the fact that you brought out that's super important and that is that our surgeons especially in centers of excellence that deal with these types of valve surgeries frequently has the mortality has gone down and should be expected to be about 1 to 2% at max. So then the risk value uh risk benefit ratio certainly has improved but you might still be on the fence and I know you've also spoken a lot about multimodality imaging. So say you have somebody that has maybe one, two or even three of the echo criteria. Is there a role for multimodality imaging in aortic regurgitation in the patients that may you know either you're sitting on the fence or you're not quite sure what's the next step or you not really 100% that we've got everything that we need to to convince our surgical colleagues to take a patient or maybe convince the patient sometimes right >> if they're asatic >> that is a great question yes um so the role of multimodality imaging particularly cardiac MRI is in two different ways in diagnosis. Sometimes uh aotic regurgitation jets are very eccentric or we have multiple jets that we can't quantify by echoc cardiogram and we have done transthoracic and even transissophageal echoc cardiography sometimes. So cardiac MRI has a role in that situation that it can help us u uh determine the severity of aotic regurgitation in quantification of aotic regurgitation. It can also help in determining the val morphology or pathology. If we have inadequate echo images because of patient body habitus, we can detect you know pathology such as prolapse or flail. It can help in assessing aota size. U as we know patients with bicuspit typically have aotopathy. And then there is role in prognostication or risk stratification as you mentioned is to detect the mocardial dysfunction. Um and by card MRI we are able to assess left ventricular size by volumes. We uh can get a very accurate ejection fraction and we can also assess early mocardial dysfunction by myioardial fibrosis assessment uh which we perform by late gadalinium enhancement and expansion of extracellular volume and both have been studied in aotic regurgitation. So there is a role at this point I think it's mainly limited to patients who uh in whom echo cardiography is either not able to uh help us determine the severity or to assess concomant ootopathy or to further risk stratify this patients if we on the fence if they should be referred for surgery or not. >> Well that was very clear. Is there uh you mentioned that in echo sometimes it's the larger patient that we have trouble with. Is there a is there a size limit for cardiac MRI? So cardiac MRI we're actually able to offer uh to a lot of the patients and it depends on the MRI table and typically up to 500 to 600 pounds we can still scan. Uh so patients who are either extremes of body size or maybe just have anatomy that impairs the uh good echo cardioraphic imaging we are able to get uh diagnostic MRI many a times in those patients. >> Well that's fantastic. Um the the focus on AR has been shifting uh as in so many different kind of valvular heart diseases, cardiac diseases in general, but beyond the assessment of of the aortic regurgitation, the LV dimensions and the ejection fracture. Are there any other data extra valvular involvement that may occur in AR? I think you already kind of touched on this, but it's such an important point I wanted to to bring it back up again. >> Yes. uh the focus in aotic regurgitation has been shifting beyond just focusing on the valve and we discussed a little bit about the importance of careful assessment of left ventricular remodeling. So left ventricular size by volume a good assessment of left ventricular function by ejection fraction strain and even uh detecting earlier dysfunction by assessment of myioardial fibrosis by late gatlinium enhancement. But besides that there has also been research looking at other uh cardiac chambers. Our group uh assessed the impact of atrial fibrillation and we found that it is much less frequent than aotic stenosis or mital regurgitation but once present it is associated with both severe symptoms and higher mortality. We have also assessed the role of pulary hypertension and found that it is independent predictor of symptoms and mortality in patients with chronic severe aotic regurgitation. But interestingly the benefit of aotic valve surgery persisted in patients with and without permy hypertension and in majority of the cases about twothird the pulary pressures regressed significantly at the dismissal echoc cardiogram which at our center we perform about 5 days post-operatively or just prior to discharge suggesting a predominant postcapillary mechanism and uh we are also So uh looking at developing a novel classification of aotic regurgitation a staging that is based on this extravalular involvement. It is similar to what has been uh assessed and looked at in aotic stenosis. So we have four stages. Stage one includes left ventricular in involvement. So enlargement ventricular dysfunction. Stage two includes you know when the left atrial pressures increase either left utrial enlargement development of significant MR or atrial fibrillation. Stage three is you know long-standing disease where because of increased left utrial pressures now there's development of pulmonary hypertension or TR and stage four is right ventricular dysfunction. We noted that at progressively higher stages there's progressive increase in mortality. So this field is really evolving and our focus is shifting to uh beyond the valve and looking at not only left ventricle but other cardiac chambers as well. Yeah, I think that's all very um important for us to keep in mind and I I'm pretty sure that down the road with further um assessment of these parameters that this may be coming out in our next guidelines for valvular heart disease at least around atrial uh aortic regurgitation. Uh are there practical steps? You know, we've talked about a lot of measurements that synographers or the echo cardiographer can bring to their AR assessment to get closer to what your research suggests is optimal. >> Yes. Um I would recommend that if there is a patient that comes to the echo cardio echo cardiography lab and it looks like that patient has moderate or greater aotic regurgitation that the synographers make an attempt to quantify the degree of aotic regurgitation and quantification can be performed by Pisa method or continuity equation and in patients in whom quantification is not feasible again those you know multiple jets are very eccentric jets. A combination of semi-quantitative or qualitative parameters can also be helpful. Some of them include being a contractor, jet with holo diasistolic reversals and abdominal iota. It is also important that we take down patients vitals in the echolab because diastolic blood pressure as you have taught us that is very important not only in uh that assists in diagnosis of AR but also in uh risk stratification because low blood diastolic blood pressures have been associated with mortality. After assessing the degree of aotic regurgitation, we should make an attempt to identify the underlying mechanism. and the morphology of the aotic valve. Look at aotopathy and finally look at the impact of aotic regurgitation on left ventricle. So assessment should be attempted by volutric method by method of symptoms. Good ejection fraction and if feasible global longitudinal strain but at least a good assessment of left ventricular size by volumes is very important. Wow, that is uh those are really good hints for both our synographers and our echoc cardiographers and I think you know we've seen um this evolution and understanding many of the myioardial um involvement from valvular heart disease and that earlier intervention is going to be important and that some of these parameters um can be obtained even before a patient has symptoms and that ultimately their long-term outcome come if we intervene sooner now that operative mortalities are lower that we should see better long-term outcome for our patients before they develop myioardial fibrosis reduced suggestive refraction and pulmonary hypertension I know is near and dear to your heart so I think these are you know certainly not yet guideline included but I can predict I think that they will be in the in the very near future so I'm glad that our audience has been able to uh hear this uh very uh elegant research and progression of research that Dr. Anand has facilitated at our institution and other institutions are also picking up on these themes and uh starting to publish. So I I do believe that the future is is brighter for the patient with aortic regurgitation. Are there any other final comments? Anything else that we didn't cover in this conversation? I think you did a really nice job but there may be one or two other things. Yeah, I would just add you know just as you said that these novel parameters really have an important role if the patient is asymptomatic. If the patient is symptomatic and you determine the symptoms are uh are because of aotic regurgitation those patients definitely should be referred for surgery which is class one criteria. But in those who are asymptomatic, particularly younger patients at low operative risk, we should really try to assess uh and detect the earlier mocardial dysfunction before the point of irreversible injury. >> That's a very good point. Thank you for bringing that up. Well, Dr. Ad, as usual, I've learned a lot from you in this uh short conversation. I hope our audience has too. And we again appreciate you taking time out of your very busy schedule to uh share this with our our our viewers, I should say listeners because I think most of people do listen to this as opposed to view it. But either way, we're happy to have you join us at Interviews with the Experts. Thank you very much. >> Thank you again. At Mayo Clinic, relentless learning [music] fuels world-class care. I'm Dr. Mark Molen, wound clinic director of the Gondvascular [music] Center at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full [music] course can do for your patients. Head to cbeducation mayo.edu edu [music] and explore our live and online programs, quick ondemand modules, and CME accredited master [music] classes. All created and taught by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who've [music] already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cbeducation.mo.edu.