Hello, I'm Dr. Kya Lara Bringinger, preventive cardiologist here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And I'm very excited for our second episode of implementation and practical tips for the new dietary guidelines for Americans. And I'm really excited today because our guest that we're going to be talking with is Tara Schmidt, who's a registered dietician and an instructor of medicine here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. She's also the lead dietitian for the Mayo Clinic diet and she provides guidance rooted in evidence-based principles helping individuals develop sustainable and realistic strategies for long-term health. She also hosts our Mayo Clinic on Nutrition, a podcast that dives into current nutrition research and practical weight management tips, and she lends her expertise as a medical editor of the nutrition and fitness channel for Mayo Clinic Press. Tara, how are you? Welcome. >> Thank you. How are you, Dr. Laura Breinger? I'm doing well. And so, you know, this is our second episode and I think this episode is going to probably be one of the most important ones because we're here to kind of discuss how we can actually help people out there listening implement these new dietary guidelines. And so, I would love to hear, you know, your one minute elevator pitch on kind of the new changes just to quickly summarize and then um what kind of has stayed the same from your perspective as a dietitian. >> Yeah. So, what we're really happy to see is still encouraging nutrient-dense foods, right? So, talking about fruits and vegetables and whole grains, kind of those whole foods that we're talking about. I absolutely agree with limiting highly ultrarocessed foods, added sugar. Um, we're being mindful of saturated fat, but I do think that that's a point of confusion a bit for the consumer based on kind of what they see visually. um and a little bit more attention to fiber and things like microbiome health which I don't think has been um as as public um in in recent years. Fiber absolutely but not um the more trendy topics of things like microbiome. some of what dieticians or for example the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics has some maybe concern with or that we'd like to see more evidence um or that we're worried that our our patients and consumers might be confused about would be things like the saturated fat more so being able to implement the recommendation of limiting saturated fat. While there seems to be an emphasis on higher fat foods, especially foods higher in saturated fat, um I think there's a little bit missing for some of our patients who might not be able to tolerate or who choose not to um consume dairy and making sure that they can still get the those important nutrients in for whatever reason that they don't do dairy. Um, and I felt that there may have been a little bit confusion on how to maintain a really nutritious plant-based diet. Um, which I think can be absolutely hugely beneficial, can be helpful, but it it might have seemed to to be discouraged maybe. Um, and maybe I need to to read more. But that was kind of just my my overview of it. Do you agree with that? >> Yeah. And I mean it is really difficult, right? Because the headlines for the new dietary guidelines seemed to emphasize just whole food is better even if there's a lot more saturated fat than a lower saturated fat diet. And you know, we have to move with trepidation because we know of the association with saturated fat and LDL cholesterol. And so despite the headlines saying, you know, red meat, full fat dairy, all of these things, whole food, and we're removing ultrarocessed foods, which is great on the ultrarocessed foods. When you read the details, it says we'll still limit your saturated fat to 10% of your total calories. And so I totally agree with you. depending on the consumer, will they just look at the headlines and say, "Great, I'm going to go out and go grocery shopping without looking that, well, this still needs to be only 10% of what I actually eat in the entire day." And so, thinking about that, and I totally agree with you, there's strong evidence on the um inverse relationship of eating more plant-based proteins with less cardiovascular death and health. And there's a lot of metaanalyses looking at that, you know, but as we know with retrospective studies and looking at patterns, it's all about the pattern. So, they were just more plantforward, which maybe we could talk about next as opposed to plant exclusive, right? We're not saying you're only allowed to eat plants, but the ratio should be in an abundance of a lot of your protein coming from plants if it's possible. You know, obviously there's a lot of other things to consider, but talk to us about that like plant versus um you know, not scaring away some of our listeners who are like, "Hey, I thought we just said on the last episode to eat a you know, a variety, but you know, the main theme is still like we want to push forward healthier fats, which we know are coming from, you know, eat more plants." Yeah. And when we talk about plants, it's so nice because we can think about all of these different food groups, right? Naturally, people think about fruits and vegetables, and that's great. They're on the pyramid. Some of them are a little lower as we'd like them to be, but we're always going to talk fruits and vegetables, but we can't forget about things like beans and legumes and whole grains. Maybe it's something like soy or like tofu, tempeh, etc. We've got seeds, we've got avocado, we've got plant-based oils. So, all of it can be on our table, like no pun intended. Like, all of these things, including dairy, obviously, including animal-based proteins if that's what you prefer to eat, it can all be included. And just like you said, Dr. Laringer, we're looking at the pattern. Um, and I think that that's maybe what can confuse people when we talk about like, all right, full fat dairy is back in or red meats back in because those are whole foods. But we also need to know what else is on your plate. And that's where I think we'll continue, especially cardiology, to talk about 3/4 of that meal ideally being plants, right? Because if we need the majority of your plate to be fruits and vegetables and then we also have something like a whole grain in there, the the added fat that we're using is a plant-based fat in most cases, right? I can make anything work, but I do want there to be plants on that plate. I totally agree with you. And just on our last episode, we talked about even though the protein requirements increased from prior, that was another emphasis. It's still, you know, in a percentwise, you know, less than or equal to 30%. So, if we're thinking about a plate, that's, as you said, probably a quarter of the plate and the rest. So, tell us >> for somebody living in the Midwest, which is where I currently live and where you live, and you're kind of a meat and potatoes person. You're kind of celebrating, oh, I can go back to eating whole foods. How could you how would you provide some practical tips to um those people listening out there who are not really used to or their pallets aren't used to tempe? Maybe some people don't know what that is or how do they cook with seeds and where would you start? Like how would you start that? >> I like to do a addition type approach. So, if you love your like very Midwestern chili, right, that I I grew up eating, let's throw beans in there if they're not in there along with the ground beef or the ground turkey. And let's even double the amount of beans. It's not going to hurt anything. It's chili, right? Like, we're not baking a cake. And let's double the tomatoes. And maybe let's throw a handful of spinach in there. Like, always adding more and more things. Maybe put some chickpeas in there as well. Um, I use the example my kids and not because I'm a perfect dietician or perfect parent, but they've only had black bean quesadillas because I absolutely love the recipe that I have for these like kind of like spicy or use a little bit of even like bloody Mary mix in them quesadillas. And so that's what they know as as quesadillas. And so you can think about, okay, if you're used to chicken quesadillas, let's do chicken and white bean. And if you're used to beef quesadillas, let's add some black beans in there. What about tacos? If you're used to beef tacos, let's do shrimp tacos or let's do fish tacos. So, more about utilizing the foods that your family likes. You have to eat them, right? Like we can talk to you about eating the best diet all day long, but like at the end of the day, you have to eat it. And it's important for me that you enjoy it. Like, not just that you ate the healthy foods your dietitian and your cardiologist told you to eat. So, using some of your comfort foods, your favorite foods, but adding in some of those plant-based proteins, adding in more vegetables, sometimes substituting, maybe you do 50/50, right? Maybe you do half tempe, half ground beef, maybe you half beans, and half turkey. Whatever it may be, there's a recipe out there that we can help introduce those foods to where you're comfortable and ideally you still enjoy the taste. I love all of that. It's kind of meeting in the middle rather than expecting people who've lived their whole lives eating in a certain way just magically transform overnight, which is, let's be honest, that's not real. And how are we actually going to relate to our patients? And so, you talked about beans, which I agree with. There's a ton of fiber. It's healthy for the gut microbiome, and there's plenty of very healthy proteins in there. Now, can you tell me more about like do the people need to go out there and buy beans from a bag and then let them soak overnight? I mean, it could be a tedious process. Is that healthier than getting them from a can? Um, and can we trust canned um beans to be just as healthy? Is that okay to to use when, you know, most of us don't have that much time to let our soak overnight and remember to do that so that it's ready for cooking the next day? >> I got to like remember to pull the shrimp out of the freezer, right? Otherwise, like, gosh darn [laughter] it, we were going to have shrimp for dinner. So, yeah. I don't soak beans. Could I? Sure, I could. I could make the time for that, but I don't because I've clearly prioritized other things in my life. So that is true of when we talk about fresh versus frozen versus canned. Yeah, there's going to be a hierarchy in some cases. I know Dr. Kapensky loves to talk about how sometimes frozen fruits and vegetables actually have more nutritional value than fresh depending on where they came from and how long they had to sit in transport. So frozen I have no worries about and sometimes even promote especially when we know that cost can be our barrier, right? Like mangoes in Minnesota in February are going to be expensive and those are slippery little buggers. We do frozen mangoes in my home. They're already chopped. We throw them in the smoothie. I let them defth before we put them on the oatmeal. There are options. When it comes to things like beans, too, I use canned beans. And if people want to judge me for that, that's okay. But we have so many more options I think than we used to that you can find no salt added beans. So you grab them and if your only option wherever you're getting your beans from is the the added salt kind that's okay too. Rinse them off. At the end of the day I got you to eat beans. And there are absolutely other foods out there restaurant meals fast food ultrarocessed foods that have a lot more salt than your canned beans that you rinsed off. It's it's going to be okay at the end of the day. I got you that bean serving in and that's what I'm going to celebrate. >> Yes. And let's celebrate that because it's even um incremental, right? So the more plant proteins you substitute for higher saturated fat proteins, it has an incremental value to your overall health in terms of a lot of the meta analyses we're looking at. And now I'm going to shift to like which is worse, right? because now with full fat dairy kind of on the table that they're pushing, right? Um and it and it makes sense in many aspects, right? So, I would like your opinion. I'm at the grocery and, you know, I'm trying to get fit with my family. We want to get healthy proteins in. Do I get the, you know, Chobani or the OOS um protein shake that has 23 grams of protein and it's like peach or strawberry and cream flavored. Okay, that is lower in saturated fat. Or do I get the whole fat plain fia yogurt? >> Okay, or the chobani not have any sugar in it and then add fruit in it. And then also which one is healthier for you? which one is more convenient for me? And I was going to say I also need to know what you like, right? Or what your kids like or what your spouse or partner likes. And I need to know the rest of your diet, right? So if you tell me, "Hey, Tara, I really love those peach protein shakes. I stick them in my purse because I work out before I go to work at the hospital and I drink it cuz I would normally skip breakfast and I don't want to have a yogurt in my purse cuz then I can't keep it cold, right?" Then we're going to do the shake, but I'm also going to be asking you about the other sources of added sugars in your diet and we might need to adapt your latte that you have right at 4:00. And if you want to really be mindful of added sugar, then we're doing the yogurt and we're going to talk about you packing a little lunch bag with a a little cooler pack in it. So again, I can make anything work. It's usually not comparing apples to apples because those are not the only two foods you have in your diet and those are not the only two sources of protein in your diet. Do you need that shake? I don't know. Let's talk about your total protein intake. Let's add it up. Let's talk about where you're getting other whole fruits in. Right? So, if yogurt and berries in the morning is one of your key main sources of a whole fruit or vegetable, then I really want you to do it. So again, not that I'm magical, but I can make anything work, but I need to hear more about the pattern of your diet to be able to answer a question like that. >> Yeah. So, what you're saying is it's a lot more complicated, right? >> So, how would you convince me to at night to pack my bag so it's ready in the morning? So, it's just as easy as taking a protein shake that's already made and putting it in my purse, let's say, because I think that's the struggle for many people, right? How do you how do you change that habit of preparing in the evening? How would you tell me that? Yeah. Well, and honestly, what we do, you kind of just answered it, is we go through the why. So, I say like, "All right, Kyla, why didn't you eat breakfast?" And you say, "It's because I have a lot of kids and I have a job and I don't have time to do." I'm like, "All right, why not?" You're like, "Well, because we don't wake up in time and I'm trying to get everyone out the door and shoes tied, etc." All right. Or why didn't you bring this the night before? Well, I didn't have it in my fridge. So, when I hear more about your barriers to doing that, be it time, convenience, I don't have a cute lunch bag that I want to bring to work, like, all right, let's go get you a Kate's bag lunch bag. Let's get you a little unicorn cooler pack like my daughter has. Let's get it completely ready in the fridge. Maybe you're gonna do it while everyone else is brushing their teeth. Like, all right, everyone. And you associate it or you habit stack it, right? So, we we make this part of your routine. And that's with any new habit, right? It's not going to be perfect. you're going to miss a few days. But if I can get yogurt in your fridge, if I can get you a cute little glass Tupperware with your blueberries in it, and you make it for yourself and for your kids snack, and we get to the lunch bag and we get you the cooler pack, and you have a post-it note on the door that says like, "Don't forget your yogurt." That's a new habit, but it's going to take time. Um, and sometimes it takes planning, of course, and it sometimes takes some resources. >> Yeah. Well, those are all super helpful. And so, you know, I just had a patient the other day that told me they eat um ancient grains and that was what was marketed on the front cover. And so I pulled up this ancient grains um very popular organic all of these things >> and it had a lot of carbohydrates in it. So, switching gears to, you know, this is the first time where we're saying no, you know, avoid all ultrarocessed foods, no sugar, all of these things, especially in kids up until 10. You know, that's going to be difficult because 70% of what's offered to Americans are ultrarocessed foods. And so, I would love your advice on, you know, these patients are thinking they're eating healthy and it's mismarketing, right? There's high protein, ancient, organic, gluten-free. How do we help them navigate the grocery system? Especially when you're seeing things like, "Hey, the new dietary guidelines said high protein, less ultrarocessed foods, and the front of this granola that I'm going to eat literally every day that's carb forward and not a lot of whatever. >> High sugar, calories. You're only supposed to have a four of a cup." >> Exactly. And it's a four of a cup, which no one's going to Well, maybe some people eat four of a cup. Most people are going to >> look it's really sad in your cereal bowl if you're in America. >> Exactly. You're going to need to use like a little saucer for it to look full. So, how do we help people out there understand that actually you got to look at the ingredients level label and what is it? What are you looking for? Yeah. And I also want people to to recognize that they can prioritize various things. So, again, I'm not going to make my own bread. I do and I love it, but it's white bread and then I eat a lot of it because it's like warm and it makes my home smell good. So, I can't have that every day, but I can absolutely do quick oats that are just plain quick oats or steel cut, whatever versus instant oatmeal with like dinosaur eggs and a ton of added sugar. Um, when we talk through again your dieting pattern just being the foods that you eat, I want to hear about where you can do those whole unprocessed foods versus like, yeah, we're just going to buy the whole grain bread from your local grocery store. And is it processed? Well, yeah. Almost every food is processed in some ways. And you know this, there's kind of this categorization of how close is it to its natural food source or how many ingredients does it have. That can be a myth too because we have cereals out there that have added vitamins and minerals because we know that pregnant people and kids eat them. So again, it's not black and white of like processed equals bad, unprocessed equals good. I like to go through some of the processed or ultrarocessed foods in people's eating patterns and say, "Okay, can this one be altered? It sounds like you eat a bag of mini muffins for breakfast. Let's talk about less processed, less added sugar, less added salt foods that you can eat for breakfast. It sounds like you have a deli meat sandwich for lunch. Let's talk about you making a chicken or a turkey breast on the weekends and then cutting that up for your sandwiches. Does that sound reasonable?" It sounds like vegetables are too timeconuming for you. Let's get you the steamer bags that you chuck in the microwave. So I always walk through someone's patterns with them and say this is a swap or this is an upgrade or this is one. Yeah, we'll just keep it as is. I get it. It's convenient. We're not all making our bread and grinding our oats in the kitchen. >> Like the trad wife, you know, [laughter] >> like she literally I was like, "Oh, good for you. I have a job." >> I know. I wish that could be my job. Sometimes it looks so glamorous and lovely to just make everything from scratch, but most someday, Kyla, you and I will ever >> One day we'll have our little olive grove in the middle of Tuscanyany and make everything. >> Oh, I'm there. Okay. So, some more rapid fire things that people think about all the time, right? So, people are more not obsessed, but they are prioritizing protein, right? Especially with the explosions of these weight loss interventions, you know, one receptor agonist. And so for someone who goes and um has a protein bar, right, and it's not four ingredients, it's actually probably ultrarocessed, what can they take in replacement that's just as fast to get them through the day um to get enough protein, let's say 20 to 30 grams as a snack, like throughout? >> Yeah. And and protein is a hard one because when we think about a lot of like protein dense foods in smaller quantities, it tends to be animalbased and then it needs to have some kind of refrigeration, right? So Greek yogurt and you can always throw a scoop of protein powder into your Greek yogurt. That's right. >> Yeah, it's Oh yeah. Even like if you get plain Greek yogurt and then you get a vanilla or a chocolate protein powder and then you add some berries on top. We have options there. It could be a string cheese or one of those little cute little circlly cheeses. It it could be a smoothie that you made yourself. And whether you're making it with milk or soy milk or yogurt and then if you want to add a powder to it, you can if you want to. Um you can talk about things like beans or you can talk about a hard-boiled egg. We've got options. And again, thinking about can this be a whole food? Is it easier for this to be an ultrarocessed food? Okay. But then if I am going to choose option B for this, let's adapt my my choices later in the day. >> Yeah. And what about nuts? Do you prioritize any nut? Are some nuts better than others or does it really matter? Because, you know, they all have saturated fat, but they're all part of the Mediterranean diet and they make us satiated and full and there good things about them. So, if someone really doesn't like love walnuts um and they prefer salted peanuts, like are you okay with that? >> I think my bigger issue with nuts is that they are so calorie dense because of the grams of fat, right? And every gram of fat is nine calories, blah blah blah. You can do the math that people really struggle with the total calorie load because of the portion that they're eating. So, people will be like, "Hey, Tara, I'm going to eat nuts as my protein." I'm like, you got to eat a lot of nuts to get that same equivalent of protein from another source. So, we use again like a a closed handful or a four of a cup. So, more often I'll talk to people about adding nuts to something like having an apple and a fourth of a cup of almonds, right? Or you could even add those crushed nuts to your yogurt maybe. Um, but I think when people snack on nuts or consider nuts this like holy perfect food, which is super nutritious. I didn't say that, >> but we get into trouble with excess calories. >> Yeah. And it sounds like, you know, your stomach has so much volume, right? So, you're basically saying, don't fill the whole volume of your stomach till you feel satiated with nuts. Why don't you fill like twothirds of it with yogurt or an apple that has fiber and other nutrients you're not getting for nuts? and then uh top it off with the nuts. So then again, instead of eating one type of food, you're expanding and having a comprehensive diet, very colorful to kind of hit up all aspects of your gut microbiome, health, anti-inflammatory lifestyle, etc. I usually say like a for a if people need to snack, now snacking is controversial because typically the more eating episode someone has, the more calories they'll intake. So snacking is not always appropriate, but if you do need to snack, I'll say a protein and a produce. So it can like my dad after the gym will have like a banana and a glass of milk, right? Like that's his source of protein and then that's his produce. We can do your yogurt with your blueberries. Greek yogurt has protein. Your blueberries are your produce. What about something like an apple and a string cheese? What about cottage cheese with veggies on the side? So when you do a protein in a produce, you have the benefit of the protein which is more satiating and also the benefit of the produce which is obviously going to be the vitamins, the minerals, the fiber, and that bulk for that stomach to stretch and help you stay full. I love that. I love that all. Okay, so for some of us, many of us out there who have kids in the house, you know, we're not going to transform them and take away all of these kind of snacks that are all over. Um, so how do we avoid when the snacks are there, eating them ourselves? Number one, finishing some of the snacks they're leaving behind because some of us grew up, don't waste anything and finish your plate type of um, you know, habits that we formed. How do we do that with toddlers? Toddlers are picky, right? We could pretend that we're going to transform our household and say everyone's going to eat the same. um and you're you could kill yourself doing that depending on the stage of life your child is in. So, as we're, you know, as the adults in the house trying to make these changes, but our kids food is there, right? Because a lot of tactics are like, don't buy these foods and have them in your access because you'll eat them. But then, you know, what do we do with our kids? Do we like we can't like, >> you know, we love our kids, we're going to keep our kids. So, give us some strategies, right? [laughter] Give us some strategies on kind of those scenarios. >> Yeah. So the first thing, and you mentioned this, is that you are in control of what comes into the home, right? So you're the one who's doing the grocery shopping. And sometimes with that adjustment of, you know, I'm I'm still going to buy the goldfish or the muffins or whatever my kids like cuz they're convenient and they taste good and they love them. They're a special treat. You also get to buy and expose your kids to foods that are whole. So trying a [clears throat] new fun fruit, right? Or like, you know, kids go through these phases. My daughter was like obsessed with kiwis and we were spending a ton of money on kiwis. I'm like, "Okay, we we can't do kiwis this many every week cuz these are like $8 for two of them right now." But you get to expose them to different fruits. You get to have them participate in the kitchen or wash them or chop them if it's safe. So remembering to get your kids to participate, especially when you're doing the things with the whole food, because then they have that sense of pride. They're really excited. Um my son tried a new fruit the other day at someone else's house. He's like, "Oh, that was so delicious. Can we buy that?" And it was a rare fruit and I don't know where we're going to get it, but we'll find it. Cuz he was so excited about it. Um and you could put some guidelines around, okay, this is your special snack. This is how much of your special snack we're going to have, and the rest of your snack is going to be this or our family is going to split this amount, and and when it's gone, it's gone. That's a snack that we have after swim lessons, but that's only a snack we have after swim lessons. It's this really hard balance of I obviously want to expose my kids to a wide variety of foods, including ultrarocessed foods, because if we overly restrict them, we actually risk them going kind of in the opposite direction, especially when they're older and have more control or if they're at a friend's house or a birthday party. So, it's finding that balance and and sometimes we'll say you have control of what foods are served and how often they're served, but sometimes your kids have control over how much is eaten. Um, but again, what do you have control over? Yeah, I love that. I love all those tips. I'm going to use some of those when I go home later today. Now, we could talk about this for hours and so we don't want to have too long of a podcast because we want we know people have their busy days. So, a couple ending rapid fire things. What's one grocery item everyone should buy this week? >> Their favorite fruit or vegetable that will actually get eaten and not thrown away and not forgotten about in the crisper drawer. >> Okay. What is the most overrated health food? >> I would say those like ultrarocessed I've seen protein cookies, protein chips, protein bars. I'm like, you know, there's like other foods with protein in them, right? Like we don't have to have protein cookies. You guys, what's one DGA dietary guideline for Americans myth to let go of? Can I say that saturated fats unlimited? Yeah, I think so. >> Okay. I think it makes it they didn't say it was unlimited. They said limit to 10%. >> And they also are depicting a lot of highsaturated fat foods. So that's what I think is cause is going to cause confusion because I'm not sure everyone knows that it says 10% in there. They're just looking at the picture. >> Absolutely. Absolutely. And then for a oneweek challenge, if someone wanted to just do one thing in the next week, what would that be? I like to challenge people with plants. So like, can you have a meatless Monday? Or if that is too scary for you, try a new recipe. I love a challenge of trying a new recipe. That's sometimes like the f my favorite recipes that I found. Ask a friend. Hey, what's your favorite soup recipe? Hey, Kyla, I know you eat tofu. What's your favorite tofu recipe? Um, we've never had shrimp tacos before. Do you No, Google best shrimp taco recipe in the world. So, try new recipes may be less intimidating for people. >> Yeah. And I love that because it kind of brings people together. just me and one of my close friends, we're starting to swap recipes to find ones that have been tried and true to our younger um kids to see if they like it. So, I love that. And then the trying the recipes things. Do you have any recommendations or is it really with Google, with chatbt, with all these resources, you could find anything you want based on whatever pallet and cultural sensitivity, right? Yeah, exactly. That's the crazy thing about the internet and especially with with AI now is you can even say I have these three, four, six foods in my pantry and in my fridge. Find me a recipe that utilizes them. It's amazing. That's amazing. I feel like that is something many people don't know that it can create a recipe for you. So, well, I could keep talking, but we probably should stop, Tara, and continue this on or off the record later on today. But, um, thank you so much for joining us as always. It's always a pleasure to have you because you have the best tips and tricks, practical, evidence-based, and you know your stuff. And so, thanks again for joining us for the second episode. Thanks for having me. It's always a pleasure to hang out with you. At Mayo [music] Clinic, continuous learning feels world-class care. I am Dr. Francisco Lopez Himenez, chair of the division of preventive cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, [music] imagine what a full course can do for your patients. Please check out the link cved education.edu edu and explore [music] our live and online programs, quick on demand modules and CME accredited master [music] classes created and thought by the very voices you trust here. Join [music] thousands of clinicians who have already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now at cved education.mayo.edu.