[music] This is Aging Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, we explore [music] new ways to take care of our long-term health, the health of our loved ones, and our community so we can all [music] live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geriatrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in [music] Rochester, Minnesota. And this episode, we are talking all about arthritis. About one in four adults experience [music] some form of arthritis and that number only increases with age. It's a painful disease that causes swelling of the joints that often [music] limits mobility. According to the Arthritis Foundation, there are actually over a 100 different forms of arthritis and related diseases. But today we're focusing on three of the major types. Rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and crystalline arthritis. In this episode, we are joined by Dr. Dr. Elena [music] Messieda, a clinical rheatologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, who has spent her career helping people with arthritis get the right diagnosis and treatment. She'll walk us through the different types of arthritis, [music] the root causes, and what we can do to help prevent and treat this often debilitating disease. Dr. MessiA, thank you so much for being here today. >> Thank you for having me. >> Yeah. So, before we get started, you are a rheatologist. tell us what a rheatologist does and what is your role here at Mayo Clinic. >> So I'm a director of inflammatory arthritis clinic in the division of rheumatology here at Mayo Clinic. In our clinic we see people with different types of arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, degenerative arthritis conditions that are related to crystalline arthritis such as gout. So all different kinds of arthritis. In general, division of rheumatology takes care of people with autoimmune conditions that include systemic rheumatic diseases such as lupus. So it's really a wide spectrum of diseases that are driven by autoimmune mainly autoimmune mechanisms but also some other conditions that are not necessarily autoimmune but also belong such as gout for example. >> So let's start with the basics here. I you know whenever I ask my patients how are you doing? They're always like, "Oh, I I feel great, but I'm just getting arthritic." And it just seems like arthritis is almost synonymous with aging. You know, that's they just feel like that's what's supposed to happen over time. What exactly is arthritis? What's happening in the joints over time? Why is it so common in older adults? So arthritis the word itself comes from two words to put together which is arro meaning joint and itis meaning inflammation. So inflammation in the joints is arthritis. And so inflammation in the joint can occur under different scenarios and that include scenarios such as autoimmune disease for example rheumatoid arthritis or degenerative disease such as osteoarthritis which is what we uh majority of uh people acquire with aging. M but indeed as we age um arthritis becomes more prevalent in the population and on average across all ages every fourth adult would be affected by some sort of arthritis >> and above the age of 65 this proportion increases to 50 60%. So it is quite prevalent and quite widespread but indeed as we age this becomes more of a problem. >> Right. Right. And you alluded to this earlier, but there's the different categories between degenerative and inflammatory. Can you kind of walk us through what's the difference between all that? >> Yeah, the difference is in what mechanism starts the process. Okay. >> So with autoimmune inflammatory arthritis, the process starts with immune system mistakenly recognizing host tissue. So patients tissue as a foreign tissue and starting to attack it. [clears throat] resulting in inflammation. Osteoarthritis is a different story where with aging cartilage is not able to recover as much and starts to degenerate that results in local inflammation just because of the stress and sort of grinding in between that uh the bony surfaces of the joint. So the inflammation comes secondary and it's generally localized and lowrade. In crystallin arthritis such as gout or pseuda gout there is a deposition of crystals of monosodium urate in the case of gout or calcium pyroofhosphate in the case of pseudagout that uh deposits in the tissue and causes irritation also fairly localized to the site where those crystals are deposited and that uh causes auto-inflammatory reaction resulting in swelling, pain and so on. So all these kinds are different but uh the uniting mechanism is that they affect joints. So arthritis with inflammation. >> Mhm. It just seems like the joints tend to attract things. You're attracting like crystal deposition. It seems to be an area where things tend to congregate and when it does it just becomes inflamed. That's an interesting perspective. >> Yeah. In fact, we um we understand a little more especially about the autoimmune disease where actually the initial site where the disease starts is not the joint itself. >> It um this is a fairly long and protracted story where it starts with a genetic risk factor. So a genetic predisposition and then with time and additional trigger factors and sometimes hormonal background uh or age category patient may acquire a certain type of autoimmune arthritis and so mucosal surfaces such as lungs, periodontal um uh oral cavity periodontal disease or sinuses are frequently the starting points for arthritis that is autoimmune. >> That's interesting. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. Thank you for explaining that. I uh didn't realize that it could start from elsewhere and then sort of make its way around the the body and end up in the joints. >> Would you say that degenerative arthritis is what you see most commonly in your practice or do you typically see other types? Because I imagine by the time people get to you, it's they've already gone through primary care and they can't figure out the cause of the arthritis. So what's the most prevalent thing that you see in your practice? >> So deterrent of arthritis is definitely the most prevalent type of arthritis in population. It's mostly managed by primary care providers and we frequently see this people when they have osteoarthritis as a condition that accompanies autoimmune disease. Yeah, >> we generally don't follow people for osteoarthritis itself, but we certainly can help differentiate between the types of arthritis. >> Okay. And you mentioned earlier that genetics may play a role, but why are some people more predisposed to developing arthritis compared to others? You know, you see 90-year-olds out there running marathons. They may they may have arthritis but not have it bother them. You see others in their 50s and they're just so almost disabled from it. like where do things go wrong in the middle and what are some other factors that lead to a higher risk? >> Yeah, there's a number of them and it also depends on kinds of arthritis. So for example for osteoarthritis there is a combination or a formula for it would be mechanical load plus any sort of condition that make that joint more vulnerable and that can be just how a person is built or maybe they had a previous injury or trauma to that joint or maybe they have inflammatory arthritis in that particular joint. This vulnerable joint would be more likely to bear signs of osteoarthritis or degenerative arthritis. And with osteoarthritis, the joints that are involved most are the weightbearing joints and that would be knees, hips rather than for example shoulders or elbows. There is also hand osteoarthritis that is also a condition and indeed our hands are involved in many uh very fine movements and frequently are subject to stress in terms of the number of activities they involved with. That's why we suggest >> if there is a need to carry something not to carry with a smaller joint but uh to put the load more on the larger joint. So not to carry with your fingers but more with your arms for example to decrease that burden on the smaller joints. >> I see. So you mentioned like when you sustain too much mechanical load that would be influenced by for example weight but also prior injuries too if they were involved in a occupation that involved a lot of physical activity. Is that also a risk factor as well? >> Exactly. So repeated use of the joint and overuse of the joint would lead to osteoarthritis or development of changes in the joint in that patient. But also as you pointed out actually very rightfully increased weight so obesity affects significantly the risk of osteoarthritis. >> Every extra pound of weight results in four extra pounds of load on the knee with every step. >> That's incredible. Like so 20 pounds of weight loss >> equals to 80 pounds off your knees. That's I I feel like when when I put that into a number perspective, it just hits differently, you know, and so I I think that's a really great way to counsel people um and empower them is that even one pound of weight loss makes a big difference in the long run. >> Exactly. >> And the most common symptoms I hear, you know, things are getting a little bit stiff, more pain in the joints, maybe less range of motion. And I feel like that gets sort of pushed aside because it just seems like a normal sign of aging or a normal process of aging. My question is what is considered normal and like okay to observe versus when should someone probably go through some sort of evaluation earlier on, not push it out too far down the road. Yeah, the devil is in details and quantifying all of these symptoms >> by asking patients specific questions is very important and a lot of that comes from patients story. So if we are asking about pain, we are interested in what causes pain or when pain is more pronounced. Is it in the morning which would be more towards inflammatory arthritis such as rheumatoid arthritis for example or towards the evening or with activity that would be more suggestive of degenerative arthritis or maybe after eating something specific you know like having a glass of beer that would be more towards crystallin arthritis right with episode of gout. So history is very important. Stiffness that you mentioned, we quantify as well. If the stiffness lasts 1 hour or longer, it's more suspicious for autoimmune inflammatory arthritis as opposed to stiffness that lasts minutes after awakening and then goes away as we start moving. If only one or two joints are involved and these are weightbearing joints, there is a likelihood that it could still be osteoarthritis. However, [clears throat] if there is multiple joints and this becomes more of a symmetric process that would probably turn our attention more towards rheumatoid arthritis. If there is swelling of the joints that has to be evaluated by a physician to recommend specifically whether or not it is more concerning for one or the other. We can also do analysis of synovial fluid particularly from from larger joints to understand how inflammatory the fluid is. if there is crystals in the fluid that suggest of gout or pseudo gout and that all helps direct the care. >> Also the duration of the symptoms themselves. So if it's just acute onset and self-resolving situation versus this is something protracted and continuing over 6 weeks with these inflammatory symptoms involving more than a couple of joints and resulting in prolonged stiffness. That would be more suspicious certainly for situation that needs to be referred to a rheatologist. >> So it sounds like we as primary care physicians should dig a little bit more about the symptomatology because if we're not if if we don't get those details then it's assumed that it's going to be okay or this is just a natural part of the aging process. But like you said, how long is it happening for? Is it involving so many joints that it's impacting their function? Like these things I think are really important to talk about earlier on so that we can help identify is this going to be a serious issue later on. >> Exactly. And uh a lot of times we also look at the patients themselves. What is the age category? Yeah. >> Uh the gender what is the occupation? What are the predisposing factors? What were the circumstances when this uh situation developed? Was there an injury? Was there a sickness perhaps? could be an underlying cause for reactive arthritis which is another kind of inflammatory arthritis. So all of these are important to consider and literally with rheumatology history is one of the most important parts of understanding what's going on with a patient >> and next of course exam. >> Yeah. You mentioned osteoarthritis. The most common joints are the weightbearing ones right like the hips and knees and hands that are more active. But we also need to be more active too. We can't like overdo it. We can't we can't underdo it as well. So how can we just be more thoughtful about protecting our joints, slowing progression? You know, what are the most effective non-surgical strategies that we should be doing in our 30s and 40s, for example? >> Yeah, that's that's very important. Um, for someone who already has some problems with the joints, sometimes it it's helpful to limit the exercise to lower impact exercise such as water aerobics, cycling, or walking instead of running, marathons. But for healthy people in in their 20s, 30s, really any exercise routine that makes them feel comfortable is fine. What I was taught when I was in PMR physical medicine and rehabilitation rotation here at Mayo Clinic is if it hurts two hours after and or the next morning then it's time to cut down on the activities that you are doing. >> Mhm. >> So that that gives you a little bit of estimate as to how one can react to whether they are doing too much or they are on the right track. >> Mhm. And just a quick note on medications or supplements to preserve joint health. There's all sorts of things. Chondroitin, glucosamine, collagen peptides nowadays. Is there a magic combination that seems to help beforehand or is that more anecdotal? >> Yeah. Unfortunately, I don't think we have very strong evidence on any of these. And a lot of them are not FDA approved, which means that there's not been enough studies to really compare and evaluate the effect of these supplements. A lot of times we we would say that you're okay using them, but we cannot guarantee that there's going to be any benefit from them. So if you feel better with that, that's fine. But always report it to your doctor because some of these uh substances may interact with the medications that you are taking for arthritis or for other diseases and that becomes a problem at that point. >> Mhm. >> [music] >> Let's talk a little bit more about this category of inflammatory arthritis like rheumatoid and and seroriatic. What causes the immune system to attack the joints in these diseases? You talked about there's a trigger usually, but what's going on there? Why does it why does it happen? Yeah, it's called loss of immune tolerance. So immune system normally tolerates and recognizes the tissues in your own body as your own, right? But then with certain stimuli and with genetic predisposition that we discussed this immune tolerance can be broken and then the tissue that is your native tissue can be recognized as a foreign tissue and that starts this process of auto antibbody formation and attack of the native tissue with resulting inflammation and so on. So um this is a really complex process and what we understand is that the process starts with genetic predisposition but then it may last several years to decades to actually manifest eventually in a clinical picture of arthritis. Mhm. >> So it's really very slow developing process and by the time we recognize that a person is sick, there's a lot of history that has happened that led to that and a lot of that is actually in the lifestyle domain, including keeping up with your oral health routine, making sure your periodontal health is good, making sure there's uh no smoking, avoiding the air polluted areas, making sure that there's no recurrent infections of upper airways for example. Gut microbiome plays important role as well. So what we eat is also important in a sense that healthy eating. It's frequently called anti-inflammatory diet. But really it's it's it's healthy eating. It's just avoiding ultrarocessed foods, sugary drinks, eating more towards lower fat uh diets, dairy products, um and so on. Avoiding red meat, for example. So, all these general rules apply and and help. >> Yeah. Mhm. >> And as you're talking through this, I'm thinking of specific patient stories that really stand out to me that was caused by either some sort of health trigger or relieved or improved with their lifestyle. Is one woman perfectly healthy developed shingles, a big case of shingles involving her entire arm and after that resolved end up getting rheumatoid arthritis like 6 months later. I also recall a woman who after a pregnancy, it was a very traumatic pregnancy about a year later developed seriatic arthritis. It was the most bizarre thing. Perfect. They were all perfectly healthy beforehand. And the third case that comes to mind is a gentleman who had rheumatoid lost like 120 lbs through lifestyle diet and and it got better. And so it there's so much >> influence of our external environment and the things that we go through and the health issues that we go through that I think again has impact on our immune system. >> Yeah, definitely. It's it's this so-called three heat theory where uh genetic predisposition plus environmental trigger plus this hormonal status or age come together and this perfect storm results in a manifestation of diseases. So in your second example that was um you know a perfect example where postpartum women are at increased risk of development of autoimmune inflammatory arthritis interesting during breastfeeding. It's not uncommon and uh we know that there's these vulnerable times either postpartum time or menopausal time which which associates with peaks of incidence of autoimmune inflammatory arthritis >> specifically rheumatoid arthritis but uh seratic arthritis in your example as well. >> Yeah, very interesting. And then the long-term joint damage and either degenerative and inflammatory, is one worse than the other? Do they all kind of end up in the same outcome? And how important is that early diagnosis to prevent that permanent joint destruction? >> So particularly for autoimmune inflammatory arthritis, the damage is essentially imminent. So if not treated and we have a concept of window of opportunity which essentially is 3 months after the onset ideally or the diagnosis of inflammatory arthritis if we don't start disease modifying antroheimatic drugs demarts they are called >> then the outcome is not as good as opposed in in individuals who initiate those medications very early on and we have several of these medications that we can use but really The key is to get the correct diagnosis early, initiate the effective medication early on, and then follow up with your rheatology physician uh or rheumatology provider to make sure that the medication is doing what it's supposed to do. There's no dangerous side effect and to make sure that you're getting back to your normal self after initiating that medication. So without those unfortunately there is a really high risk that there will be significant damage to the joint and limited function. In the past we've had more joint replacements than now just because we didn't have availability of these effective medications that can prevent joint damage. So we are in a better position now. But in some cases particularly when treatment is started later the disease is harder to control. >> Right. with osteoarthritis is different and it does depend on multiple factors and generally the damage is progressive. We don't have medications that reverse this damage from progression but we can use physical activity, weight loss or maintenance of healthy weight to counteract this trajectory of osteoarthritis. And my observation is that there's there's a lot of treatments out there with the new biologics that are available. I feel like every time I turn around there's a new one and so they've gotten more refined I think over time. >> Definitely. Yes. We have over 15 medications now to treat for example rheumatoid arthritis. We are doing much better but still there is category of patients who would not respond to any of these medications and they are continuing to have symptoms despite having tried a number of options. So that still is the case but this is minority. This is 10 15% of patients and the rest of them enjoy benefits from the medications and frequently we can get patients into remission or at least low disease activity. Um, and ideally, of course, we want them to be in sustained remission, which is remission lasting six to 12 months. >> Yeah, it's just nice to know there's so many options and that it is manageable. It is controllable. I have many people in their 80s and 90s who have a diagnosis of rheumatoid and they're not on any medications because they've been treated. It's it's quiet. It's they're doing well and they're very functional. So, it's nice to know that it doesn't have to define you, right? [clears throat] And that you can do very well with it. Yes, that's that's very true. >> Yeah. Let's talk about the last category which is metabolic arthropathies. Um gout and pseudo gout. You uh mentioned it seems to attack certain joints and it's a little bit different than the degenerative and and the inflammatory type. Can you give us an overview about what gout and pseudo gout is? >> So these are indeed different types of arthritis. And so with gout the the reasons for these disease and disease manifestations is either over production or under excretion of uric acid. >> Okay. And this can come about from several different uh mechanisms uh including uh genetic predisposition for example to this condition particularly in younger individuals or with certain lifestyle and habits such as overconumption of high purine foods that then result in higher levels of uric acid and that would include processed meat, uh shellfish, sugary drinks, beer and spirits. So these type of things >> I've always been curious why gout always seems to make its way into the toes, knees, like wrists. How come it doesn't go to the hip or spine or you know like why those joints specifically? Do we know? >> Monosodium urate crystals are crystals and so the crystallization happens tends to happen more commonly in locations that are more distant from the core, right? because the core is warmer. >> Mhm. >> Generally and so anywhere that is in the extremity particularly in the in the feet uh is more common than anything that is closer to the axial areas. Although currently because we have better imaging we we understand that uric acid can collect literally uh in the axial spine and in the sternum as well. But it's it's much more rare and it requires higher burden of this monosodium urate crystals longer duration of this disease to collect in these spots. So the classical ones still fairly commonly relate to extremities hands and feet. >> Got it. Very interesting. Thank you for explaining that. And we have one last question which is actually for you our experts. We love to hear about how our experts view healthy aging and how you personally live well. So the question is, what does aging forward mean to you and how do you personally age? Well, >> aging forward for me means that I embrace life with curiosity, resilience, but also intention >> and not just counting the years, but also understanding that every single moment is unique and adhering to healthy lifestyle and exercise routine and moving forward with very much of positivity and hope that helps me and I think my family uh also to enjoy every moment in life. >> Well, thank you so much Dr. Messiava for this conversation and for helping us really understand why arthritis happens at a cellular molecular level. Uh, and that's that's one of our main goals of this podcast is to really help people change their health course by staying more informed about what's actually happening in their bodies. You know, understanding your joints is the first step towards protecting them, right? So, thank you for being part of that mission today. >> Wonderful. Thank you so much for having me. It was a pleasure. >> So, that's all for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, [music] and empowered. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, you can leave us a voicemail at [music] 507-538-6272, and we might even feature your voice on the show. For more Aging [music] Forward episodes and resources, head to mayoc clinic.org/agingforward. And to learn more about arthritis, you can check out our show notes where we have included a link to the newly revised and updated book, Mio [music] Clinic Guide to Arthritis: Managing Joint Pain for an Active Life. And if you found this show helpful, please [music] subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others find our show. Thanks for listening and until next time, [music] stay curious and stay active. >> [music]