This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic where we discuss the latest medical advice, news and research to help you live a happier and healthier life. My name is Kristen Meinzer. I'm a writer and journalist and this episode we're talking about common sports injuries to the elbow and shoulder. We all know the benefits of staying active but sports can be tough on the tendons. And it turns out you can still get a sports injury without playing a sport at all. So what are the early signs of injury and what are some ways to prevent it? And is there anything you can do to heal faster? Our guest is Dr. Christopher Camp, an orthopedic surgeon and sports medicine specialist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. he'll tell us how to keep our elbows and shoulders safe while on the court, on the course, and beyond. Dr. Christopher Camp, we are so thrilled to have you here today. Welcome to the show. Thank you so much. Honored to be here. Let's talk about some common sports injuries in the elbow and shoulder. It feels like you can combine a lot of sports with the word elbow. We've all heard the terms golfer's elbow, tennis elbow. And now recently I've been hearing pickleball elbow. What exactly are these conditions and how are they similar or different? They actually all are fairly similar. Tennis elbow, golfer's elbow, or pickleball elbow. Those injuries tend to occur in folks that are a little bit older, I would say, most commonly in the 40s, 50s, and 60 age range. Really, these are tendon injuries. So we have muscles that help us move our bodies. Those muscles are attached to bones by tendons. And these tendons can get irritated and torn. We get tendonitis and there's all sorts of different severities of it. But essentially, all of these injuries are different types of tendon problems that we see. You mentioned that we see these injuries most often in people 40 and older. Are there any other similarities besides age? Absolutely. These tend to be activity -related injuries, and most of them are overuse-type injuries. So it can happen really in anybody who's active, whether that's from fitness activities, weightlifting. It's kind of a wear -and-tear-type problem. And that activity is not just with sports. If you have a physically demanding job, a labor type job, or even if maybe you're not that active, but you spend the weekend weeding the garden and adding mulch to the flower beds and you have a short period of increased activity, that can cause it as well. So it's sort of this combo of high levels of activity and unfortunately also increasing age that tend to go together as risk factors for this. It's such a bummer because we've been told use it or lose it. So a lot of us are out there trying to use it and not lose our mobility, not lose our abilities. Why then do these injuries develop if we're doing what the doctor says? Kristen, that's a wonderful question. And you're exactly right. You do need to move it or you lose it. But we have to be smart about how we do it. So yes, we need to be active, but we need to do it in different ways. One of the reasons these injuries develop is because we tend to do the same thing over and over again. So if you're a tennis player who's hitting hundreds of backhands a day, that really increases your risk of having this injury. But if you're a tennis player who cross trains, maybe you play tennis two to three times a week, and then on other days you swim, you bike, you golf, then you're moving your body in a different way and you're using your muscles and tendons And so you're not going to get as many overuse injuries in one specific area. Now, can we talk about the difference between an acute injury and a chronic injury? Where does tennis elbow fall into that? What are some examples of each of these kinds of injuries? So we generally think of tennis elbow as a chronic or overuse injury, but that is not always the case. So just to explain what tennis elbow is, you get inflammation or irritation of the tendons on the outside part of the elbow. It tends to happen from overuse, repetitive use. The tendons get stretched. They get irritated. You have small little micro tears. We're constantly injuring ourselves and our body is constantly trying to repair it. But sometimes it's really hard on the outside part of the elbow because we don't have a great blood supply. that area of the body. So it's challenging for the body to heal it. So that's how it tends to be a chronic problem. So you're kind of breaking it down. The body's trying to heal it at the same time, but the breaking down process is happening faster than the healing process. That's the most common scenario for tennis elbow. And the same is true for golfer's elbow, which is on the inside part of the elbow. But other than that, they're very similar to each other. However, you can have acute injuries, which acute just means a sudden onset where everything is normal and fine. And then you have a swing of a hammer or a swing of a club. And all of a sudden you just tear the tendon off of the bone and you can tear a completely healthy tendon. So we have an older house. A couple of years ago, I was remodeling it and ripping up some tile on the floor and did it for like eight hours straight. My elbow wasn't conditioned for that. And I tore the tendon off the bone. So when you have acute injuries, it's typically something like a huge spike in workload doing something your body's not used to doing. That can result in the acute injury. Do you tend to see more of one type than the other? Acute versus chronic? We tend to see more of the chronic problems in our clinic because oftentimes for the acute injuries, people will take it easy for a few days, kind of relax and see those go away. And those tend to go away faster. The chronic injuries tend to linger longer. What are the early signs of an elbow or shoulder overuse injury, and how do they develop over increased use or aggravation? So there's really three main symptoms that patients will get with any of these, and this is true of tendon problems around the elbow and tendon problems around the shoulder. Usually the first sign that patients will feel is going to be pain. And it's directly at the site of the injury. So either right at the elbow, if it's an elbow problem, or in the shoulder, if it's a rotator cuff problem. And that's usually what gets our attention. It's hard for us to ignore that. The second one that we see is loss of motion. So we may notice that it's challenging for us to lift our arm up over our head, or put it behind our back, or fully straighten our elbow, or fully bend it. So that tends to happen a little bit later or in more severe problems. And then lastly would be weakness. So the muscle's firing, it's kind of working, but just not as well as it used to. And that weakness actually comes from two different problems. One is that the tendon may be torn, and so the tendon itself is not as strong. But also there's something called pain inhibition of muscles, which means if you have pain, your muscles don't want to fire. They stop. They say, no, this hurts. I'm not going to do it. And so they sort of shut down. Oh, so smart. Those muscles are smart. They are. And sometimes that's helpful for us, but sometimes it works against us. So you can have weakness from multiple different causes. That makes me feel kindness toward my muscles and appreciation like, oh, you're trying to help me not hurt anymore. You should appreciate it. We have to ***** them a little bit to keep them strong. But then we have to respect them. When they speak up to us, we have to listen and respect them. The thing is, though, a lot of us are taught not to. I remember as a little kid playing sports, I played soccer, I played softball, I did some track and field. And I remember fellow players, coaches, and so on just saying, run it off, run it off. You got this. After something feels really painful or there's a bad fall or a collision or whatnot, what is the risk of playing through an injury, even though I was told to do it all the time? Yeah. Yeah, you know, there's risk in both directions. So there's obviously, there's risk if you stop doing the thing that you are doing, right? If you're playing a sport and you're being active, there are certainly risks associated with not moving your body and not exercising. And, you know, those are very problematic. But there is also a risk when you're pushing through pain and you're trying to fight through something. So when I help patients through this, I try to tell them there's a few red flag things that you need to look out for that say, hey, this is serious. You need to change what you're doing. you can't just keep pushing through this. So a couple of those things are, if you have pain that lasts more than 24 hours, that's something that's real and you need to pay attention to it and you need to start modifying your activities. If you can no longer lift your arm up when you could previously, that's a substantial problem. You need to listen to that as well and you have to back off and stop and change what you're doing. If you have any other unusual or concerning signs like numbness and tingling, which sometimes can happen in severe cases, you also need to pay attention to those. And then lastly, if the pain is getting worse, so even if it's mild, but it's trending in the wrong direction, that means you're on a bad pathway and you need to make some adjustments. But I would say if you have some discomfort that doesn't really impact your function, you still have full motion, you still have full strength, and that discomfort is getting better and it doesn't last more than 24 hours, then probably okay to just keep working through that and not get too concerned. That's reassuring. This elbow, golfer's elbow, pickleball elbow, these are all tendon injuries that tend to happen through wear and tear activity. So if you want to prevent these from happening to you, be smart about how you move. Don't just do the same activities and repetitive motions over and over. Mix them up by trying new exercises or sports. If you do get injured, pay attention to symptoms of pain, loss of motion, or weakness. If the pain lasts more than 24 hours, if anything gets worse with time, or if you feel numbness or tingling, it may be a more serious injury, so you should get it checked out. Next, we'll talk with Dr. Camp about how to prepare ourselves to avoid future injury. Question, let's say I'm just injured once. How likely is it that that one injury is going to affect a risk of a future injury? Well, the answer to that question is a very clear and strong, it depends. and what it depends on is how much damage was done and what caused the injury so there are certain things you can do that can have long-term impacts and set you up for future injury risk if it's a pretty severe injury but that's usually uncommon for that first injury the bigger thing you actually have to worry about is what caused that injury is there some sort of mechanical factor, meaning there's something wrong with your golf swing. You're not doing it right. Or maybe you shouldn't be hitting 5,000 golf balls a week. Is there a behavioral thing going on here that's caused this? And if you don't figure that part out and make that change, then you're absolutely at risk for having that injury again. So the key is if you can catch it early, make the adjustments you need to, then you have a good chance of going the rest of your life without having any additional problems. So you use these injuries as educational opportunities and learning experiences to try to put yourself in a better spot in the future. So that's the best case scenario. But let's say somebody out there does get an injury, even though they're trying their best to do the best positioning to not push themselves too hard. But it happens anyway. What steps should that person out there take immediately, whether it's on the court or as soon as they get home? What should they do when they feel that injury come on? Yeah, the good news with these is that most of these are not emergencies or urgencies. So that's good. So really, the only thing you have to do right away is stop doing whatever it is that caused the injury to happen. And that sounds very simple, but that's often very hard for us as human beings. It's something about us sometimes we want to almost prove our body wrong. We say, oh, I just hit that golf ball and that really hurt. Let me try another one, see if it feels better. You know, I don't know why our mind works that way, but it does. It's so true. I'm not going to leave this garden half weeded. That's right. The rest of this garden has got to be taken care of. Yeah. I'm going to finish the job, right? Yeah. So we're wired that way. That's very common. And I would say that's the one thing you want to avoid. If you have a new injury, the first thing you should do is stop doing whatever it was that cause the injury and switch arms, get some help, you know, do something else if the job has to be done, but make an adjustment. Then I think I would say next, just breathe. Don't panic. You have time to kind of sort this out and see how things go. Some early things you can do. So the simple things like ice, compression, elevation, taking some potential anti-inflammatory or over the counter medications. Those can be helpful. All of those are safe to do. They're okay to do. And I generally recommend starting there. And for most of us, if we do that and we do it early enough, there's a really good chance that may take care of the problem for us. But if it doesn't, if we're still having issues several days later and things are getting worse, that's a sign that we got to start doing something else. You said ideally early. When you say early, do you mean within a few minutes, within a few hours? Really just within that day. You don't have to be in a rush to do this all. Or actually, to be honest with you, it's really just before you do something to make it worse is really the timeframe that we're looking at. And honestly, icing immediately versus within an hour or two, probably not going to make a big difference. That's good to know. So as humans, sometimes the last thing we want to do is rest, take a break, or sit still. But that can be important for an injury. Is there a minimum amount of time someone should rest after an injury? Absolutely. The minimum amount of time, I would say, is going to be at least 24 to 48 hours. But in reality, that's going to be dictated by the severity of the injury. So unfortunately, you really need to rest until you're not having any pain, you have all your motion, and you have all your strength. So as long as you're having symptoms, unfortunately, that means you have to rest. The problem, though, is that these injuries occur in active people and active people don't like the word rest. You know, that's a profane word to them. And I get it and I understand it. So what I talk to my patients about is you just have to be smart. It doesn't mean you should be inactive. You just need to find other creative ways and other creative outlets of things that you can do to stay active. So if you injure your elbow or your shoulder swinging a tennis racket, try riding a stationary bike or hop on a Stairmaster or the elliptical or maybe even going for a walk or a run. Find something else that doesn't hurt and doesn't involve the injured extremity to burn off that energy that you need to to stay fit, to stay active. And we tend to be hyper -focused as humans. And people will say, well, tennis is my life. It's my everything. I'm obsessed with it, which I appreciate that. And I get it. Sports is a big part of my life. But then I have to ask the question, what about tennis or golf or whatever that thing is? What is it about that that makes you love it so much? Because there's a good chance that whatever it is you're finding in tennis, you could probably also find in another sport or another activity, whether that's companionship with the people you're playing against, whether it's exercise, whether it's just getting outside or all of those things, you can find other creative ways of doing that. So I challenge people to say, keep that drive. Don't lose that. Just be smart and maybe redirect it into something temporarily while we help you get over this current injury that you have. All right. So let's say I've done the temporary sit in the tennis out, trying to let things heal. I am ready to get back out there, or I think I am. Is there a way I should go about testing if it's really safe to even do that? Yes, absolutely. So some things you want to do, the basics, you want to make sure it doesn't hurt. You want to make sure you have good motion. You want to make sure you have good strength. But then you also need to start thinking about what is the demand of the sport that I'm trying to play. So if we take tennis, for example, some of the higher demand things you would be doing would be serving and maybe your backhand. If it's a tennis elbow problem, the backhand is very challenging. So I say, okay, now I'm doing zero tennis. Pretty soon, I'd like to be serving at a high level and hitting my backhand with no problems. How can I work my way up to that? And that's going to involve, you know, proper warmups. Start with just some light hitting, you know, a ball up against the wall, some light volleys with a partner, and just slowly do more and more and more and more and kind of ease your way back into it. And do you have any guidelines on how to get back into a sport after recovering? A general rule of thumb that we use, which is not always applicable but can be helpful, is that however long you've been down and out of your sport, it should take you about that long to build back up. Oh, okay. So let's say you've had an elbow injury that's kept you out of tennis for three months. Well, you might need up to three months to build back up to get to where you were. That's kind of a rough guideline that people can use to tell how long it's going to take them back. We all make the mistake of saying, well, doc said I can go play tennis. So first day I'm going out, you know, three hours and I'm just going to get after it. And that's not wise. You're likely to re -injure yourself then. So you got to be thoughtful and careful about it. And then the other thing is you have to ask yourself in this process, what am I going to do differently so that I don't get injured again? Am I going to work with a physical therapist who can teach me some drills and exercise and some arm care things that I'm going to do as a part of my warmup that I'll add into my fitness routine that will really help me strengthen these muscles and tendons that are vulnerable to minimize my risk of future injury. You know, so much of the advice you're giving here is just follow my body's cues, pay attention if there's pain, pay attention to mobility and so on. But as we've mentioned, there's a certain point, certain red flags where if the pain is getting worse or you don't have the same range of motion, you can't lift your arm or things don't improve after several days or weeks, you need to go see a doctor. What kind of treatment options do doctors provide in these cases? So we often start with the basics that I mentioned earlier, if those haven't been done yet. So medications, ice, those types of things. But for these tendon problems, physical therapy can be immensely helpful. So that is really probably the mainstay of treatment, whether it's a rotator cuff problem in the shoulder or a tennis elbow or a golfer's elbow, there's great evidence that show physical therapy is probably the best treatment for that. So that's number one. If that doesn't work, then there are some more advanced things that we can do. There are even some injections that can be helpful. There's different types of cutting edge, regenerative medicine, and what we call orthobiologic treatments. And those are things like stem cell injections and PRP, which is platelet-rich plasma. So that's taking the body's own blood and growth factors and re-injecting them into the site of the injury. And there's some evidence that those things might help a healing response. They're not miracles. They don't work instantaneously, but they might speed things up. So those are some of the things that we do early on, and that takes care of most of the problems. But for a small subset of patients that either don't get better with those treatments or if they have complete tears of the tendon, they often need surgery. And that's true for both the shoulder and the elbow. And the good news is that the surgery tends to have very good outcomes. The problem is you have to have surgery and then you have to go through the rehab and recovery process, which slows you down even more. So even though I'm a surgeon and I love surgery, I think it's generally best to avoid it if you can. After surgery, can most folks go back out there and play again? They can. So fortunately, with these injuries, the rate of returning to sport and to work and to activities is extremely high, greater than 90 to 95 percent for most of these injuries. So that's the good news. The problem is it takes longer than any of us want. It takes longer than I want for my patients. It takes longer than they want. It takes longer than the physical therapist. So for a bad rotator cuff tear, it's not uncommon that it's six to nine months before folks are back to do things they want to do. And for some of these elbow problems, that's usually a little faster, but that's typically three to six months. We've all seen this. We've seen people out there playing with sports tape or with braces after an injury or after an ache or whatnot. Is it okay to resume activity with these braces or tape? That's a tremendous question, and it's actually a little bit controversial. For me, I generally tell patients, if those braces allow you to play pain-free, then I think it's okay. But if you're wearing the brace and you're still trying to play through pain, you still have those same risks that I talked about. So don't think that the brace makes it safe to play through pain. And there are certain types of braces, there's some straps around the elbow that can actually give you different problems. So there's one brace that's very commonly used for tennis elbow. It's a little strap that goes around the forearm that can actually cause compression of a nerve and then gives a new nerve compression injury. So the braces aren't always without some risk as well. Let's talk about a more drastic situation. Let's say someone has been feeling pain in their elbow or shoulder. Let's say they're not doing any of the things that you're suggesting. They're not resting it. They're not keeping an eye on it. They're not acing it. They're just going out there and things are getting worse and worse and worse. They keep playing. The damage becomes very serious. What happens at that point when they finally say, okay, doctor, this is the thing that I've done to myself? You know, there's a long list of problems that can happen from that scenario and they go beyond just making the injury worse. You might take something that was small and would have done fine with a little bit of rest and physical therapy and you've turned it into a big problem that now needs surgery. So that's one potential issue. There are other issues, though, as well, because if you're out there and you're trying to play through pain because you have a torn tendon or muscle somewhere in your body, now you're going to be putting increased stress on the other muscles and tendons and joints in your body. So you're putting them at risk as well. And I can't tell you how many times I've seen patients that said, well, my elbow was bothering me a little bit, so I was using my shoulder more, and now I've got a shoulder and an elbow problem. So you can make these things exponentially worse if you do that, and you give yourself new problems. And it's interesting for these problems, especially around the elbow, 95% of patients will be able to heal this and get back to activities without surgery. So there's a pretty high chance of success with non-operative treatment if you catch it early. The longer you wait, the less likely that is to be successful and the more likely you are to need surgery. Once you have an injury, most importantly, stop doing the activity that's caused it. And if you can't for some reason, make an adjustment so you don't injure the same body part further. In the meantime, you can treat the area with ice, compression, elevation, or over-the-counter medications. And of course, you'll need plenty of rest, which should last as long as you continue to feel the symptoms. It's also important to evaluate how the injury occurred. What caused it? Was it poor mechanics or something more behavioral? Finding out will help you prevent future risk. And when you feel well enough to return to the court or the golf course, you'll be able to work your way back up slowly with the proper technique. If the injury is more serious, you might need treatment through injections or even surgery. But don't worry, most people recover successfully to play their sport again. Still, don't wait too long to get treated, or you may make things even worse. Next, we'll talk about how to keep your body and mind healthy and primed for recovery. And people who are into sports but who haven't had an elbow or shoulder injury protect themselves from future injury. My message to somebody who's not injured yet is I would say, take warning and take heed of this. Try to diversify your interests because we never know when something's going to be taken from us. And so it's great if you're all in on one sport or activity, but there's some risk in that and something may happen and maybe you don't get to play that the rest of your life. For me, I was a baseball player, but it becomes harder to play baseball when you get older. It's hard for me to find 18 buddies to go out and play a game of baseball. So I have to diversify my interest and find other things that I can do that still check the boxes for me. So then if I am injured, I've got a menu of options here. I love all of these things. And OK, one has been taken off the menu, but I've got four other things that I can go to that still fill my cup. I think that is such great advice all around in life. I mean, whether it's somebody really strongly identifying with that one sport or with their job or whatever it is, if that one thing goes away, we don't want the rest of us to disintegrate. I think a lot of people who are, you know, maybe a little older, but still super active, really identify themselves as competitors. I'm still this active at this stage of my life. And now you're telling me that I'm maybe not that person that I thought I was and all my friends think that I am. So I think that that part can be an identity crisis as well. So I tell people, if pushing yourself to the limits and achieving things that your peers are unable to do, if that's what drives you, that's okay. But let's just do it differently. Maybe become a distance runner now or become a swimmer or a cyclist. You can still outperform your peers physically in other areas and probably still get that same feeling if that's the thing that drives you. Great advice. I actually had a patient recently who's in his early 40s, super active, competitive athlete, very fit. And he bought a gallon of milk, set it on the hood of his car, and it was raining, started to slide. He went to grab it really quick, had a complete tear of his rotator cuff and couldn't lift his arm. He felt terrible about it. He almost felt shamed. He was like, I'm supposed to be an athlete. I'm supposed to be fit. Why did this happen to me? But fortunately, he came in early. He had to have surgery, unfortunately, but he was an unbelievable patient. He turned his recovery into his new sport, directed his energy and passion into that. and did unbelievably well. So I would encourage a lot of our listeners, if you are injured and you're having to go through this process of healing and recovery, and it's really frustrating you, turn recovery into your new sport. Take that same vigor and energy that you use on the tennis court and apply that to your recovery process. And sometimes that mindset can help. That's fantastic. Okay. So once you've been injured, you want to make sure it doesn't happen again. Let's talk about some strategies for that. What would you suggest to make sure we don't get re-injured or get injured at all in the first place? So oftentimes people will think of sport as their form of exercise, which is okay. But if that's the case and you're really serious about the sport, you probably need to be doing some exercise to help you prepare for the sport. So if you're out there really playing tennis aggressively or pickleball aggressively or 36 holes a day in golf or whatever, you need to be doing some other training to prepare yourself. You can't just play tennis for four hours and not expect some consequences from that. So make sure that you take care of your body off the court as well. Get the sleep that you need. Eat the right foods that you need. Plenty of fruits and vegetables, high protein diet, eat clean, avoid the toxins, too much alcohol, too much smoking. Those types of things can really help prepare your body overall. And strength training has to be a big component of it as well as balance. A little tip, a lot of people don't realize this, but generally speaking, strength training, when you shorten a muscle, you're helping improve the muscle. When the muscle lengthens, that's better for the tendon. So let me explain that. If we want to build up our bicep, so if I grab a weight and I pick it up and I curl it, my biceps muscle is shortening and contracting as I do that. And that helps make my bicep muscle bigger. But then if I'll go really slowly, when I lower it, my biceps is lengthening during that. And that actually helps our tendons more. So one of the tips I would give to all of our listeners is that you should be doing strength training, number one. And number two, when you do, go slow in both directions, when you're lifting the weight and when you're lowering the weight and that can help both your muscles and your tendons. How do you feel about stretching, warming up, cooling down, all of that stuff? So stretching is particularly important for both muscle and tendon related injuries. So tendons tend to get injured due to stretching that they're not ready for because they become stiff with age. We all feel that as we're getting older, we're getting stiffer. Some of that is arthritis, but a lot of that is our muscles and tendons are tightening up and they lose what's called elasticity over time. And so stretching can help us preserve that. And so it's critically important that we should do that, not just when we're preparing for physical activity, but we should have some form of mobility in our regular fitness routines. And the older we are, the more important that is. So even if you're not a tennis player or you're a golfer, you're not off the hook. You still need to be doing this as you get older. it. Should we be weight training a certain number of hours a week? Should we be doing balance a certain number of days? Yes, there is. But the answer for that is really individualized for all of us. So if your goal is just general physical fitness, I want to be active, I want to keep up with my kids or my grandkids, I want to help somebody move the couch without pulling a muscle, then you should be doing probably at least three strength training sessions per week. maybe two to three cardio sessions per week, and at least one to two mobility and balance That's what you would do ideally. But if you're an athlete who's really focused on something, like if you want to play a sport that requires a lot of power and a lot of strength, then you're going to dial up the strength training part of that. Or if you're an endurance athlete who's going to be doing triathlons and Ironman races, you're going to dial up the cardio component of that. All right. So we already mentioned before that a lot of us have been brought up to maybe ignore our bodies or push through the pain, but knowing our bodies, especially our body's limits, and when to take a break, you've said repeatedly, this is important, how can folks out there who aren't used to practicing body awareness start cultivating that right now? You have to think about how growth or improvement occurs. So growth and improvement occurs through repeated cycles of stress and recovery. And what I would tell people is that it's hard to take a break, but it's much easier if you plan for the break and you realize that the break is actually going to help your performance. So I think a lot of people think if I'm resting or I'm taking a break, that means I'm soft and that means I'm not getting better. Not true. If you do it thoughtfully and strategically, it will actually enhance your performance. And if you have any question about that, just look at professional athletes. Professional athletes know there's been more information and data that has come out on workload management, and it's shown very clearly that you have to have periods of rest and recovery in order to keep pace for the time that you're stressing your body. Yeah, this is part of my performance plan, this rest I'm taking. What other injury prevention practices are key, in your opinion? So mobility is a huge one. Rest and recovery is another one. Mixing up your sports is a third one. And then lastly is sports -specific training. So if you're really passionate about a specific sport and you want to do it a lot, you should probably think about doing some sports -specific training. And so you can look online, be careful, make sure the quality of it is okay. Or you can meet with a physical therapist, a personal trainer, strength and conditioning coach and say, hey, here's what I want to do. I want to get better at golf. Okay. Golf is a rotational sport. You're not doing any rotational work. Let's add in some hip and trunk rotation exercises and things to do to help prepare you specifically for your sport. So that can be really helpful. So make it sport specific and get some help. You know, you can't always do all of this on your own. Do you have any tips about promoting overall joint health? I do. there are a lot of supplements on the market. In reality, some of those supplements have shown some benefit in certain populations. But generally speaking, there is no one fix-all, cure-all supplement or pill that you can take to fix this. So I usually tell folks, don't start there. If you're going to invest time, effort, and energy into improving your joint or musculoskeletal health, put your time in the place where you're going to get the highest return on your investment. And those things would be your sleep, your nutrition, and your exercise. And it sounds boring, and maybe that's because it is. But those are the things that have just immense amounts of evidence behind them that show that they can really help. Once you feel like you've optimized your sleep, your nutrition, and your exercise, then it may be worth fine-tuning and playing with some of the supplements and having some different levels tested and things like that to see. It's not as exciting as a magic pill, but we can all do it. Unfortunately, though, most of the meaningful things are kind of boring. Honestly, one of the greatest superpowers humans can have is the ability to do boring things consistently over the long term. If you can do that, you'll achieve unbelievable things in life. But that really is the key. I love that so much of the advice you're giving isn't just how to be healthier or to recover from an injury or to prevent an injury. but just how to live a more balanced life overall. And all of this advice has been fantastic today and just so encouraging. I've really enjoyed this conversation, Dr. Camp. I really enjoyed it as well. Thank you. Remember that your main sport shouldn't be your only source of exercise. If you do one sport often, you'll also need to train for it through stretching and conditioning. When in doubt, go to the basics. Take care of your body through proper sleep and nutrition. Avoid drinking and smoking. Do strength training and practice balancing exercises. These will also keep you in the best shape to perform well. Sport-specific training can also give you an added edge. And don't forget, exercise is important, but so is rest and recovery when needed. Okay, that's all for this episode. But if you've got a question, a topic suggestion, or a follow -up question about this episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272. We might even feature your voice on the show. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mailclinic.org slash healthmatters. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us in your podcast app. It really does help others find the show. Thanks for listening. And until next time, take care and stay healthy.