Okay, my name is Benny Andújar. I was born in Utuado, Puerto Rico, and I currently reside in Orange Park, Florida. I came to the Mayo Clinic referred by a colleague of Dr. Wilson for a colonoscopy and endoscopy. I didn't have any symptoms; it was just a routine exam. I arrived at the Mayo Clinic, and they performed the endoscopy and discovered I had a condition known as Barett's esophagus. It was more of a preventative visit; there were no symptoms, nothing to indicate I had a serious condition. Once they performed the endoscopy and discovered the cause, Dr. Wilson and his assistant, Mr. Heminger, had the opportunity to discuss the various treatments available. We opted for a new procedure that was yielding very good results, and Dr. Wilson thought I was a very good candidate for it: radiofrequency ablation. That was the treatment we agreed was best for me. Before my appointment to determine the treatment, I had the opportunity to go  On the Mayo Clinic website, I read extensive information about all these treatments. When I sat down with Dr. Wilson, I was able to ask him what he thought of this treatment, and his response was that he considered it the most suitable for me. It was a treatment that gave the perfect results we wanted. It's a treatment I would say is extremely comfortable for the patient. They insert the endoscope and through that tube, they insert another tool—I don't know the name of the tool—that allows the doctor to observe and treat the condition at the same time. In terms of invasiveness, I consider it minimal because after the treatment, they sent me home once I came out of the effects of the anesthesia, which is required to anesthetize one naturally, and I never had any complications. I arrived at the hospital in the morning with all the scheduled support, and everything was handled with meticulous care and professionalism that impressed me. The way I was treated, from the nurses to the doctors, everyone I had contact with at the Mayo Clinic was wonderful.  The best thing I could expect as a patient is that every six months, it's automatically scheduled. They call me and tell me to have a visit to the Mayo Clinic where I have another endoscopy to see if there's anything wrong. If it's necessary to touch something up or correct anything, they do it. If not, well, observation. They do a biopsy to make sure there's nothing that escapes the notice. And the last three have been negative for everything, which indicates that my esophagus was restored to its original condition before I got sick.