When we think about aging well, we often focus on exercise and nutrition, mental health, and cognitive health. But there's another dimension that is just as important. Our spiritual well-being. Whether it's rooted in faith or meaning or connection, it really shapes the way we face illness, the way we face transitions, and even the end of life. It influences how we heal, how we hope, how we maintain balance when life feels uncertain. This is Aging Forward, a podcast from Mayo Clinic about the science behind healthy aging and longevity. Each episode, we explore new ways to take care of our long-term health, the health of our loved ones, and our community so we can all live longer and better. I'm Dr. Christina Chen, a geratrician and internist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. In this episode, we are talking with Reverend BJ Larson, the hospital chaplain and the director of spiritual care at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And together, we'll explore what chaplain do, how they support patients, families, and staff, and how tending to the spirit is just as vital as caring for the body and mind. Welcome, Reverend. >> Thank you. It's great to be here. >> I would love to know how you decided to be a hospital chaplain. What's the story behind that? >> When I was a parish pastor in Northwest Wisconsin, I realized that much of the work I did in all kinds of ways was spiritual care. And I realized I had an image of sitting at my grandmother's table and how she connected with neighbors around the table. >> I think that's where I first started learning spiritual care was there. I resonated particularly with hospital visits, home visits, just everyday connections with the people of the parish. I ended up doing a residency in the hospital context and really resonated with both the challenge and the richness of connecting with people when it mattered. So that was many years ago and I'm still at it. I've been doing this work for well over 30 years. >> Can you describe a little bit about what a hospital chaplain does? You know, people think that you're only there at the very end of someone's life and when things are very grave, right? But there may be a lot of other situations in which you may be called to intervene. Can you tell me about some of those situations? >> Yes, we're called at the request of patients, families, or staff. That's the scope of our care. >> And that may be a consult with a new diagnosis. That may be someone who's struggling with treatment andor medical decisionm in terms of aligning with their values and what's important to them and their belief systems, whatever those are. It's quite interesting in our work that we cross the threshold of the door and we may know in general perhaps what the need is but a lot of the learning is through our patients and families that we encounter. >> We also support the medical team. It is both an immense calling to be healers and providers and there are many challenges that we face as human beings >> encountering suffering and death. There's also just a lot of moments of joy and connection when people want you to be there because you've been a part of their journey and this time this moment once in a while a wedding or the celebration of where their journey has taken them and now they have a renewed sense of hope. So we have the opportunity to share in the joys and sorrows that people encounter along life's journey as it intersects with illness. I'm just curious when you are called to be by a patient's side for treatment or something that they're struggling with, whether it's grief or bereiement or just counseling, how do they initially react to you coming into the room? Why are you here? Are you telling me that I'm going to pass away? Is this do they approach it like this is a grave situation? The reason why you're in the room? >> Mhm. That is one of the misconceptions that we're only called at the end of life. >> Yeah. >> And that we're called because someone is religious or wants prayer only. Primarily when we cross the threshold, we're offering it time and a place to listen, to hear what matters to the person, to the family, to hear who they are and how who they are intersects with this time and what is happening. They may have asked for us. So when we cross the door, they're like, "Oh, you're here." Other times it might be, "Oh, who are you again?" then we can be a part of the situation because of rounds or referral from another team member. Sometimes it's another family member says, "Will you please check on my aunt?" >> So all of those circumstances could bring us in the room. >> We can also be sent away. We can offer and someone can say, you know, no thank you. And we can say, absolutely. >> Mhm. And one thing I want you to know is we're not here with an agenda apart from what's important to you. >> So we can go away. We often find that simply being a receptive, present, compassionate presence is the open door and folks begin to use that as they will as fits for them. I'm really glad you mentioned the the receptive comforting presence because I've been in the hospital a couple times these past few months with my mother who's not doing well >> and she's been in the hospital for like weeks at a time and every day you see so many people. They come in and out. They spend a few minutes with you. They're back out again. And the people that I remember the most are the nurses who sat there and talked to her for more than just 15 minutes. It's that listening. It's that compassion. and one nurse even prayed with us. But it's just that spiritual human connection that I think we're missing in our daily lives, especially when you're in that sickness. You just you need that more, you know. >> So, I wanted to talk a little bit more about that. Is many people think aging in terms of physical and cognitive health. How do you see spiritual health fitting into the journey of healthy aging as a whole? Aging is a part of life. Yeah, we're human beings. We're spiritual beings. >> I think there's also particularity when we're aging. There is a forward looking. There's also a looking back. >> We may be reviewing our lives and our choices and the future horizon we see or imagine in front of us. Also then when we encounter changes in our physical body, when we encounter disease, when we have a diagnosis of something we haven't dealt with before and we're also perhaps journeying with someone else isn't always just immediate to ourselves, >> right? >> That's a time where we sort through a lot of questions. What does this mean for me? How am I experiencing this new change? What matters to me in this time? >> Mhm. >> What values or beliefs, fears, hopes, what relational connections are available for even more meaningful time? And or what might we realize in loneliness or isolation or changes that we're missing? So I think it's a natural part of aging and spirituality honors that journey. We're not just the sum of our body parts or what's working or not normal. It's all the aspects of our life that come into play. >> I'm curious, what are some questions that you ask people to help them open up about their spiritual health? Because you know as a physician we're used to asking how are you feeling? You know, we don't often say what do you believe in? How do you open up these conversations in a sensitive way? >> We say often that the emotional is a window to the spiritual. >> So we listen deeply to understand the hopes, the fears, the worries, the wonder, all of the things that are important to this person and this family. and that may or may not be religious. In fact, in our country about 30% of people are non-religious and they have beliefs and values and those things that make life and meaning for them. So listening well enough, asking about those things more, inviting the opportunity to reflect, letting people do that at a pace that fits for them. Sometimes supporting two family members, perhaps the patient and their loved one, to talk about something that maybe they're having a hard time talking about. so we can be an aid to the strengthening of their connection >> because that's ultimately what matters most. >> I completely agree. I think these are conversations that don't happen a lot in the clinical or general healthcare setting. It's kind of weaved in on the side, but it's so important to have these conversations. In your experience, what difference does it make to an older adult's recovery or overall outlook when they do incorporate spiritual health alongside their medical care? Increase peace of mind. >> A stronger connection among the family. I often experience family differences or disagreements can be hard. And when everyone is focused on doing what is best for their loved one, they can work through even things where they might see it differently. I see we all carry concerns and spiritual concerns or spiritual distress. And when spiritual care and others can help us attend to the distress that we're experiencing, then we have more capacity to be together in support of the person who needs our care. And you work with a lot of families, a lot of caregivers who may be a partner in this patient's journey. How do you build trust with the family members and the caregivers? The first place to begin is with the patient, the one who is in the vulnerable care, the one that everyone's concerned about. how we honor that person even if their cognitive ability is limited that we connect with them as a human being. So our extension of care that we're not talking about them when we're in the room together with them >> right >> and that can happen naturally because we think oh they don't understand. >> We also provide separate spaces. People sometimes need space not to be all together. Validating the concerns that each person carries and those can be different in a family >> and learning what's important to them. What are you concerned about? What are you worried about? Not just assuming that we know what that is, but learning what that is for them. We have such richness and challenges in our human relationships and to be able to give everyone the opportunity to extend care and to receive care. I'm reflecting on your earlier description of spiritual care, giving people that peace of mind, knowing that everything's going to be okay, so to speak. But in the setting of dementia, for example, we talked a little bit about cognitive impairment and and eventually forgetting who you are, forgetting everything around you and those people that you love. How do you help people have peace of mind around that? >> That's something that I still struggle with. It's the slow goodbye and to have a happy end point. Gosh, that takes some effort there to have some someone especially who is already going through dementia have peace of mind. We had this experience with my mother-in-law. Her mother died from Alzheimer's. She had Louisibody dementia with Parkinson's, uniquely different from Alzheimer's. And yet her experience with her mom and that long goodbye led her to have particular wishes and desires for herself. So listening to what matters to people from their life story and experience is absolutely an important place to begin. Recognizing that cognition, you know, we may have a bit of a bias in our society that what matters is that we understand. Maybe what matters even more is that we're present with. >> Mhm. There is the grief of the loss of someone we knew and how we interacted with them. And there's the present joy and honoring of being with them as they are now. And holding those together is very painful for family. And the present moment connection at whatever level of cognition it is matters in this moment. We don't know if we have tomorrow. >> Mhm. >> In this moment, what matters? So that's one approach that I would say grounds us in the present. >> Yeah. And that's not always easy for us as humans, we carry the past and we worry about the future. >> That's just how we think. >> Yeah. >> I know whenever I ask people what matters to them. It's a very broad question, right? So I get a variety of answers like well I don't want to suffer. I want to be remembered me at my prime. I don't want to be a burden to people. I want to be able to live well and independently. And it's it's hard because we're connecting to them. We're listening to what matters to them. And then my inclination is all right, I got to do something about that now. How do I help honor that goal? And in many situations, yes, you're able to help with symptoms and help them not be in pain. But then you can't really prevent dementia from progressing, >> right? >> It's that dilemma that I feel like I kind of get stuck at sometimes >> with the what matters to you question. >> I just hear your heart in that. That's so important. >> I think one thing as chaplain and how we support this person living it >> Yeah. >> is sometimes even different than what we would want or expect of ourselves. How we honor their journey with grace and support even when we can't make it different. I think as family members we live with that too. And I would say one of the gifts of being a chaplain just like imagine is for you with patients. They teach us many things. >> Mhm. I agree. And we listen closely to their lives and their rhythms and what's essential for them and support them in attending to those essential things and that's held right along the losses they face with the change and the decline. >> Yeah. So how we support people to share their stories, how we capture what they've willed to us, their ethical legacy, their spiritual legacy. We know that process can be a few weeks or months or maybe a year or two depending on a diagnosis and it can be a really long time. That's true. and rich time. We're so aware of our losses that sometimes it's hard to see also the gift of the time as it's happening. >> Mhm. uh was called to be with a young mom and dad whose daughter was born with um very difficult heart disease and journeyed with them through Piku for a number of months and through the loss of her young life. There are ways in which it's hard to know the impact you have in the face of such suffering and distress. and they took great heart in the fact that they could parent their dear Michelle as long as they could. >> Yeah, that's a tough one. I think the most powerful connections that I have had with my patients is when I come to the realization that there's not much I can do as their physician, but there's still a lot I can do as an a humanin front of them. So, I just stop giving recommendations. I'll just hold her hand, give them a hug, and just say, "I'm here with you." Or, "I remember you at your best and we can get you there." Or, "You are not a burden." Just kind of reaffirming them. And the tears just come. Sometimes both of us were just balling. And that is the most therapeutic experience I feel like I can give to people who, you know, there's no reversing time. We can't give them years back or reverse their brain disease. But I'm here with you and I'm part of that journey. >> Yes. >> And some people might think that spiritual care is more of a softer component to someone's care and that's not so essential. I've come to learn over the years that it's just as important as physical, emotional, health. It's just not something that we can really prescribe like a medication or something. How do you approach that kind of perspective or attitude? At its base, I think it's about being human. When we embrace our vulnerability, when we connect with others, when we find places of activity or energy or spirit that holds meaning for us, >> when we realize we don't leave this life with our body, I think we can tap into all those things that we know have sustained us, given us joy, and Those are the things to invest time in alongside medical appointments. >> Yeah. >> As we're talking about faith as a spiritual component, that can be very polarizing for some. >> How do you work with people who may not be people of faith or perhaps they've had a bad experience in the past? >> Yeah. Someone who is non-religious often is well grounded in one example would be nature. They're renewed being outside. They feel a oneness with creation. Someone else, it might be the significance of their work and now the loss of that agency in the world. What does that mean for them? Now, some convert that energy that they put into their life's work into connections with the next generation or mentoring. Even time spent with a young person of their choosing has a great impact on their overall well-being. And there's often a commonality of the young and the old. There's some spaciousness of appreciation that can be very empowering. >> That generational difference, you mean? >> Mhm. >> Yeah. We talked a little bit about dynamics between family and caregivers and I imagine intergenerational differences that can be sometimes challenging. Do you have any examples of how you were able to influence that dynamic whether it was through an ethical dilemma or you know a disagreement of some sort that you were able to bring that spiritual aspect into that conversation. There are a lot of ethical things that are hard. I also would resonate that many families are asked to make a difficult decision about time to withdraw treatment. >> Right. And I think one of the ways we can age forward well is we let those who might be in that place of having to make a decision for us let us know what their wishes are so we can honor those even as we may be carrying our own loss and grief and uncertainty. >> Yeah, that's where advanced care planning comes so handy. Mhm. >> Do it as early as possible, right? >> Yes. And do it in such a way, I mean, even if it's not just about do I want this or not that, name your values. Name what's important to you. Name what makes life worth living. Support those who may have to make that decision if you're not able to at the time. And ethically, I hope we also help the survivors know that maybe it isn't a decision they have to make. There is a recommendation based on the things we know and sometimes simply our body is calling it differently. >> Right? >> And so not putting that extra sense of burden that I withdrew treatment for mom. The more those conversations happen in families, the better everyone is for the burden of what they carry or feel like they're carrying with that. How do you work alongside the medical team and the staff, especially when things aren't going well? >> It's hard to be a provider in those situations. It's hard to be the primary nurse. >> It's hard to be the social worker. When we see one another as human beings who carry both skill and compassion and when we check in and we simply say how are you even if someone can't answer you right at that moment it matters that you checked in. >> Mhm. >> And that's what we often hear. There are so many aspects of care and this one of the gifts I think Mayo has of teamwork that together we can help hold the needs of this patient or this family. And we're stronger when we lean into each other as team members. And there need to be times where we sustain our practice by connections with each other and deeper connections. I've checked in with providers. I did that recently with an OB doc and she said, "Oh, I didn't even think about you checking in on me. I thought you were checking in on >> the unit and we just took time apart and I don't even think I said a whole lot." She processed things that matter for her to say. >> Yeah. Healthcare providers, we need Chaplain support as well. >> And we've got to build it in a little bit more. We expect so much of ourselves and I think we could have increasingly supportive systems to support all that you pour out. >> You work a lot with our pallet of care team and hospice services and I imagine you see a lot of people during end of life scenarios. From your observation, what do you think older adults want to hear when they're facing the end of life? I'm going to use the words of Dr. Ira Bay. >> Okay. >> Please forgive me. >> Oh, >> I forgive you. Thank you. And I love you. It's that simple. Please forgive me. Like, please forgive me. There's always a time of reconciliation. >> Yeah. >> Even when we're in good relationship, we hold things or we're like, oh, I feel bad about, so please forgive me. >> Uhhuh. And then also offering that forgiveness. Sometimes we hold our loved ones in high regard, but also high expectation. And we may need to let go of what we're still hanging on to. And then thank you. We don't always know the impact we have on each other. So being able to express gratitude and the great ultimate I love you that is so powerful cuz I always do things with sort of the end in sight. you know what is my ultimate goal in life and if I knew that at the end of my life I just want to forgive and be forgiven to be thankful to love everyone and not have those regrets I think I would live my life differently each day >> and we don't have to wait till the end sometimes we want or imagine that moment when all of that comes together >> life is a process there are many opport opportunities along the way. And when we mess up, there is a next opportunity. >> Yeah. >> It's not about perfection. It's about being present. >> Do you have any final examples of a patient story that really stuck with you? >> Early in my career and in my residency, I did the pre-surgical visits before heart surgery. And one day I landed in the room and I saw my car mechanic in the bed from when I had been a pastor in Wisconsin. He was coming in to get his bypass. It was like a tuneup for him. He was framing it in a metaphor he understood that was for him. >> Bob and I joked all the time when I was in that small town. As we were talking, I also knew that this wasn't a walk in the park for him, although we hoped it would be. And talking with him was the realization of that behind his eyes and my eyes. He had a rough go and he survived. When I left, he said, "Thanks, pastor, for coming." M >> the significance I think of that time is we work with people with their metaphors, their belief systems, who they are and in this case a relationship that we had prior and now it's what is needed now and he needed that visit. >> Yeah, >> it doesn't have to look one way. >> He was not primarily driven by his religious identity. He wasn't of my church. This isn't my agenda for them. It's about showing up and being real. >> Yeah. >> And going where people want to go. >> Yeah. So, we have a few closing questions that we like to ask of our speakers on our podcast. And the first is, what does aging forward mean to you? And how do you personally age? Well, this moment matters. and I can miss this moment like the next person and I can circle back and have another opportunity. So, making the most of those moments with friends, family, and strangers and not imagining it could wait for another day. I think that's a big part for me. Making peace with my own life's journey. For me, that's I'd say been a process over time. and continues. You know, my own therapeutic work over time, my own relational work. And then I think there's living into the mystery of what we don't know. How do we live into the unknown? I can imagine a horizon as I age. Yeah. >> And I don't really know what it's going to be. >> Making the best decisions I can. supporting the people, supporting my team, supporting others along that journey and learning from and through them. There's a lot of mutuality in aging. Those are things that I find important. Do you have a parting question for our listeners as they think about their spiritual well-being? >> What is your legacy? No, love it. What is it that you are honoring by how you spend your time? And how do you share what matters to you with your loved ones? How do you share it with your doctor? How do they know that so they can care for you in a way that honors you as a whole human being? What are your values, beliefs, hopes? >> How can you be supported and how can you support those that will be here after you're gone? >> Thank you for that. This is such a powerful conversation. I I think not just for providers, but you know, patients, caregivers, loved ones. This is a reminder that aging forward means embracing every dimension of who we are. And if we tend to the spirit as carefully as we tend to the body, we create space for resilience and purpose and a deeper sense of well-being at every stage of life. So, thank you for having that conversation with us today. Thank you. So, that's all for this episode. Hopefully, you're feeling a little bit more informed, inspired, and empowered. If you have a topic suggestion for a future episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507-538-6272, and we might even feature your voice on the show. For links to some books recommended by our guest, Reverend BJ Larson. Please see our show notes. For more Aging Ford episodes and resources, head to mayoc clinic.org. org/agingforward. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. It really helps others find our show. And just so you know, we won't be releasing an episode as usual in 2 weeks. We'll be taking a brief break for the holiday season, but we'll see you in a month. Thanks for listening and until next time, stay curious and stay active.