I think I know I had a heart problem when I was about 4-years-old, I remember running after my brothers, and I couldn't keep up, and then I would turn blue. Everyone in my family basically has a heart condition. When I was 14, my sister died suddenly of it. She just went for a run at 10-years-old, and then she died. And so, once my sister died, they put me on a lot of medications and took away all my activities. So I had to live my life pretty much like, kind of sedentary to keep me alive. My health began to decline when I moved to Colorado. So that was in 2020. I felt like I was suffocating. As a heart failure and transpant cardiologist at Mayo Clinic, we see a large variety of patients. You know, we're lucky to be able to take care of sick patients and get them through these tough times. We're doing a lot of research to figure out how we can revolutionize heart transplantation and organ transplant in general. The use of artificial intelligence really has helped us understand what we really don't know about transplant medicine. It's a very complicated science. The challenge in Kat's case was twofold. She had a very specific heart condition that made the use of any support devices a little bit higher risk. And she had a lot of antibodies in her bloodstream. Her journey was complicated because she had a lot of offers that we received that unfortunately weren't a good match for her. And so those dry runs are very emotionally taxing on our patients, and on us, as well. You know, it's never a good feeling to be able to give somebody false hope. Basically, I came in at 97% antibodies, which means that my systems would fight 97 out of 100 hearts. So basically, I had a very small chance that they could find a match. It was just a needle in a haystack. How could they find that one heart of millions that I would not reject? So for a lot of our patients, they touched the AI environment maybe once or twice during their care. In Kat's case, it was instrumental for us to be able to understand both her risk and the ability for her to do well after transplant. In the past, there's huge pumps that have to be surgically placed and you have to cut the patient open. We were fortunate to be able to get access to a pump called the Impella. We figured out with our research with AI if you're going to have the need of our transplant or not anymore. This newer regeneration device is a small, thin device that goes in under the artery and sits inside the heart and takes over for the heart. What it does, which is very unique is it supports the patient and allows them to improve their organ function and their physical function while waiting for a transplant. And it doesn't increase the antibody production of a patient, which is a big deal for us. We've realized that there's a subset of patients that actually have recovered their heart function while on the pump. And will not require organ transplantation. In Kat's case, luckily, our team had the capability to place the Impella in her safely and support her while she waited for transplant, which ended up being 127 days. (clapping and cheering) I finally received a match on June 6, 2023. Heart-iversary is our one year anniversary. And I just wanted to give them all big hugs. It's hard to explain how much work people do, what people do to keep other people alive. The gratitude is immense. So one of the research projects we're working on now is being able to use artificial intelligence to understand if we can prevent organ transplantation altogether. And the goal will be in the future to be able to come up with a risk profile or score that's more detailed, and you can help guide providers all over the world. I'm doing amazing. I'm living life out loud, outside. I'm able to exercise, which feels amazing. It feels I never had a good heart. So just being able to use a treadmill or run or workout at the gym, it feels incredible. It feels very powerful to do that. I'm really looking forward to seeing my daughter get older. Most of all. I think organ matching, patient survival, and also looking at the ability to predict who's a high risk or a low risk patient, really is going to change the landscape of transplant in the next couple of years. So one of the biggest things that I always try to reassure patients of when I tell them, we may be using AI in their care is that it's going to help me make a decision in partnership with them and understand that it's not a replacement, but it's an augmentation of the clinical knowledge that we have. And it takes lots of patients over lots of treatment pathways and helps us identify the best one for the person sitting in front of me.