Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Toole, and I'm Dr. Eric Bowfin. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology medicine and more. In today's episode, we are joined by two clinician scientists. Doctors John Chen and Arthur sit. Dr. Chen a neuro ophthalmologist, and Dr. Sit, a glaucoma specialist, combine their interest in optic neuropathies and their backgrounds in bio mechanics to study glaucoma papilledema and more. Dr. John Chen, MD, and Phd, is the Professor of ophthalmology and neurology here at the Mayo Clinic. He is internationally recognized for his work with optic neuropathy and we have hosted him and featured him in our program here at the podcast, previously discussing optic neuritis and papilledema. Dr. Arthur Sit is a professor of ophthalmology at the Mayo Clinic and he is our research chair for the Department of Ophthalmology. Together Dr. John Chen and Arthur Sit were recently awarded in R one for their work involving the bio mechanics of the eye in glaucoma and papalidema. Welcome Dr. Sit and Dr. Chen, thank you very much. It's just a pleasure to be here. Absolutely. We're so excited to have both of you here to talk about your collective research together. I think that's pretty unique to have a research team here together for the podcast. First of all, congratulations on your R one. That's really exciting news. Thank you. Thank you so much. Absolutely. We want to talk about how your research bridges both glaucoma and neurothermologycauseosere. Two totally different specialties. To start, let's talk about ocular biomechanics. I know doctors say you have a mechanical engineering background from MT. You're an engineer at the heart of everything. How did you guys bridge this together? And really, what is ocular biomechanics? That's a great question. And I'll start off by saying that I'm not going to put up any equations for you to look at. First of all, I do have to acknowledge our collaborator on this, Dr. Jaman, who is a Phd in the Department of Radiology. And this is really a collaborative project and the best spirit of Mayo Clinic. We've developed a technology called ultrasound vibro elastography. I'll get to that in a little bit. But first of all, in terms of what is ocular bio mechanics, that's really just to look at the structures of the eye and how strong the tissues are and how does it support pressure. Because the E is a pressure vessel, really is meant to allow us to see and to do that it has to hold the pressure so that the tissues are in a constant shape. But the eye acted upon by a lot of different forces. The forces inside the eye, from the pressure within the intraocular pressure, but also behind the eye, the eyes connected to the brain. So we have the intra crane pressure acting on it. And then we also have muscles pulling on it. We have blood vessels connected and veins, and there's a lot of different forces acting on the eye. Ocher by mechanics is to try to understand the tissue properties and how well those tissues can support all those forces that are acting upon it and preserve healthy vision. John, you're such a true neuro ophthalmologist because as soon as Arthur said the eyes connected to the brain, you immediately had this big smile on your face. It was so perfect. I just had to point that out like yes, the brain, I love it. Now, that's a great explanation, but very complex it is. Ocular biomechanics is a very complex issue because as we all know here, is made up of different tissues, there's different parts of the eye, and again, with all these different connections to the eye, it's a very complex organ. It's also a very delicate organ. It's difficult to measure ocular biomechanics in some other parts of the body. Skin, for example, if you wanted to measure its properties, you might just take a skin biopsy. We can't do that in the eye. We need to find ways to measure it non invasively. That's really what our project, our research leading up to this grant has been focused on developing that core technology. Okay, so we're measuring the stiffness of the eye essentially. Exactly. And why is that important in either glaucoma or optic neuropathies? Why does that even matter? So I'll start with glaucoma and John can explain papidema far better than I could with glaucoma. Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy where there's a characteristic change in the appearance of the optic nerve. And the key factor is intraocular pressure. There's something about the pressure in the eye that combine with all the other forces that act on the eye, that, that cause some patients to nerve cells, retinal ganglion cells, and eventually lose vision, and some patients even go blind. One of the puzzling things though is that intraocular pressure is what we treat in glaucoma, so we lower the pressure to try to prevent further damage. But most patients who have high pressure never get glaucoma. A lot of patients, probably up to half of patients, have glaucoma And what we would consider a normal range of pressure, we think it's more than just pressure. It's about whether the tissues in the eye are strong enough to support the pressure that you actually have. Okay. And then from a papilledema standpoint, it's interesting Arthur gets glaucoma as opthalmologustI get all the other optic, you better be interop. But in terms of papiodema, essentially papiodemas, swollen optic neera from raised intracranial pressure, just like Arthur said with glaucoma. You can have varying amounts of eye pressure and still get the glaucoma. With papiodema can have some patients who have just mildly elevated intracranial pressure and they've got a good amount of papiodema that actually have elevated opening pressures, pressure, they don't have papiodema. Ultimately, we think it all boils down to the biomechanics of the eye. Really, our goal is to try and predict why some patients develop epidemia. We don't, are there some protective features in the eye that might either predispose or prevent papiodema development? How do you measure this? Obviously, in ophthalmology we have different diseases that we're a little bit becoming more and more used to being sensitive to, for instance, keratoconus and the cornea. But you're talking about the globe itself and structures way in the back that you can't just push on like a tonal pen or other Ab or conditions where you might blow a puff of air and see the cornea vibrate. Share with us, how do you measure rigidity of the eye in different locations, especially in the back of the eye near the optic nerve in which you guys are most interested. Absolutely. That really gets to the core of the technique, the technology that we're developing. Essentially what we do is we can cause a small vibration with a mechanical shaker at the front of the eye through closed eyelids. We put the shaker on the eye and it causes a small vibration. That vibration propagates through the eye. It actually starts at the cornea, then it propagates to the sclera and eventually makes it back to the optic nerve. Using ultrasound, we can visualize that wave propagation. And by visualizing that wave propagation, we can then look at how fast that wave propagates. The speed at which that wave propagates is actually related to more traditional measures of tissue mechanics, like the modulus of elasticity. That's really what we're trying to get at by looking at this wave propagation, the speed of the propagation, and different tissues. We can then infer more conventional measures of tissue by mechanics. And this is this independent of age or other patient related factors. Because I would think that potentially age would be something that would obviously play a role in this, either the vitreous changes or the scleral rigidity changes. But it's not. No, it's a great question. It definitely does change with a number of different factors. There's work that predates us that shows that the tissues of the ID becomes stiffer with age. It changes with pressure, which is a confounding factor. It becomes very complex. That's a chicken or egg situation. Exactly. And things like Opia, there's some evidence that it changes with that really a very complex situation. In R one. We've tried to focus down on something that's going to give us the most information from the glaucoma side, we're focusing on normal tension glaucoma patients. Those are patients who get glaucoma without having raised tricular pressure. And we're looking at them before they've had any treatment with medications which can also change the ocular biomechanics. It's interesting, I like analogies. It's almost like you're creating an orbital earthquake and watching the ripple effects. Because truly, and that most of us are well aware of the prediction and understanding that we have. Measuring when the Earth trembles. In this case an orbital echo wave and studying it. Appreciating how tissues will respond differently in different conditions. What was the thought, or how did you strategically package both of these into an R one? It's actually very interesting. You've got paplema on one end, you've got glaucoma on the other. Completely, They seem totally different, different, different demographics. Glaucoma, Elderly patients, patients with papal dema are typically young females that are obese. But it's actually two ends of a coin. It all boils down to something called the trans later gradient in the eye. It's connected to the brain right there at the per, if you've got a high eye pressure or something called the lamino cosa. If you've got a high eye pressure, the pressure actually causes a backbone of lambos. And potentially stretching and damage the epierves. Then you've got a high pressure in the brain, you've got upturning of that Lamar bosa and you get the papo demos. And then there's a lot of stretch of those optic nerves. It all goes down to this translardient. The difference between eye pressure in the eye and the pressure in the brain. That differential is potentially what contributes to these optic neuropathies. That's how we package these together to see how did the bio mechanics of the eye actually influence the changes to eye pressure and changes to pressures in the brain. Is the rigidity of the lamina crbosa where it all meets because is a stiffer lamina better or a floppier lamina? Is that what we're finding? That is an amazing question. The hold Grail is really measuring that lambos. Yeah, the drawback is it's such a small structure we can't measure it with the ultrasound. Essentially what we're doing is we're measuring the pose square right adjacent to it. With a potential assumption that it may mimic what's going on in Lamberto or alternatively it. But we're actually measuring the poor square in the area of the macula, but we actually can't measure that optic nerve. Lambos itself is just too small with our technology we have right now. And then in terms of your preliminary data, I would think that either stiff lamina or more floppy, I don't know what the better term is. Looser lamina is either more pathologic or less, but you're finding the opposite that in one condition, it's good to have a stiffer lamina and then in the other, in glaucoma, it's better to not is that right? Not necessarily. I think you're probably getting to some of the preliminary data that we presented or published. It's again, very complex because if you have a stiff sclera for example, you could actually concentrate deformation into the lama. The converse might be true, where if you have a stiff sclera, you might have larger pressure fluctuations. It's a very complex issue that we're really starting to try to understand. But we did have some work in a previous study where we use this technique to look at the properties of the corneal. We didn't find any difference in the corneal properties in glaucoma patients versus normal patients, but we did a difference in something called ocular rigidity, which is an older measure of ocular bound mechanics. And essentially at the change in pressure for a given volume change for the whole, we can't isolate where it happens, but for the whole glaucoma, patients seem to have a lower ocular rigidity or a more compliant. Okay, That's for the whole I in terms of ocular rigidity. And what are you finding now with your ultrasound looking at posterior sclera in those glaucoma patients? Well, we're very early, so we don't have results that we can present yet. This is fascinating to me, It's remarkable you think about other uses and other conditions that you might shed light on this in your thought process. We're going to learn about the way it sounds going forward. The glocal cohort and the papleminous cohort. What other conditions might this open us up to treating or understanding? I think there's a lot of diseases in the eye that depend on biomechanics. One that relates to papodema is roto faults. Addition, when patients have raised, integrate pressure their optic nerves, we add. Sometimes their poster Clara will get pushed forward, they get hyper optic shift. Then you'll get these curves in the poster sclera, coral folds. And of course, we think that biomechanics is going to play a role there. If it's softer, maybe it's going to be more compliant there and you get more folds. And then outside of ras, intricate pressure, other diseases as well, we're probably going to be dependent on like myopic degeneration. Perhaps if you've got a softer eye, might predispose patients to more myopic generation and that elongation of the eye. And obviously, there's this huge shift toward higher myopia around the world, and really the mechanics of the eye may be that predisposing factor. Then other things, even the cornea with Tics, cross linking treatments. All those things are all dependent on ocular biomechanics and I think ultrasttography has a large role and trying to understand these diseases and trying to predict which patients are more predisposed to some of these diseases thinking long term, in addition to identifying which ones might have a harder course, are there thoughts or hopes that this would lead to treatment changes or new options in our paradigm? Yeah, absolutely. Certainly in terms of knowing which patients are good viable options for treatment. And also I think following treatment effects I think would be helpful as well. Did that cross link link truly stabilize that cornea? I think it can help monitor treatments. In terms of Paloma, preliminary data showed that eyes were actually stiffer that had papodema. Again, not entirely sure if that's because, as Arthur said, the posterior is sclera stiff so it doesn't allow that flexibility. All that pressure is getting transmitted to laminar corbosapaplodema, or are we actually measuring pressure transmitted to that back of the eye and causing stiffening? Then using ultrasound elastography, we can actually determine which one that is by getting the baseline, treating the papodema, making it go away, and seeing if that changes Again, ultrasound elastography can be used to help monitor treatments, monitor response scleral windows. Just thinking about rigidity. There's surgical techniques in the past that have been used to change the sclerial permeability. Any thought that they would give new life. Learning more about the sclero rigidity in these technologies. I think that's a great question for glaucoma. As we all know, there's a lot of patients who, despite our best efforts, continue to have disease progression that may be fundamental to their eyes and their tissue properties. They just may have tissues that are unable to support the pressures that we're able to achieve without extreme measures. We can certainly think that if we need to stiffen the tissues to better support that, then we can do probably not cross linking as we know it, but there may be a way of stiffening those tissues to better support the pressure. On the flip side, if it turns out that we needed more compliant that better absorbs pressure fluctuations, then maybe there's ways of decreasing that ocular rigidity. It's a great question and it's definitely an area that we want to look into as we continue our research as somebody who does optic nurse fenestrations. I thought the same question. I wonder if having penetrated the nerve, even though it's not affecting the actual eye, would have any kind of relation in those pressure mechanics that we're measuring? I think certainly could. The whole idea behind optic nurses penetration is to create that window, allow that flu to drain down. Perhaps that's preventing some of that pressure getting the eye. Then obviously it's effect on the back of the eye, whether it's less stiffening, I think it's probably having a role. So I think we should definitely investigate those eyes that are undergoing optic nursery expense and get a baseline ultrasounds. Geography, do the surgery and then do it again two weeks later in Bee how it changes the rigidity. That's very interesting. I know historically people used to go in and sort of try to cut the cuff in some way and for different conditions. I know fenestrations are back in the nerve. Are there any procedures done to date that would affect the rigidity of the laminal cuff itself? You know, I think you're talking about radio optic neuro neurotomesdsterfy. Clinical results from those were never very good, so I'm glad they're not being done anymore because, you know, a certainly from a clucas standpoint, I can just see that weakening the lamina and exposing the lamina to even greater defamations. Yeah. So you know, likely, but it certainly fits. So I'm just thinking about other surgical things that are done in that area that would change with your measurement tool. What I love is that this is such a relatively early field in terms of research that the questions are endless and there's so many different potential avenues. And I love the collaboration because it's applicable to so many different areas within ocular pathology, which I think is tremendous about your research. And at least someone who's more junior entering sometimes you think all the questions have been answered, all the data has been collected. It's hard to think of something new that hasn't really been investigated. And that's exactly what you've done. Can you maybe talk to some of the younger ophthalmologists out there who have research questions? Or how you stumbled upon a collaborative effort, or what your advice would be to those interested in asking those big questions. I'm sure I can start. And I think that, again, being open to those interesting questions is first and foremost the key thing I can actually tell you how our collaboration started. Yeah, it was through one of Mao's research conferences, where people came and put up posters who had some internal funding through mail. I was one of those participants, Dr. Jan was also one of those participants. So I was just walking around through, looking at the different posters and I saw his poster where he was originally using this technology to measure larger organs like liver and skin. But then I said you use that in the eye over ten years ago, so it's been a very interesting process. Definitely keep an open mind. Look for those interesting questions, but also look for opportunities to collaborate. Because people want Work on things that you're interested in. I think that's key. If you're working on something that someone else told you to work on but you're not interested in, that's never going to work out. We find something that I agree completely. It's all about collaborations and we only have so much time in the day. Think any of my research projects are ever just me doing the research is really kind of finding other people kind of collaborate with their expertise. And it makes for a better project. And it actually makes it more fun too to get a chance to go to conferences with your colleagues and kind of build these research projects together. That's great advice, exciting. It's in the spirit of academic medicine that we're sharing, cross pollinating, working together for the common goal and advancing what we are able to do for patients. And the whole spirit of this podcast just bringing voices to the table, sharing, encouraging and enlightening each other in our practices in patient care. So I thank you both for being here and for sharing your insight and your vision regarding your grant in your R one, but also this new technology to measure our eyes in a special new way. It's a pleasure. And thank you for having us. It's great talking with you. Congrats, guys. Thanks so much. Thank you. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.