 all right, well welcome to bionic, so bionic stands for bioelectronics, neuromodulation innovation to cure, and I'm really looking forward to this evening and tomorrow opportunities to learn about all of your incredible research, learn from some of our guests, learn from some of our guests, and really work as a team towards developing this entity that I really think is going to be game changing for Mayo Clinic Neuroscience. But before I move on, I want to introduce Dr. Vijay Shah. Dr. Shah is the Dean of Research at Mayo Clinic. He's basically the boss. He's the captain of the ship for research, and he's. how he sees bionic fitting within his vision, and I look forward to him saying some words to us. Thank you very much, Vijay. Well, so some of you are new here, visiting, so I'll start with Mayo Clinic. Mayo Clinic is all about patients, you know, and then the research shield is all about new cures for our patients, all right? And then we have a problem, and that's that currently, bringing a new cure to a patient takes about 17 years, all right? So when I came into my role, we took the challenge of how do we reduce that by a log, okay? So that's an aspirational goal, but will require a number of changes to the current way that we bring discoveries to patients. And we're gonna double down on two tactics as we do that, and I'm gonna walk you through some strategic priorities that help us enable those tactics. One of them is AI, and AI is familiar to many of you, and the other is business development, which probably not as familiar to many traditional academicians, but coming to the recognition that to bring cures to patients faster in a modern capitalist system like ours, you engage with business development. So that's the roadmap, discovery science to patient cures, enhanced through AI and business development, okay? So we had a strategic transformation journey, just similar to what you all are doing, and in that, we came up with our strategic priorities for research. And I'll walk you through this, and we'll end with Genesis, which I'll show you on the next slide, and then the interface with Bionic. So really starts here with tissues, right? Mayo Clinic's famous for tissues, in part from all of our famous surgeons who generated so many tissues that we've kept for so many years and collections that are unparalleled anywhere. And then of course, once you have the tissue, you can do omics, you can do a variety of things, but the most important thing you can do is digitize the tissue. And again, Mayo Clinic, far ahead from many other organizations to digitize all of our tissues. And then once you digitize the tissue, all of a sudden, from one data point of a piece of tissue, you have an infinite data point of pixels, right? Of every single pixel of the digitized slide going into this research data atlas, which you see here. The research data atlas contains not just digitized pathology, but it also contains the longitudinal patient record. It also contains all of our omics data. So this allows you now to start to generate inference, right? If you start to integrate patient data, omics, you can start to simulate outcomes, right? So then if you have a patient and you wonder, what about the personalized therapies for this patient based on all of their omics, based on all their longitudinal patient record, and then comparing it to many, many other patients who have a similar scenario, then you can start to make simulations and reach that digital twin, right? Now, this research data atlas and bioresource enable two strategic imperatives. One of them is called Precure. Precure is all about identifying disease before it happens, okay? And we know we have guidelines, we have a variety of crude mechanisms by which we can try to influence behavior, but it's not really very effective, because unless we know what people are doing when they're living their life, the omics by itself is only of limited value, right? So that's where we're moving really towards a personalized guideline rather than a population guideline. So Precure really is the population health version for Mayo Clinic, okay? And that's gonna start very soon. We have an industry partner for Precure because it's so big that you really can't do it yourself as an academic medical center. And in Precure, we're gonna have two pieces to it. One is a retrospective collection. All of the tissues at Mayo Clinic, hundreds of thousands of tissues that we'll be getting whole, we'll get exome plus sequencing on, and we'll also get O-link proteomics, a variety of other analyses that will all be integrated into this atlas. Neurology, neurosurgery is one of our lanes of Precure. We have liver, lung, heart, kidney, brain, yeah? All of them are transplantable organs, and we also brought in the brain because you all are amazing with what you do. So we just decided we needed to embed that as well. And then the prospective part of Precure is pretty cool. So there, we'll identify certain conditions that are sort of early monikers of the disease. So mild cognitive impairment with Ron Peterson and a team of neurologists and neurosurgeons. And then we'll be tracking those patients over the next few years, collecting specimens, and importantly assessing outcomes based on exposures, based on environment, and based on genomics. So it's a pretty powerful vision for Precure. And then Genesis. Genesis is what it's all about here, and all of your bionic is just amazing, right? And Genesis is the similar model, again, brain, lung, heart, kidney, liver. Now, the challenge is people are getting so excited about it, we're needing to add more. So Matt Abdel and orthopedics want a Genesis for the joint. So we'll have end-organ joints and islets for diabetes, et cetera. And we'll talk a little bit more about Genesis in the next slide. And of course, the way that we make an impact for new cures to our patients is through clinical impact. Clinical impact is about clinical trials. It's about enhancing activation time, some bread and butter type blocking and tackling, right? But then there's also a vision for the future of how clinical trials should occur. And Dr. Zadeh has shown us some of the power of the Mayo Clinic platform, how you can actually run a virtual clinical trial on the Mayo Clinic platform. So that's part of the roadmap of the clinical impact, is not just excelling at trials today, but thinking about how trials become global so that every patient in the world is a Mayo Clinic patient, and how we start doing virtual clinical trials. So Genesis, a little bit more about this model. What is Genesis? Genesis started as an initiative to enhance our innovation pipeline within transplantation. And that's why, again, we started with liver, lung, kidney, and heart. And we said, to drive innovation, we've talked about needing more AI and needing more business development. So let's talk about both of those. First, we know we have great clinicians here. We have great scientists. We have great entrepreneurs. And how can we assemble them together so they can work in tandem to first identify the major problems in their disease area? OK? So I'll give you an example in liver. In liver, we identified that portal hypertension is just like any other form of hypertension, but yet there's very few treatments for it. And we know that now we're starting to use mechanical devices to start to treat high pressure, because you can use a closed-loop system where you can measure the pressure. And then you can have an automated process to adjust vascular devices accordingly to reduce that pressure. Think of a tip shunt, right? A tip shunt right now is a static device. But if you make it a closed-loop process where you monitor the pressure, and then you have the device change its caliber, all of a sudden, you have the ability to dynamically modulate pressure. So that comes out of medical innovation teams. But we don't have the engineers. We don't have all of the processes to do that. We have the ideas. So that's where we need the other parts of the Genesis ecosystem. One of them is enabling resources. So enabling resources, at Mayo Clinic, we have the Center for Regenerative Biotherapeutics. A lot of these medical innovation teams, in fact, will end with cell and gene therapy products. We have the longitudinal patient record. We also have what we're building out with NVIDIA now is the virtual cell. So you can imagine now if Jeff Ross, who's here, one of my colleagues from Genesis, if Jeff is trying to identify what kind of cells he wants to embed into a scaffold to transplant into a patient, if he already knows the disease phenotype of all the cells and the phenotype of the normal cell, that when he takes his IPSC and starts to transform it into a personalized cell, he's able to use all of that genomics data to simulate all of the outcomes that that cell might have. And that helps him make the right IPSC type cell. And then finally, the third part of the Genesis model is the ecosystem. So as I said, for our portal hypertension device, we're not engineers. We're not able to make an expandable tip shunt, right? But there's actually CDMOs. There's private equity. There's a variety of engineers that we can contract out to to help us, right? And of course, we have academic partnerships as well. But the scale and speed we want to go with at Genesis will involve the ecosystem. And again, that's where Jeff will help us. And many other entrepreneurs and residents at Mayo Clinic will help us identify the right partners so that we can accelerate that process, the medical team innovation products to bring them to market. So that's the model for Genesis. And of course, Bionic is actually pretty far ahead. We're catching up with our Genesis and all of our activities. And we're really looking forward to that partnership where we identify the best ideas you have. How do we partner with you to provide those enabling resources and provide the partnership around the ecosystem so that we can accelerate new cures for brain disease? So I look forward to that partnership, and I thank you.