 l-purepure,ilated con, l-purepurep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l-purep,ilated con, l- than I've known my wife, who's here in the audience. And we actually had our thesis advisors run each other's committees. And after finishing his MD PhD at University of Washington, where he studied physics and biology, he then, and actually before that, he was a Fulbright fellow in Sweden. And then he was a resident at University of Washington followed by his fellowship here. And then he came on faculty here. And before I was resident for a year or two into when Dr. Lundsman started here, because he was already a fellow here and knew he was going to be staying, I thought I was going to a different institution. And I tried to pull him away to join me at that other institution. I remember walking around the Society for Neuroscience meeting, trying to talk him into it. And he sold me on all of the wonderful things about Mayo at the time. So he's going to be talking about non-invasive brain stimulation and monitoring today. But he does have a rich history with implanted electrophysiology, including foundational work in many of the other talks that you'll hear. So thank you so much for kicking everything off. Thank you very much, Kyle. Thank you. I remember that conversation quite well, walking out by San Diego in the nice air, telling Kai all about the wonderful winter weather we have here. He had a few words for me that did not suggest he was going to come, but you did. This 62-year-old retired airline pilot has a left frontal meningioma there that was known. But the reason he presented to the hospital was because he couldn't remember yesterday. He couldn't remember a significant portion of yesterday. And so he came to the hospital. I saw him in the hospital. I did a physical exam. And of course, I did a mental status exam. He passed it with flying colors. 30 out of 30. Perfect. Now, if you read EEG for a living, you're going to look up to that top right, and you're going to see that EEG. That EEG is not normal. It's not mildly abnormal. It's not moderately abnormal. It is very abnormal. So I saw this EEG, too. We gave him a medicine to decrease his hyperexcitability. Sometimes we call those medicines anti-seizure medicines. Other times, we use those medicines for headache, for chronic pain, for mood disorders. But in any case, here, we call it anti-seizure medicine. He got the medicine, and his EEG changed to what you see at the bottom right, which is then normal. I went back, and I talked to him, and he said, you know, I think much more clearly now. I want to highlight. And then, actually, he went on. He actually stumbled around with these anti-seizure medicines for months and had seizure activity that was intermittently ongoing and difficulties with confusion and so forth, in part because he couldn't tolerate the medicines and its systemic side effects. So I want to highlight two points here, and that is we're not very good at assessing brain excitability, really, correlating that with brain function, and we're not very good, in some ways, of treating it, with medications, anyway, because of systemic side effects. If you think about medicine, broadly speaking, you can sometimes parse it up into two pillars, traditionally, drugs and surgery. But what we're here talking about is a third pillar, bioelectronics, which has been around in some sense for a long, long time, but only recently, with some of the advanced computing powers, have we been able to take some of the fuller advantages of bioelectronics. And I'm going to talk about bioelectronics here primarily in the setting of epilepsy. And the reason for that is because epilepsy is, in some sense, a prototypical disease of hyperexcitability. Like many other neurological diseases, hyperexcitability is the problem. However, with epilepsy, as a part of clinical care, we have the opportunity to sample brain neurophysiology in an unparalleled fashion. For example, here, this is invasive EEG, which we clinically do for diagnostic-only reasons. And these patients have 12, 14, 16 electrodes implanted into their brain in various ways. So we have an opportunity to record information from these patients for hours, days, and in some other cases, even years. I'm going to talk about bioelectronics primarily related to epilepsy. And even within epilepsy, there's a lot of different options. As you can see, most of the options have three letters. And I'll talk about two of those three-letter options over on the right-hand side of this figure, which is non-invasive brain stimulation. There's multiple invasive forms of brain stimulation. And I'm going to focus just on two foundational approaches of non-invasive stimulation, TMS and TDCS. So TMS. So this is transcranial magnetic stimulation. It was actually developed a long time ago. And the reason it was developed was because it turns out that it's nice for research and maybe even clinical reasons to stimulate the brain. And you can apply electrical stimulation directly to the scalp, not invasively. And we, in fact, do it clinically all the time, but we do it to anesthetize patients. It's quite painful. And actually, in some senses, maybe not even quite as focal. In contrast, TMS uses magnetic pulses, which, for reasons of physics, can induce very focal electrical pulses in a relatively painless fashion. And these are strong enough pulses to cause muscles to twitch, to cause action potentials to fire. And you can do this for diagnostic and therapeutic reasons. Principally, TMS is used diagnostically for motor and language mapping of the cortex. That N in front of the TMS there sometimes is used to signify navigated. That just means it's steotactic. It's combined with MRI structural information so that these stimulation pulses that you can see to the right there, for example, those yellow dots, are within a precision of a couple millimeters and isolate specific muscles of the hand, for example. TMS can be combined with EEG diagnostically so that you can stimulate and record immediately. And therapeutically, it's used for a variety of indications, depression, addiction, psychiatric indications, headache, pain, tinnitus. The first few of those, in fact, are FDA-approved in a variety of settings. But it's been used for a wide variety of situations, including even as a trial therapy to see whether invasive stimulation may be helpful long-term. It is quite safe. One of the benefits of TMS is that there are side effects, and you can do it improperly, but broadly speaking, it doesn't have systemic side effects like medications do. I'll say something about TDCS2, transcranial direct current stimulation. The direct current piece just means that it's constant current. It's about 100 times weaker than TMS. And in contrast to TMS, which is a little bit more expensive of a device with sophisticated hardware, this is cheap. Therapeutically, it's been used for exactly the same reasons that TMS has been, although it's not FDA-approved or cleared for anything. It is not safe. It's actually very safe, even safer than TMS. Throughout 30,000 and up until now, probably even close to 100,000 sessions, serious adverse effects just really aren't reported. In fact, it's safe enough that it's sold direct to consumer. If you go onto Amazon, you can find any number of these devices. If you search for brain doping, this is what will come up. It's used actually widely for performance enhancement. That's physical performance enhancement. If you're on the U.S. ski team, you'll jump 11% farther. But also cognitive enhancement, all kinds of things. If you want to learn to play the piano more quickly, maybe you should try this. Don't take that as a doctor's recommendation, however. But the question might be, how well does this work for things like epilepsy? So we had a patient about five years ago who came into the epilepsy monitoring unit, and he had about 50 to 60 seizures per day that led to confusion, some difficulties with his eyes, as you might imagine, because there's actually a lesion up here in the left occipital head region. It's not so amenable to resection. And he didn't respond to medications, but he did receive five days of TMS. And what you can see is that over the five days, his seizures decreased. The seizure activity is there on the EEG. That is also not mildly abnormal. It's not even moderately abnormal. It's quite severely abnormal. And that activity, a little bit by a little bit over the days, decreased. And at 30 days, he came back for a 24-hour EEG that did not show any seizure activity. And as we're doing this, in the bottom right there, we can also track how his EEG is changing over time in response to this treatment. So this patient had a few treatments throughout the subsequent year, every few months. But after that first year, he really hasn't been back and essentially continues to be seizure-free. So at times, rarely, these approaches seem to lead to dramatic responses. And in fact, there's a video here down at the right if you take a look. The Mayo Clinic talks about this case in some detail. It's a fascinating case. We've looked at these patients, both TDCS and TMS, in a variety of settings. Again, TMS, you can't really use it at home, but TDCS, for example, you can. We've used TDCS not just at home, but even in the ICU, in the outpatient setting, inpatient setting. And this is just an initial publication from about 25 patients. And although these are different approaches, they have different strengths and weaknesses, sometimes patients to any of these approaches can do very, very well. But it's really only about half of patients that do very well to these approaches. And in fact, they do well enough that it's sometimes, at least, in the same ballpark as invasive stimulation. So the question is, how can we do better if we believe we can do better? And I think we can. Cortical excitability seems to be a common feature of the brain throughout many of these disorders. It's not just epilepsy, although I think epilepsy can help us with many of these other disorders. Bioelectronics is a way that we can alter excitability. And noninvasive brain stimulation specifically has some key benefits in that it is very safe. It doesn't have systemic side effects. It can nonetheless be targeted. And the question is, can it be disease-modifying? Well, do we know what we're doing? I think, broadly speaking, we don't. It's remarkable, actually, that things work as well as they have. And what we need is a way to understand better what we're doing with our therapy. Brain activity biomarkers, you might call them. So this has been a long interest of mine, stemming back to when I first got to know Chi. This actually is a neuron that I recorded from. It's not a human neuron, but rather a rodent neuron. And if you see the result of the trace here, this is in red. Can you see maybe that these action potentials slow down just a little bit over time in response to this constant stimulus? So I continue to spend time trying to understand this. That equation is one of my favorite equations down there on the bottom left that explains a part of it. And it has to do with calculus and how you define and understand excitability. And what we think is how is that reflected in low frequency of EEG specifically? So we're using this kind of approach to try to better understand how we can stimulate the brain. And, in fact, we have built models that are from the bottom up, so from basic neurophysiology principles. And it can see that stimulation can infect the brain in ways that we sometimes would like to see, but not ways that you might expect. For example, here, this model is showing periodic discharges, like you might see in epilepsy or seizure patients. And when you increase stimulation enough, the brain sort of calms down. That's not typically what you see when you add more electricity to the brain. It doesn't necessarily calm down, but it does here. And so we think that this gives us some insight in why brain stimulation might work and how we can use it better. But the second thing is that I mentioned we would like to be able to see this in patients. How can we understand what's going on in patients? And part of that is by looking at EEG. But maybe we don't always have the opportunity to look at invasive EEG, which can be very sensitive. And scalp EEG can sometimes be problematic. There is another option that we have started to use here in the last year, and that is magnetoencephalography. Due to the physics of MEG and magnetic activity, it's about twice as sensitive as scalp EEG. Now, this brain activity that we see with the magnetic activity is very small. And you need supercooled quantum interference detectors to detect it. And the MEG system is optimized for source localization and detecting how the brain responds to stimuli. It's clinically indicated primarily for reasons related to epilepsy and localization and also cortical mapping, which can be used related to surgery. But it's a way that we might be able to better look at the brain. In fact, here on the right, we took some of that math from the last two slides and predicted where the seizure onset zone would be. And this is for a patient who recently then went on to have stereo EEG or invasive EEG. And what we found is essentially the seizure onset zone before it was found with the invasive EEG. So these are the kinds of approaches that we think might be able to help us in the future optimize brain stimulation. So what might the future look like? Well, I think that we should be able to better quantify excitability across time and different disorders and with different treatments. And hopefully with brain stimulation, we have multiple different pathways to treat patients as might best suit their specific needs. And even within a patient, we can optimize to aspects that change even with brain state over time as they sleep, as their medications change. But whatever we're doing, oftentimes right now cures, at least in epilepsy with some of the modulation we do, are relatively rare. We sometimes see these cases where they are cured. And what we're hoping and what we think and what the evidence suggests is that with optimization, cures can become more common. Thank you very much.