Dr. Alex Porter is a neurooncologist for Mayo Clinic. She's part of an interdisciplinary team that treats the most complex and serious cancers of the brain and nervous system. Dr. Porter says she is only one of three black women practicing neurooncology in the United States. If you look at the latest census data for African-Americans, we're at around 13% of the US population, but only 5% of the physician workforce. Hispanic or Latino populations measuring around 18 to 20% and yet in only 8% of the physician workforce. And so there's certain groups that are underrepresented compared to what the demographic looks like. And research has shown that under representation in race and ethnicity among the physician workforce leads to health care disparities and less than optimal patient health outcomes. Mayo Clinic is focused on closing that gap. Mayo Clinic is devoted to eradicating racism and promoting health equity. In 2020, they earmarked 100 million dollars as a commitment against racism. And so, I see the investment time and time again in ensuring that we're part of the change that we all wish to see. Dr. Porter leads a nonprofit organization she founded called Elevate Med along with her husband Dr. Gregory Umprey, also a Mayo Clinic physician. Elevate Med's vision to inspire and support future generations of physicians from historically underrepresented backgrounds with scholarships, mentorship, leadership development, and financial wellness education. It is personal. This was a gap that we both had in our medical school and early career metriculation. And so really, we've aimed to fill that gap with what we wish we'd had. My name is Awar Baldu and I'm a first generation immigrant from Nigeria. Awoma is an Elevate Med scholarship recipient and attends the Mayo Clinic Alex School of Medicine. His goal of becoming a doctor stems from his own upbringing in an underserved community. That really sparked something in me to say that, hey, there's so much more that I can do to impact people from communities like where I'm from uh and really make a difference in their health and their health outcomes. Making a difference. It's a commitment inspired by the greatest leaders of our past, present, and future. I'm hoping that we'll start to see health disparities eradicated and we'll stop seeing differences in survival just based on your race and ethnicity. That's the big dream. That's the big goal. But we have so much work to do before we get there. For the Mayo Clinic News Network, I'm Marty Velasco Hayes.