This was a retrospective study looking at whether a woman's age really impacts their risk of local recurrence. We know that local recurrence is important in that women undergoing breast conservation are always at risk of local recurrence, but that average risk over about 10 years is usually in the six to eight percent range and there's been a variety of reports some have indicated that local recurrence risks are higher when you're younger and other reports have conflicted this and said that younger women have a similar risk to older women. So, the design of this study was a retrospective look at women treated at any time point at the Mayo Clinic between 1988 and 2001 and that underwent breast conservation surgery meaning they underwent lumpectomy along with radiation. We had over 3,000 women that fit that description and we looked at them based specifically on their age and one of the key findings of the study is that younger women have a higher risk of developing a local recurrence if they undergo breast conservation surgery than older women. And importantly this is also when we adjust it for the size of the tumor and tumor characteristics. We look specifically at women under the age of 40 we found that their local recurrence rate was about 11.9 percent. So close to 12 percent and this compared with women over the age of 40 where their local recurrence rates were in the six to eight percent range so significantly lower. When we look specifically at a five-year follow-up after the time of surgery we see that about 90 percent of women under the age of 40 will have not had a recurrence whereas for older women this value is 95 to 96 percent. And so in terms of clinical practice this doesn't mean that young women should not undergo breast conservation surgery but I believe that it's important that younger women are aware that they are at a higher risk. And this really feeds to where we're going with breast cancer therapy towards individualized medicine and the 35 year old woman that we see in our clinic visit does not necessarily get the same counseling or the same local recurrence risks quoted to her as a 55 or a 65 year old woman with the essentially similar tumor. Young women often still want to keep their breasts and this by no means means that they cannot keep their breasts but they should be aware that they do have a higher risk of having another event within that same breast where the tumor comes back close to the lumpectomy cavity and they should be counseled for that and be able to take that into account as they decide between lumpectomy and mastectomy. So for an average patient if they're diagnosed with breast cancer under the age of 40 they should understand that their risk of developing a cancer back in the breast that they had lumpectomy in is higher because they are younger and this may sway them more to lead to choose a mastectomy. Specifically women who are very worried about a local recurrence where the tumor comes back in the breast or alternatively for women who do choose to keep their breast it really makes them educated on the importance of other factors to try and decrease their local recurrence rates such as the importance of the use of adjuvant radiation therapy. The importance of adjuvant hormonal therapy for those tumors that are hormonally responsive the importance to obtain negative margins at the time of surgery, and then also in the long run the importance of close follow-up so use of regular mammograms and physical examinations to keep an eye on that breast so that if a recurrence does occur that it can be picked up at an early stage and be treated.