Breast cancer diagnosis is, I think, one of the most life -changing events for a patient. A very important part of their journey is to receive, you know, that initial support and just a warm hand to say, we're here for you, we listen to you, and we'll do our best to take care of you. I think there's the medical component of a cancer diagnosis, and then there's the psychological component. So when patients get a diagnosis of cancer or they have an abnormal mammogram, that That panic is real and that panic sets in. I think when you're facing a cancer diagnosis, knowledge is power. Getting second opinions is the smartest thing you can do. The sooner that we can establish a connection with the patient, we're going to be helping them. We're going to be starting the journey to healing them at first contact. The fact is that there's two surgical options to remove the tumor. You can have a lumpectomy or breast conservation surgery saving the breast, or you can have a mastectomy. About 80% of patients are actually eligible for breast conservation with a lumpectomy. And then there's a number of different techniques we do in the operating room to rearrange that tissue to fall into that area where the tumor was removed. Where we've seen the innovation in mastectomies is a much higher rate of saving the ****** and areolar complex of investigations into saving the sensation associated with the ****** and areolar complex, advances in reconstruction using your own tissue, which gives a much more natural final result. Chemotherapy, I tell patients, is like a sledgehammer approach. But these newer therapies, particularly targeted therapies and immunotherapies, are very precise, very targeted, and that translates into potentially fewer side effects. and that allows patients to have a better quality of life but also live longer with better symptoms. I think it matters where you go and it matters the team that you're seeing and it matters that the team is integrated, that the team talks to each other, the team thinks about the consequences of decisions in one space and how it influences or impacts decisions down the line. The Breast Center at Mayo Clinic is a unique model where all the specialists that are involved in the care of our breast cancer patients are co-located in the same space. So the mammograms and ultrasounds, breast MRIs are all done around the same location. And it also allows the patient to be seen by a variety of experts. People will say my job is hard, but I think it's actually quite easy because I only have to be good at one thing. And then in turn, I know that all my colleagues are really good at that one thing as well. And so I think about the dynamic of the group of us and how we build off of each other's skill sets and knowledge. I think that you cannot underestimate the fact that we are not just a center of excellence for breast care, but we are a center of excellence for multiple other specialties with world experts in each of those domains. And the fact that we can provide then this higher level of care to each and every one of our patients that comes through the door, it sets a standard for what the patient should expect when they come to the Mayo Clinic for care.