This is Health Matters, a podcast from Mayo Clinic, where we discuss the latest medical advice, news, and research to help you live a happier and healthier life. My name is Kristen Meinzer. I'm a writer and journalist. And this episode, we're talking about oral and dental health. Everyone wants a dazzling smile, but teeth are so much more than meets the eye. They do more than grind up your food, too. Your mouth and teeth are the gatekeepers of your body. They protect your heart, lungs, and other organs from bacteria and pathogens, and what happens in the mouth doesn't necessarily stay in the mouth. This episode, we're putting a spotlight on the mouth with Dr. Sarah Lee, a prosthodontist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. She's here to teach us how oral health and overall health go hand in hand, as well as how to take your dental hygiene to the next level. Dr. Sarah Lee, welcome to the show. Thank you. We are so glad to have you here today. You with your infinite wisdom about our mouths, our teeth, and the world beyond our mouths and teeth and how all of these things are interrelated. So before we get started, you're a prosthodontist. What exactly does that mean? It's actually a specialty within dentistry. We are the specialists who focus on replacing missing teeth and other parts of the mouth and even some parts of the face with prosthetics. So the pros is for prosthetics. And the dontics is referring to teeth. So let's start off by clearing the air on a few things. I know this is going to sound like a very basic question, but first and foremost, what are teeth? Some people say they're bone, but they're not really bone, right? Teeth are not bone, but the teeth within themselves are a very complex structure. They consist of typically three layers. We have the enamel layer, which is the outer layer of the tooth, the strongest layer that serves as the buffer between all of the substances that we put in our mouths. And they help resist a lot of the wear and tear through our diets and our oral function. And then the layer beneath that is the dentin layer that gives the structure of the teeth, but also more of that sensation piece. And that's the piece that once we have like a cavity that goes through the enamel, the dentin is the piece that becomes really undermined. And below the dentin, we have what we call the pulp, which holds the blood supply, the nerve to the teeth. Now, we all know we use teeth to chew our food, but what are some of the underrated or overlooked things that teeth do for us? Smiling. We're actually using our teeth as social tools. There's a lot of associations between youth and beauty based off of your smile. So I would explain to people, we actually use our teeth more than we drive our cars, more than we live in our houses, because you're using them to engage, interact. You use them a lot for speech. Things like S's, T sounds, those are actually sounds that our tongue uses the teeth as a point of contact to help those enunciations and articulations. So even things that are so subtle as speaking to your person over the phone, those are all related to teeth. Here's a question. Broken bones, they mend, cuts, they heal. If we lose fingernails, they grow back. But if we break or lose an adult tooth, why don't they grow back? If we found out a way to regenerate teeth, we could all retire now. and call it a day. Tooth regeneration has been something that's undergoing a lot of research. Unfortunately, the process is very complex, and it kind of goes along with how we develop as babies. Teeth are involved as early as the fetal level. We haven't been able to identify the appropriate sequences, the appropriate ingredients, to be able to do what we organically and naturally can. Now, teeth are the first thing that a lot of us think of when we talk about oral health, but what other parts of the mouth are critical to our oral health? I really like the expression that we use, which is the white stuff, the pink stuff, and the black stuff. The white stuff is talking about teeth, but then the pink stuff is the gum. And then the black stuff means the space between the gum and the teeth. So the gum is really important. The more scientific terminology for gum tissue is gingiva. And the gingiva is really framing the teeth. So from aesthetics part, it's important, especially for those who have one of those like big Julia Roberts kind of smile. You see not only her teeth, but you see her gums. But the gum is also really important in the sense that it has a lot of blood supply that connects to the rest of the blood supply in the body. So there has been a lot of research dedicated to understanding how gum health relates to cardiovascular health, but also how the gum health is affected by systemic diseases such as diabetes, as well as things like smoking. The gum health really serves as the basis for what we call alveolar bone health, which is the bone of the jaw that holds onto the teeth. And the periodontal health is the foundation for our teeth. So like a foundation for a house, if that foundation is compromised, your house is going to be compromised or get wobbly and break down. Same thing. If we lose bone around the teeth, no matter how beautiful or even healthy those teeth are in and of themselves, they're not going to stay stable for you to really be able to eat or use them. Obviously, things like the tongue, which is important for speech and swallowing, the flora, the mouth, the palate, all of those things relate to oral health. How much of our oral health is due to habits and how much is due to genetics? Oh, that's a very loaded question. They've done studies where they found the bacteria in a baby's mouth is actually the same as their mom's. Oh, wow. And so for patients who are pregnant, there has definitely been a big push to have those patients receive prenatal or perinatal oral health care. Genetics-wise, there are actual conditions that people are born with that cause issues with tooth formation. However, environmentally, things like our diet, our oral hygiene habits, those also play a big factor. But particularly with mom, if mom is somebody who brushes twice daily, flosses on a daily basis, more than likely they will be able to translate those hygiene habits to their children. So teeth are not bones, but they are a complex structure made of hard outer enamel, the less hard dentin tissue, and then blood supply underneath called the pulp. And as of now, we don't know exactly why adult teeth can't regenerate. But the mouth is so much more than the teeth. It's also the gums, our jawbone structures, all the other tissue inside our mouth like the tongue and palate, and the space between them. And the health of our mouths depends on a mix of genetic and environmental factors. So let's talk more about our oral health and what it means for the rest of our bodies. I think a lot of us think of our oral health, our dental health as a unique and separate thing from the rest of our bodies. Even our health insurance cards are separate for our mouths, but our mouths are not separate from our bodies. Everything's connected. Can you talk us through how that interconnection works? The mouth is one of our main gateways into the body. We use parts of the mouth, like the tongue, for things like swallowing so that we can take in hydration and nutrition. So from that standpoint, the mouth is obviously an important part of supporting the rest of our systemic health. From a cardiovascular standpoint, there has been some studies that have really shown that bacteremia, a lot of bacteria occurring all at once, is associated with gum disease. That bacteria has been tied to some of the cardiovascular diseases that we see or incidences where patients have had some type of inflammatory reaction from a bacterial strain that is related to gum disease. Does the bacteria start in the mouth or does it start in the cardiovascular area? The idea right now is that it's based in the mouth. The evidence isn't causal. However, we see an association. So it's not that we can say with definitive resolution that the bacteria that causes gum disease, periodontal disease, causes bacterial infection with the heart. I think a lot of the literature, though, has been supportive enough that cardiovascular practices, including the ones at Mayo Clinic, recommend that patients with our cardiovascular procedures undergo a dental clearance to make sure that we are eliminating sources of oral infection that might travel to the heart. Fascinating. It sounds like it's still to be determined, the chicken or the egg. Is that right? Right. And everything is multifactorial. So it's hard to pinpoint just one thing or the other that's causing this type of issue. Beyond the cardiovascular system, what other health issues might arise because of or related to poor oral health? Certainly, there's a lot to be said about mental health. Your teeth and your mouth really are a part of your social interaction. I work with a lot of patients in a variety of age ranges and with younger kids, they want to be able to go to school and interact with their peers without being made fun of if their smile looks odd. For my older patients, things like going out to eat dinner with friends and family, there's a lot of shame when they have a prosthesis like a denture that doesn't fit well and comes out easily, or they're unable to enjoy some of the chewier foods that they typically would have had they had teeth. That's something I hadn't even thought about, but that makes so much sense. As far as teeth serving as a signal or a warning sign or gum health, what could they be pointing to as underlying conditions? With teeth in particular, I would probably say that cavities are, without a doubt, probably the most common disease. Though, from another standpoint, when you look at patients who have severe cavities, you're kind of thinking, is there a dexterity issue? Is there a comprehension issue? Are they unable to either comply with instructions to clean their teeth, or are they physically unable to do so. That's just talking about the tooth portion. So a lot of times with gum health, we want to see what we call pink gums. Anything really red is actually a sign of inflammation. And whenever we see inflammation, there's a lot of bleeding with the gums in particular. That bleeding can also in some ways signify that there's some other either infectious process going on in your body or your body is not able to actually handle the infection as it typically would, like if you're immunocompromised, for example. Inflammation of the gum that's uncontrollable, meaning that despite your efforts to clean and brush, there might be some type of underlying issue that your inflammatory response is more severe than normal or that your body is not responding well to an infection that it normally should be recovering or healing from. Also, we see a lot of symptoms from medications that occur in the mouth. You'll see *********** or your gums getting really big in size. That could be an adverse reaction to a medication. Of course, too, when we go into the realm of oral cancer, any type of non -resolving ulcer, non-resolving lesion, those are things that could indicate that there's something else going on either at that site or even oral cancer can also be a metastasis of a different form of cancer. I've seen that in a couple of cases of breast cancer, for example. So things like that can also serve as signals from the body, but through the mouth. Wow. So there's a lot to take care of. But what a lot of us think of when we think of oral we think of tooth pain. Is there a way to tell like, if this is just because I bit on the wrong thing? How do we know if it's a real issue and how urgent it is? One of my faculty back when I was training to be a dentist taught me that tooth pain is the exception, not the rule. Any type of pain that you experience, don't let it linger. Try to monitor for what causes or stimulates those symptoms? Are you noticing pain with something hot or something cold? Are you noticing pain when you're biting down? Or are you just having pain sitting down without doing anything at all? Is there any type of swelling, be it on your face or around the area? Those are things that are helpful to then inform your dentist just because we can get a better idea of what might the source B. And until I can get to the dentist, what should I do to alleviate that pain? Well, certainly over -the-counter pain medication is helpful. So if you're somebody who can take titanol or ibuprofen, that's generally what we usually tell patients to go as a first step in management. The other aspect of at-home management is typically soft food diet. Try to avoid things that are going to make those symptoms worse. And then, of course, at the end of the day, just try to get in with a dentist for definitive treatment. We do have incidences where we'll have a patient say like, yeah, it was bothering me, but then I went away. So I didn't deal with it for a long time. And you're like, oh, I wish you came a little bit earlier because now this is a bigger deal. So the mouth isn't the separate cavern just floating at the top of our heads. It's connected to so many other parts of our health. Not only is our mouth how we consume nutrients that sustain the rest of our body, but scientists have found links between high levels of bacteria in the mouth and cardiovascular disease. Poor oral health can also affect our mental health, especially our self-esteem. On the flip side, the mouth can show us other things happening with the body. Excessive cavities could indicate some sort of physical or mental issue interfering with brushing. And if your gums become super inflamed, it could mean that your body is struggling with a larger infection. If you're experiencing any sort of discomfort or pain in your mouth, go see a dentist. Over-the-counter medication is a fine stopgap solution, but it's best to get definitive treatment as early as you can to *** the problem in the bud. We've talked a lot about problems, but for most of us, our most regular brush with dental hygiene is regular brushing. Let's hear from Dr. Lee about trending treatments and how we can enhance our oral hygiene. Let's dig into habits a little bit more, popular practices. For example, throughout my adult life, there's been a rise in popularity of teeth whitening, either over-the-counter products or going into a dentist and having chemicals put on the teeth with a very bright light and so on. These different kinds of whitening treatments, are these good for us? Are they bad for us or are they somewhere in between? Probably the in -between. I think the evidence shows that they don't harm teeth. Carbamide peroxide is typically the main ingredient for tooth whitening. There is a small subset of the population, myself included, that for ever reason, that cause extreme sensitivity to the teeth. So I myself... Me too, because I tried those white strips at one point and I'm like, this is so painful. How can anybody do this? Probably the worst side effect is sensitivity. That's a transient thing, meaning it doesn't last forever. Whitening in and of itself, though, is relatively harmless to the teeth. In terms of safety, my personal bias is probably avoid anything that's super abrasive. A lot of the whitening toothpastes actually have higher grit levels, and that's specifically to remove staining more readily. However, if you're combining that with a stiff toothbrush, you're probably going to place a lot of wear off of your enamel and also hurt your gums. So that's where I usually draw the line being like, don't be too aggressive to your teeth from a mechanical brushing standpoint. When it comes to other whitening options, though, I know there's a lot out there on the market. All of the over -the-counter products, so long as they have the American Dental Association seal of approval, they're safe to use. Whitening itself, though, it doesn't last forever. Just be realistic too with yourself on how frequently you can whiten your teeth because it does go away over time if you stop whitening. And it only whitens your natural tooth structure. So if you have crowns or you have fillings, the whitening does not change the color of those restorations. What about mouthwash? Some sources say mouthwash is good for our gums. Others say it kills good bacteria. What do you say? Mouth rinse is definitely helpful as a supplement, but not a replacement to our regular toothbrushing and flossing. There's different types of properties with mouth rinses, and the way that we typically classify the types of mouth rinses that are available are either cosmetic mouth rinses or therapeutic ones. I like the term cosmetic. It actually means the mouth rinse is there to help mask some of the bad smell in your mouth, but it's only a temporary thing. So that's why they call it a cosmetic mouth rinse. Other type of mouth rinse are more therapeutic ones, the ones that we typically would prescribe over the counter or the ones that have fluoride in them that we're using intentionally to do some type of treatment either to the gums or to the teeth. So mouth rinses can be helpful in that capacity. There are mouth rinses that have fluoride in them that we recommend to patients to use so that there's more exposure of fluoride, which is the ingredient that helps remineralize teeth. What about tongue scrapers? Tongue scrapers as well are great supplements. Things that cause a lot of the smelliness that comes or mouth can inhabit or stay on the tongue. Tongue scrapers can be very helpful for just mechanically removing all of those things, but it's temporary, meaning you'd have to do it on a regular basis to really get some use out of it. So helpful as a tool for supplementing, but not necessarily something that you have to do. Okay, I'm going to bring up something that might seem a little woo-woo, oil pulling, where people swish an edible oil like coconut oil in their mouth for not even like 30 seconds, but like for 15 minutes. The people who love oil pulling claim that it whitens our teeth, it freshens our breath, it improves our gum health. What is the verdict on that? Oil pulling does not hurt your teeth and does not necessarily hurt your mouth. But to be a replacement of what we normally do, which would be toothbrushing and flossing, it's not really a great replacement. Primarily because oil pulling just is more of a surface application of things like antiseptic, antibacterial properties. And for the 15 to 20 minutes that you are doing the oil pulling regimen, within five minutes, you could probably have finished brushing your teeth and flossing using mouth rinse and scraping your tongue. You probably get the same if not better effect. Yes. All right. Let's talk about some habits that can actually be genuinely harmful. Most of us know smoking, eating too much sugar, soda, and so on. Are there other common bad habits that most of us just aren't thinking about? Well, I definitely want to put on notice vaping. Vaping or electronic cigarettes have been touted as a healthier replacement to smoking. And I definitely want to put it out there that vaping is not healthy, not healthy for the teeth, not healthy for the gums. I think the data so far shows that short has maybe less carcinogenic properties than tobacco, but it still has carcinogenic properties. And particularly the heat generation from vaping causes closure of the blood supply. And anytime we have lack of blood supply is usually not a good sign. I think any kind of pulmonary or lung specialist will agree from a breathing standpoint, but certainly from an oral health standpoint. I can say the same, that vaping is not a good thing for your mouth, not a good thing for your teeth. If anything, it's going to perpetuate or cause some of the same issues that we see with smoking, such as periodontal disease, gum disease, dry mouth, which can also then cause cavity development. So stay away from the vaping. Let's talk about diet, the food that we eat, the beverages we drink. What role do those play in our oral and dental health? Are there foods we should seek out or avoid? Diet brings us joy. So we always want to be a little bit careful in terms of how meticulous we want to be with our recommendations. By and large, the recommendation is moderation with regards to anything that has a lot of sugar content or is super acidic. For the most part, we're talking about things like diet sodas or even the full sugar sodas. A lot of people like to sip on a can of cola or any type of soft drink for the whole day. And the problem with that is that you're exposing your teeth to those elements without any break. So things that have those type of ingredients are definitely the ones that you want to avoid. You said diet soda as well, but diet soda doesn't have sugar in it. But you're saying that's also something that can damage our teeth. Because it's very acidic. So in lieu of the sugar, we have the acid content. What about carbonated water? Are the bubbles a problem? Unfortunately, even carbonated soda water or mineral water has acidity to it. So my recommendation typically is try to minimize or moderate how much you drink of those types of beverages. is for patients who enjoy those types of drinks. I usually recommend drink them while you're enjoying a meal when you have other things in your mouth to help neutralize the acidity. You're breaking a lot of hearts here, Dr. Lee. A lot of people who think that their bubbly water is a healthy choice. What about drinking through a straw, though? Does that help? That's also debatable. Some people say yes, because when you drink those beverages you're not directly exposing your teeth. However, I guess it's the matter in which you swallow. If you let it pool inside your mouth, it's still going to be exposed to your teeth. So I think the overall effectiveness of a straw in preventing as much erosion from the acid might be somewhat helpful, but not necessarily the solution to prevent erosion from occurring. Darn it. All right. Now, let's talk about the timing and the specifics about our hygiene routines. Is there an ultimate time of day when we should be brushing our teeth? The recommendation I have is typically morning and night. Morning meaning when you wake up and before you have breakfast. Hold on, before we have breakfast, not after? Yep. Why is that? Generally speaking, when you're asleep, your mouth tends to be a little bit more dry. And so things like bacteria or plaque can accumulate. And so from that standpoint, you just want to refresh, make sure that your teeth are ***** and span to start the day. But with that said, I generally don't recommend brushing your teeth after mealtime, especially immediately after a time because we have that acid content. And that acid content can actually make your enamel a little bit more susceptible to wearing off when you introduce some type of brushing to it. You mean acid content from the various foods we're eating? Yep. So it's like you haven't given the saliva enough time to help neutralize the acidity in your mouth. Do all foods have acid in them? I wouldn't say all foods have acid in them, but it's hard to be able to titrate how much acid and basic levels you're putting in your mouth. But in general, I tell a patient, brush as soon as you wake up as part of the routine kind of thing too. It's just something that you can check off your to-do list. Because after a meal, I typically will tell patients, wait 30 minutes to allow your saliva to introduce the buffering effect before you brush. In my household, we were literally having this debate last week about when in the morning to brush one's teeth. My husband and I are like, should we brush our teeth? Like he and I always brush our teeth after we have our morning coffee. But now I'm thinking coffee has so much acidity in it. That's why the worst time to brush our teeth, right? But like everything I said to you is in moderation. At the end of the day, I'm pretty pragmatic. I rather you brush your teeth and not brush it at all. You know, I take one tooth brushing over zero. So brush before breakfast in the morning. What about at night? At night, before you go to bed. So as the last thing you do, go ahead and brush your teeth and floss. Should I consider also maybe brushing my teeth midday as well? Or is three times a day going just too far? I would say at minimum, two times a day. But if you want to brush your teeth midday, there's a lot of cultures that actually do that as part of their routine for students. Like I'm Korean, and I know that in a lot of Korean schools, part of the routine is have lunch and then everybody brushes their teeth. It goes back to you just want to wait around 30 minutes or so for your saliva to help neutralize things in your mouth before you introduce brushing. If you brush your teeth immediately after you eat like once in a while, probably fine. But if that's like your routine and you do that like all the time, you might actually be wearing and tearing your enamel a little bit more than you probably intended. Ah, got it. When good habits go too far. I always tell patients, remember to be gentle but thorough. We don't want to be so aggressively brushing that you're actually causing gum recession. You always want to use extra soft tooth bristles and be thorough in the sense that you're brushing all the surfaces of the teeth. so front back chewing sides everywhere you don't want to be aggressive and just using the stiffest brush you've got with your entire arm strength do you have any final pieces of advice or tips for preventing dental issues preventative dentistry is the best form of dentistry i enjoy being able to provide solutions for replacing missing teeth. But at the end of the day, I can't give you what you got naturally. 90% of oral health care is what you do at home. So brushing twice a day and flossing daily will serve you leaps and bounds in regards to having great oral health, having cheaper oral health, and then also setting the path for your future self, your future family, whoever, getting them to also have really good oral health too. Another big preventative thing is the HPV vaccine. HPV, the human papillomavirus, is one of the big reasons why oral cancer has actually increased. What's wonderful though is that we have a vaccine available to help prevent this type of cancer from developing. You can get the vaccine as early as nine years old, and you can also get the vaccine in later life as well. It may not be necessarily as effective as when you had it as a younger person, but the vaccine is super effective and helpful for preventing oral pharyngeal cancer, particularly with the strain. I work with these patients with HPV -based oral cancer day in and day out. So definitely, definitely get your HPV vaccine. This has just been so informative, so enlightening. Thank you so much for this, Dr. Lee. This has been great. Thanks for having me. I'm excited to be like, seriously excited to be able to share this information and be able to say like, please prevent dental issues. And I hope that this information is informative and entertaining for those who are listening. There are a lot of trending practices out there. Many of them, like teeth whitening, aren't likely to harm your teeth. Others, like tongue scraping and oil pulling, might even have benefits. But they're not a substitute for regular brushing. Speaking of brushing, there are a couple of things to keep in mind. First off, you never want to do anything that's too abrasive to your teeth, like brushing super hard or using gritty toothpaste. Abrasion can damage your enamel and possibly even cause gum recession. The second thing is you don't want to brush immediately after eating. Instead, try to wait 30 minutes or so for the acid from your food to neutralize in your mouth so you're not scrubbing it into your teeth. But that being said, the quest for perfect brushing should never be the enemy of good brushing. Any kind of brushing is always better than none. Okay, that's all for this episode. But if you've got a question, a topic suggestion, or a follow-up question about this episode, you can leave us a voicemail at 507 -538-6272. We might even feature your voice on the show. For more Health Matters episodes and resources, head to mayoclinic.org slash healthmatters. And if you found this show helpful, please subscribe and make sure to rate and review us on your podcast app. And just so you know, we won't be releasing an episode as usual in two weeks. We'll be taking a break for the Thanksgiving holiday. We will see you in a month. Thanks for listening. And until next time, take care and stay healthy.