Hello. Uh, my name is John Kle. I'm a gastronurologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, who specializes in the care of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. I've been given the opportunity today to discuss with you a recent article regarding cancer risk in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, specifically Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. I think it's very important as we're counseling our patients in clinic regarding screening and prevention of cancer in inflammatory bowel disease that we have a good understanding of what the actual risks are. Much of our current understanding of the risks of cancer over the lifetime of patients with inflammatory bowel disease comes from small studies done at single centers who care for very high risk or very sick patients and thus our perception of what the actual risks are may be somewhat distorted. Recently in the American Journal of Gastronurology, uh Dr. Tina Jess conducted a large population-based uh cohort study of patients in Denmark and measured their cancer risk over a period of more than 40 years. The uh patients were all uh enrolled into the study uh at the time of their diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease and followed forward through time. the uh patients that were included were from an area of Denmark that represents roughly 10% of the total population of that country. So it's a very large sample size and everyone or almost everyone we believe was accounted for. The patients were also all linked to a national Danish cancer registry and therefore it was possible for the investigators to figure out what happened to each and every patient over the course of the study. The investigators found that patients with Crohn's disease were at significantly increased risk of cancer over their lifetimes compared to other individuals within the Danish population who were roughly the same age at the time that they were diagnosed with uh inflammatory bowel disease. The control patients were those in the Danish population that did not have any inflammatory bowel disease. Patients with Crohn's disease were at increased risk of several different types of cancer, including cancer of the colon, of the lung, uh cervical cancer, and of lymphoma. The patients that were at the highest risk were those who were diagnosed with Crohn's disease at a young age, who had Crohn's disease uh involving the colon, patients who were smokers, and patients who are using thoperine medications such as 6MPP uh aopin or the brand name for aoprine, Imuran. I think these findings are very important as we care for patients in our own clinic to make sure that we are obtaining adequate colctal cancer surveillance to make sure that we are screening our uh female patients for cervical cancer and vaccinating against human papilloma virus in our young patients both men and women. I think it also highlights that we need to be very aggressive regarding our counseling for smoking sessation and this is not just to reduce the uh the disease specific complications of Crohn's like strictcturing and inflammation in the small bowel but also to try to lower overall lifetime cancer risk on findings concerning lymphoma. This risk was elevated in the Crohn's patients in this study regardless of whether or not they were using medications like the thoperines. And this is a very interesting and potentially controversial finding that will require further study. For patients with ulcerative colitis, the cancer risk did not appear to be increased in comparison to the general population. And that is uh to our practice a somewhat surprising finding. These findings uh were in agreement with some other large population-based studies that have been recently published especially out of uh Europe and Canada. And there may be several potential reasons for this. one patients with ulcerative colitis frequently will uh have colon surgery performed in order to treat complicated or medically uh refractory disease of the colon. Also in Denmark, populationwide colurectal cancer screening is not routinely performed and therefore the risk of colon cancer in this country or in Denmark rather is much higher than in the United States approximately 50% higher and that may account for some of the reasons why they didn't see an increased risk among uh ulcerative colitis patients in that population. So in summary, I think this study provides some important uh and provocative thoughts that we can bring directly to our patients in clinic. One that we need to be aggressive about measures that would prevent or reduce risk for cancer such as screening in the colon and cervix. There are also uh new programs uh in pilot uh at Mayo and other centers for screening for lung cancer that we may need to be able to offer our patients with long-standing colitis or Crohn's, especially those who are smokers. and that um we need to uh continue colorectal cancer surveillance in patients with Crohn's disease involving more than a third of the colon and probably for all of our ulcerative colitis patients with more than 8 to 10 years of long-standing disease above the level of the rectum. Thank you very much for your time.