One of the challenges every patient considering a transplant faces is the location in Florida, specifically near the Mayo Clinic. This has always been a serious difficulty, and obviously an even more significant one for patients coming from outside the country. In the immediate future, the Gabriel Care Home, or Belhadj in English, will be inaugurated. This home's purpose is to provide housing and a location near the clinic for patients who need to come to prepare for a transplant and also for the postoperative period. These are truly complex periods that require a lot of family support and a suitable location. This home will offer a kind of home away from home, where the transplant recipient and their family will have a place available near the clinic to settle down and recover. This care home for transplant patients has been inaugurated with all these challenges in mind. It has become a reality thanks to a generous donation from Mr. Jorge Bacardí and his family. Mr. Bacardí is the recipient.  From a double transplant, and when he recovered from his transplant, he quickly thought of expressing his gratitude for the process, which involved such a generous act as a family agreeing to donate the organs of a deceased relative, such as brain tissue. When Mr. Bacardi recovered from his transplant, he decided to honor this donation process and named his donor, whom he didn't know at the time, Gabriel, in honor of the Archangel Gabriel. Later, he had the opportunity to meet the parents of Christopher Gregory, his donor. Christopher's parents, Christopher Gregory, established a very deep friendship with the Bacardi family, and as a result of all this interaction, they decided to honor Christopher's memory by donating the necessary funds to build this house, which in the future will provide very special support to all those national and international patients who have to relocate to Florida to receive transplants, if that is what their illness requires. So, in the Mayo Clinic transplant family, we are all celebrating because  We know that the construction of this home will greatly facilitate the transplant process for many families.