Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> Today we are joined by Dr. Eric Kim, a pediatric opthalmologist, adults for business specialist and ant seg specialist to teach us all things about keraticonus newest updates and what you need to know. >> Dr. Eric Kim is our guest today on the podcast and he is not only a wonderful colleague of mine. He is a pediatric opthalmologist here at the Mayo Clinic with expertise in pediatric cornea, glaucoma and cataract in addition to all the rest of things he manages in terms of pediatric stbismas. Um Dr. Dr. Kim was trained at the Baylor College of Medicine, followed by his fellowship here at the Mayo Clinic and then additionally a an apprenticeship in pediatric cornea, cataract and glaucoma surgery at Children's Hospital Los Angeles. In addition to his clinical activities, which I love sharing with him next door and door in the clinic, he enjoys teaching medical students, residents, and fellows. So with that delightful introduction, I get to say thank you to my friend and colleague Dr. Kim for coming on the podcast. >> Welcome Dr. Kim. >> Thanks for inviting me. >> Well, we're so happy that you're here to teach us all things about ants in kids and adults. And before we kind of get started on the pathology side of things, I'd love to just hear about your kind of clinical trajectory. How did you get to where you are? Why pediatric opthalmology? Why pediatric aunt SEG specifically? Kind of tell us your whole journey. You know, I think as with many of us, it was just a mix of uh good fortune and chance. Uh earlier on in medical school, one of my first rotations was in pediatric opthalmology, and I worked with uh Dr. Stein Cooler in Houston, Texas. And he was a remarkable man in terms of not just knowledge and skill, but his demeanor. He was a old gentle soul, very kindhearted uh compassionate uh and that really uh uh made an imprint on me. And so as I learned more about the field, I learned it was a good fit for me. I'm very uh OCD and detail oriented. Uh so I think it's nice to dive into um a single organ system and learn everything you can about it. And I've always loved working with kids. you know, I I just, you know, enjoy talking with them and uh enjoying their imagination and, you know, basically I get to play with kids all day at work. So, it's it's a great fit for me. >> That's fantastic. One of the unique things about pediatric opthalmologists um is that we practice in eye care and get to manage most every presentation that comes in and we may draw in the ocular plastic specialists like you Andrea um but certainly we're the home to a wide variety of conditions because even if they go off and have lid surgery or retina care they get to come back and so we always consider ourselves broad in our skill sets and yet I've appreciated Dr. Kim's additional training and passion in Pete's cornea because there is a level of of nervousness and concern and just management expertise that uh having that e additional care uh he's brought to our practice. Um and certainly it's just been a compliment in in in what we do together. You you did an additional time in in um pediatric cornea and and glaucoma uh along with some catering. Why why did you choose that additional piece? what what drew you to anse seg in particular you talk about your mentor but most of us go I don't want to deal with another corial ulcer and you it fuels you share share a little bit about that >> you know I think earlier in my training I was a little torn because I had that love for kids that was undeniable but I was drawn more towards anterior segment uh disease and surgery and pathology and so I I feel lucky to have kind of settled on this space where I could do both um you know during fellowship I got excellent experience experience in pediatric cataract but wanted to supplement more with uh cornea and glaucoma skills and knowledge. So was really fortunate to be able to do that in Los Angeles and um yeah I feel thankful that we have the ability to help these kids. Um oftentimes this is a um uh they get kind of lost in the cracks. you know, they need uh cornea or glaucoma care, but sometimes adult providers don't have that uh comfort with young kids, let alone toddlers and infants. Uh so, it's nice to be able to bridge that uh gap. >> Yeah, I think that's fantastic and we're so lucky to have you here. One of the things that is kind of in your specialty wheelhouse that we wanted to talk about today so that you can teach us all the things that enlighten us is keraticonus. And you are an expert in keraticonus, especially in kids. So start us off just for the comprehensive opthalmologist who doesn't see a lot of keraticonus or for a subsp specialist like me I'm very uncomfortable with keraticonus um what is keraticonus what are we looking for kind of give give me all the basics >> we all have learned about keraticonus in our training but just as a quick refresher it is a uh condition in which the cornea assumes a conical shape due to thinning and protrusion um maybe an oversimplification is thinking of it like a beer belly you know there's a part of the corn that pooches outward. Uh it's ectatic, it's thin, it's elevated, it's more curved. Uh it is a non-inflammatory uh bilateral but often asymmetric condition. Um and the cone is often uh just inferior to center. It its incidence and prevalence has been um debated in different studies. Uh historically it's been thought of as a rare condition. Um a really nice population-based study based out of here uh at Mayo Clinic found that the incidence in a US population was about two and a half cases per 100,000 people per year and yet other populations might have a greater incidence and prevalence. uh studies out of the Middle East have shown that it can be up to one in 2,000 and certainly in certain populations or uh demographics like uh children with Down syndrome tric 21 uh it's known to have a prevalence of up to even 15% in those populations. So it it it can vary widely and it can be quite significant in certain populations. >> Wow. So I think many of us especially when I think back in residency you you were in the corial service and we saw a very advanced keraticonus people necessitating corial graphs and management after chronic use with hard contacts and they had classic features of a cone that with thinning um all the different slit lamp details we found but I've been struck and humbled by how pediatric keraticonus is a little harder to catch or because by the time you get those dramatic features >> um it's probably you know a much more advanced disease state. So share with us as you think about adult versus pedes, what makes pediatric anter segment keraticonus management different? What do you look for? What do you think about? Yeah. How do you what are your thoughts that way? >> Right. So I think first I want to comment on what you just said how when it's an adv at an advanced stage it's pretty obvious you know we all remember mson sign or you know if the cornea is super cone shaped it's you know a medical student could diagnose it but in today's day and age the name of the game is to diagnose it hopefully before those overt clinical signs and hopefully before uh the onset of loss of vision um in kids versus adults, it's generally um a faster uh progressing disease. It often presents at a more severe stage. Uh studies have shown that a higher percentage end up needing uh PKPS. Uh so I think especially in kids, one needs to be on higher alert. I don't I maybe I should know this, but I mean if it it's a progressive condition, but is it always happening in childhood or can it happen later in life when we're thinking about when we want to catch it? Like when is that optimal screening happening or can it be at different times for different people? like should is it when they have a certain amount of a stigmatism we need to be checking for it or how do you diagnose it when it's not obvious on exam or is there an age cut off that we need to be thinking about >> so so you know I think uh uh the book teaching has been it presents in kind of early adulthood or or or maybe a little earlier like puberty um I think >> as I said earlier since we're trying to catch it earlier I think we're looking earlier too >> you So, so yeah. >> Okay. >> So, this would one of the things I've been struck by and you've helped to guide our section along is sort of the radar of when to start thinking about maybe this could be keraticonus. So, for it's certainly true that an 18-year-old or a 25year-old maybe have progressive findings, but as you're suggesting, is it there earlier? So what what would be in a basic eye exam lacking corial features of scarring or stre or fe but in a refractive error what would you want people to look for and think this could be keratagonis >> so I think that's the million-dollar question of when exactly should we take the next step what what finding what level of aigmatism or refractive error should trigger uh getting a corial tomography for example >> you know I think we don't know yet. You know, some studies have proposed a stigmatism greater than say three diapters, maybe screen all kids at that level. Um but there's no consensus. Uh there's, you know, small studies of different populations that are hard to extrapolate. Um but for myself, I try to look at um a few different factors. Uh one is history, right? and does a child report or the family report that there's a lot of eye rubbing happening, habitual eye rubbing. Um, and then I always assess the child's sort of overall health. You know, are there any other systemic conditions that may be related like uh um uh ATP or um uh tric 21 we've talked about being a risk factor. Uh really any developmental delay has been shown to be a risk factor. um sleep apneoa conditions like uh Ellers's Danlos or Marfan syndrome have been implicated as well. Um going to eye associations certainly habitual eye rubbing uh rather um whether it's from allergies or other reasons. Uh floppy lids if the lids are really floppy on exam I make note of that. uh vernal carriage conjunctivitis and contact lens wear um I keep in mind and then you know on exam again we're hoping to catch it before overt clinical signs but maybe uh one eye is showing signs that are more obvious and other ones are more subtle maybe the beginnings of a flasher ring maybe slight via on retinoscopy there can be an irregularity of the light uh red reflex that can um be a sign um and going back to the refraction question. If you know a healthy child should otherwise be able to refactor 2020. So if if they have not been able to, if we cannot, uh that's unusual. Um if there's uh a history of high or increasing myopia or a stigmatism, again it's hard for me to give exact cutoff numbers, but certainly the higher uh the faster increasing is the more suspicious. Um, and if there's uh changes over time or or an irregular axis, you know, you know, kids are usually with the role, but does a child have an oblique axis or against the role? Um, that might be something to take note of. But really uh the most important thing I would like to share with with our audience is that in today's day and age uh corial tomography is really essential you know more than topography uh because you're looking at the corneal curvature both the anterior and posterior side and that can be the earliest signs of keraticonus uh you know we're looking for subclinical keraticonus at this point. Mhm. >> That's a great overview. Really, really good. >> And that story is like I I've definitely come out of my clinic and said, "Eric, should I you know, should I do imaging on this cornea?" And and even though commonly we think of conditions that have those structural abnormalities or systemic associations for me, it's the plus4 cylinder in a new patient. And I've never I don't know the history. You know, if there was if it was a baby that grew up from the NICU and I've always seen high amounts of cylinder, I might not worry as much. But so often it's a new patient after failed vision screening at school and they're six years old and they have plus three and a half sill and my first thought is oh maybe I need to check and so I've you know it's been a great resource in doing that. So your encouragement would be to have a low threshold with unusual aigmatism, unusual progression or associated findings. So and when you order that, how what do you specify? Because I know how I've ordered it and looked at it sometimes the scans aren't always as clear-cut or helpful as the way you've done it. So share with us when you get a penticam, how do you order it and what do you do and what do you look for? >> On the pentacam, there's a few maps I like to look at. One is uh the curvature, the axial curvature and we all know the classic inferior steepening. Um there's often a reciprocal uh superior flattening. Um and I look at the magnitude as well. Again, uh there's been different indices that have been reported. You know, a corner curvature above this amount should uh be be a warning sign. Um, I also like to look at the pattern of the aigmatism. Is it is it just regular wthal aigmatism that's on the higher side with a nice symmetric bow tie or is it an asymmetric bow tie with skewing of the radial axes um at a weird angle uh that's more inferiorly than superior? Um, I like to look at the pemmetry map as well. Is is uh is a little thinner than usual and is a thin spot u desentered. Um, I also pay attention to the uh uh anterior and posterior elevation maps and try to see if there's any islands of elevation. Um you know and again there's different cut offs you know some some people reported you know more than uh 10 microns for the anterior float and maybe 21 22 for the posterior float like an area that's higher than the rest and certainly if all those findings I mentioned are at the same spot or or coincidence um that that to me is is more convincing and going on that you know certainly if there's all those things you know super high curvature uh it it can be a slam dunk diagnosis, but going back to what we said earlier about the goal trying to catch it early and ear earlier. Um most people agree that the earliest signs are at the posterior curvature which is why I share that a corner tomography uh may be much more useful than topography which only looks at the anterior curvature. So there are scenarios where uh under curvature uh there's no obvious inferior steepening. The case look pretty unremarkable. Uh the corner pimemetry is normal thickness and even the anterior curvature looks you know bland normal but on the posterior map you might begin to see the startings of a little island of elevation a little area that looks suspicious. Um so that that should prompt at least uh monitoring and surveillance with uh additional scans uh over time >> if you you know certainly if the features are concerning as you've articulated well things to look for um you're going to be monitoring more often. You're going to be maybe referring if you get a scan in a kid that's a fail vision screening in a person's office and it ends up looking like routine beautiful bow tie regular aigmatism. Do you need to repeat scan over time um an image again six months or a year later or can one be enough to rule it out and then as long as you follow them clinically and give them glasses and aren't alarmed is that sufficient? So you we're going to talk about the ones that are disease positive next but the dis the ones that you sort of rule out is it okay to not scan them again? You know, it's hard, I think, to give a complete black and white yes or absolutely no. You know, maybe if some wellpowered studies come out with big numbers, maybe we can really hang our hang our hat on certain cutoffs. For me, I try to treat each case individually and look at the big picture. you know, as you referred to, if it's a otherwise healthy kid and the stigmatism wasn't that high to begin with and no other risk factors, then sure, maybe it's, you know, not imperative to repeat the scan. Uh on the flip side, if it's a kid who is literally rubbing his or her eye on the chair in front of me, has eczema, um sniffly nose, um contact lens wearer, and there are more than one suspicious signs on the pendicam, um the sigmatisms on the higher side, um then I would probably rescan. Yeah. you know, and some somewhere from three to six to 12 months depending on how worried I am. >> That all makes sense. And so, you've mentioned multiple times how important catching these early changes are. And is that because it has direct influence on treatment and options that we can give these patients? >> Yeah, I think it's because really of corial cross-linking that has become available to us as a tool that's really changed the game. You know, before that, I suppose you're just hoping for the best and you know, treat with glasses and when that fails, contact lenses and hope the patient doesn't get high drops and necessitates a corneal transplant. But now we have a treatment in our toolbox that can uh halt or at least slow the progression of disease >> um and hopefully stave off high drops and the need for transplants. you know, it's it's been available for many many years now and and and there's been studies showing even the cost effectiveness of this intervention if you consider um you know, loss of productivity and and cost associated with bigger surgeries like transplants. And so I think that really is driving our search to catch and treat and stabilize these patients earlier. >> That's terrific. And I don't know a lot about cross-linking. I would love a cross-linking overview for beginners. Like give me the first year resident level cross-linking overview. >> So uh cross-linking has been around for a while. The first reported use to my knowledge was around 2003. Uh and it was FDA approved in 2016 with the traditional Dresden protocol epithelial off um uh technique. Um this is a procedure where you uh treat the cornea with riboflavin um usually in a uh solution form and you apply UV energy to the cornea to create a reaction where the uh collagen fibers of cornea cross link and become stiffer and stronger and hopefully slow down um the rate of progression of this disease. It's a long process. So when you at least when I've shared a case or two with our colleagues before Eric and now since Eric's time here, you know, I've just been humbled by the commitment that it takes to do this for children. You sedate them for how long would be an average cross-linking? >> Well, in the US currently, we only have one option. Um it's it's uh uh with the um glucose company's platform and again it's the epi off protocol where you have to remove the cornea epithelium to allow the riboflavin to soak properly uh throughout the cornea. >> Um and so >> and is it reapplied throughout sedation like for 40 45 minutes isn't it? >> That's that's correct. So, so >> the solution is okay. >> There there's a >> really patient. >> There's a soaking step uh for 30 minutes. So, so backing up the first step is to remove the cornea epithelium. Um >> is that like a lasic flap or like a PRK? You you take it off. >> Uh more like a PRK. It's your your your technique of choice whether with a blunt instrument plus or minus alcohol. Got it. >> Uh but however you like. Remove the epithelium. uh soak the cornea with the ribboflavin solution for 30 minutes. You have to sit there patiently and and put the drop every couple minutes. Uh and then after the 30 minutes of soaking, then you can apply the laser um the UV energy uh for another 30 minutes and then typically it's followed by placing a bandage contact lens um and then carry on with the posttop uh regimen. >> Wow. Yeah, it's not an efficient O journey but profound impact on pediatric eyes in terms of in terms of if you have mild keraticotus changes to have the hope to slow that down or halt >> but painful too for kids. Huh? >> Yeah, good point. So the most common setting for this procedure in our country is probably in the office um uh awake um but in kids that's often not feasible, >> right? Um, you know, I have done it awake uh in the procedure room for a really mature, calm, cooperative 15 or 16 year old. >> But certainly the younger they are or sometimes not even about age, it can be challenging. Um, so there has to be a flexibility of modifying the technique for younger kids or even adults who might have um some form of developmental delay. for example, >> you know, um the most obvious being oftentimes you have to use general anesthesia. >> Uh and not every center in the country can offer that. So we do get referrals uh for that indication. Um at our American Academy of Pediatric Opthalmology and Stbismus meeting um last month there was a a poster that described uh removing less of the corn epithelium because standard is to remove about eight or nine millimeter diameter area. But obviously that heals. It takes at least a few days to heal and there could be delayed healing or complications or infections especially in kids or um uh developmentally delayed adults who might not be able to follow the protocol uh pristinely. Uh and so this one poster suggested that you could remove a smaller diameter area just over the cone. Um, and there's variations in how you can remove the epithelium. As I shared earlier, you know, anecdotally, maybe not using alcohol could be a little bit less painful. Sometimes I use a collagen shield instead of a standard bandage contact lens. It's basically just a dissolvable contact lens. Um, so that in a situation where I don't think I'll be able to get near the eye posttop to remove a contact lens, at least this will serve as a bandage for two or three days or however long it will stay in place. >> Yeah. Smart. >> Um, I'll often use a block like a subtenance block uh for peroperative uh comfort. Um, in adults the standard is to, you know, put a bandage contact lens in and start the drops right away. In in select cases, I'll patch the eye. uh after surgery for the first night until I see them posttop day one for a little comfort there. Um I haven't done this myself but some groups have advocated for placing a temporary tarsory. >> Sure. >> Um and certainly judicious use of eye shields, uh goggles, someone even said a parent had a a hockey helmet here in the Midwest. um arm restraints if feasible or you know uh on board if the parents are on board with that um can all be tried but but these are tough cases uh younger they are or if they're um combative or scared certainly it can make the paroperative care a little uh a little hairy and we all get a little anxious about it and yet there's such a big draw to want to help help these patients as well that we're willing to try whatever it takes >> and typically In the pediatric population, a bilateral procedure is done when you have them under general anesthesia or is it monoc you know one a stage procedure one at a time? >> In the community uh it's more common to uh stage the procedure but certainly if it's a child they have to place under general anesthesia I will lean more towards doing it bilaterally uh for the anesthesia exposure. And another benefit is since we're specifically talking about the Dresin protocol, the 30 minutes soaking, 30 minutes treating, um you can shave about 30 minutes off the time by treating the first eye while the second eye is soaking. You can have a little overlap there. So that that's helpful, too. >> Yeah, >> makes sense. >> And there are centers that or locations internationally especially that talk about doing complete eponons. So, not taking the epithelium off altogether or other types of protocols, you know, what's on the horizon that might help this be more a safer, more tolerable and and hopefully just as successful procedure. >> Yeah, you're right. You know, although at this current moment in time, we only have the one option here in the US, um there are many different um uh protocols that have been used in other places um including epon protocols. So the the difference mainly being you can skip the coropithelial removal step for obvious uh benefits. It's uh saves time. is less painful, faster recovery, and even with removing the corial epithelium that might not be entirely benign. There could be associated corneal haze, >> which oftentimes clears with some patients and maybe some um medications, but Epion offers benefits in those regards. Now, some studies suggest that it may not be as effective while others uh beg to differ. I I think we're still learning about that. So in the US, there's two groups that are active in this space right now. Glauose finished their phase three trial in 2023 and have received um a uh new drug application approval from the FDA with plans to come to market tenatively uh within this year or next. There's another group called Epion Therapeutics and their um uh product is Epismart and they're currently undergoing a phase three trial. So, it's exciting. You know, we may hopefully have access to um these u protocols soon here here in the US. But beyond just EPON versus EP off, there's other um um uh things out there too. There's uh accelerated protocols um that are in use in other countries that are much faster than our current 30 minutes pre-treat, 30 minutes treat. Um and that has to do with changing how much energy is applied. Um there's uh other novel uh approaches being studied like uh a device that fits on the eye almost like a contact lens. So you can it's on eye cross syncing. There are um groups that are developing cross linking that could be done at the slit lamp with the idea of trying to make this more more mainstream, more accessible. Uh lower the barriers of um access and then um there's also nuances like there's there's restrictions on uh who can get the cross linking. If your cornea is too thin, you may not be a candidate. But there's groups that develop or that are developing protocols for um thin and very thin corneas as well. And there are other even more novel approaches being studied like uh eye drop therapy. Maybe there's a certain compound that can be given to the eye in drop form. And there has also been research reported of using oral riboflavin. And believe it or not, taking that highdose rivalflavin and walking towards the sun and and allowing some cross thinking that way. Um, so there are a lot of interesting ideas being tried. Let's put it that way. >> What an exciting time. I love it. >> Yeah, I think it's profound as you've so well articulated how we've changed uh in our ability to care for these kids early. One plug I'll just share and Eric helped to has given feedback on this for our practice here at Mayo is for anyone that has optometric and/or opthalmology colleagues in a referral network. It's really important that everyone's on the same page such that if a patient is identified having concerning features their referral is expedited. They should not be put into the normal myopistigmatism progressive category and get brought in four to six months later. We've you know uh we're we're certainly aware as pediatric opthalmologists that a delay of even a month or two months in a progressing keraticonus kid can have profound impact on the outcome or even the ability to treat if the cornea is getting too thin. Um so just in your practices our encouragement would be communicate with shared guidelines and if there is a child with concerning keraticona's features or refractive change have an expedited referral process to get those kids cared for. >> I think that's well put because certainly we want to uh offer treatment for these patients before they have irreversible vision loss. And I I'll even throw in there that I'm especially mindful of uh vulnerable populations like those that may have some syndrome or developmental delay because oftentimes these children can't um say if they have any change in their vision. They they're not able to adequately advocate for themselves and so they might be missed. Uh um and so we certainly I'm thinking of um a couple patients in the last few months that I've um had a privilege to see where where we were to make that diagnosis. Uh and so that that's been kind of at the forefront of my mind. Um just keeping our antenna up uh for for those that might benefit from our our care. >> It's so important. >> Well, thank you as a colleague, a friend, expert in this area to share with us your wisdom and help us care for kids. >> Thanks for having me. It was a lot of fun. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. >> Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.