The Center for Regenerative Medicine at Mayo Clinic was established to develop new clinical applications that will address the unmet needs of our patients. The Mayo Clinic, we believe that regenerative medicine, which makes it possible to actually repair diseased, injured, or defective tissues and organs is a vital component of medical and surgical practice. So with support from the Center for Regenerative Medicine, the Biomaterials Facility was established to accelerate patient access to regenerative applications. Medicine Biomaterials Facility will use current good manufacturing practices, or CGMP, and will provide the clinician investigator, across the enterprise, support and infrastructure to manufacture chemicals and devices on our campuses. Traditionally, investigators have had to rely solely on the willingness of a sponsor to manufacture devices for clinical use. With this new GMP facility, we'll be able to manufacture these first in human devices and use them in clinical trials with the approval of regulatory agencies. The Biomaterials and Biomolecular GMP Production Facility can manufacture several products, including scaffolds, biopolymers, and devices designed to enhance regenerative medicine-based therapeutic delivery. Biomaterials can be scaffolds or frameworks for building new organs and delivering cells. The first example of a project is a biodegradable scaffold to repair nerve injuries. Some scaffolds will also be able to deliver biomolecules or growth factors that promote growth of new organs or tissue once the scaffold is implanted into the body. Scaffolds or polymers may also be used to deliver drugs to a very restricted area. For example, after a tumor in a bone has been removed, we can locally deliver high doses of chemotherapy to the restricted area where the tumor was growing. This new facility complements our other established GMP laboratories-- the Human Cell Therapy Laboratory and the Viral Vector Laboratory. Working together, Mayo Clinic investigators will have the resources to manufacture combination products involving scaffolds, cells, drugs, and biomolecules. For more information on the resources provided by the Regenerative Medicine Biomaterials Facility, visit the Mayo Clinic Center for Regenerative Medicine website.