- Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Hello, I'm Dr. Steve Kopecky, a preventive cardiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And we're back again with another one of our episodes, Interviews With the Experts for preventive cardiology. It's my great pleasure today to introduce Dr. Vlad Vasile, who's a friend and colleague in our prevention clinic. Dr. Vasile is an assistant professor, both in cardiovascular diseases, department of Medicine and in laboratory medicine and pathology. So welcome Vlad. - Dr. Vlad Vasile: Thank you very much, Dr. Kopecky. It's really a truly a pleasure for me to be here. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: The, our, our topic today will be on ceramides and ceramides are a are a blood test that we do often here at Mayo in Rochester. It's used to assess the risk of heart attacks and stroke, and Dr. Vasile is really one of our experts on it and, and covers both the lab and the CV prevention clinic. So, Dr. Vasile can you kind of give us, what, how do you use the, the ceramides and the risk score? - Dr. Vlad Vasile: Yes. So, you know, ceramides are sphingo lipids and they're ubiquitously expressed. We have ceramides in all of our cell membranes. In all of our tissues. There are many species of ceramides in our body, but some of these ceramides have been associated with heart disease. I like to call these ceramides, the cardiovascular ceramides. Most of these studies have been done in Northern European populations, such as the fin risk cohort or core gene cohort. But we also performed a study here at Mayo Clinic ourselves. And so when you use these ceramides, they really predict you, you, you measure these ceramides and they predict bad events such as myocardial infarction, heart attacks, and strokes, and, and sometimes they also can predict death. So we now have this, what we call the CERAMIDE score, where we have a formula where we plug in all these ceramides of cardiovascular risk. And this formula really renders a number, a simple number that is associated with risk from zero meaning lowest possible cardiovascular risk to 12, which is the highest possible cardiovascular risk. And so it helps with risk stratification of our patients. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: And why are ceramides, why are they important to measure? Are they a risk marker? Are they a signaling molecule? What, how do they play a role here in cardiovascular events? - Dr. Vlad Vasile: This is an excellent question, and I think the jury is still out there. We really don't know exactly whether ceramides are a result of atherosclerosis or ceramides actually produce atherosclerosis. And there are studies that show both aspects. But what I can tell you is that, you know, the ceramides that we use in, in the score are really implicated in plaque formation. There are studies that really measure ceramides in the vulnerable plaque, in the plaque at risk, and they show that this type of plaque really ha shows increased ceramides as you and and are audience are aware. The, the plaque is a very, very complex structure, is a live structure. It involves many pathways that crosstalk from the lipid pathway to the inflammation pathway. And thrombosis is also implicated in that. Now these cites that we use in calculating the score, they're, they're involved in all these processes in the plaque cell. From my perspective, I think that the CERAMIDE score is a very comprehensive biomarker that assesses the cardiovascular risk very well. - So you, you get a score and it's points and then the more points, the higher the risk. How is, how do we use that score? - We use the score to risk stratify patients. So, you know, some, some i I use the ceramide for the majority of patients that I see in the preventive clinic for cardiovascular health assessment. A particular category of patients that I think benefit mostly from the CERAMIDE testing are patients that are deemed that intermediate risk by other assessments, for example, by the reputed A CBD risk calculator. Now we do have other tools in the toolbox to assess the exact risk of these patients deemed that intermediate risk by the 10 year pool cohort calculator, such as coronary imaging. And I'm talking about the coronary calcium score or CT a angiograms. But I think the CERAMIDE score is complimentary to these. So let me explain a little bit. If I see a patient at intermediate risk and I want a better risk stratification of this patient, I, I get the coronary imaging because this will give me extremely useful information, will tell me where the disease is located because sometimes it may be located in higher risk regions. It also tells me how much of the disease we have, what's the burden for example of that coronary calcium. It ranks the patient, but I also obtain ceramides because these coronary imaging tests, they're not reproducible, you cannot track them. So when I see the patient back for follow up in a few months after certain intervention, I obtain ceramides. Of course I don't obtain the coronary imaging. And so I always obtain baseline ceramides in these patients. When I, I try to initiate some sort of intervention, be that lifestyle intervention or pharmacologic intervention, - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: You say that you'll see 'em back in a few months, so it must change within a few months. And what will make the score change? You mentioned lifestyle, what about statins? What about eating differently? What about exercise? - Dr. Vlad Vasile: Yes, and that, that is one of the advantages of ceramides studies have showed that, you know, if you adopt the Mediterranean diet, if you start to exercise aerobically, your CERAMIDE score will go down. Also, statins and even PCSK nine inhibitors also decrease the CERAMIDE score. So when you see that patient in return, for example, let's say you recommended lifestyle changes and you put the patient on a statin, you know, you show the patient, okay, your CERAMIDE score was six and now after six months when I see you back and not only your lipids look better, you adopt the healthy lifestyle, but your CERAMIDE score now is two. And, and so it, it also motivates the patient in addition to tracking their progress. It motivates the patient to stay on the right track and and validate their efforts, you know, the effort with a lifestyle that they put into their own cardiovascular health. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: That's really wonderful. 'cause we need things to motivate our patients, don't we, to have a better lifestyle and, and take their medications. So the score then goes from zero up to 12, 0 1 2 is, is is acceptable. Obviously 10, 11, 12 is very high. We try to get it down. It can go down somewhat quickly. It sounds like Now how, how Vlad is this different than hs-CRP? - Dr. Vlad Vasile: I think it's very different. As I mentioned a little bit earlier, the CERAMIDE score is a comprehensive blood biomarker that really looks at all or the majority of pathways that are involved in plaque formation. High sensitivity CRP is also a very important biomarker of atherosclerotic risk. That over and over in multiple studies has shown that it's predictive of atherosclerotic events, particularly residual risk. More recently, and we now have even drugs that target inflammation. But one thing to keep in mind is that high sensitivity CRP is a biomarker of inflammation. And the way I see it is, for example, the L-D-L-L-D-L cholesterol, bad cholesterol, you know, is, is an important biomarker, predictive biomarker of atherosclerotic event. But cholesterol LDL is not the only biomarker or the only process that's involved in this risk. And so again, ceramides are a comprehensive biomarker, high sensitivity CRP assesses the risk associated with inflammation. Another thing with high sensitivity CRP is that, you know, any sort of inflammation that you have going on in your body could be transient. For example, an upper respiratory infection or a flare of that degenerative joint disease will transiently also increase your high sensitivity CRP. So sometimes when you're trying to assess your patient for the atherosclerotic risk, you may need to track that, you may need to wait a couple of months if they had, you know, a cold recently and then repeat that test and, and, and so that's another disadvantage. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Very good. Vlad. So one final question. What about, you mentioned that you tend to order the ceramides more in intermediate risk patients and then along that line, you know, do you order it still in primary secondary prevention? And when does it seem to predict events? Is it 10 years out like the, like the pool cohort or is it sooner? - Dr. Vlad Vasile: All these are very, very good questions. So to answer your first question, I use the CERAMIDE score in everybody, almost everybody benefits from the CERAMIDE score, everybody that is, that you are assessing their cardiovascular risk. I think ceramides add information to the information provided by the, for example, the A-S-C-V-D risk calculator because we all know that this calculator is far from being perfect. And so ceramides, I think they're, they're complementary to the A-S-C-V-D risk calculator. I did talk about the patients at intermediate risk because I think this is a category that truly benefits from ceramide testing, but overall, I think everybody should be tested. The question about primary and secondary prevention, well, clinically ceramides have been validated both for primary and secondary prevention. We discussed more about the primary prevention, but you can also use ceramides to assess the residual risk of your patients with established coronary artery disease. And, and, and, and, and that will tailor, you know, their treatment. And maybe you wanna be more aggressive with these patients or maybe you wanna keep an eye on them, follow them up more closely if their ceramide score is high and predicts residual atherosclerotic risk. And then finally, ceramides have been studied in respect to prediction. They have been studied, you know, they're able to predict events for the next three to five years. So they're not as, as the pooled cohort yet. It, it really gives you information about what's gonna happen within the next few years. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Very good. So this has been a wonderful conversation. Thank you. Ceramides are something we use frequently. It helps predict risk for cardiovascular events. It gives us more than just inflammation we would see with hs-CRP and it gives us other factors that we may not even be able to measure right now. It seems to be an earlier predictor of events than, than the pool cohort at 10 years. This is more three to five years and we use it especially in patients that are intermediate risk. So Dr. Vasile, it's great to speak with you today and, and thank you so much for importing your knowledge to us. So thank you out there and we've had a great conversation. Hope to see you again. - Dr. Vlad Vasile: Thank you very much Dr. Kopecky.