I'm Carli Tudau. I'm a childlife specialist at the Mayo Clinic Children's Center in Rochester, Minnesota. As childlife, really our goal is to enhance the medical experience for pediatric patients and their families by minimizing stress and maximizing coping. Child life really also seeks to provide education and preparation for children and their families in anticipation of healthc care experiences and medical procedures. We offer tours of pediatric areas and uh preparing for surgery video and class. We engage pediatric patients and their siblings in medical play to really normalize medical items and empower kids to manipulate and uh really manage and and master these potentially scary moments in their care. It is really an incredible thing to see a child move from feeling apprehensive or even flat out uh terrified to feeling more confident and more competent when they feel prepared. Uh these types of preparation that we offer really invite kids to participate in their care in a developmentally appropriate and ultimately successful way. Though we don't have uh a magic wand to eliminate all of the tough stuff kids are faced with, we do have glitter wands and uh crazy eyeball popping frog stress balls and light spinners. All of these wild and crazy tools that you may see in a child life specialist toolbox. We use these as distraction and really support for kids during tests and procedures. We advocate for this type of distraction, for comfort positions, for uh you know numbing agents, reduced sensory stimulation, for parental presence. Really with all these options, we see these incredible kids uh get through really tough stuff, feeling more safe, feeling supported, and feeling a little less scared. So, you know, overall as childlife, our goal is coping and we want to really partner with children and their families and the health care team to reduce the potentially negative impacts of stressful healthcare experiences. We want to instead send uh kids down the hallway in a wagon with IV pole and parent in tow headed towards the playroom for a game of bingo or a pet visit or a crazy afternoon activities. That's what childlife looks like at the Mayo Clinic Children's Center.