the last 7 to 10 years I'd been experiencing quite a bit of symptoms not related to any kind of illness. Um I was very tired. I was very sick. I'd seen many doctors and um nothing was making me any better. Matter of fact, I was on a lot of medications. I was told I had fibromyalgia, limes disease, um lupus, hypothyroidism, and diabetes. And um as much as all my doctors were working, we couldn't get anything to stable out. And um over the years, I just kept getting worse. And um I had had a really good doctor in the Texas area that indicated that um they couldn't figure out what was causing all the problems. And like mind you, this wasn't just over a year. This was over 7 to 10 years. So we had experienced um a lot of things, a lot of symptoms that were just really wearing me down to the point where I couldn't leave the house or walk a half a block or even walk into my office without experiencing some kind of symptom. So um we were recommended that the um to request some time to see or to go to the male clinic. Our doctor indicated that he would support the visit because he felt that's something that we really needed to have done. Um at that point there was we needed to get something to stabilize me because I was totally going downhill. Um, we looked into the Mayo Clinic online and um, I believe Dave, you were the one that assisted with helping with um, filling out the forms and we submitted it and um, within a day we'd gotten a phone call back from the Arizona plant that indicated that they um, didn't have the facilities or the specialties to do fibromyalgia or the things that were on my case um, file, but they were going afforded gone to Florida and um then a couple of days later we received a call from Florida indicating that they could see us. Um I think that was probably the most happiest day of my life when they called me and said that they were going to actually help me figure out what was going on with me. I think I must have cried for like 10 minutes um only because somebody was willing to try to figure out what was going on with me. And in the meantime, they kept calling back um to provide us with information on where we might stay, what we would do, you know, when we got down there as to transportation and things like that. Um actually I coordinated a lot of that portion of it and they left a contact number and the name and during the time period we had several questions and every time that I called back for question I was able to contact the same lady that was assigned to your case, right? You didn't feel like you were being shuffled around to numerous people. We had one primary person that took care of us. And that was a really comforting feeling considering by the time I finally got down there, I was getting to a point where I was very ill. I knew there was something seriously wrong that needed to be worked out. And um we were able to actually stay right on the campus, which was really nice. Just amazing um how the whole place was well organized. We get to the actual front door. There's people there to greet you. There's people that ask tell you where to go when you're actually, you know, checking in. And um and then there's a process from there. They told you what floor to go to, who to start with, and you actually went to a primary physician and that primary physician um had already seen your file and had um was getting ready to tell you what your schedule was going to be for the evaluation portion of it. It was very obvious that that each one of the doctors that we saw were studied up on your file before we got to their office. It's not like a typical office where you office visit where you go in and you're delayed. You sit in the room for 15 minutes while the the doctor catches up on your file. These people knew exactly who they were going to see and everything that you had submitted up to that point. Um, right. And that primary physician set me up with five different doctors. digestive doctor, a nose, ear and throat doctor, a um I mean numerous. It covered so many areas because we didn't we didn't come down and have a specific um symptom that was pointing to one particular treatment plan. It was very elusive. Uh and the for for years we had gone to many different specialists for everything that we thought it might be. And since it was that kind of an elusive type of thing, they covered a whole gamut of different systems for to body systems to do some analysis, right? And previously all the doctors were in different locations. In this place, there was going to be one file for all the doctors to see. and we were told what our schedule was going to be and um where we'd be starting with our evaluations and we'd meet with each one of these physicians and they would um look at my file and then also determine what tests needed to take place and um and then they would walk you through the test that you would have to take and make you feel very comfortable what you were going to be doing. It was um on our fourth day at the Mayo Clinic and um there was some other tests that some others doctor doctors wanted to take and evaluate. So we were asked to stay longer and um and that was okay. You know, we knew we were finding out what was going on. And the amount of tests that we had daily showed that there was something that we needed to proceed on looking at that they hadn't come up with the magic pill I thought I was going to take when I got there and go home. So um each step of the process you you started with your basic you know lab work and your x-rays and your you know the things that were basic and then they proceeded to get into more detail after that. Each doctor took its time their time. They understood what your situation was. They knew you were scared. They knew you didn't know what was going on. um numerous doctors that would come in and know how concerned you were where I believe there was the the um digestive doctor came in and he said, "Honey, I know you're so concerned I have to hug you." And he just hugged me. Uh and that was preceding the point where we had um I said we were planning to go home in 2 or 3 days. And um he actually said, "Honey, I don't know if you know this, but your cardiologist is going to ask you to stay." And um I you know, and you have an appointment with him right after this, but I said, "I'm going to schedule some more tests because I know you're going to be here a little bit longer." But I said, "No, we were planning to go home. I thought we had this all worked out." He said, "No, we really need to stay." And he felt the need to give me a hug. And I have never felt that warm and comforting feeling. You'll get through this. It will be tough, but you'll get through this and you're here to find out what's wrong with you and we all care. And it was just a warm feeling to know that I wasn't being pushed from one doctor to the other and I wasn't being, you know, told one thing by one doctor and the other doctor would find something. That one doctor knew what the cardiologist doctor knew, too. Everything was so coordinated. And what impressed me the most was that even though nobody was finding any major thing to fix, they were very confident that they would find what needed to be addressed. And they just said, "Okay, we're going to test the next thing." And they kept on going. And nobody even had the option of giving up. Nobody even thought about that. They just said, "You're here. You have a real issue with your life. You've gone from a vibrant, energetic young woman to somebody who can't walk for a 100 yards. And we're going to find out why. Because obviously there's nothing that should keep you from being the person that you used to be. And they were going to they were going to find it. Mhm. And they did. We were released to go um we couldn't leave Florida. We're released for 5 days. And um we actually stayed at a hotel that was near the site. But um every day we got a call from somebody wanting to know how were we, you know, how was I doing in my walking? Was I using my breathing machine? You know, what medically was I in any pain, things like that. Every day we got called by somebody and um not only did they call us, but they also asked if we had all our paperwork done, our forms done. It's I don't know if a lot of people know the intense detailed um documents that have to be completed for short-term disability or you're taking you know you know the insurance needs to have the right doctors sign the forms and if you have a nurse sign them it doesn't work the doctor has to they seem to know all the stuff that needed to be done and not only did they leave us as we're done they didn't go we're done with you you go on forward they contacted my primary physician in Dallas and they made sure that he had all the information that we had there set up um made sure he set up home health care for me when I got home and um made sure that if they had any questions who they were to call and contact. So when I arrived in Dallas um I already had a visit scheduled for the first nurse to come and um and take care of my open wounds that I had and my doctor was the one that in Texas that set it up. So, it was very um comforting to know that my doctor felt comfortable with what he was getting or what he was going to have to deal with when it came to me coming back and he had um all the paperwork and it was very detailed so he knew exactly what needed to be done. When we left, we told all the staff that we saw at the time that we had such a wonderful experience here. Even though it's been the most, I don't know, life shattering experience we've ever had together, we said we'd really like to recommend that all of our friends come here, but you'll understand if we don't because we don't want them to be in a position to come here. But if any of them are sick, this is where they come. Any of them are, we will definitely tell them the mail, right? because after 8 to 10 years or however many years I was sick, this um quadruple heart bypass has changed my my whole life. I'm walking two to four miles a day. I'm eating healthier. I've lost um a lot of weight and um I'm I'm a new person. Well, I'm the old person back and I Cindy's back. Cindy's back and I'm so excited about that because it's I'm I there's no stopping me now. I'm so energetic. I'm, you know, I'm I'm where I want to be. I'm doing things and I'm enjoying life again. And I wasn't able to do that for so many years. And um I wouldn't be doing that. Matter of fact, I don't think I would be here if I hadn't gotten a miracle.