Medicine is changing at a rapid pace. So fast, the transformation is happening, and if you're not a part of it, you're gonna be left behind. What we see right now is not what we're gonna see in the next 30 years. What we are experiencing in medicine is not what our trainees are gonna experience in their professional careers. We need to equip them, we need to train them, we need to give them skills to handle the transformation of healthcare. Every big change that we see, any exciting new technology was because of one idea, one small idea, maybe something that was fleeting while you were working on something else but that idea could be big and I think you have an idea of what that might look like. Here at Mayo Clinic we are getting to showcase that to our trainees through GME's new innovation programming. I actually started a phase one clinical trial. I designed it and I'm leading it and I've got funding within this first year which has been a dream come true. I didn't think it was possible in a fellowship to do that. I've had so much support from both the cellular therapy departments and hematology to combine their expertise in designing this clinical trial. The field of genetics is changing at such a rapid rate and so when I first came to Mayo as a pediatric resident genetic testing was kind of right at the point where we were seeing a huge change and what I mean by that is in the past for babies in the NICU we would do things we would do stepwise genetic testing not comprehensive testing, not rapid. The innovation that I'm now working on is really taking that now to the next level. I mean, you always want to be the strongest you can clinically. What else can you create? What other knowledge sources do you need? What other tools can bring you to that next level? And I think that's what's really exciting here at the Mayo Clinic and within this program to deliver better outcomes. We disclosed our first product with Mayo Clinic Ventures. So right now we're working on AI-enabled products that will be the knowledge source for emergency medicine. One day a month that you get a chance to interact with people that are not just from different departments but also have very different worldviews and that's what's fantastic about it because if I just stayed in my realm if I stayed siloed I wouldn't have these ideas I wouldn't have these interactions that's why you come to a campus like this so you can meet other brilliant minds and share that and that's what this program allows, essentially it's diversity of thought and experience. There are ideas that I've had and pursuits that I wouldn't have had without exposure to this program, absolutely. I've learned a lot of new concepts but I've also seen a lot of skills that I have in medicine reflected in entrepreneurship. So every day in clinical practice we are faced with problems and we come up with ideas for solutions so I'm really most interested in healthcare innovations that bring the doctor and the medications and the treatment options to the patient instead of it having to go the other way around. The medicine is evolving very fast in our Mayo Clinic we have so many you know innovators available readily available spending more time how to improve the overall health care so that we can give more good outcomes to our patients. This program is going to be a catalyst for those kinds of ideas we're going to sift through if the idea is worth being big in commercialization, in business development, in business formation, and how to pivot and iterate quickly, whether you have an idea or you're just trying to figure out where to begin. Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education is changing rapidly just like healthcare is changing. We've brought the innovation program to you because we want you to be equipped to help you change and innovate quickly.