Welcome back to the Mayo Clinic cardiovascular podcast series, interviews with the experts. I'm your host, Sharon Hayes. I'm a non-invasive cardiologist and vice chair of faculty development and academic advancement for the department of cardiovascular medicine here in Rochester, Minnesota. Today I'm joined by Carrie Zaminsky who's a nurse practitioner and holds a doctorate in nursing and the rank of instructor in medicine and practices in the CAD clinic here in Rochester. Her areas of expertise include coronary artery disease in all aspects. Welcome Carrie. >> Thank you so much for the kind introduction. >> Today our topic is clititoil monotherapy and chronic coronary artery disease. Carrie's going to share an overview of clipidogil monotherapy in patients with chronic CAD who are not on anagulation and we'll discuss the shift towards redefining anti-gllet therapy for this patient population including recent trials and how to manage a patient on monotherapy undergoing uh non-cardiac surgery. So Carrie to start for the purposes of today's discussion how are we defining chronic coronary disease or CAD? So patients that have chronic coronary disease are going to include those that are post ACS that have completed at least 12 months of dual antiplatelet therapy or DAP. It also includes those that have undergone um post elective PCI or cabbage and have completed at least 6 to 12 months of DAP. And then it also includes those that have stable anga that have not had interventions performed. With these patients, we don't typically move forward with DAP and so you really don't have any time frame duration that you have to wait for with those individuals. >> So why has there been a shift in the approach to antiplatlet therapy in patients with chronic coronary disease? What's changed? >> It really involves a discussion about this shift in um eskeemic versus bleeding risk. So these are common complications that occur postPCI and for any es schemic benefit that you might obtain from intensifying or prolonging someone's antiplatlet therapy that's going to be counterbalanced by an increased risk of bleeding. And now we've started to shift into this new era where we really recognize the relevance of bleeding complications for this patient population because the mortality rate from having a major bleeding event is actually equal to or greater than the mortality from having a myioardial inffection. I think it's important to note that across the board our patients are living longer, they're getting older, but in turn they're also having more coorbidities and they're more complex. And so they have more components that are going to increase their bleeding risk. Most of our patients are older than 65 and they have renal disease, liver disease, history of prior active cancer, and we're taking these patients to the Kath lab, performing complex interventions, and then putting them on medications afterwards that will increase that bleeding risk. So now it's more crucial than ever that we really redefine their medical management. And then the other piece from an eskeemic standpoint is that a lot has changed over the decades and that eskeemic risk has actually continued to decrease. 30 40 years ago when we were first putting stances in patients they were bare metal. There were issues with those. Now we have our second generation drug eluding stances. There's also new technical advancements that we can use in the Kath lab such as the use of IVIS and IFR FFR and also ASCD risk factor management has really made leaps and bounds over the years not only from how aggressive we are with their target goals like LDLs. We're now shooting for less than 55, but we actually have the medications that can get people there. And so in summary, our patients are getting older. Their bleeding risk just continues to increase. But at the same time there have been so many new advancements in the medical field that that risk of eskeemic events is reducing and so now we can really individualize their medical therapy. Yeah. So you've really outlined a nice sort of the evolution and some of the things that were such mainstays are still important and still provide benefit but the incremental benefit is less because we've got some better tools. So what are some of the recently published trials that really highlight clipidogil monotherapy because we're hearing a lot about that and and for us general cardiologists it's and for patients is you mean you're going to switch me to a prescription drug. I I so tell us a little bit about what has informed this change. >> Right. And I think it's important to talk about some of these trials because like you mentioned we've been reaching for aspirin monotherapy for patients with chronic CAD for decades. And so when you start talking about shifting from that, it's it's a little jarring for people. So let's walk through a few of these trials. The first one is host exam. This was published in 2019. It was a South Korean study. They enrolled over 5,000 patients that were postci and had completed their dual antiplatelet therapy or DAP. And they randomized them to aspirin versus clipito monotherapy. And they found that copitrol monotherapy actually reduced eskeemic events and bleeding compared to aspirin. So this was a really great study. In 2023 postexam extended became available. So they ended up following these patients for almost six years and still showed that capidro monotherapy was superior to aspirin for es schemic and bleeding events. So this was a really great study but there was still some hesitancy to start switching over to capidro monotherapy mainly because clinicians wanted just more trials in general um and then also wanting more realworld patients included in the studies and what I mean by that is nowadays most patients that are going to the lab especially here at Mayo Clinic are undergoing complex interventions and so we really want that to be reflected in the trials and so fortunately smart choice 3 just released in or published in spring 2025. This was again a South Korean study enrolled over 5,000 patients that were post PCI completed their DAP randomized to aspirin versus clipidog monotherapy. This once again showed that clipro monotherapy reduces eskeemic events. However, there was no difference in bleeding. So in summary, both of these trials showed that capitrol monotherapy is superior to aspirin from an eskeemic standpoint without impacting the bleeding risk. And now we can start using caplitigral monotherapy for chronic CAD patients. So if we've got these patients on flitigil monotherapy where uh traditionally we've been more cautious about bleeding what's your process or advice for us for managing a patient who's on clipidogil and who needs non-cardiac surgery both elective and maybe something semi-urgent. >> That's a great question. So I have a very clear process for managing this. Step one would be reaching out to the surgeon and asking if they would be comfortable operating with the patient on clipidigeral monotherapy. Here at Mayo Clinic, it's actually I'm actually usually surprised because when I ask the surgeons this, some of them are actually okay with operating especially if it's a lower risk surgery such as a knee replacement. And so if that's the case, then there'd be nothing further that you would need to do. The patient would move forward with the surgery while on the complete monotherapy. However, if the surgeon is not comfortable, then the next step would be 5 days prior to the surgery, stopping the capitoral and starting aspirin 81 milligrams daily in its place. And then you would continue that throughout the perryop setting. And then once the patient is posttop and that immediate bleeding risk has resolved, you would stop the aspirin and resume the capitol in its place. There would be no need to load with the caplitig at that point. >> Well, thank you for that. I I think you know one of the things as we evolve as a as cardiologists caring for these patients and being more comfortable with clitil I do think it may take a little bit of time before our surgeons are um just even reflecting on the history of them agreeing to do surgery on aspirin 10 or 15 years ago you know it was like >> um so I I I think that that's really good advice and I really thank you for being here today and sharing that. >> Thank you. I appreciate it. >> So, this wraps up this week's episode of Interviews with the Experts. I'd like to thank Carrie for joining me today and discussing this important topic. We look forward to you joining us again next week for an interview with an expert. Be well. At Mayo [music] Clinic, continuous learning fills world-class care. I am Dr. Francisco Lopez [music] Himenez, chair of the division of preventive cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do [music] for your patients. Please check out the link cved education.edu edu and explore [music] our live and online programs, quick on demand modules and CME accredited master classes created and thought by the very voices you trust here. Join [music] thousands of clinicians who have already turned curiosity into expertise. Level up your practice now [music] at cved education.mayo.edu.