Hello, my name is Colin Driscoll. I'm an ear, nose, and throat doctor at the Mayo Clinic, the Children's Center, Rochester, Minnesota. I have a subsp specialty interest in ears and ear related problems. My plan today is to talk about three different issues regarding coar implants and children. Over the years, the age of implantation has gradually dropped. Uh so we used to implant older and older children and and now that age has continued to drift down. And it's unclear exactly how young is young enough, but our goal now is to implant children as soon as we know there's a significant hearing loss and that the coar implant is going to be the uh uh choice to restore hearing and and to help develop speech and language. One way to look at this is historically we've prescribed hearing aids for hearing loss for many years. We would never wait until a child was a year or two years old before we would consider a hearing aid. soon as we know they're uh a candidate for a hearing aid, we would fit hearing aids. So, why would we wait until a child is one or 18 months or two years old before proceeding with a coar implant? Really doesn't make sense from a language uh development standpoint. So, we know from our data and others that the younger we implant children, the more likely we are to have a very successful outcome. The second issue I wanted to talk about was the discussion of implanting one ear or both ears and whether we should do that at the same time or first one ear then the second ear later. Uh in our program we've been uh pretty strong proponents of implanting both ears when we know that both ears meet candidacy and the idea being that the more sound uh we can provide the better the language develops going language development will be. There's increasing evidence to say that a long delay between implanting one ear and the next year leads to suboptimal outcomes for the second year. And this makes sense. Uh, logically, if the ear is not utilized for many years, it's hard to wake it up again. Basically, your brain has built a superighway to that first ear. It's paying attention to that one, and it doesn't know what to do with the second year. And language development happens at very young age. And there's a window of opportunity for children to learn language well. If we don't provide access to sound early on, then you can only make up so much later. So ideally u we would implant both ears uh early on and give access to sound in both ears. We know the impact of hearing in one ear says many children are born with hearing loss in one ear that isn't restored and they rely on their uh normal hearing ear. And although you can do okay, there's still a day-to-day problem with that particularly hearing and noise. And we know that even hearing loss in one ear will increase the risk of having difficulty in school. The third issue I wanted to talk about is the importance of having a solid team. As a surgeon, I could put the device in and there are technically uh important aspects to that that are required to get a good outcome. But in some ways it it's a minor step in the process. The rest of the team is extraordinarily important in achieving uh the best possible outcomes. The more experience your implant team has evaluating and managing other children with coar implants, the more experience they could draw on to again arrive at the best possible outcome for your child. So the implant team, the aiologists um are all a critical component of providing maximum uh function from the device. The uh educational setting, the teachers who uh help support your child in school are critical to again achieving a good outcomes. We could put the device in, we can program it, but it needs to be managed day in day out and a child needs appropriate school support again to perform at their highest possible level. Lastly, the family is critically important. Um, the more language we're exposed to, the easier it is to learn it. And so this team including uh me as a surgeon, our aiologists, our educational aiologists, uh speech language pathologists, u the uh teachers, deaf heart, deaf and um heart of hearing educators in your environment in the classroom and the family are all critical to uh having a child progress their language acquisition and reach their goals.