When we used to think of colon cancer as one refined diagnosis, what we understand is that there's actually hundreds or thousands of different colon cancers. And so in order to provide the top tip of the spear, best level care, we really need to have tightly integrated teams. You have to have teams that work together well, that trust each other, and all have the same goal. I really think of the referring provider as a member of our care team. And ultimately, these providers generally know the patient much better than us. they've known them for many years. Patients that I see, that we see as a group, we are having them continue to follow with their local provider and continue to get treatment there. Mayo Clinic has been at the forefront of innovation in colorectal cancer care for decades. From the surgical perspective, we were amongst the first to be innovative in terms of laparoscopy for colon cancer and more recently in robotic surgery ongoing research for clinical trials for colorectal cancer is really looking sort of at two major areas and they ultimately come down to improving cancer control outcomes and improving patient quality of life and organ function and preservation and as we've seen in the last five and ten years colorectal cancer treatments have evolved dramatically. Organ preservation didn't exist a decade ago and now it is a standard of care where we can potentially avoid surgery altogether for patients while curing them of their cancer. Transplant care at Mayo Clinic Florida has always excelled and been amongst the best centers in the country and what's really exciting with relation to colorectal cancer care is now liver transplant and those patients who have unresectable colorectal liver metastasis. It truly is providing hope and healing to a segment of the patient population that we had a hard time reaching before. The biggest challenge in radiation oncology is getting radiation to the target while avoiding radiation to the normal tissue around the target. The intraoperative radiation is a very specialized and unique feature that we have at our institution. It delivers radiation directly to the tumor at the time of surgery and so it eliminates the challenge of going through normal tissue to get to the target. Yeah, Mayo Clinic 3D printing has been used for a number of years to help us really take a 2D picture and create this 3D model that we can hold in our hands, move around, look at it from multiple different angles, and do that with every member of the team. And all of these things put together have allowed Mayo Clinic to be at the forefront of colorectal cancer surgery care. We're all worried about the same outcome, which is the best outcome for the patient. We want to think of the patient as a whole. And so the only way that you can make that work, but also keep up with all of the intricacies of medicine, is you have to have a team of multidisciplinary specialists. That allows us to think about a case not just through my lens, not just through the chemotherapy lens, but through a surgical lens, through a GI lens, through radiation lens. A good radiologist makes me a better radiation oncologist. A good surgeon makes me a better radiation oncologist. And so the team around me makes me better at what I do. Ten years ago, five years ago, we have made significant strides in the opportunities for patients to live cancer free and also live cancer free with a high quality of life.