What really drew me to this program was the community outreach and the fact that it was just so integrated in everything that we do. We run two free clinics, one within St. Peter, which is about 20 minutes away, another here in town at a local homeless shelter. Our residents staff those every single week, which has been a great way to reach out to our community and also partner with local organizations in our community too. Here at Mankato, it was very, very apparent that, you know, community health was very important to the curriculum and to the faculty, and not only that, the faculty were excited to engage you in community projects. We see a broad range of different patients. Everyone at the shelter is experiencing homelessness in some way, and so these patients have a lot of increased barriers to accessing traditional health care. Mankato Family Medicine Residency has almost 100 hours of community medicine during the three years of residency. Every resident has the opportunity at least once a month to go there and help the community in St. Peter. Every patient is a person with an individual story and it's important to know who people are outside of just kind of like the four walls of the clinic. People have been really grateful and it's just been a great way to deliver care whether it's you know primary care, mental health, dental care to people who really need it but just didn't have an opportunity to get it before. I am a family medicine doctor to be and being engaged in the community is bringing me closer to my patients. Mankato residency has always been a step ahead in the community engagement which is amazing because that is how we can build trust with the community, with our patients, that's how we can make sure our treatment is made for our patients and bring their engagement into their own treatment as well. I've learned that you know I'm really excited and driven by helping patients who are traditionally kind of left behind by our current health care system and patients who you know experience increased barriers to accessing care. So this, I think, has kind of sparked a lifelong interest in providing this kind of care for me. We're so lucky to have so many wonderful community partners here in Mankato, and I've learned so much from each of them, and each has a different approach to patient care, and I think we've also learned that medicine is very much a team sport, and through collaboration, we're able to provide more all -encompassing, better overall patient care.