One of our values is excellence, and you don't have excellence without a bar being set and holding people to expectations of performance. The sun doesn't rise and set and Mayo Clinic's the number one place to get your health care, it's made every single day through that commitment to excellence and accountability. What about our teams? I mean, that's probably the best part about Mayo Clinic is working on a team rather than working as an individual. I came here and I thought, "Oh my gosh, everybody wants to work together and be great for the patient." They don't want to actually be great themselves. They want to be great for the patient as part of a team. And I feel that on our teams, you know, the incredible bringing together of different minds... the patent liaisons and the technology development managers and the business development managers and licensing managers, your experience - that's teamwork at its best level. There's nothing better than when you see that team come together. It's really about, "Are you willing to work hard? Are you willing to put the time and the effort in?" Yes, you have to have skills, but if you're willing to work hard, this is an organization that's like the American dream realized. You can do so much. And then when you start thinking about all the people that we have brought together, we have people that have come up from the inside. It started in much different careers and in our work and in business development doing what they're doing. And we have people coming from the outside who worked at the who's-who of investment banking or investing or etcetera, but they want to come here and make a difference, and they're working together. That's pretty remarkable. I think it's unique. I don't think there's very many places on the planet where you can do that and work for a non-profit mission like we can hear at Mayo. We do our business with the highest level of integrity. When we're negotiating deals, which is a very difficult thing to do, there's a lot of pressure, there's sometimes a lot of contentiousness, but we hold ourselves to the highest level of integrity. I think that's built our reputation in the marketplace that people know when they're coming to the table with us, they're gonna get a straight answer from us. We're not going to roll over, but we're going to be true to what we say; we're going to walk our talk. One interesting aspect of this phenomenon is the calls we get after we make relationships with entrepreneurs and companies and executives. They get that sense from us that we are all about the patient and we have integrity and we are respectful. Even if they've just interacted with us on a business level, they can sense how we do it at a medical level. And of course, the reputation doesn't hurt either. The folks that really want a true partnership and a collaboration and work with us as partners, more often than not, if not almost always, come away very, very happy, as do we, because we know at the end of the day we're getting to the bedside what we need for our patients, and they are also driving the value that they need for their, their respective stakeholders. It's a great way to do business.