We have a good amount of individuals today logged in. Thank you all for joining us this afternoon or morning, depending on the time zone you're in. I'm Karina Sabiqiu. I host the Indigenous Health Topics webinar series. Today, I'm attending a conference here in Minneapolis, and my colleague down in Arizona will be hosting the rest of this webinar with our presenter today. So really excited to get to watch this later on. It is recorded, and you all will be able to see that in the future on our YouTube channel. But I'm going to hand it off to Trudy here. Hello everyone. Good morning. Thank you everyone for joining. So my name is Judy Jackson and I'm the community engagement coordinator out of the Phoenix site. So just a few housekeeping who just want to touch base on is, so this is the Indigenous Hot Topic for August 15, 2025, we'll have our feature. Oh, Trudy, you're on mute. On mute, I'm sorry. There you go. Okay, so just a few housekeeping is we will have time at the end of the presentations for any Q&A and you're more than welcome to add your questions using the Zoom function on the Q&A function. And then also lastly is let's strengthen our community by introducing yourself in the chat, whether you're affiliated with an organization, your role, your travel affiliation, and your location. That would be greatly appreciated. And then lastly is our featured guest speaker is Dr. Yvette Brown-Shirley, medical doctor, clinical assistant professor of neurology at Burrell Neurological Institute in Phoenix, Arizona. and her bio I'm going to read is Dr. Brown Shirley is a clinical assistant professor of neurology at Burrell She's an enrolled member of the Navajo Nation who was born and raised in Flagstaff, Arizona. She completed her undergraduate education at Arizona State University and earned her medical degree from the University of New Mexico School of Medicine. She returned to Arizona to complete her residency in child neurology at Phoenix Children's Hospital and a fellowship in sports neurology at the Traumatic Brain Injury at Baroneurological Institute. She is well positioned as one of the few academic Native American neurologists in the country. Dr. Brown Shirley is believed to be the Southwest as first and only female Native American sports neurologist. She serves as the director of Barrow's Native American Health Equity Initiative, focusing on delivering culturally sensitive neurological care to tribal communities across Arizona. As a sports neurologist, her mission is focusing on brain health for athletes of all levels. She continues to offer her time and expertise as an unaffiliated sideline neurotrauma consultant for Arizona State University and the National Football League. In 2024, Dr. Brown Shirley was featured in a January 2024 issue of the Navajo Times and named on the list of, quote, the 100 best doctors in Arizona for 2025, by, unquote, by Arizona Big Media. As one of only two Native American neurologists in Arizona, Dr. Brown Shirley is committed to addressing brain health for her people. So with that, let's welcome Dr. Brown Shirley. Hi, Trudy, thank you. All right, can you see my slides? Okay. Can you get a thumbs up, Trudy? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. All right. And you don't see me, you see my presentation on my presentation slides. Yep. It's just your presentation. Okay. Perfect. Thank you, Karina. I just wanted to thank the Mayo Clinic team for inviting me. Shout out to Eva Big Horse. she's the one who connected me with their team. And I wanted to take this opportunity to just talk about traumatic brain injury in Indian country. So let's just get started, shall we? I just wanted to disclose that, yes, I am an unaffiliated neurotrauma consultant for the NFL and for Arizona State University. This is what I do as my job. I am a specialist, so I just wanted to disclose that, and we'll be talking about traumatic brain injury, But I just want to just put that out there. So the objectives were pretty simple. I just wanted to start a discussion, a dialogue about traumatic brain injury and Native Americans across Indian countries. So let's just talk about the health disparities of traumatic brain injury, identify the barriers to care that Native Americans can experience. And these are not unique to Native Americans, but I also just wanted to highlight, take a spin with the Native American component to care. And then just talk about promising approaches and future directions. And then just give you a little highlight of what we do here in Phoenix at Barrow Neurological Institutes. So let's just get started. So traumatic brain injury, there is not one set definition for traumatic brain injury. I've kind of wanted to lay out here the different entities that are part of traumatic brain injury. It could be they all have their own form and their own definition of So from the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine to my professional society, American Academy of Neurology, to the Department of Veteran Affairs, to the Concussion and Sport Group. So there are a lot of entities that play a role in concussion care and traumatic brain injury. And so there are a lot of different professions that play a role in traumatic brain injury. So I just wanted to just highlight that. There's a slightly heterogeneous here. So overall, though, the big picture is it is a trauma-induced alteration in mental status that may or may not involve loss of consciousness. It results in neuropathological changes, functional disturbances rather than structural. The definition of concussion, and we'll go over on the next slide, it says that there is no abnormality on neuroimaging. So here, let me see here. So here is a bigger, just a bigger outline of what we think about as practicing clinicians is traumatic brain injury. What degree and where are we trying to classify this patient when they come into our office? It could be mild, moderate, and severe, and that's not based on any symptoms or symptom severity. It's based on certain criteria that's listed right below it. So if you've heard of concussion, it's very common these days. Concussion is going to be on the mildest spectrum here of the TBI classification. And it says that we need to have a Glasgow Coma Scale, which is 13 to 15. And that's going to be more so seen like in the ER setting, an emergency setting, or if you are seen by an EMT or paramedics, that's what we're really looking for is that type of classification based on their assessment of the patient. PTA means post-traumatic amnesia, less than 30 minutes. So the patient has to meet those parameters. And then if they happen to get imaging at that time, the imaging of their head, so MRI of the brain or CT of their head, it's going to be a concussion if it is normal. And then we start getting to abnormality of MRI brain or CT of the head with the complicated mild traumatic brain injuries, and then moderate to severe traumatic brain injuries are going to likely have a higher degree of abnormality on MRI brain or CT head. And the further out you are to the severe spectrum, the more you're going to have more lasting neurological deficits, both symptom, but also on examination as well. So I just wanted to highlight that traumatic brain injury is very diverse. It's very heterogeneous. So it can include concussions who have a great prognosis to full recovery to include the severe traumatic brain injuries who will likely have lasting on lifelong neurological deficits from their injury. And just to just to kind of discuss concussions going to concussions going to take up the most, it's gonna be the most common of the traumatic brain injury so just in case you haven't um seen or heard or even experienced concussion yourself these are the signs of a concussion so some what you will observe as an outsider um to someone else who sustains a concussion so it's usually physical cognitive and emotional it may involve just one realm it may involve all of these three but physical like this is what we're looking for like in our um in our football players or or folks that you know when i'm on the sideline this is what looking for is are they slow to rise are they clutching their head are they trying to shake off that hit when they get up are they walking okay so are they having difficulties coordinating their motor movements is there any like fence or posturing that were worried about seizure activity and did they ultimately have any loss of consciousness cognitively when you speak with these individuals they might look stunned they might seem dazed they might seem confused They might seem like they're answering the questions very slowly or inappropriately. They could even be asking repetitively the same question over again, and they might not tell you what happened. So they might not be able to recall the impact. And then emotionally, they might just be more aggressive, more agitated, more emotional, and just irritated. And the symptoms of what that patient will feel. So whoever sustains that head injury, they can have a wide breadth of very nonspecific symptoms. So I tell my patients that, you know, once I see a concussion, it's that concussion that I will see. It's very hard to replicate another concussion. And so I see one concussion and then all the other concussions have similar stories, but they're not going to be the same. So physical, cognitive, emotional and sleep symptoms are the bigger categories there. by far post-traumatic headache is the most common and then we go dizziness balance issues vision changes cognitively again they could feel like they are having problems concentrating feeling like i hear very commonly brain fog they feel slower than usual they have difficulties moving as quick as they used to so difficulties will multitasking and short-term memory issues emotionally they again they could feel quick-tempered they just might feel irritated um and so there's there's that um there's that possibility that if you even if you don't have a history of anxiety depression you can start to feel anxious and depressed as a result of this um and then sleeping can vary from not sleeping enough to sleeping too little to overall just feeling fatigue but in my clinic what i usually see is these are the bigger leaflets of concussion symptoms i usually end up seeing a lot of a lot of patients with multiple multiple leaflets of symptoms in my clinic. And so I tend to see a lot more complex patients. And this is just kind of outlying how complex concussion, but also the entire spectrum of traumatic brain injury can get. And so I just wanted to highlight there, it's a very busy site, but it's also, it's a very, it's a simple yet complex representation of what we're addressing in clinic and for these patients to help get them back to living the life that they want to. So just touching on the disproportionate burden of traumatic brain injury. So these are the bigger patient populations that the CDC has outlined that are facing the greatest disparity when it comes to traumatic And Native Americans, if they're not leading the categories of these patient populations, They're going to be high up there either first or second. So our older adults, so this is our elderly, but my patients tend to, they don't like that word. So my more mature patients, over 65, we know they're going to be facing disparities in traumatic brain injury. We have a lower life expectancy as Native Americans in the United States and higher mortality rates. Racial and ethnic minorities. The CDC has identified that Native Americans are at the highest risk of, highest risk of traumatic brain injury. And then military service members and veterans. So Native Americans serve, you know, in the U.S. military at a higher rate than any other ethnic group in the country. And we comprise only like 1.4 percent of the U .S. population, but we're making up 1.7 percent of the military. And then specifically since 9-11, 19% of Native Americans have served in the armed forces compared to 40% of the national average of other races. So we are serving our country at higher rates. And we're, yeah, we're very proud of that, too. I have several family members who were serving in the past, but also currently in the military right now. Individuals in correctional and detention facilities, Native Americans are vastly overrepresented in the correctional legal system. Native American people are incarcerated in state and federal prisons at much higher rates, so like double the national rate, and then four times higher rates than the state and federal prison incarceration rates of white, the non-Hispanic white population. So we're, again, we're overrepresented here. And then when it comes to homelessness, sheltered and unsheltered homelessness. We have the second highest rate of homelessness in a December 2023 report from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. There was a report that among people experiencing homelessness, 4% identified as American Indian Alaska Native, which is twice as likely to be unsheltered homelessness rather than sheltered homelessness and then just from 2022 to 2023 those identified as Native or Indigenous in that was surveyed here that number had increased by 18 percent from 2022 to 2023 and then in 2023 the families with children who identified as Native Indigenous they were three percent of all the families there so again we are making up a large population population of the homelessness there when it comes to um inter intimate partner violence and like domestic violence native americans ****** and um and other races had statistically significant higher odds of experiencing violent traumatic brain injury compared to ****** so we're experiencing like 300% or three times the rate of non-Hispanic ******. So again, another factor here that we're taking into account when it comes to the struggles that our people are experiencing just with traumatic brain injury. From a 2024 report, the uninsured rate of non-elderly, so non -elderly American Indians and Alaska Natives decreased. So that was great, you know, from 32.4% to 19.9% in 2022. But the American Indian Alaskan Native population continues to have the highest uninsured rate compared to other racial and ethnic populations. So we still are leading that category there of uninsured individuals. And then lastly, from the 2018 U.S. Census data, Native Americans have the highest poverty rate among all minority groups. And so we were at 25.4% of the national poverty rate that our people were meeting. So 25.4% of Native Americans were meeting the national poverty rate. So again, we're either first or we're second in most of these categories here, walking into a traumatic brain injury just by being Native American. So when we look at traumatic brain injury, emergency department visits, this was a study here by Dr. Sarmiento or Kelly Sarmiento that was published in 2020. What I really tried to do during this during this presentation is present data specifically on Native Americans. We'll talk about this but there is a paucity there but you know you might see that the data might be a little bit older but that's really that's really the state of the research regarding traumatic brain injury and Native Americans. So that's one of those from 2020 from Kelly Sarviento and it was documented that nearly 45,000 TBI related ER visits were documented in the IHS National Patient Information Reporting System. So they were looking at the incidence of traumatic brain injury related emergency departments in children and adults in IHS or tribally managed facilities over a 10-year time from 2005 to 2014. And what they was that by far males 18 to 34, greater than 75, were the most common, the biggest proportion of their patient population that were sustained traumatic brain injuries and the most common mechanisms were going to be falls assaults. And then when it comes to geographic distribution here, the Southwest and the Northern Plains were the areas there that were reporting the highest rates of so let me see here and then when it comes to traumatic brain injury hospitalizations this was uh 2005 again so an older study looking at traumatic brain hospitalizations um and this is looking at um certain certain um certain regions here so data was obtained from 13 states so it wasn't all of IHS it was from um states that were funded by the CDC to conduct TBI surveillance. So this is older, so from 1997 to 1999, but I wanted to again illustrate and bring that point home that motor vehicle accidents, falls, and assaults are going to be the highest rate there. Sorry, motor vehicle accidents, assaults, and other followed by falls are going to be the most common reasons why our people are being hospitalized for traumatic brain injury. And when we look at specifically the motor vehicle accidents there, they had a higher blood alcohol level there. So greater than like 65, so 65% of those involved in motor vehicle accidents were above the legal limit. So in Arizona it's 0.08. So they were above the legal limit there when they sustained their motor vehicle accident resulting in a traumatic brain injury related hospitalization. When we look at other factors that we're seeing here, we already talked about the poverty rates that we are experiencing. Inadequate housing, again, the homelessness factor there. Unsafe environments, limited resources, depending on where it's either, it could be financial, it could be social, it could be a lot of factors that we're beating into the limited resources category here. Healthcare access, we'll talk a little bit more about this in the future in a couple more slides, but rural areas with limited healthcare facilities, so they don't have quick access to trauma one or even trauma two level facilities their lack of specialized TBI services. I see that very frequently in my patients who are coming from the reservation, is how do I get them care once they've left the hospital, once they've left the clinic visit with me? How can I get them some neurological rehabilitation that they could receive here in the Valley if they could, you know, if that was an option, which most of the time isn't an option they have to go home. So how can I get them that neurorehabilitation that I know they would benefit from? And then substance use. So we have higher rates of alcohol and substance use disorders in any country, which correlates with increased TBI risk, particularly in motor vehicle accidents. Again, driving that point home, that is one of the factors leading to disparities here. Like I had alluded to in the common signs and symptoms of concussion, but also traumatic brain injury is that the neuropsychiatric consequences so the mental health disorders rates of suicide here are going to be higher so we already have we already we've heard this story you know that we already have high rates of anxiety depression we already have high rates of suicide in our country in Indian country but then you layer on top of that traumatic brain injury, then we experience disproportionately high rates of that. So just looking at mood and anxiety disorders. So we have a twofold increase. So this is looking at a 2007 cross-sectional study by Dr. Nelson that was looking at one Southwest tribe and two Northern Plains communities. And they were 15 to 15 to 54 years old. So that was about 400 traumatic brain injury individuals that were compared to non -injured individuals. And so what they found was that they had a twofold increase. The prevalence rates were exceeding 20% in males, 10% in females that were lasting. So they were persisting past one year post-injury. And so, and I tell my patients with concussion, um they should be getting better within three months most folks 75 95 percent are getting better um and recovered so the fact that this study is looking and saying that the native americans are having persisting mood and anxiety disorders one year out from post-injury um that's not that's not a good um it's not a good sign for recovery and likely disability that they're receiving from the exacerbation of any underlying, or also new mood and anxiety disorders that they're experiencing. When we looked at, there's another study looking at traumatic brain injuries specifically in Alaska. So Alaska's TBI associated mortality rate for American Indians, Alaska Natives from suicide was 2 .6 times the national average. So we need to keep in mind here that yes, mental health screening should be standard practice for all American Indian Alaska Native TBI survivors. In our clinic, in our traumatic brain injury clinic, it is standard. It is every person who comes in for a new consultation and for a follow-up, we are making sure they fill out depression and anxiety screeners, questionnaires, to make sure that we are assessing them every single time they come into our clinic. And I'll introduce you to our team, but as part of our team is our neuropsychiatrist. So it is very common to experience this, but we also are dealing with stigma around mental health still. And so even though we have access to a fabulous neuropsychiatrist, some of my patients still are apprehensive in getting that type of care um native and non-native that that's still a thing that's going on right now um in practice in my practice so barriers to care you know this is this is not nothing new but i wanted to illustrate here this is not looking at um trauma one centers or trauma two trauma level one trauma centers this is looking at the national association of epilepsy centers but this is where you're usually going to find the academic centers um and they're usually gonna be tied with level one trauma centers. So this is American Indian, Alaska Native patients. And this is where, so I wanted to overlay the, this is where the reservations are. So the reservations are in purple. And it's not a, like a one-to-one scale, but overall you can kind of see there where the highest density of Native Americans are per county. And so you can see there that we are lacking, right? We are lacking epilepsy centers and the distance from where the patients are living to where an epilepsy or very subspecialists are located. So we are seeing that our people, American Indian and Alaska Natives, typically travel more than non -Hispanic white to see a neurologist and so this was just another another slide here to illustrate that pre -injury so just where we are based on location our people are traveling an average of 263 miles to reach a level one trauma center as opposed to 146 for non-hispanic ****** but um so that's that's that's far so and i just think about my family who lives you know um in the fort defiance window rock area of arizona and it really they either have to go to um albuquerque flaxstaff or phoenix and that is going to be several hours away either way um to get to see um to see to receive the care that they need um and so that's the um that those are adults and then also when we look at children, so pediatrics, 31% of American Indian and Alaskan Native children have ground access to a pediatric trauma center within 60 minutes compared to nearly 50% of non-Hispanic ******. Limited prevention resources in education, just by where we are and who we are, we are already having resources, a capacity of resources in education. You know, concussion is the most common, but the lack of concussion education that I've seen is very, I wish we could do better. I wish we could do better in terms of, you know, from educating teachers, you know, educating coaches, educating parents, but also educating primary care providers, because even concussion in the past 10 years has changed so much and so much in what we're doing and how we're treating concussions specifically that you know if you had gone to medical school or gone to training even like several years ago like the our data is updating and our protocols are changing and we're being more aggressive about how we are getting people back into normal lives gradually but um but we are getting it back more aggressively so the the idea of cocooning and staying in a dark room no screens um no stimulation until your symptoms go away is a very old uh way of treating concussion and so nowadays we're being more aggressive but that was in that that's been definitely in the past five years that we have been seeing that that very aggressive transition and concussion management so just even that proportion of even sports related concussion we're having less access to you know there might be old equipment for football players there might be ill-fitting helmets you know because they're older and so that's those are things that are already putting up putting us at a disadvantage just walking into an injury there's those are some examples there. When we receive care in the hospital, Native Americans are left often discharged to rehabilitation. So we have less proportion of people that are receiving rehabilitation after they've been discharged from the hospital. So 2.6 versus 14.3. We have fewer follow-up visits completed for our people despite having more attempted contacts. Okay, but that's also correlating so when they looked at this so this is a study from um from just recently it was published in 2025 um this year coming out from salt lake city that if the if you were native american and then in the longer distance that you traveled um they were more likely to have um unmet follow-up visits so they were unlikely they were more more likely to have less follow -up visits after the hospital stay if you were native american and if you lived further away from the hospital. And then American Indians and Latin Indians had worse global outcome scores. So we have some scoring algorithms that we can use once you've been outside of the hospital and once you get back to your life to determine how well you can, you know, to predict how well you're going to do after your traumatic brain injury. And so we have a worse outcome score compared to non-Hispanic ****** over five years post-injury. And so that was looking at employment at the time of injury was going to make a difference. That was going to look at illicit non-prescription drug use in the month preceding traumatic brain injury, binge drinking in the month preceding traumatic brain injury, and the type of insurance, private or other, that was going to dictate. So And the type of insurance appeared to be particularly important throughout the entire five years as a significant predictor of global outcome trajectories across all models. So if most of our, if most, you know, 25% of our patient population is meeting poverty, right, is meeting the national poverty, but we also have another percentage of patients who are not, who don't have healthcare insurance, and they come to a place like Barrow Neurological Institute. where they don't have insurance, or even if they have insurance and it's not private, so it's a Medicaid, we have access here in Arizona, they're going to be at a higher chance of having a global outcome just based on insurance status itself. So those are some factors there that I wanted to highlight. And this was again, sorry, this was a study out from Dr. Watson. I wanted to just point out this article here that came out, it was looking at the neurological care within the Indian Health Service. So this is from Dr. Parco, Dr. Stitzer, Dr. Tribble, and Dr. Christensen. So this is just if you want to figure out and want to learn about the history of neurology in the IHS health system, then read this. This is a great article. It just kind of is highlighting the course of trying to get neurology into IHS. So, and just, so the other neurologist that is practicing in Arizona is Dr. Stitzer. He is in Winslow, practicing with Winslow IHS. So it's Dr. Stitzer and I here in Arizona. So I was very happy to see that he had come out with this article. So please do read that. So research gaps in future direction. And so when we're looking at the future, right, the future, there I go, the future directions here, we have to also acknowledge the current limitations here. So we are not represented well when it comes to research, when it comes to clinical trials. And there's, yes, there's reasons for that. But we also need to, I think, start telling our own story, and I'll kind of get into like future directions. in the next slide about what we should do, but we just are research and trying to tell our story about what struggles we are experiencing in Indian country. We need to support tribal ownership of health data. We need to build capacity for native-led analysis and intervention development. There are a lot of organizations there, I feel that are helping to lead this initiative as well. Community-based participatory research is another component there where we're trying to engage travel community leaders as equal partners in research design, implementation, and interpretation. We have a current study right now with Chinle IHS and they are gonna be our partner here. We are going to work with them. This is between Barrow and Chinle IHS. and we're looking at ****** and so we are trying to engage them as much as we can in terms of what they need how we can help and so they are driving that course and how we can help them and longitudinal studies so we need to track long-term traumatic brain injury outcomes across Indian country which is hard to do it's hard to do but it's very much needed I just wanted to put in some patient resources here. So this is from the American Institute for Research. This is unique. I hadn't seen this. And this was just a resource for traumatic brain injury bundle for Native Americans. And so this is just another resource that you could look into. They have a lot of infographics there. So on the right side, you can see they have handouts that you can use there. I wanted to highlight that we have, so in Arizona, if you're interested about learning more about traumatic brain injury and the experience of caregivers, so we have another webinar coming up that's brought on by the Sonoran Center for Excellence in Disabilities. So this is an individual who sustained a traumatic brain injury. Him and his mom are going to be talking about his traumatic brain injury experience and the special education journey that he has um that he has gone through that's coming up here um and then traumatic brain injury um a book so this was uh this was written by ruth mitsui so um her husband edison mitsui suffered a traumatic brain injury in 2016 was thrown off a horse um and this just you know just dialogue or just catalogs um her experience as a caregiver as you know as edison was going through his recovery um they had gone through um a very nice um inpatient rehab um their their son there um in the picture he might look a little um familiar he's been in breaking bad better call saw he's been in dark winds and so they actually they had the funding which is fantastic and fortunate enough for them that they were able to get into a very uh well-known inpatient rehabilitation and get the services that the Edison pursuing needed so this is a great book very well written it just came out I think in 2023 so if you want to delve a little bit further into the caregiver's experience of traumatic brain injury I'd recommend this one and then just wanted to spend a couple more minutes just looking and talking about Baroneurological Institute so we are located in Phoenix just kind of wanted to highlight what we are doing here in the Phoenix area. We are a leader in treatment and research of neurological disorders. We have 14 nationally recognized centers for excellence for brain tumors, for spine, for Parkinson's, for ALS, for neuromuscular disorders, ******. We have a fantastic inpatient neurorehabilitation facility and we have an inpatient service. We have neurosurgical services as well. that is nationally and internationally ranked um we have a wonderful physical medicine rehabilitation department and outpatient facility here um and so we are we are a level one trauma center as well so we see a lot of trauma here at barrow neurological institute so i'm very happy to to work here i am the only native american uh physician here at Barrow um very privileged and honored to um to you know be a voice to have that um to have that seat at the table for our people to make sure that we are heard that we're visible um and that we are seen um so that they know of the struggles here so I um so that I can be that voice for our people and that's always been my goal so as part of the Native American Health Equity Initiative here um that's what that's what I tend to do is um I have this initiative and I um have this unique unique opportunity um I'm very honored and blessed that I have the leadership behind me to to run this even in this political climate there was there was no there was no hesitation that my program was going to continue um so I have come at this so I've been at Barrow for two years now we have been practicing in three realms so clinical educational outreach and advocacy and so very happy and very proud that i work in arizona so we are affiliated with 22 recognized tribes in arizona here i am just enrolled in one of them um and so our goal with the barrow native american health equity initiative is really how can i address the health the health equities of brain health for our tribal communities across the state okay um fortunately in phoenix here we have um some nearby tribal communities here so we have hilly river we have auction indian community we have for mcdowell and then we have a salt river puma maricopa so these are our sister communities here that we are trying to um just build relationships with um and so this is where very happy very happy to practice here um and provide that care we have actually a great relationship with Gila River, especially with our traumatic brain injury clinic that we have with Barrow Neurological Institute. We see a lot of their domestic violence patients. So we have a very unique clinic in that respect. So we see domestic violence patients across the country who come to our facility to receive care at Barrow. So very happy that we provide that service as well. But I don't do this alone. And I love showing this picture of the Native American physicians here in Arizona. So these are the folks who are also leading the charge. They might not be neurologists except me and Dr. Stitzer, but still, we are here for each other. I love that we are a vast community here. I don't remember as a child, this was not what I remember. And it might be that I just feel like I'm in this community, But even still, I feel like we have a large number of Native American physicians here, especially in Arizona, that are very much we're here for our people. We're here to take care of our people. And so I'm very happy that over the years that I've been here, I've been adding individuals to this slide because we're here for Arizona and we're taking care of our people. So I just wanted to introduce you to our team. So this is me and my team here at Barrow Neurological Institute. There are two neurologists here. We have our neuropsychiatrist up there on the top right. We have two neuropsychologists. We have an athletic trainer who is our program manager, and then we have a social worker here. We lead the Barrow Concussion Network team. So this is a service that we provide for our state's athletic trainers to submit concussion consultations. So in the state of Arizona, athletic trainers can clear for concussions, but sometimes, as I've mentioned, they can get complex. And so sometimes the athletic trainers need to discuss their cases with sports neurologists like myself or Dr. Zeman, who is my colleague up there. And then Dr. Kwasnika is not up there. She's a physical medicine rehabilitation physician, and we all are there to provide consultation to our athletic trainers here in Arizona. um and like i mentioned we have a domestic violence clinic and then i lead the native american health equity outreach program here at barrow so i'm going to give you a little insight into the sports neurology component of my job i do work for the uh the nfl so very happy that you know pre-season pre-season has started um and the you know the regular season is upon us um we are consultants for arizona state university so football hockey lacrosse and soccer we are their work in the games. We are consultants to the team physicians, and we do the concussion evaluations for these games when we are available. As part of the Barrow Neurological Institute, we do have clinical services that we provide on site for San Carlos Apache Healthcare Corporation, which is about a two -hour drive, but some of us do take the helicopter, which is an hour flight, and so we do provide services here at San Carlos. Since 2017, we have two general adult neurology clinics, and I do the general pediatric neurology clinic and TBI clinic every other month. They have wonderful CTI and MRI capabilities. We do Botox there. We don't do EEGs looking for seizures or EMGs or bring them to Phoenix to have those services, but we try to do as much as we can there on site if we can. And then we just started telestroke services with the Chinle comprehensive healthcare facilities which in the IHS last fall so we have that rolling out as well so we do provide a lot of coverage for for those two hospitals there again just the bear concussion network we provide prevention education and baseline testing for Arizona state high school students and then baseline post post injury care so if athletic trainers need a referral to a sports neurologists like myself, we are available for neurology consultation, either through our second opinion portal or in person if they feel like that patient needs to be seen in person. As part of Arizona's concussion laws, each state has their own concussion laws. But here in Arizona, all of our athletes have to all of our high school athletes, I must say, have to complete a one time concussion education. So Barrow is that facility who who has the Barrow brain book. And so every high school student um has to go through this training um to to complete this requirement as part of um Arizona state law so there um and this is one of our success stories so um when I got here about two years ago year yeah a year and a half ago um I had a patient who um the athletic trainer is right here in the middle um she uh happened to be part of the Barrow Congression network. She's Navajo herself and she works with Windor Rock High School. So one of my patients here, I can tell the story because he had his story published in the Navajo Times where he was playing football and he sustained a head injury that led to a brain bleed. He was flown to Albuquerque where he had to have neurosurgical intervention. So he had to have that blood removed from his brain. And then he was discharged from the hospital. And after he He was discharged from the hospital within a week of possible discharge. I was able to see him, which is kind of unheard of, you know, for a neurologist to be available within a week. But that's what we do as part of the Barrel Concussion Network is to be available for our student athletes. And so within a week, he was in my office and we were off to getting him his comprehensive care. And so he did really well. So you can see here by the spring, he was not clear to play football again, but he was cleared to play um to play track um and so he here's here he is in the spring um his mom is featured in that picture right there holding the blanket so that was um that was his senior year and so he had left but this picture was taken the year after he had left and so she was watching the football game and i was i was working the football game with the athletic trainer so again this is another success story of how well you know things can go if you have the right team behind you and for traumatic brain injury it takes a lot of people there are a lot of people on your traumatic brain injury team that need to work together from the parents to your athletic trainer, to your neurologist, to your outpatient rehabilitation team, which could be PT, OT, speech, a mental health counselor, perhaps, and maybe psychiatry, the pediatrician or primary care provider. So there ends up being a lot of people involved in this traumatic brain injury management team, which is how it should be. It should be very well coordinated. And so as Barrows commitment to sports neurology, especially in the Native American community since July of 2024. So we just finished our second year of sponsorship with NABBY. And so this has been a very wonderful and collaborative relationship with the Native athletic trainers here, which I have pictured here. So I just finished, we just finished last month working the games. I wasn't able to work last year because of maternity leave, but this year I was able to work as a sports neurologist they're helping these athletic trainers manage concussions and our native athletes and so very happy this was one of my first initiatives that I really wanted to get in part become a part of when I came to Barrow so very happy to continue this relationship here as part of you know this this leadership role is is giving presentations it's you know raising the awareness it's making sure that people are aware of Barrow but also just in general like the the needs the neurological psychological and brain health needs of Native American people. And so I've spoken to high schoolers. I have a PhD candidate from Brown University who rotated with me. I had an occupational therapy doctoral capstone student who was from the TO nation. So she rotated with me. We were able to go to a couple of IHS or travel facilities to do some concussion-specific vision, occupational therapy, vision education to their therapists, and also try to build that alliance between their therapists and our neurorehabilitation team. So if they have any questions, they can reach out to someone in the neurorehabilitation space. I've just recently done a sports medicine coach coaches camp to the Hopi senior and junior high school on the Hopi reservation, just trying to educate those coaches on what concussion looks like. But also we did a sports medicine. So it was a whole sports medicine camp on educating those coaches. I love doing more of these panels. So where I get to interact with our Native colleagues here. So Native Health is one of our community health centers here in the metropolitan area of Phoenix. And so they held a wonderful dinner catering to the Native high school students and their parents just kind of looking at how can we motivate these students and what questions do they have about medicine that we can help them answer from a native perspective particularly and then lastly being part of the NABI educational summit just last month talking to these high school athletes about concussion and how they can take care of themselves how they can recognize the symptoms of concussion and what they should what they should expect from the care that they received after concussion so um so some key takeaways here is you know we have the highest tbi burden here we have the highest tbi hospitalization rates among all ethnic groups in the united states so this is a very much um this is very important is a very important cause here that we need to look at uh the most common causes are going to be motor vehicle accidents falls assaults um and then remember alcohol is playing a very big role in motor vehicle accidents and assault component there, they're usually going to be in violent ways. Remember, we're seeing a 300% increase in violent mechanism for assaults there. The mental health impact. So we're doubling the risk of mental health disorders in our traumatic brain injury individuals. So really screening for those individuals every time they come into a facility to make sure that we're meeting those needs there. We have significant care barriers here that are contributing to disparities that we do see um and then we have some research you know indigenous researchers tribal communities i think we need to work together um to start addressing these these problems that we're we are having we're in this era though of telling our own story so instead of looking at research as something with a negative connotation to it um i think it's a way for us as native americans to tell our own stories and to you know interpret those results from our perspective so now that we're having more native american physicians we need more um even though we have a little bit more um native american researchers so not just physicians but researchers phd doctoral candidates we are able to tell our own stories with our lens and not being told by someone else so that's the most important component there um moving forward so here are my slides I just want to leave my email address there in case you have any questions from that perspective and there's my family. So thank you again for your time and spending this last 50 minutes with me talking about TBI, a traumatic brain injury in Indian country. Very happy to answer any questions that we do have. If not, if you're the typical shy native, please do email me and you can chat offline if you would like to. Questions? Let me see. I do see a question. I'll just go down. When an individual experiences a TBI after an assault, what are the best ways to request brain scans to determine if there's lasting effects from an assault? It depends. It depends on who is asking. Is it the patient that's asking? Is it, you know, the family member that's asking? Is it the primary care that's asking? Usually after a traumatic brain injury, we're looking at the severity of, like I had mentioned, the Glasgow Coma Scale. We're looking at loss of consciousness. We're looking at the mechanism. um we're looking for abnormal neurological examination uh to get a ct head specifically especially in that acute period where you know the first couple of hours first couple days um where you can um get a ct of your head um we're not usually running to an mri of the brain right away um so it depends on where you go sometimes urgent care so urgent cares usually will not have the capabilities to get a CT of your head. The ER, so emergency physicians have traumatic brain injury calculators. So they will put your information into a calculator that'll say, oh yes, you have a higher chance of sustaining a brain bleed, please get a CT of your head. So that's how some physicians, some ER physicians will help them determine if they will get a CT of your head at that time of evaluation. Okay, thank you. Then the second question is, because we live in rural regions and our work and hobbies and ways of livelihood are blue collar, do we rank higher in this area? Let me see, hold on one second. Because we live in rural regions and our work and hobbies or ways of livelihood are blue collar, do we rank higher in this area? So this is where the research, like I don't have the research behind me to answer this question research-wise. And so this is where, again, if we had more information about our tribal communities and the mechanisms for traumatic brain injury, we would be able to answer this question a little bit more with detail. Okay, thank you. And I think, let's see, let's do, do you have ideas on how we can track TBIs across Indian country? It depends on, it depends on where you want to track it. If you want to track it with Indian Health Service, they have their own, you know, older electronic health record and they know it's older. But you can track it with the IHS system. You can track it with Medicare data. You can track it with larger bodies of data. But if you could put all of that together, that would be even better. But even electronic health records don't talk to each other very well. And so it's really hard to get more cohesive data like that. So there are a couple ways to try that, but it's going to be difficult to do that. Okay. Let's see. What about this one? I said something about Do you, hold on, talk about working with, okay, working with pediatric, do you work with native pediatric patients who suffer TBI as a result of *****? um if it's child ***** not necessarily um but i will see um of all ages i see i see pediatric to you know an eight a hundred year old uh with traumatic brain injury um so those are the type of patients that i will see um in my clinic um the more acute the better so i think our cutoff right now is within six months of uh brain injury i will see them and then after six months we will look case by case for consultation for new patients. Okay, and just two more questions. One is, with your experience in engaging in the community in various urban and rural locations, what opportunities do you see, what opportunities exist where we can plant seed to inspire our youth to go into the health care field? How can we plant seeds to get our youth to go into the health care field? Yes. There are, especially in the Phoenix area, there are some very successful summer programs that are um that are housed in like tribal facilities so that's another way um native health in the phoenix area they also have um like summer schools like spring break type of programs to try to disengage um and get that curiosity in the medical field um for high school students um there are multiple high school like programs so summer research programs um definitely so there are there are lots of ways but unfortunately like I don't know of a great I don't know Trudy if you know any great like um websites that have all of this information housed in one place um I don't know of any websites that house all this information about summer research programs or summer um health care programs but those are also great ways to get our youth engaged in in like summer health programs yeah i was going to say my initial thought is the association of american indian position AI yeah i know that they have some great summer programs so okay um and last the last question is i saw something about is there a neurologist at Native Health? No, they do not. There's a neurologist at Phoenix Indian Medical Center, but not at Native Health. You'll get referred to a neurologist if you're Native Health. Yeah. Okay. Okay, let's give Dr. Brown Shirley another round of applause for a wonderful, informative, and very educational presentation. So with that, I'm going to share with this last slide. That is basically, just note is that please scan the QR code that is on this slide. And if you're unable to, we will be sending out a follow-up email with the QR code. And just And FYI, the next Indigenous health topic will be on September 12th with Victoria O'Keefe. The topic will be straight -based research. And on behalf of Mayo Clinic and Dr. Brown Shirley at the Ferro Neurological Institute, thank you very much for joining us. And we love feedback. So if you have any topic suggestions, feel free to email us and we will try to seek out speakers. So and you guys all have a great day.