Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG [music] segment, Making Waves, Continuing Medical Education Podcast. Join us for a lively discussion on the latest and greatest in the [music] field of electroc cardiography. We'll discuss some of the exciting and innovative work happening at Mayo Clinic and beyond with the most brilliant minds in the space [music] and provide valuable insights that can be directly applied to your practice. Welcome to Mayo Clinic's ECG segment, Making Waves. In this episode, we explore an exciting evolution in cardiac pacing, conduction system pacing. Traditionally, cardiac pacing has relied on stimulating the right ventricular apex or free wall. But conduction system pacing aims to restore a more physiologic form of pacing by directly engaging the heart's native conduction system. And this approach has the potential to reduce pacing induced cardiammyopathy as well as optimize a lot of the long-term outcomes in selected right patients. And now joining us today to look at the fundamentals, the rationale and the clinical implications of conduction system pacing is someone that you guys probably know, Dr. Nicholas Tan. Dr. Tan is a cardiac electrophysiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. And he's joined us before. He began his training in biomedical engineering at Johns Hopkins University and then he earned his medical degree and mers in biomedical investigation from the Cleveland Clinic Learner College of Medicine. He completed his residency and fellowships in internal medicine cardiology as well as cardiac electrophysiology uh here at Mayo Clinic and more recently he completed his master's in medical device innovation at the University of Minnesota. His clinical and research interests include device-based therapies and catheter ablation with a focus on improving patient care through technologydriven innovation. And I also want to mention he's done a lot of his role also in cardiooncology especially as it relates to arhythmias. He's put a couple of those episodes together. So I'd go back and listen to those. But Dr. Tan, thanks so much for joining us again. >> Thank you for having me. you know, so conduction system pacing certainly something we think about, we see a lot almost um in a lot of our practice and I I I wonder if you can kind of share, you know, highlight what is the difference between now this conduction system pacing and more of the conventional traditional ways of how pacing was traditionally done. >> Yeah. So I think to take a step back in terms of what the cardio conduction system is um your own internal pulses start from the sinus node says so that's your internal pacemaker and the impulses make it make its way down to the AV node the atrial ventricular node and down to the his bundle and eventually to the right and left ventricle via the right and left bundle branches respectively. So there is a very synchronized coordinated flow of electricity which then mediates the muscular contraction of the atria and ventricles. So historically whenever we try to pace the heart the reason that we do it is because there there is a slow heart rate and um that needs to be compensated for externally. And so that would involve placement of these pacemaker leads usually in the right atrium and in the right ventricle. And so they ex act as external stimulators to basically make up for any defects in the conduction system anywhere from the sinus node all the way down to the bundle branches. So whenever we position these whenever we used to position these leads we usually try to put them in anatomically convenient locations if you will. So for the right atrium we put them in put the leads in the right atrial appendage and for the ventricular lead we usually position it near the apex. So it's it's a very convenient very reproducible means of pacing the heart. The problem is that that's not where the electrical impulses typically arise from. And over time if you're constantly stimulating the heart from these non-physiologic locations you can end up with muscular defects. um and by that I mean uh cardiammyopathies that are actually related to the dynchrony that's caused from um the non-physiologic uh electrical pacing. So conduction system pacing basically um means that you are you're using the existing conduction system you're co-opting it to to and and using part of it at least to try and provide better synchrony both in the atrium and the ventricle. Most of the work that we have right now uh most of the research has been in ventricular pacing but there's some some research in terms of atrial synchrony as well. >> Very nice and it's really helpful you know as you mentioned pacing outside of the conduction system the slower activation and the risk of cardiammyopathy if you can actually hijack or jump back on that highway track of the normal intrinsic conduction maybe you can kind of have that more synchronous uh conduction. And so when you think of of that, h how do you actually perform that in the the lab? >> So in order to try and use the conduction system, you have to be able to find it. And and so the difference between how we used to do it with standard ventricular apical pacing is that in addition to using fluoroscopic markers, anatomic markers, you have to use electrical signals as well. And and this will involve some degree of electrical mapping of of the uh of signals and where you ultimately implant your leads. Now this is still an evolving field but the the general principle is you want to bring your ventricular lead towards the ventricular septum. So that can be used um that can be done uh use using fluoroscopic guidance for the most part. But then the other aspect to it is to monitor electrical parameters as you go deeper and deeper into the septum which is where the conduction fibers um are are living. um how how far can you go and how much should you go before you start engaging the the the conduction fibers and that involves pacing the heart at different outputs and seeing if you are starting to capture the conduction fibers as you start to penetrate the ventricular septum and if you're not really getting to where you're going you have to move to a different location. So it involves using different tools uh that we hadn't used before being more uh cognizant of where the conduction system is uh relative to the fllororoscopic markers that we have relied on in the past. >> I see. And so the the fllororoscopy helps almost approximate and then you're trying to really hone in on you know are you getting and tapping into that conduction system with some of uh the maneuvers as you you screw into the septum. You know when you think about this what patients or what situations would you say hey you know the traditional means is the way to go but no maybe not we should do conduction system pacing what are your what's your thoughts or rationale for choosing this approach >> you know to be honest nowadays I I usually think about which situations I would use apical pacing uh as an exception so conduction system pacing for the most part uh for myself has been the default option for ventricular pacing um outside of very select situations. So unless the patient requires an ICD that's that's um at least for now uh that would involve positioning the ventricular lead in a in a standard location in a non >> [snorts] >> uh conduction system pacing location. But in most other situations, I would consider it um because the the risk of RV pacing cardiammyopathy is real. You know, there's there's a maybe a 10 to 15% chance of um this occurring in all comers even if they they have a preserved ejection fraction to start with. And then um also in terms of safety because by definition whenever you're positioning the the the CSP lead you're positioning it along the septum and the septum um is not a location where you can get a perforation. So from a safety standpoint I think it also makes a lot of sense for us to be using CSP as default. >> I see. So it's more of you know the exception of when should I go the other way in putting more of a traditional lead. I I guess you kind of mentioned the septum and potentially a safer approach. What are some of those risks or uncertainties that you know you have with conduction system pacing or you know even and have you seen benefit with it? So I I think in terms of acute procedural risk, if you're not perforating into the epicardio space, if you're not causing if you're not putting a lead outside of the heart, um even with CSP, if you're going too far, you're going through from the right side of the septum towards the left side of the septum. So if you do perforate, you're going to be perforating from an endocardial perspective. So you're creating a a small defect between the right ventricle and the left ventricle. Now the the risk the acute risk for that is relatively small especially if you recognize it. However, if you don't and you leave the lead in place and it's sitting in the in the left ventricle that can be potentially anidis for for clots to form and and therefore um uh increasing the risk for stroke especially if the patient's not on anti-coagulation. Now if it completely perforates into the left ventricle too and is free floating that's also where you can lose capture and lose pacemaker function. So that's another risk that people have to be mindful of with this technique. In terms of the long-term, one of the biggest questions that we have regarding the safety of these of these leads or or the positioning of these leads is what happens if we need to take them out. So when there is an indication for extraction say the lead is malfunctioning or the the device is infected then you have to take the lead out what is the how easy is it going to be are there any issues that we may encounter those are things that we don't know yet just because CSP is so much newer and this is something that we may find out in maybe 5 to 10 years from now regarding the the long-term outcomes and uh risks associated with extraction, but that's one of the biggest questions that we have right now that we don't have firm answers on. Yeah, you can certainly uh see those especially uh like you said newer, but if they're older leads 10 15 years and have to be replaced and but this is really exciting and you know it it's good to see that we're kind of moving the needle and can we you know hijack the the normal conduction system and preserve the ventricular synchrony. Well, in today's episode, we explore the fundamentals of conduction system pacing and how it represents a more physiologic alternative to the traditional right ventricular pacing that we we've done and still will do. But as Dr. Tan said, maybe that's more of the exception to more of the default of using this conduction system pacing. Dr. Tan helped us understand how conduction system pacing works. really hijacking that conduction system, getting and trying to preserve the native conduction, when it should be considered, and then the opportunities and limitations and still the unknowns with this evolving technique. Dr. Tan, thank you for sharing your expertise, joining us, teaching me and many of us. We appreciate your time and insights and hope you'll join us again in the future. >> Thanks a lot. Happy to be here. Thank you. >> Thank you for joining [music] us today. We invite you to share your thoughts and suggestions about the podcast at cveducation.mayo.edu. Be sure to subscribe [music] to a Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast on your favorite platform and tune in every other week to explore today's most pressing electroc cardiography [music] topics with your colleagues at Mayo Clinic. This has been a Mayo Clinic podcast. At Mayo Clinic, [music] continuous learning fuels world-class care. I am Dr. Francisco Lopez Himenez, chair of the division of preventive cardiology. If today's [music] episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine what a full course can do for your patients. Please check out the link cved education.edu edu and explore our live and online [music] programs, quick on demand modules, and CME accredited master classes created and thought by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who have already turned curiosity [music] into expertise. Level up your practice now at cved education.mayo.edu.