I am Dr. King Khan, an internist at Mil Click Hospital in the 'best performance zone'. I also serve as a role model for the regional medical directors of my client's healthcare network, which consists of a group of hospitals. We have privileged access to the wisdom of resources and mechanical expertise. It's my club, and we work as a team to offer the best to the patient. I personally frequently consult with a colleague from another specialty to confirm a diagnosis or to find the best treatment alternative. I can also consult in the traditional way. My client also has the option of requesting an electronic consultation, known in English as an electronic consultation. I am tired of the fact that their hospital is a member of the Mel healthcare network and connects to the CETAM environment. On occasion, they can request an electronic consultation. I will explain how it works. I am tired of the fact that it allows healthcare providers to have a specialist's opinion. My client needs to refer the patient to other symptomatic doctors. The law allows this to be a clinical question and refer the relevant experienced doctors. Perhaps as a result, six men and digital radiological machines and, if necessary, pathology samples so that the  I dealt with the vice president first thing in the morning. I am 100% via a secure electronic portal since my club and I grew up. I received information from a specialist with the appropriate experience, a relative review, and she provides her opinion through a written note. The goal is to leave Warley Auster with the diagnosis and management of the patient, because a loose ICAN will take place, and there it became clear that a connection is established between excellent healthcare providers, as is the case with thousands of specialists from all over. My clinician became particularly useful in rare or complex cases. I became clear that they are timely, and in general, the response will be received within the first 35 working days from the receipt of the prompt email and pertinent information as an extra benefit. For men, patients may not have a second opinion through the sky that their doctor they trust, without any additional cost to them in Niterói, and it is said that there is no other place, without a beneficial collaboration for patients, and there I know that thanks to your village I needed to take care of exactly what I need about Suzuki, place of residence, as 6 requests a single photo. Your organization already has a support team that can Helping these people by law will help to recover information if a primary care appointment is made and they sent it to my club on your behalf along with your specific clinical question. Please communicate with your local support team for more information on this aspect. We are all aware that as modern medicine advances, it is necessary to work collaboratively with other disciplines for the benefit of patients, and there is no way to play a role in favor of others, with colleagues throughout the healthcare network. Thank you very much for your attention.