I am Dr. Keys K'naan, an internist at Mayo Clinic in Arizona. At Mayo Clinic, we work as a team to provide the best care for our patients. Personally, I often consult with a colleague in another specialty. One option I have at Mayo Clinic is to request an electronic consultation, known as a consultation. Since your hospital is a member of the Mayo Clinic healthcare network, you also have the opportunity to request an electronic consultation. Below, I will explain how they work. What is a consultation? ICANN allows healthcare providers to obtain the opinion of a Mayo Clinic specialist without sending the patient to the medical facility. It allows you to ask a clinical question and submit relevant records through a secure electronic portal. Once you have surgery, you receive the information. A specialist reviews the file and provides their opinion through a written note. The goal is to help you with the diagnosis or management of the patient. Why use a consultation? The consoles establish a connection between excellent healthcare providers like you and thousands of specialists across the clinical spectrum. Consultations are particularly useful in rare or complex cases. They are timely, and the response is usually prompt.  You will receive your response within the first three to five business days of receiving your email request and relevant information. How does this benefit my patients? Patients can obtain a second opinion through you, the doctor they trust, at no additional cost to them and without having to travel anywhere else. It is a beneficial collaboration for patients, and they know that thanks to your help, they receive the exact care they need close to home. How do I request Uniconsult? Your organization already has a support team that can assist you. These individuals will help you gather the primary information and send it to the clinic on your behalf, along with your specific clinical question. Please contact your local support team for more information. We are all aware that as modern medicine advances, it is necessary to work collaboratively with other disciplines for the benefit of patients, and Uniconsult is one way to achieve this. It is a privilege for us to be able to collaborate with colleagues across the global healthcare network. Thank you very much for your attention.