I'm the first in the Bayer Peninsula Hello and welcome to our conversation. We'll wait for a few more people to join us and we'll begin in a few moments. Okay, well, we're going to start now. Welcome to our virtual session. This is a conversation with mental health professionals. I'm from Starks Books. I'm the Director of Diversity and Equity, Diversity and Community Outreach at Mount Health Centers, partly here in the Phoenix Valley. We have eight clinics throughout the valley. And I'm here, I'm the moderator for this conversation. Before we begin, before I introduce our guests, I want to remind you that you can put your questions in the chat. If you look below, you'll see a symbol that says "chat." You can put your questions there. And also, at the end, we'll have an opportunity where you can ask your questions. So if you don't want to do it now, you can do it later. And I also want to tell you that this is being recorded, so if you miss something, or if you really liked it and later want to share it with someone, or want to remember something you learned at the clinic, this group will send it to you at the end.  We're going to send you some resources as well, and now before we begin, I want to ask you some questions to get started. These questions are anonymous; we don't know who answers them. So, we're going to start with our first show, our first question. I'm Ken Show, The First Sports. So, you're going to see the first set of questions. Please, if you can, answer these questions. The first one asks, "To what extent has sex affected your emotional well-being?" The second question asks, "Do you have access to resources to help you cope with the effects of sex on your emotional well-being?" And the third question asks, "What effects did sex have on your emotional well-being?" We'll give you a second to answer these questions. Okay, thank you very much. I suppose you'll see. So, we have two guests today, and I'm going to introduce them both at the same time because I want you to know right away what talent, what experts we have with us. So, our first guest is Dr. Francisco Moreno. He is the professor of psychiatry at the University of Arizona College of Medicine. He is also the associate vice president for health sciences at the University of Arizona.  The Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Service investigates the areas of mental health, including biological, genetic, and environmental factors of mental health, and pharmacological treatments. We welcome Dr. Moreno. Thank you, Doctor. We are pleased to see him. And now, I would also like to welcome Dr. Pérez. Dr. Gustavo Pérez is originally from Chihuahua, Mexico. He obtained his undergraduate degree in Psychology and Special Education from the University of Texas at El Paso. Subsequently, he obtained his doctorate in Educational Psychology from the University of Texas at Austin, with an internship in Clinical Psychology at the University of New Mexico. He is currently a Clinical Assistant Professor at the University of Arizona College of Medicine, where he directs the Youth Psychosis Care Center known as The Epicenter and collaborates as a community educator on prevention and mental health for the Department of Psychiatry. Previously, Dr. Gustavo Pérez served as a court psychologist for the Pima County Court. His clinical interests include trauma treatment and psychological and culturally responsible mental health practices. We welcome Dr. Gustavo.  Pérez, and now thank you, thank you for being here with us. Now we're going to start with Dr. Francisco Moreno. He's going to speak a little bit, and then Dr. Gustavo Pérez. After that, we'll have the camera open for a conversation and to answer your questions. So, Dr. Mariano, please, let's start with you. Thank you very much for this invitation, and it's a pleasure to be here and have the opportunity to speak with a member of our community and some colleagues as well about mental health. One of the things that, as a psychiatrist, is very important to us, a priority that I really like to help create a little bit of understanding, knowledge, and awareness about mental health, the importance of mental health, and the importance of each of us actively taking responsibility for achieving and maintaining mental health in ourselves and, if possible, in the members of our families and our community. So, we have a series of slides that we're going to show you, and to be able to have a conversation about mental health, what has happened in these last two years, now that this whole thing with COVID-19 has come out, and what happened to us as a community that overwhelmed us personally. And we're going to talk about...  A little bit about anxiety, about depression, and about seeking treatment, and what are some of the barriers we face and what we can do about it to get treatment. Quick start with the Slideshare Freeze Werder. So here's the information about Dr. Gustavo Pérez and myself, Moreno. So we're going to move on to the next one. For some reason, it's working out very well that Quilmes is in control. [Music] We're there now. Okay, the first thing we're going to talk about a little bit is that we all realized, now that this coronavirus pandemic happened, that Hispanics were being affected more. It's affecting us more for a number of reasons, and we're going to talk a little bit about this. The frequency of coronavirus in Hispanics in our community was higher than in others, and that's because perhaps we had more exposure to the coronavirus. And part of the way this affected us is that many Hispanics don't have insurance; our insurance doesn't cover as many things as others. So sometimes it's difficult to get tested or seek medical treatment. Many times, members of our community were also working Essential workers in places where one receives food at supermarkets, and also in our community, we were less willing to socially distance, but often we also live in spaces that don't lend themselves well to being very distanced. In our community, there was a much lower percentage of people who worked from home, for example, or who worked remotely on computers. We have more problems, and the problem of poverty also complicates our options for protecting ourselves. And issues like housing—we sometimes live somewhat crowded together, many people in houses that don't have much space, or our houses aren't in places where we can be openly— apartment buildings and things like that, which are more common for members of our community. So all of that facilitated more contact and more exposure to the coronavirus. This is something that, apart from affecting us much more in terms of infection rates, also affected us more in the sense that we were hospitalized more. Latinos even had a higher mortality rate; many of us have family and friends that we lost during  The pandemic, and now we still have family and friends getting infected lately, even though many are vaccinated and the situation isn't as serious, it's still happening. These are just a few of the risk factors that led to members of our community experiencing more mental health problems and even higher suicide risks during the pandemic. One of them is economic distress, as many of us in our community couldn't access jobs. Many people didn't have the opportunity to work remotely or even the time to call in sick, and things like that. Social isolation, for many of us in our culture, is very stressful. Many of us live with and visit many family members; we're very physically connected, so this affected us a lot. We have less support in the community. For example, for many, schools, churches, or community centers are places where we couldn't have that access. And even now, although we've largely recovered, we haven't fully recovered that ability to be so constantly in contact and connected as we were before. Mental health care in our community has always been important; we've always known that...  We seek mental health care as commonly as others, and now during the pandemic it will be more difficult because many places were closed or offered services through video conferencing, which isn't accessible to many people in our community. Also, having medical problems and all that creates more anxiety, and this community anxiety is another risk factor. During the pandemic, we're very worried about what's going to happen; we're not watching the news, we're just hearing how bad things are, how many people are dying, and all of that. All of this caused us a lot of alarm. And during this time, there have been more guns and things like that, which predict serious mental health complications such as suicide. Now, among the most common problems we saw were emotional changes like sadness, grief, depression, and also anxiety and nervousness disorders. So, we're going to talk a little bit about what sadness, grief, and depression are. The first thing we're going to discuss is that, since we went through a very stressful period, we all experienced some kind of loss, and the emotional response of sadness is...  It's not normal; it's not something everyone has to have. We all have to have that kind of emotional response when something happens to us. For example, if we lose something, a loved one, or a job opportunity, or if we lose something financial, we get upset, we feel sad. All these kinds of exceptions are emotional wounds or wounds in our relationships that lead us to sadness. Sadness, however, we are designed to express it, to feel it, sometimes to cry, to be uncomfortable, to talk about it, and to do things like that. But we get through it, right? But when sadness becomes something very permanent, then that can be an emotional problem, a problem like depression or grief. For example, grief is a type of sadness that was very prevalent during the pandemic, and also because we lost many things—not emotional losses, but physical losses, the loss of loved ones. These are things that bring us a lot of sadness. We get disappointed, sometimes we feel a lot of hopelessness, and why not? Many times we blame ourselves for the losses. We worry about what happened to someone or why it happened that way. We start playing games in our heads with, "What if I had done this?" "What if that had happened?" or " What would happen to them?"  If someone died, it was better to cover it up. They suffered a lot because they couldn't breathe, and they start to suffer, adding more thoughts on top of the pain that the loss brings. Then there's also the grief, which is very normal, the mourning we experience. Sometimes it also gets complicated and can lead to problems. Besides the emotional problems, depression is the classic example of a disorder in which one is sad all the time without needing a reason to be sad, and is sad often without any changes, except for a slight improvement from time to time. So we hope that's a good way to understand this. These are mostly symptoms that one sees with depression, and we think that a person has a depressive disorder when they have many of these symptoms: people lose interest, things don't bring them joy, they 're uninterested in that role, they sleep all day, they have no energy or interest in doing things, they have no appetite, they're like, they gain a lot of weight, but I hope not too much, because they're very sad, and they don't think well. Sometimes they don't perform well at school or at work because they don't know...  They can't concentrate, they can't follow conversations, they can't watch my show on TV or follow the plot of soap operas. So all of that happens a lot, and it comes with feelings of being very, very hopeless, sometimes that one is worthless, with a certain guilt, and we isolate ourselves, and sometimes we think that life is n't worth it and that maybe it would even be better if we took our own lives. So all of these are warning signs that one should keep in mind when one sees someone who is thinking about that, who feels too guilty, who is very disappointed, very hopeless, thinking about death, even if they are not thinking about suicide or taking their own life. You have to react quickly to be able to help these people. Just as sadness is a normal emotion, a normal response that we have to things that happen to us, anxiety is also normal. We are supposed to have anxiety as a mechanism that helps us realize that something is threatening us, that we are perceiving a threat. So I always talk to people about anxiety. For us, we don't have a dashboard like cars; we don't have a dashboard where...  It tells us to excite the gasoline or bring in electricity, or if the car is overheating. We subjectively feel things like that; sometimes we have an unpleasant sensation, like something isn't right, like we're tense. And sometimes physical symptoms appear too, like a headache, even sweating, heartburn, palpitations, or like we can't breathe. So all of that is a manifestation of anxiety, even when we're not feeling anxious. Often we feel nervous, we feel intense, or when we feel this way, well, what's going on? Nothing, it's just that this happened, that other process happened. The current situation has been stressful for everyone, it's affected us all in one way or another, and many of us live with persistent states of anxiety that, although normal, sometimes become complicated because they're present a lot of the time. And when anxiety becomes so intense that it prevents us from functioning well, it doesn't let us enjoy things, it doesn't let us work, and it doesn't let us study, then it becomes an anxiety problem. And there are many anxiety problems; right now we don't have time to go into details about these, but I'll...  To mention, for example, there are people who have panic disorders or post-traumatic stress disorder when something very traumatic happens to us, leaving us with memories and that feeling that we have to protect ourselves, and our body is kind of frenetic, ready to react to an impending threat. This is excessive anxiety that prevents us from functioning. The two things I always think about with excessive anxiety and anxiety disorders are that we perceive the threat as something huge, overwhelming, and important, and we also underestimate our ability to cope with that kind of anxiety. For example, the end of the month is coming, and maybe we wo n't have enough money for certain things. That's real stress. But when we're very nervous, sometimes we start thinking, "What if they cut off the electricity?" or "What if the child doesn't have enough to eat?" or "What if I don't have enough for shoes?" And we don't think that we can get through this, that we can ask for help. Okay, maybe we 're not doing so badly, or maybe we do need to tighten our belts a little, but not completely. We're going to go hungry, or I'm the other one, so yesterday, this way, in which we have to be realizing that the threat, although real, is not as great as we see it, and our capacity to deal with these kinds of threats is not as small or as low as we sometimes fear it is. So when we already have anxiety disorders, depression, or even more complex disorders like substance abuse, a psychotic problem, or another type of behavioral problem where we sometimes need intervention, it's very important that we seek some kind of help. And fortunately, we're going to share some resources with you. These are based on our experience, what people say about why they do n't have the ability to access services. Well, especially in the Hispanic community, we have less insurance, and our insurance sometimes doesn't cover mental health, or it has a down payment, and you have to pay a lot before it starts to cover it. Many times we don't have providers or programs that speak Spanish. Fortunately, there are places in our community where these services are available to all of us. Not traditionally, well, many of the services, for example, if you live in the metropolitan area of  In Phoenix, there in the valley, if you look for a psychiatrist online or ask for their phone number, you'll get a list of many people in Es Castell, on certain streets. It's very difficult to find psychologists or psychiatrists in other parts of the community, where the Hispanic community primarily lives. Often, we don't drive to those areas; we don't feel comfortable seeing certain parts of the city, certain buildings. Sometimes there are no buses or public transportation, and often the schedules don't work for us because we don't have the chance to leave work and still get paid and continue working. So, we 've often received lower-quality services, and there aren't any in our community. We often have that concern, and besides, we Hispanics are very discreet. There's a stigma, fear, prejudice, and discrimination against people with mental health issues. They tell us, "Well, that's not what we were given. It's for taking our dirty laundry home. We'll sort it out among ourselves." Sometimes we just want to go to a counselor at church or somewhere, and that's extremely important, but sometimes we need attention.  From a health professional who can help us... The last thing I wanted to say is about immigration status. Many times we do n't have the status we would like, or many times we're waiting, thinking, "I already submitted the application," or "I'm going to submit the application," and we don't want anything to come up regarding mental health, or how am I going to tell them that? They won't accept me, the city won't grant me my immigration status, or things like that. Or we're afraid that the government will have access to our medical records, our clinical files. So it's important to know that the centers available to our community are...  Discreet people who don't share information with anyone unless you approve or we have a concern that you're going to be in danger of hurting yourself or someone else, or things like that. So with that, I'm going to stop here for a moment and give my colleague, Dr. Pérez, a chance to tell us a little more. I think if we continue... Thank you very much, Dr. Moreno. And now, Dr. Pérez, no more. But remember, he's the Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the Tucson College of Medicine and also serves as the Director of the Early Psychosis Intervention Center at DA and Universal. Thank you, Dr. Moreno, for starting the presentation. Good afternoon to everyone, wherever you are. It's a pleasure to be with you this afternoon, and I want to share a little bit about how, as Dr. Moreno explains very well, the pandemic has had a very strong impact on our emotional health. We have more cases of depression and anxiety, and it's a pandemic that none of us expected. It surprised us all over the world, and as a song says, life's changes aren't what we expect.  I expected that there are things we have to live through that we don't seek out, but they come to us. But we also have to remember that human beings have always found ways to overcome adversity and even grow from it. There's a phrase from a virtual psychologist, Frank, who survived the concentration camps, that I really like: "A little light can dispel a lot of darkness." And that's what I want to focus on in this second part of our presentation. As I 'm trying to turn the page, or Dr. Marrero, perhaps you still have it, and I think it's already reached you, Dr. Pérez, and writing the fifth record for AdWords screening. For a moment, the button... and you were talking about how to strengthen against adversity, and that's an exact example. Well, a small problem, I think we've already solved it. One very important thing is that, as a Hispanic culture, we have many values that we already had before the pandemic and that have allowed us to survive previous adverse situations. For example, as Dr. Moreno explained, we are a group of millions of people in the US. We come from many places, we have different histories, but there are common values. One of them is our capacity for connection. We are a culture that through  Over the years, we have managed to maintain strong social networks. We connect with each other; we mostly like to talk to our neighbors. Our families tend to be extended, with grandparents, parents, and grandchildren living together. We have rituals and traditions like the Day of the Dead and Christmas Eve, some particular to our community, that remind us that we come from a place of identity and strength, that we have already overcome many difficult things, and that once again, faced with this challenge, we can be strong. In psychology, the word used for this capacity for resilience—I prefer the word "our strengths"—is that many studies ask the important question of what allows a person to overcome adversity. The number one answer, the one that most frequently emerges in these studies in many parts of the world by different researchers, is that the most important factor is maintaining positive relationships in our lives. When there are adverse situations, it is very common for us to want to isolate ourselves for various reasons. It can be difficult for us to talk to others about things that are difficult for us; we don't want to bother them. If our friends or family have their problems, we don't want to aggravate them with our own. Men, in particular, find it difficult to say " I am vulnerable." Perhaps we make a  It's a joke, or maybe we try to avoid the topic, but it's very difficult for us to say, "This is how I 'm struggling." But as I was saying a few minutes ago, it's proven that connecting with other people—friends, family, neighbors, colleagues, a partner— strengthens not only physical health but also emotional health. I'll share two examples: research has been done on people with cancer, comparing groups of people receiving treatment who live alone with those receiving the same treatment but living with others. When they compare which groups have better results, it's overwhelmingly clear that the people who live with others benefit more from the treatments. It's the same treatment, but the living situation—isolation— decreases the effect; companionship increases the possibility of benefit. Another example: research has been done with children who have experienced abuse and who manage to overcome it very well. When asked what helped them overcome it, the number one answer is that they had a safe and loving adult who helped them heal their wounds. Again, relationships are crucial for maintaining emotional and physical strength. I also have a personal story I'd like to share: when one of my sons, Matteo, was four years old, he asked me what my job was, and as a four-year-old explained...  He's a psychologist, and as best I could, I explained to him that I have a job, that people come to the office, we talk about their problems, and I listen to them. He looked at me very seriously and said, " That's not a job because you're not a firefighter or something." I know it was very difficult for him to understand. In his mind, it's a situation that, before psychology and psychiatry existed, we as human beings have learned that sharing our lives, both the sweet and the dark, is very important and has many benefits. As I like to tell my patients, a shared joy is double the joy, a shared sorrow is half the sorrow. And I assure you that each of you who are with us this afternoon, if you think of a moment in your life when someone helped you in a difficult situation, it was precisely when someone listened attentively without judging you. They didn't necessarily solve the problem, but simply feeling accompanied helps us feel lighter, with more hope. So, if at this moment, due to the pandemic, other economic problems, difficult legal immigration situations, you are feeling depressed or grieving, if you lost a loved one...  To be loved, remember that these are normal emotions, and at the same time, remember that we can bring a little light by connecting with others and intending to take the initiative to reach out to others in our lives in a simple way, especially our elderly, who are the most physically vulnerable, and our young people who have struggled a lot because of how the pandemic has disrupted their life plans. Take just five minutes a week—something very simple— to call them on the phone, to send them a text: "I woke up today and thought of you, your son or daughter who lives at home." Leave them a note in the morning before leaving for work: " You are very important to me." These small details help build relationships. Something to think about and practice: another way we can have strategies to strengthen our physical and emotional strength is to pay attention to our physical health. As Hispanics, it's sometimes difficult because we work long hours. Sometimes we have jobs and don't have time to go to the doctor, or we don't have, as I'm explaining, an easily accessible clinic or insurance that allows us to do so without much stress. If the consultation is going to cost $50, then it's better not to live.  Because those 50 dollars are needed for lucidity, so sometimes it's difficult to maintain consistent medical care. However, there are things one can do in daily life that greatly help health. 31. Get enough sleep. Restful sleep helps maintain a more agile mind and also increases frustration tolerance. I'll share with you that if I don't sleep well, the next day it's hard for me to call. There are small things we can do. The first is to ask ourselves what our sleeping habits are and how we can improve them. For example, if you are a person who uses their cell phone until the last minute before going to bed, it's recommended to put some space between using the phone and relaxing, calming down a little, even if it's just five minutes. 30. And then go to sleep, ideally at the same time every day so that the body gets back into its rhythms. There have been many very stressful years. It's important that we learn to be kind to ourselves. In the same way, eating a balanced diet with fresh foods helps prevent illnesses and fractures and maintain a stable mood. It's also important to reduce alcohol and tobacco consumption. Sometimes it's difficult to find the time to go grocery shopping and cook and prepare a meal. Healthy, and we go to the fast-food restaurant or dinner is cooked by Pollo Loco. It's not about radically changing, but it's about including a small change. Maybe this week I'll make a resolution to drink more water during the day, bring my water bottles with me to work. On the weekend, I'll prepare some fruit each day to take to work. Small habits that are within everyone's reach, low cost, high benefit. The most important thing is deciding that we can do them and that we really have a commitment to improving our quality of life. One more thing I want to tell you about that I personally really like is living an active lifestyle, being in motion. When we have difficult situations like grief, for example, depression, we tend to be sedentary, we don't have energy, we don't want to move, we don't want to leave the house, maybe not even get out of bed. And at the same time, it's proven that moderate exercise doesn't have to be intense like an athlete's; something as simple and easy as walking two or three times a day has a very strong impact on our health, reducing depression and increasing our physical health. Of course, it's proven that if you stay active... Over many years, your mood will be more optimistic, and people who exercise tend to live longer. I also really like a study that was done in several cities— Italy, Portugal, Peru, and even Zealand—where they looked for communities where people lived for many years, up to 90 or older. The question they asked was what these diverse towns where people live so long have in common. The answer was that they are communities where people walk a lot. We go by car, we go by bus, we go everywhere walking. That's very difficult to change; it's very big. For example, you also use the car, and we don't need the bus or other means of transport. But again, make a small change, for example, parking at the far end of the parking lot, in the place furthest from the entrance of the supermarket or your workplace, and take a few extra steps each day. If there's the option of taking the elevator or the stairs, take the stairs. Again, have imagination and think about how you can improve the quality of your physical life and, very importantly, how you can improve the quality of your emotional life. And as I was saying a few minutes ago, the song says, "The paths of the..."  Life isn't what you expected, but the way we choose to walk the paths of truth depends on us. Attitude is personal. It's not about being superheroes. It's not about never saying, "I feel overwhelmed." Again, those are important, sometimes inevitable reactions, but it's about expanding the conversation and saying, "How can I face these moments in a better way?" There's an exercise I really like that's proven to be quite effective. It's very simple, difficult to maintain, but possible. I'll share it with you. It consists of learning to live with more intention, deciding how I want my day to be, and living with gratitude. It involves reflecting on two questions daily, one in the morning and one at night—almost like brushing your teeth. Well, that's three times a day, but this is about two. In the morning, ask yourself, "What is my purpose for today? What intention do I want to start my day with?" Imagine that the day is a blank page, and it's up to me to write the tone of what will happen today. I can't control what will happen today, but I can actually enter it with a specific intention. For example, you don't have to do big things. Remember, these are simple recommendations.  To make it possible, my best intention is simply to have a full workday, or to talk to my mom for five minutes during my workday, or to listen to a song I like just for the pleasure of listening to it, to use my cell phone—and to connect more with people in Caracas. Any intention you decide in your heart, in your mind, that is something that benefits you, counts. And at the end of the day, ask yourself this question: What are three things I am grateful for today? This research was done by a researcher at the University of Texas who asked groups of people to write for a few minutes each day. One group had to write precisely about the things they were grateful for, and the other group had to write about something more neutral, like the weather they had for breakfast. At the end of 20 days, the group that wrote about things they were grateful for showed more optimism, more hope, less depression, and more physical energy. Three minutes a day, 20 days. And it's as simple as asking the question and waiting for the answer, and I assure you it will come. And perhaps it's something you already do in a personal way, in a spiritual context.  Perhaps as part of a sentence, for example, and simply continue it, or if you haven't started it in your life, then let's summarize what it is: the first aid kit to keep you a little stronger in adverse situations, maintain positive relationships, live a healthy life, sleep well, eat healthily, move your body, and live with the intention of gratitude—simple things within everyone's reach and free of charge. Well, food costs money, but gratitude does. But also remember that if at any time you feel you need something more, that you need professional help, and recognize that community resources are for you and your loved ones, that psychologists, counselors, people who work in the mental health sector, psychiatrists, are here with pleasure to help you, to accompany you, to listen to you, and to do our best to guide you effectively. As the slogan says, for this conversation, it came back to me: it starts with the community, and the community is different for each of us depending on our neighborhood, our circumstances. I invite you to think about what resources are available in your community. Perhaps they are new resources that you don't know about; ask, perhaps at the library, about a class that you might be interested in taking on personal development.  Perhaps there's a human development program at your church, or maybe there's a park you haven't been to in a long time. It's hard to go in this heat, but you can go very early or in the afternoon. Maybe there's something through social media, like what's happening this afternoon, that you can participate in. And remember, if your depression comes with suicidal thoughts, there's a suicide prevention network that's free in Spanish. The phone number is on the screen, and you can access it anytime or share it with someone you think needs it. Thank you very much for your attention. We're counting. Thank you very much, Dr. Pérez, for this information. It's very important information. Now, what we're going to do is open the screen, open the chat. Anyone who has a question, please put it there. Also, if you want to ask a question anonymously, you can send it directly to me. I think the chat allows that. So, if you don't want anyone to know who's asking, you can do that. Regarding the questions we receive, I want to share that I feel very, very proud. I work at the maternal health clinic for the FARC health centers, and we were...  We're here at our clinic in Neiva, which was a place that was greatly affected by the pandemic. We have patients, we have employees, many of whom were affected by the pandemic, and we did many things to help our employees and our patients. We're not necessarily a place that provides mental health services, but if someone comes in with an infection, the flu, or something else, we can help with those things. Dr. Moreno, as you were saying, sometimes it's difficult for someone to go to another place, and there are places where they're cut off, but not necessarily where we are. So for us, it's, stay where you want, and someone will come to talk to you in a second. We often see that this is better, and that no one can miss an appointment. They're already there, not for anything else. If anyone has any questions, please do n't ask. I wanted to continue the discussion about what you were saying, and whether or not it's true that the work you do to maintain [the community] is very important. Most people in our community receive some kind of treatment for depression, anxiety, and similar disorders from the primary care providers. No, it's not practical, Nervous. The doctor who sees us at the family doctor's clinic gives us many treatments, and many times it's exactly what we need. Many times, we'll need more specialized treatment. It's very important that we integrate mental health into primary healthcare services, and this is something we hope will be expanded so that one doesn't necessarily have to go to a specialist for this type of care. At the beginning, I also wanted to say that Dr. Pérez speaks so beautifully. I'm tempted to join in too. I hope that this talk he's shared with us serves as an example of what happens in the conversations we have when we 're talking about when to go to a psychologist, and what and how those conversations are handled. A psychologist is an expert who understands what's happening and has many well- developed ideas based on research and evidence that they work, not just something they came up with or that so-and-so told them, but ideas demonstrated with knowledge obtained through many years and many well-done studies of how we can...  to do to move forward, to help us build a little more of that strength we all need, and to talk about it in the two ways you two do it. I'll share with you that I had a partial cover-up in 2020, and it affected me a lot, and no, no, it's not the disease. Later it affected my wrist, but...  Mentally, and everything you're talking about, if you saw me like that, I said yes because I felt... I'm someone very involved. I always think I'm very strong, I do feel strong, but it did affect me, and I also learned that there are resources and that I'm not alone in this, but that's hard for one to understand. We have here... we don't have questions, but we have about 6 comments. The two presentations were very... they were incredible. Our Hispanic community needs the information. I'm going to share it. Thank you very much, and God bless me. If I receive a private question, and the question is: did you share strategies? And if you can, and if you feel good, could you tell us some strategies that you yourselves use? There are 22 people very involved with GAS. A lot is done in the community with your patients in schools. So, if you could share strategies that you use for your own mental and emotional health... The topic isn't... third, the word... Dr. Pérez started to comment there that he really likes physical activity, well, it's something that is very important for us. When I started in psychiatry, I learned a lot, I learned a lot about the things that help us be well, but also about the impact The actions and decisions we make don't just affect us immediately; they definitely affect other people. So, for me, it's always been very important to think about how to be well, which is this team. I'm a family person. I've been blessed to have my partner for many years, and we've built a relationship and helped each other move forward. So, it's very important to find ways to create an environment in our homes and in our most important relationships where it feels good to wake up. Sometimes you wake up and the moment you're alert, even the energy is there, and things are already going well. But when you build a good environment, it's very important. And the same goes for work. You have to feel like, like I always tell my colleagues, I whistle a lot. I'm always whistling. I want to go to work whistling and stay there whistling. I want to feel comfortable, like that. So, helping you create that environment where you can succeed is very important. And sports are also very important. Now a little less since I'm older, but I've always been a runner, even if it's not for long distances or anything like that, and that helps us a lot too. Thank you very much, and Dr. Pérez, if you have a question and want to get to this point, but if you'd like to quickly share a strategy you like, then yes, gladly. One that also works very well for me, similar to gratitude, is when I feel very overwhelmed or negative. I like to be... The other question is when things are pretty bad at work, but it works for us. Or, I had a problem with a friend, but it has worked for us, and expand the equation or broaden the conversation to what works. Thank you very much. And now we have another question. The question is, what recommendation or suggestion can you give when family members see mental health treatment as a taboo subject, but it's clear that it would be of great benefit for them to receive this mental health treatment? Jesus, very much like what happens to us a lot at the clinic, parents tell us that the kids don't have [someone] or someone in the family doesn't want to come because of the taboo or stigma. What I recommend is if you can find someone's experience who has spoken about it better.  With a psychologist, with a counselor, which is more common, and help the family, so they can share. Look, I went with this person to learn how to take away some of the fear of the word psychiatrist, the word psychologist is scary. I'm not crazy because I have to go, and I started with someone in the family who can share or invite a trusted person, ideally a pastor or a leader in the community, someone who can support this person, build trust, and help them overcome some of the fear. That's one possibility, definitely. And I always look for opportunities to educate, because many times the taboo is an obstacle, facilitated by a lack of understanding, because we don't have the sensitivity to recognize how important mental health is, and the humility to know that we all need help and we can all help each other. The person who seems less capable and more insignificant can have an incredible impact on our lives, and likewise, the person who feels more vulnerable and less worthwhile can also receive help and gifts from many different kinds of people, but definitely understanding what's important.  The seriousness and importance of emotional well-being and mental health, and the seriousness of the consequences of neglecting mental health, is undeniable. We must take responsibility for our mental health; it's not something that just happens. It's like physical health: we have to be mindful of what we eat, what kind of exercise we do, what other healthy activities we can do, and what unhealthy habits we need to break, like smoking. It's the same with mental health: what things are toxic for us, what things are problematic for us. Often, we need to talk with Dr. Pérez and his colleagues, or we need to see the primary care physicians at our clinic, or perhaps a mental health specialist. We need to know that we're going to do something that will benefit us and others. It's a responsibility we have; I can't just say, "I don't want to go because..." Thank you very much. Now, please, there's one more excuse to conclude with the last set of questions, and that's what comes up: the colon questions.  Okay, they're going to appear right now, there they are. But I also want to tell you that Dr. Moreno, Luz Jiménez, is here with us and he says hello to his former boss and that he loved the presentation. He asks if we're going to have it, and yes, Luz Jiménez, we are. If not, we're going to have it, and it's recorded. We're going to watch it, we're going to share it, Maton Park. I'm sure the alliance is going to share it too. So please, pay attention. And as participants in this conversation, you're going to receive an email that has the resources that the two doctors have put together. You'll have those resources too, and also the recording. And the last question is if there are also undocumented people. I know we're short on time, but that's not a very important question. So, quickly, 30 seconds, and you can talk about mental health, emotional health, for undocumented people. Very good question. We all need mental health, and we definitely have to look for resources that allow us to do that. Fortunately, in many community mental health public service locations, they allow us to get help without needing the immigration status that's required for other things. I know that in the clinics with us We are concerned about the health of one person and nothing else, so we are here for the community. We know that medical care, healthcare, knows no borders and that we all need help, and we are all part of a community. With that, I thank you, and sincerely, thank you both very much. I learned a lot; it was a pleasure being with you both today talking about this, also preparing the media team. Thank you very much for this, and thank you all for joining us. Check your email; you will receive all the information later. Thank you very much, and have a good night.