On behalf of Medio Clínica, we welcome everyone who may be joining us today. My name is John Jaime, and I'm from the Recruitment Department in Phoenix, Arizona. Today, I have the pleasure of having you moderate this event, which was sponsored by the Latino Employee Group at Medio Kleenex and in collaboration with staff from the University Center for the History of Race and Democracy, the Arizona State University Center for the Study of Race and Democracy, and the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Houston, Tucson, and Phoenix. First of all, I want to thank all the panelists and experts who will be speaking about a very important topic: COVID-19. This pandemic has brought us doubts and fears, and it feels as if things are changing day by day. But in times of uncertainty, it is precisely when we should support one another. As you can see, today we are not physically together due to social distancing, but we can still be together virtually as a Medio Clínica community that understands the importance of providing information. about the coronavirus and also how this impacts our community, the Hispanic or Latino community. Events like these obviously have an impact, but the way we respond to them can be influenced by our culture and background. Today's session is a collaborative event with health experts from the Hispanic and Latino community to share experiences and knowledge related to the impact of COVID-19, and in this case, things like how to navigate activities in December, as well as frequently asked questions. We also have information regarding the vaccine. During this session, we will have the opportunity to ask questions. From wherever you are watching, you can see the question window in the chat. And if for any reason you can't get your question answered, or if you have additional questions, we will give you an email address where you can send any doubts or questions. Now, let me introduce our panel of experts. First, we have Dr. Alejandra Cabello Arreola. Hello, Dr. Alejandra Cabello Arreola completed her medical studies and specialization in psychiatry at the Autonomous University of Nuevo León. Later, she completed a sub- specialization in affective disorders at... The Department of Psychiatry and Psychology at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, currently focuses its research on studying aging and dementia. Next, we have Dr. Francisco Moreno in the Department of Neurology at the University of Arizona College of Medicine. Dr. Francisco Moreno, good afternoon, thank you for being here with us. He is a tenured professor of psychiatry at the University of Arizona College of Medicine and also vice president of the Department of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion. As vice president, Dr. Moreno's main goal is to increase diversity among medical staff, as well as improve cultural fitness and congruence between health services and research to establish health priorities and reduce health disparities. Dr. Moreno serves as principal investigator and community engagement leader in the ALBOS research study conducted by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). He is also director and principal investigator for PersonPride, an initiative to improve research skills and academic advancement for faculty from diverse cultural backgrounds as they begin their careers, thus improving health equity. He is also principal investigator and director of Arizona JOE, a program.  From the Health Resources and Services Administration ( HRS), which focuses on increasing cultural diversity among health professionals, we have Vida. Good afternoon, thank you for being here. Vida is a nurse with a Master's degree in Nursing Preparation and is certified as a Transplant Nurse and Case Manager in a clinical setting in Phoenix, Arizona, with over 23 years of experience. She is classified in intermediate care, abdominal solid organ transplantation, transplant education, patient care, and medical-surgical care. Vida is the president of the National Association of Hispanic Nurses in Phoenix, Arizona, and is also a member of the Transplant Nurses Institute. Thank you very much. Next, we have Dr. Hinojosa. Good afternoon, Dr. Hinojosa. Dr. Hosting or Foster is from Venezuela, where he completed his medical training at the University of Carabobo. He joined the Mayo Clinic in 2014, where he completed a Master's degree and a postdoctoral fellowship in clinical translation science with a focus on population health. He currently serves as a physician scientist in the Division of Cardiology.  Preventive Medicine Center of the Department of Cardiovascular Medicine. I enjoy his research experience, which includes clinical linkage analysis between diseases and their effects, prediction and evaluation of cardiovascular and cardiovascular risks at the population level, and all this through traditional and novel scientific methods. Dr. Jose has a great interest in understanding and reducing health inequalities. Okay, next we have Dr. Gilberto López. Good afternoon, Dr. Gilberto López. Perfect. Dr. Gilberto López is an adjunct professor at the School of Transborder Studies at Arizona State University. In his work, he uses the social determinants and political economy of health frameworks to understand and improve the health and well-being of minority, rural, and racialized populations. As a highly trained social scientist, he applies mixed research methods to better understand the inequities that lead to disparities in cancer, mental health, and inflection points—in this case, for example, Kobe 19. Dr. López's main objective is to produce data that will guide the development and implementation of interventions that reduce disparities.  Among and within the population, I want to introduce you to Dr. Juan Sea Benach. I know, I said it right, perfect. Dr. Vena Cloud received his medical education at the Faculty of Medicine of the Autonomous University of Madrid. He also completed his residency in Internal Medicine in Spain. Subsequently, he completed a subspecialty in Allergy, Immunology, and Infectious Diseases at the Mono Regulus Regulation Laboratory of Dr. Anthony Fauci in the USA, conducting research on HIV immunology. In July 2017, he joined the Division of Infectious Diseases at the Hospital de Medio Clinical in Phoenix, Arizona, and for the last three years, he has worked as the lead transplant physician and has continued to develop practice guidelines for the management of infections in solid organ and bone marrow transplant recipients. And with that, we begin today. Perfect. Oh, and just one reminder for everyone watching: if you have any questions during this session, remember to use the chat window. Okay, we'll start with Dr. Alejandra Cabello Arreola. Thank you very much for being here. First of all, we want to ask you which  These are the signs of distress during the COVID-19 crisis. Hello, how are you? Well, the main signs of stress are fear and excessive worry. Health issues also arise, as does concern about financial matters. There can also be changes in these, and especially insolence, where we are thinking. And again, all the news we hear during the day or about daily events in the United States causes changes in sleep patterns, especially at the beginning of sleep, where the person is constantly thinking about everything. And if they received bad news about having contractions or even being hospitalized, this can generate a lot of stress and excessive worry. Also, eating habits, both in general and in general. People always feel the need to eat more, although it should always be a calming sensation to stop eating. So any alteration is the pattern of what is normally present. And a little bit, Dr. Arriola, there, I think you can hear a little better. We are very grateful for the miracles of technology, but sometimes it doesn't work well. Let's listen a little better. Okay, well, there can also be an increase in the EEC, including, of course, recordings, and with this, also an increase in the use  Of course, tobacco, alcohol, or any other drug, then they want to know who is most at risk of experiencing stress related to the pandemic crisis. Primarily, those we already know are at higher risk of developing a severe form of the disease: older adults and people with underlying medical conditions. We must also remember that children, who do n't always get together, have a different way of expressing the crisis, anxiety, or any other disorder. They will present it differently than an adult. For example, in children, it might be more frequent tantrums, and in adolescents, it might be like withdrawing into themselves for long hours. All these signs should be important for parents to detect that something is happening and not normal. Also, those at higher risk are people who are caregivers for someone who is sick, a sick family member. These people usually already have an overload as caregivers, and with the crisis, this stress burden can increase. And definitely, healthcare workers on the front lines, as well as other workers who haven't stopped working, like food industry workers who continue working and have to go to work, and they try to take all the necessary precautions.  Precautions are necessary, but people may continue to live with the fear and possibility of a crisis. On the other hand, it has been suggested that people who have lost their jobs, had their working hours reduced, or simply had to change their routines and are now working from home—all of this implies a major change in each person's lifestyle. People with disabilities or developmental disorders may also find it more difficult to understand what a pandemic is and why all these measures need to be taken. People and minority groups, people who are not in the country where their native language is spoken, people who are homeless, and those who have to live in congregations or groups may also be at greater risk. Thank you very much, Dr. Francisco Moreno. I would like to ask you a couple of questions. What are the additional sources of stress observed in the communities most affected during the pandemic? If you are listening carefully, Dr. Arriola has already covered several of these topics, so I will briefly mention economic stress, whether because we are directly experiencing the impact on our personal resources or because of the threat of another crisis.  The worst part is that it's going to affect everyone, and the catastrophe generated by the pandemic continues. Besides that, the social isolation we're experiencing— many of us, even though we're not very good at physical distancing, have been very good at social distancing—is a source of tension that affects many people. We don't have access to the support we normally have through schools, churches, many groups of friends, various types of organizations, clubs, gyms, and things like that. We also have less access to the professional support that was really available to many people in our community. Hispanics sometimes have more trouble accessing videoconferencing for treatments. Psychological treatments and therapies have been very well facilitated by the use of telemedicine. However, many people in our community don't have easy access to the internet. The type of service they receive on their phones isn't very reliable; they don't use email or anything like that much. And also, very importantly, there's this community anxiety we're experiencing because many of us aren't very good at managing the...  Information that fortunately reaches us today allows us to learn a little more about what are myths and what are realities of concern. So, I'll leave you with another question: what is your opinion on the effect the pandemic has had on people's emotional health? I explained that it's a very important topic. Yes, of course, we have seen a dramatic increase in the frequency of treatment searches regarding emotional health, which is an indicator that there are many more problems of the type of anxiety and pressure. Dr. Arriola already mentioned this, so to avoid repeating what I've already said, I should mention that health services are currently quite saturated. However, for all those people who are experiencing significant problems with anxiety, depression, or any other type of issue, it's very important that we make the effort to access appropriate health services. Obviously, mental health is important, but for example, Dr. Medina, what is important about having good eating habits during the holidays? What can you tell us about this in Betsson? Well, as we've been discussing, and  The best thing we know is that COVID-19 has a worse impact when there are comorbidities. A very important way to manage these illnesses is through diet and exercise. Right now, it's going to be very important that the diet is balanced and regulated, especially during the holidays. Keep sugar intake low and vegetable intake high. Try to stay as far away from processed foods as possible, however difficult that may be, especially in communities with limited access to food. Regarding the impact of COVID-19, there's no evidence that improving your diet will protect you from its severity, but managing chronic diseases makes a lot of sense during this pandemic. And as Dr. Francisco was saying, there's a real barrier to accessing medicine for some minority communities, and this is even more pronounced during the pandemic. There's a need for telemedicine in those areas, but it will be important that we try, as much as possible, to use resources like the ones we're going to provide.  Today, during this Facebook Live, we'll be looking for and answering your questions and discussing health, which is obviously very important. So, it's recommended to exercise after eating to help control blood sugar levels. If I can give you a brief summary, the general recommendation is that we all do more than 150 minutes of exercise per week. But this has some sub-points that we sometimes ignore. It's not just about doing exercise, but about having an exercise that makes us sweat. Okay, when we're already sweating and when our heart is starting to beat faster, then we know an exercise is working. There's also a recommendation where we can cut that time to 75 minutes, but that would be high- intensity, quite strenuous exercise. The impact of this should be combined with strength training, which will help us increase muscle mass. And those are the general recommendations. This will help us during this time. And another important thing to say is that every extra minute of exercise will have a benefit, whether it's one, five, or ten minutes that you can do during the day.  Being good means doing it as much as possible. Exercise is super important, and it has been shown that during the holidays, after meals, it will help to walk. That will also depend on each person, how they feel, their age, and their abilities, but in general, it's important that we stay physical, maintain physical activity, and obviously all mental and physical initiatives are also for prevention, right? In this case, Dr. Banacloche asks me if, in the event of contracting this disease, you can tell us a little bit about how medical treatments have improved compared to when the pandemic started. Yes, I think it's important to know the first thing: most people who suffer from Kobe do not need any treatment. It's important to prevent a little fear. There are many millions of people who contract the disease, and naturally, if you have 200,000 cases a day now in the US and you have two or three thousand deaths, most people don't die and don't need treatment. It's simply a viral disease, more or less severe, ranging from completely asymptomatic to a mild cold. Severe flu can progress to needing oxygen and mechanical ventilation, but most people don't need treatment. Treatments have improved; we know some things don't work, and we also know some things do. For people who don't need to be in the hospital, we can give treatment with monoclonal antibodies, which are antibodies generated in the laboratory that trap the virus and prevent the development of severe illness. Also, for people who are admitted to the hospital, we have antivirals. The major one, SIRS, is recommended by the FDA, HLA-A, and the Guyana Lines of the National Institutes of Health. And when you have inflammation, which is somewhat the second part of the illness, when the viral disease causes your body to generate an inflammatory immune response that can be harmful, we know that the use of the steroid Tecsa methadone improves the prognosis for Kobe patients, decreases mortality, and is very useful. We did n't know all of this six months ago. And clearly, the management of patients in the intensive care unit has also improved extraordinarily in recent months. I mean, with so many [cases], I imagine, in the opportunity to analyze information, could you share something about the hospitalization rate among the [unclear - possibly "the number of cases" or "the number of cases"]? Hispanic population a little bit statistics or 'the haughty and that's one of the problems  The discrepancy that has emerged with the virus is the health disparity between different ethnic and racial groups in our country, and clearly Latinos have a hospitalization rate four times higher than that of non-Latinos, and the mortality rate is also much higher. The question that is not clear and is being investigated is whether this is due to genetic factors or rather to discrepancies in the sense that the Latino population may be more exposed to the virus because of the type of work they do and their occupation, and possibly they may also have more risk factors, more collateral diseases such as obesity, diabetes, or hypertension that are not well controlled or treated, probably also due to a lack of access to medical care. And clearly the pandemic has highlighted the disparity that exists in our country and in the world between some ethnic or racial groups and others. It's never perfect, obviously, not everyone tries to handle this situation in the best way. In this case, how many days is it recommended to self-isolate once a person has been  exposed to COVID-19 and how many days are there between exposure and symptoms? What's important to understand is this. You're absolutely right, they say there are many people who still don't think about or don't know exactly how long they should wait. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has found that symptoms can appear in a person 2 to 14 days after being exposed to COVID. So this is the time when we have to take the most precautions and when we have to protect our loved ones the most. And well, our loved ones, parents. As Hispanics, we often live in a type of house that has many generations. So what? But how likely is it that children will become symptomatic in COVID-19? Because many people believe that children can see COVID-19 and spread the disease without showing symptoms. I think this is something we've heard today, right? So what can you tell us about this? Yes, there are many children who have been exposed to COVID-19, just like adults. They can get sick and can also pass the disease or the virus on to their loved ones without having symptoms. Again, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that children who  Those with Covenant 119 may have mild symptoms, but they can also be asymptomatic. Some children may become very ill and very sick. They've also talked about babies under one year old with underlying conditions who may be more susceptible to colon disease. It's important to always be well-informed. I think it's often difficult to find or know what kind of sources we can trust. In this case, what can you tell us or elaborate on the information from Dr. Gilberto López? And my information on how Covenant 19 affects Hispanics. Thank you all. We 're seeing in this research that there are three factors: one is the amount of information reaching the Latino community— I'm speaking specifically in the US— the quantity, the quality, and the mode of transmission of the information. Regarding quantity, we're seeing that less quality information about Latino food is reaching the Latino community when compared to other external groups. Information in English is less comprehension than information in Spanish. Spanish is reaching the Latino community much less. And when it comes to quality, the information isn't culturally adapted; it's just a literal translation.  That's not enough to get this information to the communities regarding quantity and quality. The other thing is the mode of transmission. We're asking in our surveys where you get that information and how the information you'll be doing about new competition is being transmitted. We're seeing that a lot of it comes from family and friends and is being distributed through social networks, typically Facebook and WhatsApp, in the Latino community. And what we know about the information coming through these social networks is that there's a lot of the same information, information that's incorrect, information that could put many in the community at risk of transmission from the various actors we 're talking about: not wearing masks, not getting vaccinated. This information that's being spread, which has no scientific validity, is affecting the institution. And how does this affect it? Perfect. And I say I'm also guilty of this. I'm not very in contact with my family in Mexico, and many times the type of information I receive has made it difficult for me to educate myself, not to use it a little and question it. So, what steps have been taken to manage this information? Well, what we're doing here at a state university is directing three projects. One is a health initiative, a series of animations, or Cartoons that we are presenting to the community, and all of that can be found on the faculty page where I have it. We will post comments, and also my email. There is a series of animations that use Latin American cultural icons to bring information about COVID-19 to the community, and it touches on basic topics like masks and handwashing. We also have an animation about how this affects children's mental health. See what Dr. Viola mentioned. The series had a project; we are doing a series of surveys throughout the state of Arizona and in California trying to understand how the pandemic is affecting the short-term and long-term health of Latinos, but also their socioeconomic health. We know that perhaps the vaccine will arrive soon and will have a great effect, but there will be economic and social consequences that will last for several years, and we want to understand that. In centers, we have the surveys, and from there, we will do more information and communication with the community. The last thing I want to mention, also from the state of Arizona, is a project called Basic Cover Text, which focuses on giving information to the Latino community, but beyond the  Latin city, the entire area by text, new information coming out about Kobe 19, how to protect yourself, stay informed about what's happening, the science, perfect, thank you very much. I think what it says about controlling stress isn't important, so I wonder, Dr. Cabello, what healthy ways exist to cope with the stress generated by the pandemic and perhaps by the information itself or the inadequate information, or can you listen to me? Yes, I think a little better, thank you. Well, now, what can we do? Above all, these three things are: have an action plan, have phone numbers on hand and know where to go if you experience Kobe symptoms, but also what to do in case of a mental crisis. For this, you can get immediate help; there are helplines that we can find, these phone numbers at cdc.gov, for example, the suicide prevention hotline is also available in Spanish, this is very important. Also, among other points, being bombarded all day with all this information can be exhausting for many people who are checking their cell phones every 15 minutes, that's why this update is about the pandemic. Totally guilty, I understand, yes, that's how it was for me too at the beginning, until  So, I said it's better to take a break from all this and have a moment each day where we decide, " I'm going to check the news in the morning or at night," but try not to be constantly using our cell phones to get more information at every moment. And when we do get information, make sure it comes from recognized institutions, and then close the phone and continue with our activities. It's also important to take care of our bodies, to eat a balanced diet, and to exercise. If possible, meditate or stretch; this is very good for our health. Obviously, we should avoid drugs, tobacco, alcohol, or any other drugs. We take a moment to disconnect and do activities we enjoy. And as I said, disconnecting from these things also means connecting with our loved ones through the media, the phone, the internet, or any other means. Even if you belong to a religious or civil association, continue doing so, preferably online or, as I mentioned, by phone. Try to maintain the routines we had before, but modified. Okay, and I think that in this whole situation, it's sometimes difficult to explain stress and anxiety, and we have a certain stigma surrounding mental health. So, what can you tell me? How can we normalize it? Talking with our family and loved ones about mental health during the pandemic is something I think is sometimes difficult to explain, and this is very important. I encourage you to have open and honest conversations about how we are feeling, and also to be interested in how our loved ones are feeling. Ask them questions, remembering that even topics like suicide need to be addressed openly and asked empathetically. This won't cause more harm if we ask empathetically. We also need to show gratitude every time someone takes the time to ask how we are and how we feel, so that we can strengthen these empathetic practices and promote future conversations. It's not just a matter of being told that the person is fine and then going on for months without that continuity and regularity in periodic check-ins. And remember, a very good way to get the other person to open up to us is by starting by telling you how I feel about this situation. This will encourage the other person to share their feelings. Perfect, thank you very much. Well, obviously, many times stress... before continuing, I just wanted to remind you  To the people who are on this link, if you have any questions, please put them in the chat, either through Facebook or by contacting us. We will be monitoring them. In fact, we have received a couple of questions about vaccines, but that will be addressed later in the discussion, and also about how to help with people's attitudes. So we will bring all the questions into the discussion. We thank you once again for continuing to ask them, and we will try to answer them during the discussion. Okay, perfect. Thank you very much, Dr. Cabello. Dr. Moreno asked me many times, in this case, that people deal with stress differently, right? So what can you tell us about that? And many times we escape. What can you tell us about the use of alcohol, tobacco, drugs to escape? Yes, excuse me, and the delay in muting/unmuting. Thank you. Oh no, this is a very important question. Now, over the time that has passed since the tornado hit, we have had the opportunity to review millions of medical records. So, like almost everyone who goes to the doctor or healthcare provider, we have an electronic medical record service. It's easier to search everything.  That's right, and it's quite evident that with mobile phones, people who have problems are experiencing a dramatic increase in alcohol use, the use of legal or illegal drugs, and also the use of tobacco. Interestingly, people who use more alcohol and drugs are also having a higher risk of developing other associated problems. Similarly, people with other types of mental health disorders also have a higher risk of developing these issues. So, it's very easy, often with all the stress people are experiencing, to have a glass of wine, a beer, a drink, whatever. People who use marijuana medicinally are using it more frequently than usual, and this is causing very serious problems in families and for the health of the people affected. So, we urge everyone to continue being very cautious with the use of alcohol, drugs, and tobacco. We must remember that this escape we sometimes resort to has now become a more regular behavior for many people. It's like that happy hour of the past, where many times a... Friday or something like that, doing that has become a very regular thing for many, so keep in mind that need to be cautious and generous with others. And we're going to take one of the questions we have through the chat. One of the people who are here says, well, unfortunately, some acquaintances—the person sending the question—had COVID, the whole family overcame it and they're fine, but they think they didn't give it the importance it deserved. They just said, "Oh, well, now we have antibodies," even though other family members, like their grandmother and other relatives who were at risk, don't want to pay much attention. And this is an open question: what can be done with this kind of mentality when people deny reality, or when people have a completely different opinion from yours? If any of you want to take it up, go ahead. Well, speaking from the perspective of community health communication, one thing we recommend is staying home. If you know that these people have been at risk, are taking care of themselves, going out to stores, shopping, and social events, then in your own home, make rules where masks are required. You can  You can set rules, but if people can't follow them, they might not come back to visit. The process is long, and having those rules is a pact, something that a person can control. It's difficult sometimes, especially in the Latino community, to ask visitors to do things they don't normally do. This is seen as disrespectful, but in a pandemic, people might disengage, perhaps because they don't understand. They might not be the best person to visit, but they should make their own rules and enforce them in their homes, just like any other business. I'd also like to make a recommendation that doesn't only apply to people who aren't very careful, but officially, 100 percent of people, everyone, even those who have already had treatment and are very careful, everyone needs to be careful. If I can add something to that, we have to do things, we have to avoid crowding, and that's what we're talking about with Agro Mundo. We should n't have anyone living at our address; it's that specific. It doesn't matter if they're our neighbor or next door; we have to be distanced from them, wear masks, etc. And unfortunately, for now, there's still some time until they tell us what...  Whether it's the scientific professionals who think it's appropriate to normalize telling people "I love you but I can't see you because you're taking precautions" or "I can't see you because we're in a pandemic" doesn't mean you do n't care about the person, that you do n't appreciate them, but you have to be honest because you're taking care of your loved ones, you're taking care of yourself, and it's something we have to try to normalize. This is especially important now that, for example, the Christmas and New Year's holidays are coming up. How can one, you could say, not stop living, perhaps have these kinds of events, but also in a polite and responsible way, and obviously maintain communication? What does the person think about this, Dr. Medina? Then, to repeat what you recommend, you say it's very important not to have these kinds of open conversations. So what comes to mind is, obviously, the holidays are coming, the end of the year is coming, so how can we, what do you recommend, with these kinds of events that we have, especially among family and friends? But I need to say it again, it's useful to keep repeating this several times: we shouldn't be, we can't get together with anyone who  Don't live at our address, okay? That's something that needs to be said. If you have to go out, you have to wear a mask, wash your hands, and we can all do it together. The panelists repeat the prevention measures. For me, it's very difficult to say, because it recognizes that having friends and social relationships has a health benefit, but we have to do absolutely everything possible to limit those relationships to virtual ones. Okay, it has to be by phone, and it's difficult, as Dr. Cabello was saying, or by Zoom, or Facebook, or other technologies that are available. If there's one, there is, and that's what it says, or it's limited to whoever has internet access, phone access, but we have to find ways to achieve this, and if it's not possible, we have to continue limiting it anyway. As much as we want to hug our friends and family, it's not the time yet. The time will come, it won't come in a week, it won't come in a few months, it will come at some point where we 're still not sure, but for now, we have to maintain interpersonal relationships with our friends and family, but it has to be distanced, and you can't, it can't be to go back to something. It sounds repetitive, it can't be. We're going to do a  Party and I'm going to wear a mask, and we're all going to wear masks, right? Well, masks are for when it's absolutely necessary, like when you have to go to the doctor, or to the supermarket, when you have to do something extremely necessary that you can't do virtually. One more thing is that another practice that we're seeing, that we've heard about, and that we've seen being practiced, is the fact of getting tested and then meeting up tomorrow, or getting tested five days later. There isn't a system in place right now where you can say it's safe to get tested today and if you're negative you can see someone without physical distancing. There's no way to do that right now, so for now we have to continue virtually for the time being. Perfect, thank you very much. Let's see the questions that are coming up about the chat. One more question here about the gaps in the right. Dr. Benach is going to talk to us about the vaccines, and before we go there, he says what would be the best way to inform our community about any updates on COVID-19. In this case, this person is in Rochester, Minnesota, but maybe Neon. I'm not going to tell you. What is the best way to find information? If we refer people to the silica website and the center, and if it has enough flyers and brochures in Spanish that are designed for the Latino community, one thing we can do is if the person has access to this information, appropriates that information, learns it, and distributes it in a way that we can understand and share with their family.  To your friends, your acquaintances often understand this information; it's very clinical, very academic, and the community might not speak the language. So, if you have faith that you've lost access to this information, share it with the community. Start a conversation about a friend, a cousin—we always miss that cousin—who said, "This isn't true, this comes from knowing the Earth text. It's cool, there are several theories that are extraterrestrial, those versions," and say, "No, go, the information is here, go to this website." And get active in spreading this correct information and debunking much of the information that comes out. There are several, to add something to what Dr. López says specifically for Rochester, you can separate it into two parts: not regarding the Latino community and in general, or Kate, who speaks English, if she speaks Spanish, besides the SIBI page, we also have the Mayo Clinic page and Mayo Clinic social media where we normally share information. Unfortunately, at this moment we are combating the spread of information through WhatsApp, Instagram, and all the social networks that move faster.  From what the scientific community can adapt, like the doctor is saying, but the important thing is to say, go to this place, and there they won't talk to you about alien theories or anything like that, but rather the right place locally, or for the Latino community in Rochester. We have many partner organizations with local groups; maybe I'm forgetting some, but there's the organization " Hacer Estar" (Make This) and other mini-partners, and there are many more, like " Familiar Versión Pop" (Family Pop Version), to mention an endless list. But what I want to get across is that they have taken charge of a communication project where, as Dr. Gilberto López says, they are taking true or verified information from scientific sources and are working to reach the Latino community, not only in understandable words, but in words that someone who is Mexican, someone who is Venezuelan, or someone from Ecuador can understand. A Latino person, a specialist in this type of translation, is in charge of sharing this information, and we are doing this. We are providing assistance, from case reports to information about the vaccine. We are also doing things through Facebook.  Literature of this type is super important, and we should focus on reliable sources. And yes, understand that if something sounds a little strange, it might not be true. It's always good to seek an expert for help. Doctor, I have two questions I'd like to ask Chester, and perhaps you can share a little more about vaccines. The first question we're asked is about flu season. How do you distinguish between symptoms? For example, when should you get tested? For instance, if someone had flu symptoms 10 days after going to Vallarta, they were tested, but the result was negative. Along those lines, how can a person contract Kobe? Can a person contract Kobe-19 a second time? What can you tell us about that? Regarding the first question, I think that if you think you have the flu, you could have Kobe. The symptoms aren't always the same, so if you're sick and feeling unwell, it's appropriate to go to your doctor and get tested. There are tests available that simultaneously detect flu symptoms.  And Kobe tests, but one thing we've observed this year is that there's so much obsession with COVID, and there are people who think they have COVID when they have other illnesses, not Kobe. And everyone is thinking, "BID code, BID code." We've had patients with sepsis, with skepticism, with Bali fever, with all kinds of things, and the patient was thinking that what they had in their food was something else. You ca n't know for sure; you need to go to a doctor who can see you because... well, you need to rent the test. Fundamentally, there are many other things, and clearly, now flu season is starting, although so far there's very little flu in Arizona. So if you have flu symptoms, it's easy to say what you ate. And the second question, can you repeat the second question? Yes, of course, can a person with COVID-19 get it a second time? It must be quite unusual. There are confirmed cases of second infections, but they are so unusual that the CDC does have a protocol where it's being studied, and if any doctor finds a patient who they think has been infected a second time, there's a link on the CDC website to...  Receive the patient and study carefully. Keep in mind that if this were a common phenomenon at the rate we're going, we wouldn't have seen it continuously. So it seems possible, it's expected. Other coronaviruses produce immunity that isn't very long-lasting, so it's perfectly possible that this is happening, but it doesn't seem to be a common phenomenon. Perfect. I know you bring very valuable information today about vaccines, so what can you share with us about the COVID-19 vaccine? Yes, I think the fundamental message is that this vaccine is active in the PACI (Parkinson-Alexander Institute for Health). Emergency use authorization has been given to this vaccine in a randomized study to 22,000 people, and another 22,000 received a placebo. And from the point of view of our community, it's important to know that 26 percent of those people identified as Hispanic or Latino, so the information from this study is probably applicable to our community. And the vaccine is effective, extremely effective, 95 percent effective, that's right. And the toxicity is minimal. It's not that patients don't have symptoms when they receive the vaccine; the message is, it's worth having these symptoms, it's worth seeking medical attention.  A little headache, a little fatigue, and a little muscle ache—yes, that's the price you have to pay to avoid having to live with it and being able to transmit it to your loved ones. So my recommendation is that everyone get vaccinated. And can you explain a little bit about how vaccines work? In Africa, the COVID vaccine, and vaccines in general, what they do is give the recipient something that is very similar to the virus or bacteria against which one wants to defend oneself, so that the immune system learns to defend itself against that particular pathogen. So there are many ways in which this can be done. Sometimes an attenuated virus is used, a virus that is similar or, in principle, almost identical to the virus that causes the disease, but which is much milder, like, for example, the chickenpox vaccine. In the chickenpox vaccine, you give a chickenpox virus that produces a very mild illness, so the immune system learns to fight the chickenpox virus, and when you are exposed to chickenpox, the immune system is trained. It's practically like training for a competition. The technology being used in the vaccine that the committee approved last night is a new technology, but it has been used previously in cancer vaccines, and there is a great deal of biological data on how they work. In this case, there is nothing live in the vaccine; there is no virus that can cause disease or that you can transmit to anyone. What the vaccine provides are the instructions to build, within your own body, a replica of a part of the virus that generates a very powerful immune response. So, you give yourself an injection; that injection contains genetic material similar to that of the virus, which gives your body the instructions to produce the virus's spike protein. Then, that protein is presented to the cells of the immune system, and they learn to fight that protein. So, the response we can measure is actually better than the one produced by the infection itself. In the chat, it says if we have any information about the vaccine in Mexico. I don't know if they need any information about it. As you know, vaccines are distributed differently in each country, and in our country, in each state. So, we do n't have any information about what the order will be.  Regarding priorities, there was another meeting in my group today advising the Shyris and trying to determine the priorities suggested by the federal government. I have two questions in the chat about the treatment of Kobe. It's an open question specifically: "We have done small studies on vitamin D deficiency in obese people. What is your opinion on this?" So that's the first one. If anyone wants to answer it, there has been information. The studies that have been done have not shown any effectiveness of the vitamin at the moment. Perfect. And regarding treatment, it says about what happens and what leads a person to be intubated while in the hospital. This person has noticed that there is a myth that people who end up being intubated die. So what can you tell us about this? For people who are intubated, clearly very well, more so than for people who are not. Needing intubation and mechanical ventilation is not a death sentence at all, but it is clearly an indication of a poor prognosis. So I think it's important to know that a significant percentage of people who require intubation survive, but it is possible that the mortality rate of patients who require prolonged intubation is higher.  as high as 50 percent, depending on other underlying conditions. In other words, people who require intubation are people who are very likely to die if they don't require it. Intubation gives them a more favorable prognosis than not being intubated. Right now, intubation is only performed on people who cannot survive without mechanical ventilation. It's important to know that. Okay, once again, I thank you all. Thank you. We have a lot of questions from the public, so I'm trying to organize all the questions. As we move on to other questions, one for you, Dr. Banacloche, says with certainty that the Kobe 19 vaccine prevents infection with Kobe and the subsequent COVID-19 virus. It's an important tool for containing the pandemic, because yes, the vaccine is important to stop the pandemic. And we do n't hear him speaking. We do n't hear him. This is an objection that has been raised regarding the study because what was measured in the study were the symptomatic cases of Kobe. And then someone said, "Well, what about the cases?"  Asymptomatic cases, because perhaps this vaccine simply prevents me from getting sick, but it doesn't prevent me from catching the disease and transmitting it. In general, there are two answers. One is that the data they have in the study strongly suggests that the vaccine also reduces infection. So, that's preliminary; that wasn't what they were measuring, but they included it, within certain limits, and it gives the impression that it prevents infection. But an argument that I think is valid is that vaccines like this one prevent infection. When a vaccine prevents 90 or 95 percent of cases, it's preventing infection in general. That is to say, the measles vaccine doesn't simply prevent people from getting sick with measles; it prevents them from contracting measles, and what about anal measles? That's another vaccine against a different virus with very high efficacy. So, the presumption, even though we don't have entirely convincing data yet, is that this vaccine prevents infection and thus prevents the transmission of the disease, and in this way, it will help control it.  During the pandemic, we have several questions about the use of masks. Obviously, mask use is also important, right? So, there are a couple of questions. The first is about the risk of improper mask use. For example, some people cover their faces, others don't, and what can one do if one person is taking precautions and others aren't? So, that's a question about masks. And the third is what we can do if social distancing isn't implemented in the workplace. In this case, I have to ask about the relationship between masks and the pandemic. It's an open question if anyone would like to elaborate a bit more on mask use. I would say that in relation to work, where we can't maintain the required distance, mask use is even more important. Wearing a mask all day, if necessary, even when talking on the phone, is crucial. We all have to get used to having the help that masks provide. So, mask use will be necessary when there's no testing available. What can we do if someone near us is putting us at a higher risk? We can distance ourselves from them and practice social distancing. The moment isn't necessarily the right time.  You have to try to talk to the person, not sleep, confront them, and I'm going to put the mask on them, but more than anything, stand two meters away, find a place with good ventilation, and get away from the situation you're in. Perfect, okay. Let's move on to another topic that I also think is important, at least to touch on, and this is in the area of ​​research. So, can Dr. Moreno tell us what he can tell us about clinical research, and also why it's important to have Hispanic people in clinical research? Very good question. Well, clinical research is the tool used in the health sciences, in medicine, to have evidence of which treatments and other interventions work and which don't. It's through clinical trials that we know what medicine, what dose we're going to use, what side effects we're going to have, and all that. One of the most important things, and Dr. Head was talking about this in Veracruz, is that we do n't know why Hispanics fare differently than other groups, whether minority or majority groups, but we know that we fare differently. We're not infecting more people; we're getting more complicated cases.  It has a high mortality rate, and we need to know what mechanisms will help protect us, whether the vaccine will work for our group. So, it's quite promising that Hispanics have participated in the clinical trials of one of the Moderna vaccines, and now in the one they're recruiting for, like AstraZeneca. But it's also very important that we participate in other types of trials, trials for treatments and things like that. The reason is very simple: here we'll know if the medication works for the people who tested it. There are some conversations right now where they say that despite vaccination, people in a certain group are having more problems, and the only way we'll know if we should continue this type of trial, this type of research, and with that, the community participates in this type of activity. Of course. And, perfect, I have another question. I mentioned vaccines earlier, and in fact, we received a question asking what information is available about each vaccine, and an open question to see if the vaccine approved by the PIDE is better, the Moderna one, and what your general opinion is about the vaccine of origin. Well, I think it's important, and this relates to the previous question. We don't know until we have data. So, the preliminary information we have is that the Moderna vaccine and the Fazer vaccine will be practically equivalent in terms of efficacy. But until we compare them, and that will probably require research and will require updating one group to receive one vaccine and another to receive the other, instead of a vaccine and a placebo, we ca n't say that one is better than the other. So, it's very promising that these two new technology vaccines have a response rate above 90%, but the truth is that without comparative studies, we can't say when it will be better compared to the others. And about the Russian vaccine, the truth is that I know absolutely nothing. Thank you very much, Walid, and I don't know if you can share a little more with us about the action plan for access to the vaccine when it is available, obviously, and specifically. And is there anything you can tell us about the Hispanic community in general regarding the vaccine? I do n't know anything, and I don't think any of the panelists know anything because those decisions aren't being made at the level of the health institutes or institutions.  Rather, it's a completely governmental matter for the state, and it will be different in each state. It's being implemented through the state health services system in collaboration with the county health sectors. There are also general guidelines, but as the doctor said, we do n't have enough information to help anyone understand how that works. But what I wanted to say, to give some reassurance to the people listening, is that the plan exists and they are ready to begin this type of activity. But there's an important point to consider going forward, doctor. One thing we can add is that at this moment we don't really know the plan for the rest of the population, how the vaccine will be administered. What we do know is that it will be given in a prioritized way, and that doesn't mean one person is more important than another, but rather that it will be given in relation to who is more vulnerable and who will be more exposed. And the important thing in all of this is that until we reach the point where we can all have both doses of the vaccine, which are required, we must continue to wear masks and continue to maintain social distance.  Socially, and we mustn't get tired of it. We've reached a point where people are quite tired; they want to return to normal life, and that's on the horizon. There's an indication that we're going back to that, but for now, we have to be patient. We have to follow the guidelines they're giving us, and in the meantime, have a little more patience because a few months ago we had no indication that the vaccine worked or not. Now we know that it does, and we also know that it will eventually reach everyone, but we don't know the plan. However, we know that the plan will be perfect. One of the things I want to emphasize is that we have to be patient, and again, even when one is available, it will still require some time for everyone to continue using face masks and practicing social distancing. So it's more a matter of learning to...  We need to change our routines a bit and try to adjust and adapt to these new situations as best we can because, even though the vaccine is available, we're still going to have to take care of ourselves. Exactly. In fact, there's a question about this where Dr. Banacloche initially had it for you, but Dr. Cabello, just like before, I'd appreciate it if everyone would like to provide a little information. It says, " Once I've been vaccinated against COVID-19, can I stop using face masks and stop maintaining social distancing or safe distance from other people?" Well, definitely not, because we still have to use all the safety measures, even if we've already been infected with the virus or not. The measures have to continue. Yes, I think it's important in this situation, especially when there's so much fatigue, to be aware that we're all in this together, that it's important to practice solidarity and not start acting solely based on what might happen to us and not worrying about others. That's an attitude that will generate anxiety and contribute to things not getting worse.  So, clearly, for many months we have to continue all the precautions we're taking because it's not just about us. It's not just me. I already have antibodies, I can't get infected, so don't tell me to wear a mask because I don't want to. That creates conflicts that are much worse. I think it's important that we at least maintain the fabric of society and that this situation serves to unite us and not separate us. And also, in accordance with what Dr. de la Croce says, communication is also key—communication not only with our families but communication with the community, so that they understand each other, so that they are listening. Yes, and if you have been vaccinated, protect the other people around you and continue that communication, and make sure that people in the community agree with you and are up to date on what is happening. And look, a question: in this case, you talk about communication, and obviously it's important, right? So, especially in these times where there are social differences, where many of our lives have changed, what do you recommend, for example, so that people continue communicating, so that they don't feel alone or neglected? Abandoned by their loved ones? Well, that's a very good question because I think we can all give examples of family members, perhaps elderly ones, who feel very lonely because we can't get close to them. But the important thing is to maintain that communication. If it can't be through a computer, then by phone. Call those people daily to see how they are, to tell them that the day was nice, because I experience many things that aren't so difficult. I hope that reminds them that we are there for them and that we can support them. And also, be aware of our neighbors and other people around us who are alone. A knock on their door, even if we're far away, to say hello, ask how they are, and say goodbye. That also helps us as a community to come together and know how the people in our community are doing. So, I think it's about maintaining that communication in different ways. We as Latinos need the hug, the kiss, maybe from a distance, but being able to see each other, even from afar, is perfect. And well, we have 8 more minutes. Once again, those who are with us this afternoon can send their questions either through Facebook or through chat.  For anything you need information after this section, I just want to remind you that you can find information on Medio Clínica, or hereje, as an organization. You can also contact us through Facebook as Medio Clínica en Español. And if you have any questions about today's topics, you can contact us by email or through Facebook at @medioclinic@ latinos@mayor.com. We'll put it in the chat, or at least through Facebook en Español. So, I'll make a reminder before concluding the session: a question you have, a previous question about what happened with the Bákula sign. Should it be protected or not? One thing we should perhaps be aware of is that this is something global. Although we're talking about the vaccine in this country, this country has the vaccine that we have, this won't go away. Pandemics will go away. History is about learning by seeing. They go from one life to another. They last a long time. In this case, until the whole world has the vaccine, that's when we'll say we've eradicated the virus. And we see that there is a lot of inequality in the world, so the most isolated and marginalized groups in our country  And globally, it's going to take much longer for them to help with their vaccine, and in the meantime, we have to take care of ourselves and these populations. So yes, we will have to continue these practices much longer after the vaccine arrives, or after the vaccine reaches our communities. Perfect, go ahead. Dr. [Name], I have a car. Yes, I saw a question in the chat that worried me because someone said that they heard that ten people died after receiving the vaccine. Regarding the free tester, and it's a good example of my information. As you can imagine, if you follow for several months, there are 44,000 people. Some people are going to die. So, in the FACE vaccine trial, there were 6 deaths, not 10 as the person asking the question in the chat asks. 6, okay? Those 64 occurred in the group that received a placebo, in the group that received physiological saline solution, and naturally, they did n't die from that. And the other two deaths that occurred in the 22,000 people who received the FACE vaccine do not exceed the expected mortality rate in 22,000 people followed for several months, and no.  There was no indication that the deaths were related to the vaccine, but this is a topic that has been circulating on social media. Right now, what I'm urging everyone to do is, when you hear something like this, instead of just sharing it, do a Google search instead of going to the Reuters and Associated Press websites that will give you the information. Do n't believe everything you hear today, even the clinical media in Spanish. Okay, and regarding the vaccine, what percentage of the population needs to be vaccinated to have population immunity? The estimates vary between 80 and 90 percent. The truth is, until we get more data, we can't know for sure, but many people need to be vaccinated— almost everyone. It's important, isn't it? I'm especially waiting for it to be available to most of the public. And that's another important point to emphasize: right now we're focusing on saying, "Don't get tired of this, the vaccine is coming. Have a little patience, for the general population," but soon that will change. The vaccine has arrived.  Now let's all get vaccinated because the vaccine won't just protect you, it will protect your loved ones. The primary ability to contract the virus is that you might be able to transmit it to a loved one, like a grandmother or a neighbor, someone you care about. And you, by not wanting to get vaccinated, could harm them when they could actually be protected by the vaccine that protects you and others. And quickly, when it's available, we'll have to get vaccinated. Whenever we can, perfect. We have three minutes. So, I invite you, if you can, to share what you want to share in the next three minutes. Because, as part of the closing, I'd also like to send a very warm greeting to all those people who have a family member hospitalized right now or who have lost a family member due to COVID-19, and send them all our affection. I think it's important for us as a community to be able to express this. Thank you very much, Dr. Morena. Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity to share with you. What I wanted to leave you with is a message of hope. This is a period... right now we are not in The peak of contagion of problems we are dealing with related to the coronavirus, and we have learned a lot, and the fact that we have options to prevent it right now, like vaccines, is something we dreamed of, we hoped for, and it's finally here. So, that hope that we must combine with the patience to continue doing the work of prevention, besides health, is the light at the end of the tunnel, right? Someone else, I would say that it is also extremely important to stay up to date through Shehadeh, through the staff and the chassis, who can give us daily information and know that there is information out there on social media and everything to find the long answer to our questions. And thank you very much for being able to be with us today. Perfect. Someone else, add 30 seconds to add the halo of life, which is important to maintain social connections at a distance and to be aware of our colleagues and friends. Many people in our Latino communities are having difficulties with basic economic needs, and there are resources in our communities to help them. For example, see cross-visors, like the Latino group. If we are Latino, we have a lot of information about these resources, so we can make them available to those, but it's good to ask in The local friends of how it's being done because there's always going to be help, whether for education, health, or economic needs. It won't be long before we all return to work and normality. And well, don't rest, don't get tired, Dr. López. I think you wanted to say something; you have about 10 seconds, but go ahead. I invite everyone to participate in conducting surveys and controlled studies, as I say, because the more information, the better for science and for the community. And, Doctor of the class, anything else? I have n't seen a question regarding the allergic reactions that have been described with the vaccine in the United Kingdom. In the WAN network we had with the SRE on Thursday, they didn't have enough data; we don't have an answer for that, so we ca n't advise right now. We have to stay tuned. Perfect. With that, we conclude for today. We thank everyone who was able to be here. If you can, please share this information with your family and friends. The recording will be available again. If you have any questions, contact us through our email, Facebook, or Facebook in Spanish, or the email address we'll provide.  To put in the chat window, thank you very much