Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today on the podcast, we have a special guest, Dr. Arefe Adeshina from Houston, Texas. He is not only a podcaster in his own right, which we'll hear about, but a neuro -ophthalmologist, an orbital surgeon, a strabismologist, and has a forte in expertise and diversity, inclusion, and as I mentioned before, podcasting. So we're excited to hear from his insights and perspective in practicing ophthalmology in these fields. Dr. Oriyafey Adashina is a neuro-ophthalmologist and medical director of the Cizic Eye Institute at the McGovern Medical School at UT Houston in Texas. Dr. Adashina not only specializes in neuro-ophthalmology, but is an orbital surgeon, and strabismusmologist, a global leader in neuro-ophthalmology, staunch advocate for DEI within ophthalmology, and mentor to trainees worldwide. Dr. Adashina also hosts two podcasts of his own, Out of the Blind Spot, focusing on neuro -ophthalmology, and Sight for Sore Eyes, discussing issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion in ophthalmology. Welcome, Dr. Adashina. Thank you very much for having me. It's really a pleasure and an honor to be here. I love your podcast i love the way that you do it and as a podcaster myself i really appreciate how well you ask questions and sort of do a good job with interviews so so thanks for having me here oh well it's so great to connect we're so happy to have you here you know i remember we talked at aupo earlier this year we're talking about podcasting because you're a podcaster i was kind of new to podcasting and i'm so glad we could finally get you on it's awesome and then And you and I have connected, too, through the RavVenable program and your work with RavVenable, which is just amazing. You've really done outstanding work. So I'm excited to talk about all the things. We have so much in common with strabismus, orbital surgery, residency, education. I'm like, this is going to be great. I can't wait. Looking forward to it. I'm happy to be here to have this conversation, definitely. Yeah. Andrea brought up your name to me in podcasting, and she just was bubbling with excitement about the opportunity to have you with us. And I've just enjoyed getting to know you recently, but share with our listening audience your journey into medicine and ophthalmology and neuro -ophthalmology. Just share kind of what your trajectory has been to set the platform for this special discussion we planned today. Yeah, happy to. So I was born in a town called Elisha, Nigeria, to two physicians who were in the residencies at the time that I was born. You know, legend has it that I was delivered by my dad. While I was there, I can't independently confirm that, but that's what I was told. We moved to the States when I was around four years old for my parents to do postgraduate medical education here in the States. My dad did a pathology fellowship, neuropathology fellowship at the University of Vermont. And then my mom ended up doing a pediatric residency internship in Cook County in Chicago and then Albany Med for residency. My dad then did a Ph.D. in McGill University and postdoc work at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia. So we moved around a lot when I was a kid, between the ages of four and eight. I lived in Vermont and Montreal, Philadelphia, and then West Virginia when my mom got her first job out of residency. We finally moved to Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma, when I was 12, when my dad got his first job. After all of this training, faculty at OU Health Science Center in neuropathology. And I spent 18 years of my life, between the ages of 12 and 30, went to medical school, high school, undergraduate at OU, and then medical school at OU, and then residency at the Dean McGuire Institute in Oklahoma City. I wanted to be a doctor as long as I can remember. Both my parents were physicians. I saw how much they loved what they did, how much people respected them. And like most kids, I kind of wanted to be just like my parents. And that never changed over time. All of my experiences still confirmed that I wanted to be a physician. went to medical school at OU. When I got to medical school, I didn't really know what I wanted to do. I thought I wanted to do something in the neurosciences. That's where my interest lay, maybe because of my dad's background. But then during my third year, I spent time on surgery rotations, and I realized that I really liked being in the OR and doing procedures. Not necessarily as a general surgeon, but I wanted to do a surgical side specialty. And then also during my third year, I ended up doing a neurosurgery rotation. And initially, I thought, man, this is it. They gave me the burr drill. I did a burr hole, and we're taking out tumors, and I thought it was fantastic. And then I took call with them, and then I realized that maybe I'm not quite about this life or lifestyle. But it was during that rotation that I went to a neuro -ophthalmology conference at Dean McGee, And it was run by Dr. Bradley Ferris, who was an ophthalmologist there at the time. And when I saw the cases and the pathology and the imaging, I was like, this is the coolest thing I think I've ever seen. And then when I realized that he did surgery, adult strabismus, optic nerve fenestrations, and I wanted to be a surgeon, and I was pretty much hooked. You know, I rotated at Dean McGee. I figured out that I wanted to be an ophthalmologist. and by the time I graduated from medical school, I pretty much decided that I wanted to be a neuro -ophthalmologist who did adult strabismus, orbital surgery, and functional eyelid surgery. And because ophthalmology is a great, diverse, and versatile field, I was able to sort of blaze my own path to make that happen. And that's why I was able to do the job that I'm doing now, incorporate all these elements into my practice. I did my residency at Dean McGee, and did my fellowship at University of Utah Moran Eye Center. And I've been here at UT Houston since I finished my fellowship in December of 2013. Unbelievable. What a great story. I love that whole path. And, you know, it's pretty unique that you knew not only about neuro -ophthalmology, but all the adjuncts you wanted to have in your career as a medical student going into residency. I think especially with neuro-ophthalmology, it's one of those fields that we have such little exposure to, especially in medical school, and you've done a ton of work in this space about the pipeline to neuro-ophthalmology and helping recruit more people into neuro. I'd love to hear about your efforts getting more people into neuro-ophthalmology, teaching more people. How do we kind of spread the word about neuro-op? You got to witness it firsthand as a medical student, convincing more people to choose neuro-op. Why is there a physician shortage in neuro-op? What do we do about it? And some of your work with the young neuro-ophthalmologists, Yono, Nanos, like all those kinds of things. Kind of tell us everything about your work there. Yeah, yeah, I'd love to. You know, I learned about neuro-ophthalmology in medical school around my third year. And I was in a different situation than most medical students because at my institution, our neuro -ophthalmologist was surgical. In fact, I didn't even know there were neurologists that did neuro-ophthalmology until I graduated from medical school, almost residency, went to do residency. So exposure is one of the big issues that we have causing our pipeline shortage. People don't really know what they don't know. If you don't know what you don't know, you can't be what you can't see to a degree. And that goes on the ophthalmology side and the neurology side. You know, there's other issues that keep residents from doing neuro-ophthalmology, and I'll speak more on the ophthalmology side. that's more of my experience you know i think it's a cognitively difficult specialty uh there's the talk of reimbursement patient volumes the lack of surgery that is promoted to residences as well it's heavily academic you can't do private practice and there's sometimes low exposure to mentors and mentoring in the field and you know i think we as neuro-ophthalmologists if you talk to any neuro-ophthalmologist they talk with so much passion about what we do you'd be surprised that more folks don't want to do it we really love what we do but I think we don't do the best job of telling our own stories because we're not the ones selling these misconceptions about neuro-ophthalmology it's coming from outside our ranks you know to a degree and I think as a neuro-ophthalmologist we need to be a bit more vocal about how great our specialty is and how much of a positive impact we can have on our patients our colleagues our communities by the very specialized care we're able to offer our patients we should invite them to come spend time in our clinics see what we really do and then have them come to nanos to experience what dr fiona costello university calgary she calls the super bowl of nerddom right neuro-ophthalmology and if you really like it and you can vibe with you know the culture and the clinical and scientific research that's there that makes neuro -ophthalmology what it is and you know it's probably for you you should really be serious about checking it out um so i think i think breaking misconceptions is is important and you know anything that you do and you're trained to do over and over again you get better at so i don't think the argument of being constantly difficult is is it holds water to me at least because anything you do if you put enough effort into it you can become good at you know in terms of reimbursement you know i'm not begging for bread most north most are not begging for bread sure we don't get paid as much as some other specialties but if you do surgery if you are efficient in your clinics and you know how to take care of the business of medicine you can you can do just fine um monetarily about half of all from all you train neurophthalmologists do surgery so that breaks the surgery myths right there whether it be plastics or pd or comp about a third of neurophthalmologists private practice i think that breaks the myth of it being purely academic and you know we're willing and able to mentor those who really want to find out about what we do just need more exposure and more information. And to that end, I am a part of the NANOS Pipeline Committee. I was part of the YONO Committee before the Young Neurophthalmologist Committee. And what we're trying to do is, like I said, dispel these myths about neurophthalmology, put neurophthalmology as a truly viable specialty for more people. We do it through webinars, through NANOS meeting content and resources. There is a medical student membership now, members and training membership. there are there's a listserv where they can ask questions and get information uh that is really getting information out there getting the the news about what we do and spreading the gospel so to speak about neuro-ophthalmology so that we can uh bring what people into our ranks cast a wider net talk about diversity what that means to ophthalmology neuro -ophthalmology in a little bit but you know getting the word out there being passionate about it being honest about it i mean not everything that glitters is gold it's not perfect but for some people if this checks your boxes of what kind of doctor you want to be, what you want to do, and the kind of patients you want to see, it's definitely for you. I love that spirit and passion behind it. It's actually similar to the vibe, as you know, that we have within peds, because I think neuro-op and pediatric ophthalmology and adult strabismus are similar positions where we've sort of, both fellowships go unfilled in different roles, and we're seeking people to really get the exposure and share the passion about what an important and valuable career it is. You shared how in neuro-ophthalmology there's a balance between neuro -ophthalmologists that don't do surgery and the do surgery and it sounds like you've really been able to bridge that gap well. You do orbital work, you do strabismus work, you do lid procedures. Share with us your perspective on your training in that and how you've not only felt comfortable acquiring those either in training originally or over time. And then what's your message for others going into neuro-ophthalmology about how to do that? I mean, I know we have neuro-ophthalmologists here that do cataract work and comprehensive work and others are able to carry some of those shields well, like you do. But what's your message as you, you know, share a passion for neuro-ophthalmology, being a surgeon and doing that well? I love that question and I'm really happy to answer it. You know, I did my residency Dean McGee, where I was exposed to surgical neurophthalmology. And at that point, when I did my residency, I did all my training at OU, you know, undergrad, medical school, not residency. And I had mentioned Dr. Ferris before, he didn't want me to be ******, so to speak, going through all of my training. So in fact, he took a fellow before I could show interest in the fellowship, so he could basically kick me out of the nest, so to speak. And, you know, I was a little salty at that point, I'm not going to lie, but it was probably the best thing that he could have done for me because he really cared about my my training and took a fellowship at um university utah moran eye center and there i got great training from a wide variety of specialists you know neurologist trained off neurology trainer ophthalmologist ophthalmology trained in a neuro-ophthalmologist and also oculoplastics and my mentor there was dr bupendra patel and he helped develop the medial eyelid crease approach to the orbit which is what i wanted to learn to to use to do optic nerve sheath fenestrations and in talking to him he said that great i can get you the surgery i mean his his actual words were surgeries monkey's been like anybody to do surgery but i want you to learn to be a surgeon that means pre-operative care evaluation expectation setting you know doing the procedure becoming technically proficient and during the procedure and then post-operative care take your patients afterwards knowing what normal looks like abnormal looks like because you guys are surgeons you guys know if you do enough surgery you're going to run into complications and you want to have been there done that sort of seen it so that when you do under those issues you can take care of patients the best way uh possible so i spent about a third of my fellowship doing plastics procedures i actually did cataracts for the first six months and i realized i don't want to be a doctorate surgeon and then after i was done with my year of neurophthalmology fellowship and I actually had to prove to my neurophthalmology mentors that I could do the neurophthalmology side that I was competent in and let me do as much plastics as I did. I did three extra months of plastics with one neurophthalmology clinic a week to support myself and that was through the generosity of Dr. Randy Olson and Dr. Kathleen Degree who allowed me to stay on and do that and with that training I'm able to do what I'm doing right now. And I think talking about that, you didn't hear me talk about doing strabismus. I didn't do strabismus during my fellowship, but at Dean McGee, I did a lot of strabismus. I think I did 70 procedures as primary. And when I came out of fellowship and going to training, I was staffing residents at the county hospital, LBJ, Lyndon Baines, Johnson County Hospital. And our strabismus surgeon there wanted to sort of go away from doing adult strabismus. And he knew I trained at Dean McGee, knew I did a lot of STRAB there. And he said, do you feel comfortable doing your business and staffing the residents? And I said, you know, I think if I can get back on the bike, I think I could do it. So I spent a few days, OR days, doing cases with him. Got my muscle memory back pretty quickly and sort of hit the ground running since then. And staffing residents, doing simple to more complex surgery. Same thing with orbital and eyelid surgery. I got a really good, strong foundation in the principles and techniques of surgical management of patients. And I think you guys know this, and most surgeons know this, a lot of procedures that you end up doing in your career as you progress are not what you were doing when you first trained. You know, FACO came out, you know, 80s, 90s, they were intercaps before that, but they got to learn how to do FACO falsification and figure out how to do that. But it's the basics that you learn that give you the platform and the background to be able to learn and add to your armamentarium. So if you're solid in the fundamentals, you can learn and become proficient at other procedures, newer procedures. And obviously, you want to make sure you have somebody who can come in and sort of audit you and make sure you're not doing anything that's inappropriate. And I think that was the case for me. I was able to do that, add these procedures to my armamentarium. and I feel that I can really take care of most of my neuroathomic patients from a surgical standpoint without referring them. So I don't get referred plastics to speak. It comes organically out of my neuro -alphomology practice. So a thyroid patient, I can take them from orbit, decompression, all the way to lid surgery through the strap. You know, paralytic strabismus, I can take care of that. Paralytic eyelid malpositions, I can I take trauma call three weeks, no, one week a month. So, you know, I did entrap fracture on, on Tuesday, last Tuesday morning. We had to take care of that patient quickly. So I feel comfortable doing these things. I know the things that I'm not capable of doing. I'm not comfortable doing. I don't do lack of alternative surgery. It wasn't for me. I don't do eyelid preocular cancers. It wasn't for me. I do simple orbital biopsies, tumor removal, but I don't do anything. I don't do anything, you know, more complex than that. And it's gone well for my patients. I think the thing that I do as an orbital surgeon that I think it gets the most satisfaction for me is optic neurosis administrations because that's the neuro-optomic procedure that I can offer my patients that I think impacts them significantly. And it's been really a pleasure and a joy to be able to do that. Sorry, go ahead. Oh, I just, I really appreciate that perspective of you sought training in the areas that you had passion and wanted to build on you had relationships that were able to foster that and you saw your career and encouraging others to continue to see horizons to expand one of the conversations between strabismus and neuro op is you know when some people in the strabismus circles would say and let you know a strabismus training ever it goes over a year and we'll have 400 500 cases and others you know and certain other programs will have less than that and what level gets you to certain comforts. But as you're saying, it's a trajectory. And I think the most important piece of all of this is to use relationships and your own humility and curiosity in a way to expand a practice for the benefit of patients. I really appreciate that, the sense of working together, because I think every practice, whether you're doing multiple things out in one or sharing, is when you come in learning from each other and even operating with each other. You know, just having, not just in a three-month period, but over time, that continuing to learn from and be reflective on your surgical skill. So whatever your training is, you are, you know, all boats are rising together in the care of the patients. But I just applaud that perspective, both in humility and in curiosity and exploring these aspects of your career. Yeah, definitely. I think if you don't stay humble about being a surgeon, surgery will humble you. You got to really be on your P's and Q's and mind what your limitations are and don't strip yourself past what you can do. And my background in surgical and orthomology is a little bit different. I sort of made my own fellowship. The more traditional route is to do a fellowship in orthomology and a fellowship in plastics. And that route is still available. But I think there are more programs out there that are offering surgical training whether it be STRAB or LIDS or Orbitz with neuro-ophthalmology to make it more attractive to trainees. And that's been, I think, a focus of our neuro-ophthalmology fellowship directors to make that information more available and that training more accessible to more people who want to be these kinds of neuro -ophthalmologists. I think it's extremely unique what you've created and what you've done. And you talk about expanding your armamentarium, but I think that's actually the opposite as you know so many people as they advance further in their career they kind of scale back and they kind of come back to things they're more comfortable with and you've done the opposite you've just reached out and broadened so that you can really offer your patients front to back you know every like the the concept of being able to offer your thyroid patient decompression and strabismus and lid surgery all in one shop one surgeon is really tremendous and very rare so i applaud you i think it's terrific and great to show the versatility of neuroophthalmology it really does cross so many different spectrum and you know when i did my fellowship one of my fellowship preceptors did quite a bit of strap and i had zero injury i was like i don't even want to look at it i'm not going to do like absolutely not um so uh really really i i just applaud you for taking on the hard stuff so that's awesome i have to ask selfishly too do you i love a medial lid crease optic nerve sheath fenestration is one of my favorite procedures it's just like the best and i just talked we were presenting on this at aesopers um doing bilateral same day do you do bilateral same day ever yeah almost all the time perfect okay we're gonna pool our data because like nobody's published on this i've got a couple people so i'll contact you we'll pool our data that's great because we're doing them same here bilateral same days that's just terrific it's so wonderful you're such an advocate in neuro -ophthalmology and then your other big passion in big space is mentoring minority students, African-American students, bringing them into ophthalmology, increasing diversity in ophthalmology, which is so tremendous. And I'm such a believer that exactly what you said, you don't know what you don't see. And we have this huge deficiency in ophthalmology of diversity in our workforce. And I think a lot of it's from that early exposure. Our diverse candidates who are the best and the brightest aren't being exposed to ophthalmology, And we need mentorship on that earliest, earliest level. We need mentorship to our African-American students in medical school to show, say, hey, you can be an ophthalmologist. Like, come with me. Let me show you. And that's exactly what you're doing. It's so amazing. So talk to us about some of your initiatives in DEI, your passion for that. What's on the horizon for ophthalmology, all that stuff. Yeah, it's a lot to unpack. I'll do my best. um so I love what you said about representation and being what you can see and you know there are so few of us URIMs underrepresented minorities um in ophthalmology that we can't carry that burden ourselves we can't carry that weight ourselves and having individuals like yourself like yourselves who are willing to talk about DEI number one we'll get into that a little bit and show folks the way. That's really important. Personally, I'm a mentor with the MOM program, the Minority Ophthalmology Mentoring Program. I've been so for the past four years or so. I also work with the RAB Medible Excellence and Research Program with the Pathway Success Program more recent night, Don L .A. Pallivani-Claudio with the National Medical Association Ophthalmology Section. So I go to the annual meetings. I run the neuro -ophthalmology section. I talk to the trainees, try to inspire them to be neuro-ophthalmologists. I'll serve on the board of the NMA, off the volume section as alternate counselor to the AAO. I'll take over as the counselor in January. I'm also the vice chair of the NLO's DEI committee and become chair of the committee on July 1st. I'll serve on the pipeline committees and serve on the UNO committee. So I have a lot of hats and things that I'm doing. I'm passionate about DEI because it was, DEI applied to me that made it possible for me to do what I'm doing. and I have three young children and I want them to be able to have careers and whatever they want to do and if they see me doing it then they can see themselves doing it like I told you I wanted to be a doctor since I was five and there was never any doubt in my mind that I could be a physician I saw my parents doing it I was literally them like if they could do it of course I can do it there's no there's no question um so that's that's what makes me sort of take and want to do it. You asked what the future of DEI, what does it look like for students? What's on the horizon? It's a really good question. And I say that because with the current social and political climate, we're seeing significant, what I'd call, backlash against DEI, right? And that includes the SCOTUS decision on affirmative action, initiatives, laws being passed in different States. Even in medicine, law is being proposed to defund DEI. I think people are retreating. You know, for a while we saw such expansion. And then just in the past couple months, it seems like it's just a huge pullback. Yeah. Retreating, I think, would be nice if it was just retreating. I think it's actually full force pushback. And a lot of these initiatives claim that DEI is dangerous, ideology and also reverse discrimination, reverse racism, and some say it harms medicine by lowering the quality of medical education and producing what they call physicians ill-equipped to meet the needs of their patients. I personally disagree emphatically with these statements because to me, and I don't throw this word out lightly, it's racist. I mean, can you tell me that i don't add to the body of medicine the field of medicine i don't make patients lives better somehow i water down the talent pool um you know and it's antithetical to what dei does in medicine which is what creates a workforce that is a better representative of and equipped to take care of our diverse populations we know there's evidence that patient physician concordance race and cultural background leads to better outcomes that's a fact that's there's data out there that supports that. And I talk about this pushback in response to your question because it makes recruiting URIMs to medicine and ophthalmology a bit more difficult. It makes URIMs, those that support them, a bit worried and concerned about what the future holds for them and their communities. Happy to say, though, that ophthalmology is a specialty and its leadership, you know, the AAO, AUPO, NMA, they stand firmly behind DEIA, which is diversity equity inclusion and access and they put out statements of forming the support for programs like the mom program and against legislation that seeks to defund and roll back the gains made through dei initiatives so you know we recruit a diverse group of trainees into ophthalmology and it's a medicine by having our eyes wide open we understand not only the backlash against dei but history of race disenfranchisement of minorities and and how that got us to where we are today. We acknowledge that, and also how it colors our own individual views of what's right, what's good, who's capable, qualified, deserving of opportunities in medicine. You know, hand upon gorilla in the room is a big stigma in our society and culture about what people are capable of doing as URMs, people of color, and what's desirable in residency applicants, right? I think a big way to counter that is to check your biases, check them out the door, and perform a holistic review. This is seeing each individual candidate for who they are, and how the capabilities and lived experiences, in addition to their academic and professional accomplishments, can benefit our specialty. And most importantly, this is our true north, take the best care of patients in our communities by culturally sensitive and technically excellent care and research. And as a shout out to the AAO, the May edition of INET features the work being done by the Academy and its members to promote DEIA. It includes how to address challenges to DEIA that I mentioned earlier, and it's really inspiring. I'm proud to call myself an ophthalmologist to be part of this wonderful organization of people that are doing the good, hard work of making medicine better for all. Yeah, I think there's been huge, huge advancement in ophthalmology. So much of your work, the MOM program, it's amazing. You're absolutely right. I mean, it's indisputable data that shows that having a diverse pool of physicians is better for patients and having a diverse workforce is better for your team it's better for residency it's better for the department it's better for everybody so I mean we all know that that that's not even something you can argue um okay can I can I ask we're we're going to go a little longer on this podcast but I just I have to take advantage of you being here such an expert or EFA I coming from as a resident program director you know we're flooded with applications every year for residency spots we do a complete holistic review on every single app here at mayo we don't have any score cutoffs we read them all front to back um i've heard you speak out against things like step scores um and and other ways that we can you know collectively or quote-unquote objectively even though it's not objectively grade these applications. How do we look at applications in order to select people who are going to take great care of patients, like you said? Because it's hard. And there are objective metrics, grades, test scores. Those things do matter. Ophthalmology is hard. So what do you do to pick somebody who's going to take the best care of patients? Great question. There's no silver bullet i want to first start by by saying that but i think you've already mentioned a bit about what to do right you guys are being intentional you're being purposeful you're doing holistic review you're looking at the whole body of work of an individual we know that test scores do not predict what kind of doctor you'll be they predict to some degree how well you pass boards um but that's pretty much it looking at distance traveled looking at hurdles overcome I'm looking at perseverance despite obstacles, and we know that people tend to practice in places where they're from or for folks that look like them. So if you have a health care need and a burden in places where people are being disenfranchised and not getting the care that they need, you necessarily should be trying to select people who will take care of those individuals. Again, casting a wider net, being more inclusive, more holistic in your review of applicants. Things that I look at, I'm on our residency application review committee and interview committee. You know, research is great. Writing publications is important. You know, I don't like cat herding residents and medical students to do projects as much as anybody else. But I think looking at real world experience, like if you worked at a Denny's, if you worked at a diner, if you were a cashier at a store, like you had a job. You paid bills. You took care of something. You showed that you'd get up every day and go to work. And that speaks to me of responsibility, accountability. And those are things that we need in residence. We need physicians at the end of the day. So looking at things like that, that show a longitudinal, sustained effort in trying to be excellent and making yourself better, I think is important. But again, there's no silver bullet. We need to look more at the data as to what variables and characteristics do tend to translate into those doctors that are more capable of taking care of patients and not just passing tests and looking good on paper. Yeah, fantastic. I've learned greatly since partnering with Dr. Thule here on podcasting. But you have two podcasts, and one is able to speak into diverse equity and inclusion and access issues. Share with us what that platform has been like for you and, I guess, also your podcast on neuro-ophthalmology. But what's been your journey that way, awareness, and the appreciation of the power of social media for those topics? Yeah. So I have two podcasts, like you said. The first is called Sight for Soar Eyes, in which we address issues of diversity in ophthalmology with a minority perspective. The other one's called Out of the Blind Spot. We're talking about all things neuro -ophthalmology. And these podcasts were really born out of my identity as a Black academic neuro-ophthalmologist, of which there are about less than 20 in the country. and with issues around race and interpretation in medicine and ophthalmology as well as a workforce shortage in ophthalmology this is where they came from and they were born as projects that I did as part of my participation in the academy's leadership development program in 2023 although my desire to do them predates this and hopefully will continue as long as I can. For Cypher Store Rise I want to tell the stories of minorities in ophthalmology the issues that we face the things that are being done to try and improve diversity in our specialty. And in fact, part of the motivation to do this podcast came from stories that were told by physicians on the Black Eye Doctors WhatsApp group, which I'm a part of. And it happened, I think, around 2022, after the match, they were telling stories about their experiences when they were told that they couldn't be doctors or they shouldn't be doctors, or, you know, why are you trying to be an ophthalmologist, right? that's not for you right um and they're kind of telling me these telling these look at me now stories you you told me i couldn't do but look at me now like i i did it i'm successful and i'm paying it forward so i wanted to tell those stories and being able to have this platform and have the individuals come on and talk about their experiences and what they're doing it's really inspiring to me it's what keeps my fire going and i think helping to have other urms out there see people who look like them tell stories that may be similar to what they're going through and persevere. I mean, you can imagine what kind of boost that could be to them and their path. Out of the blind spot is my attempt to spread the gospel of neuro -ophthalmology to as many people as possible, so they'll know more about it, hopefully appreciate our wonderful specialty. It's also a recruitment tool, hopefully, because you can, again, be what you don't know about. So knowledge is power. Podcasting has been an interesting journey for me. It's a somewhat steep learning curve you know big thanks to jay sridhar shout out to him for helping me early on to know kind of things i needed to buy and how i needed to sort of go about the process um you know i write i edit i mix and produce all my podcasts in my in my office at home it's a big undertaking it's a bit of a labor of love but you know it's it's been fun and it's been good you know i think the biggest thing that it's actually helped me with is speaking better um because starting off You know, I used to talk really fast, want to kind of get through all my words, but help me to slow down my speech, really fully enunciate my words and be a better speaker, so to speak. And I hope over time folks see the quality of the podcast has gotten better. I've tried to make them better, try to make them more professional. It's been a lot of work. But when you see an idea grow from, you know, a thought to an interview and then to a full fledged podcast, it's really satisfying and rewarding. And if I've been able to impact anybody positively, even if I don't have a huge, wide listenership, and I don't, you know, it's maybe my personality, I don't broadcast the podcast widely. I don't post them on social media. It's sort of by word of mouth and who knows what's going on with me. So I'm not doing it for recognition or notoriety. I'm just trying to really get the word out there. But I really appreciate you having me on to talk about it. it's been a labor of love but it's it's been one of the most fulfilling things i think that i've been able to do in my life and my kids are i think it's really cool to hear down on the radio speaking in his podcast voice uh something i think i've i've gotten to cherish over the time oh well huge shout out to both of your podcasts i really enjoyed listening to both of them um some of the cypher sore eyes with the history of black people in medicine are is so good so informative so anybody listening check that out um out of the blind spot fantastic educational podcast for neuro-op really they're terrific so we're happy to be in this space with you you're amazing and thank you so much for coming to talk with us this was fantastic yeah you comment on the joy of seeing an idea and then some homework and then the podcast come together um being a blessing i do you know i just the idea that you had and having you join us i I just appreciate that coming to fruition. You've been a blessing for our listeners and an encouragement for anyone on these topics, neuro-ophthalmology, diverse surgical practices, DEI, and complementing what we're trying to do in access for care. Thank you for being part of this message for us today. Yeah, thank you so much. This has been a blast. Again, I love the work that you do. You're fantastic at it. Your platform is wonderful, and I encourage you to keep on doing it. It's wonderful. You too. Thanks, Dr. Adeshana. Thank you. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening, and we definitely look forward to sharing more.