Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Today we are joined by Dr. Pratish Tosh, an infectious disease specialist here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Tosh talks us through all of his fascinating work on emergency preparedness, cybersecurity, risk management, and everything you want to know about mitigating risk from a big healthcare perspective down to an individual. Stay tuned. Dr. Pratish Tosh is professor of medicine and infectious disease at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and the medical director of risk for the Mayo Clinic enterprise overseeing integrity and compliance, internal audit, operational enterprise risk management, business continuity, emergency management security and information security, if that's not enough. His clinical work is focused on emerging infections, infections in patients with cancer, infections in patients with critical illness, and ambulatory infectious disease. Welcome, Dr. Tosh. Thank you for having me. This is exciting. What a resume. We're so happy to have you here. Thank you. It sounds like it was somebody else, but I guess, yeah, I guess that's the stuff I do. It's awesome. You're one of those colleagues that when I see you in the doctor's lounge, I know that the conversation's going to be interesting. I'm going to learn something and laugh. So to have you as a guest is a particular joy. And I know I think you'll be able to bring those elements to our listeners. Great. Yeah, we really want to pick your brain about all kinds of different things in terms of what you do clinically and then what you do here at Mayo. And I think we'll just start, you know, a lot of our listeners are comprehensive ophthalmologists. And so tell us about your life as an id doc what's been your path your journey kind of give us your little overview how did you get to where you are today thank you so i had a not to say a circuitous route but an unusual route because my whole interest was sort of in risk which uh no one else wants to do like no one likes to think about bad things happening um i always thought about bad things happening but thinking about what can we do about it right there's no point in thinking about asteroids falling because like I can't do anything about that right so in medical school I had this mentor and that's how everything starts you have a great mentor at the time I was the president of the graduate and professional student body at the University of Missouri and the faculty president again for the whole university was an infectious diseases doc Dr. Gordon Christensen who has unfortunately since passed away but I remember going to all these meetings and seeing him and just how he would conduct himself and how he thought just so much bigger than just like what was in front of him and i guess that's how it works with mentors i'm like you know what i like that guy i want to be that guy and i realized wow these infections are kind of cool right that um it's not like the heart and it's two ophthalmologists i'll pick a cardiologist perfect um you know we keep learning more and more things about the heart but the heart's not changing right whereas infections yeah we have to learn more about the things we know but the infections keep changing too right the new completely new you know viruses popping out of nowhere you know um and so that was always just really really cool and a cool challenge um but what dr christensen had told me about early on was this program at the cdc called the epidemic intelligence service Yeah, it's really cool stuff. And yes, I had security clearances at the time and it was military. But essentially, so I did residency, came here at Mayo Clinic for internal medicine. Then I did infectious diseases fellowship at Mayo and it was great. And I loved it. And I did basic vaccine vaccine work. But then my second fellowship was at the CDC in the epidemic intelligence service. And that is as cool as it sounds, because for two years, I went across the country and some people went across the world. But me, they knew I was I think the term was delicate. I think that they knew I was delicate. And so I only did domestic outbreaks. And so went, you know, and mostly because my interest was in health care organizational preparedness. Right. And so that's exactly what I did for two years. You know, chasing down outbreaks, you know, putting a stop to those, and at the same time learning about how you build resilience for a health care organization. And thankfully, I was able to come back to Mayo, and Mayo was like, you know, you've got some very unique skills, but we'd like to see you do more. And so then I was a Mayo Foundation scholar for an additional three years, where half time I was clinical, but the other time I was working with Mike Osterholm at the University in Minnesota at the Center for Infectious Diseases Research and Policy. And if none of you on the podcast are aware of Mike Osterholm, just Google him and just look at the first 10 ,000 hits that come up. He's a big deal. And to be able to actually work with him was really amazing because I learned about the big picture, right? Like how food security and water security can impact health, right? And what it takes to get a vaccine from a Petri dish, like, all the way through, you know, funding and FDA into somebody's arm. I learned about global supply chain vulnerability. Like, all of these very big picture things that impact, when it comes down to it, a single individual. Right? And if we're going to impact a single individual, the system, whatever systems we currently have, are perfectly fine-tuned to get the outcome you are currently seeing. And if you want to change the outcomes you're currently seeing, you do have to make an impact for the whole system. And that was a really illuminating time. And then I finished that in 2014 just in time for Ebola. Perfect. Right. And so there's a lot of like serendipity with with my career where so I was the medical director for emergency management as this thing started to trickle up from West Africa. And I helped lead our preparedness for this emerging infection. And then at the time we realized Ebola, but then other things started coming and we didn't really have a word for it. People were saying special pathogens. All right, why is it special? Highly infectious agents. Well, they're not really that infectious. So I actually coined the term high -consequence infectious diseases, HCID, around 2014. And now what I like seeing is it's actually taken off. Have you seen the movie Mean Girls? Of course. Yeah. I feel like I made fetch happen. Yes, exactly. Whenever I see HCID in print in something I didn't write. It happened. I made fetch happen, right? It was so, so cool. But then I started thinking, well, more big system stuff. I remember in 2017, in the 2017s, right? Not 2020, right? Yeah. We were thinking, man, if we have a pandemic, and of course, we were thinking about influenza at the time because I wasn't even thinking coronaviruses. What did we run out of first? So we did this Monte Carlo simulation where we looked at 10 ,000 different pandemic scenarios and like, well, what do we run out of first? Staff, space, stuff. Which staff, which space, which stuff? Can you guess what we would run out of first? I mean, with COVID, it was ventilators, masks. Oh, you mean equipment. And 95 masks. All the masks, yes. Early, right? And so we, and I'm grateful to Mayo, I went to our hospital practice. It's like, you know, we're going to run out of N95s quickly. And, you know, the cost is a lot to actually start to stockpile and Mayo and their wisdom. I was like, yep, let's do it. Wow. It was like a million dollar up front and then 20% subsequently indefinitely. But the reason we had enough masks up front was actually because of the wisdom of Mayo and the folks involved with this to think far ahead. And like, you know what, if we have something, We really want to be able to take care of our patients safely. Phenomenal. Phenomenal, right? And so there was no – after that, like, I wasn't going anywhere, right? And Mayo invested in me when I was talking about, you know, crazy things coming out of Africa and pandemics when those things weren't happening, right? And then later on, I just got more engaged in business continuity. Like, well, yeah, we can respond, but, like, how do we build our resilience so that we don't have to have Herculean efforts, right? How do we incorporate just basic business resilience into our daily work so that when something happens, we have just more elasticity, right? We are able to respond more quickly. What does that mean? That, for example. Yes, give me an example, please. If you think about what are all of the core functions for life-saving stuff in ophthalmology, right? And I'm sure you can rattle off what those things are. and what are what do you need to have that happen what people what's what staff space and stuff do you need right and what if that staff space and stuff doesn't exist do you have a backup plan and is your backup plan the same thing as somebody else's essential backup plans in which case we have a problem right so understanding well what is our core function and what do we just take to sustain that core function and then what do we have to do to build up some resilience some some flexibility in what we do daily so that we are able to better respond if in case things go down so how many large organizations like mayo i mean that would you say have that sort of team thought going on on a regular basis um so it's it's common um and uh and you will find it much better in for-profit industries because they can see the future right they like i will tell you that that ford motor company like knows exactly where their supply chain is coming from and wants resilience built into it um it's a little tougher for non -profit organizations um uh because well you know these things are rare right um but when we're talking about human lives right and unfortunately these things keep happening um i think a lot of places are if they're not already have some level of maturity in business resilience they're really looking to get there um we are for ourselves you know we are not as good as we want to be but we have a plan and doing that. It's just like the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. Second best time is like right now. So even if places are not thinking about that, like they should start thinking about that, especially if you're going through a pandemic. They already have the bare bones of what they kind of need. Well, certainly I think even our practices, during the COVID journey, supply chain got disrupted on so many levels, but personal and professional. But, you know, nowadays it seems like it's more common than ever that there'll be a stitch type of suture material that's not available or a type of drape that is not available. It's just... Or fluid, IV fluids. Yeah, IV fluids. We're out of right now. So it's just become a more heightened awareness over our need to adapt. But as you're highlighting, the need to be proactive. Yeah, and it's not just response, right? It's preparedness. And for the global supply chain, just like thinking about the big picture, right? So seven years ago, Mayo, actually now eight, we started the Healthcare Industry Resilience Collaborative. Now there's, thanks to the pandemic, about 100 different organizations that are trying to fix the supply chain problem by fixing the underlying incentives to incentivize those that are more resilient, have more resilient products. But that's another podcast. So as I started building more about business resilience, and then I got brought into a lot of this stuff, well, security and information security is built, starts to build. But then I got involved in business in security, information security. And then as people got to know me, they asked me about privacy. And eventually it's just all a risk. And so I haven't really had any, like, formal mentors in health care risk because we just don't exist. I'm sure I'm the only person you know, the only physician who's focused their entire career on organizational risk. and organizational risk is not just like knowing what to say no to right it's understanding really understanding what the risks are and knowing where to take risks right do you guys have you guys ever played blackjack yeah okay um pretend a blackjack is a winnable winnable game right like my my my role is to see okay what what are all the possibilities and where where can we go wrong And you know what? If you are dealt 11, we should be doubling down, right? You double down on 11. You're not going to win every hand, right? But understanding what the risks are. And frankly, in 2025, in health care, moving as fast as it is, the biggest risk we have is doing nothing, like standing still, right? And so we have to really understand the risks we're taking and, you know, take good risks. And that's what I'm excited about, that health care risks in 2025 is not just saying no, right? It's figuring out how to say, really, how, right? These are the problems, and then how do we work around this, right? How do we either – maybe there are some risks we can eliminate. Maybe there are risks that we can mitigate, and some we just have to accept, right? But understanding how we do that holistically, that's been a really cool piece. and that's what that's and that's me now that's so cool I love this one thing that I want to ask you Dr. Tosh and I don't want to jump into a whole COVID discussion I think people are we've belabored COVID so much and I'm sure you've you're COVIDed out but um it seems like you know your whole life you've been preparing for this moment and then the pandemic happens and it's almost like those doomsdayers who've been storing and prepping and then like finally the end of the world happens. So how does that feel to someone in your shoes? Is there, I don't want to say excitement where you're like, oh, finally, my skills are going to be put to use. Or is it even more disastrous because you know what's coming? Like, what did that feel like when you saw the pandemic coming from everything you knew? I did a podcast here right as the pandemic was really about to roll. And we knew that it was no longer like an isolated outbreak. And I watched this in slow motion. And it did not feel good. Because, you know, I had been working towards this sort of thing for a long time and building Mayo Clinic's emergency management. And our emergency management went really, really well. We were able to respond and we were able to be pretty nimble to help us navigate all this stuff but you know for about three or four months you know i was sleeping four hours a night it was really hard right so i would um you know go to bed about midnight after answering emails and then wake up at four to answer the emails that came in after midnight and you need an answer by seven and so that was um the hardest time of my life and i don't think i knew what my what my bound not boundaries what my limits were i don't think i knew what my limits were ever in life until the pandemic where i realized and there was a moment where i just sort of cracked which i was like a frog in boiling water right and thankfully it was with a colleague who understood me and i remember she's saying you must be under a lot of stress have you thought about asking for help and I felt like like I was suddenly in Hogwarts and like help will always be given to those who ask for it right and then I just started asking and people like oh yeah of course let's help you out right and then I got everything I needed and I was able to really focus on what I need needed to do and was able to let other folks take the other responsibilities that you know that I didn't train for years and years for but it was a really hard time. But I realized that I was able to, because I did so much ahead of time, people looked to me, and I didn't take that responsibility lightly. But also, I think largely we were successful, and I think people saw what I was able to do in a crisis, and then gave me all these other jobs. So in that, I mean, ignorance is bliss for many of us. You know, some of us just stayed home and hunkered down and um waited you know waiting for each of these steps for the organization to share with us what is the next step you know during that journey there was fear yeah but i mean going back to your question a little bit the more you know sometimes the more you worry and it just in your job understanding the threats to an institution but even to human existence but But how do you balance that sense of knowledge that could drive you to concern versus what you said at the beginning of the podcast, which drove you from the beginning, is what excited you is you said you like to address that risk. What can you do to fix it? So how have you, through the COVID journey, balanced the fear of how bad can this be versus what can we do going forward? What was that like for you? And separate from the I can't sleep, I can't work, I don't have enough help, but just internally. I don't know what to say except I've always been like that, right? That I try not to focus on things I cannot address. And I'm realizing there's a lot of things that are actually within my abilities, whether it's addressing global supply chain vulnerability, how do you impact the big picture or ransomware. but like i can't i can't impact a meteor right so i don't think about it um and but rather what are the impacts right and if we think about um and you can think about let's say structural damage from a fire or a tornado or anything but it still comes down to you have a space problem right and how do you protect protect your people and so it's very for my end very basic um but thinking about it in very basic terms and thinking about what you can do about it. And I tried to spend very little time thinking about things I can't do anything about. Now, we started this podcast talking about all of your hats and certainly a big part of this learning about risk management and learning about preparedness. And then COVID has been a big part of this journey. Remind me, but for our listeners, what are the other aspects of risk management in an institution like Mayo. You have this sort of infectious disease preparedness, but what are your other hats exactly? Where do you spend the bulk of your avenues? Well, now it's mostly administrative, right? And thinking about the big picture, but things like privacy, integrity and compliance, enterprise risk, which I'll get to in a second, business continuity, emergency management, physical security, information security. But the big thing about my role in risk is really understanding all the things that we are doing as an organization, things that are new and potentially have risk involved with it, and understanding those risks, seeing what we can do to get what we want out of it while minimizing the risk, or understanding this is such a high -value thing. We just have to accept the risk with an understanding of what that is and what the consequences are and being able to prepare to handle those. So what I'm doing now is, yes, overseeing a lot of those silos of excellence, but also really helping Mayo to navigate the risk landscape of everything we're doing and see, make sure we can take the right risks as an organization as we try to move forward. This is all very kind of broad, and it's hard for me to understand what it all actually means. Sure. What can you are you able to give some examples of threats or current things that you are working on or like what what are the what is the actual concrete stuff? Yeah. So some of this is proprietary. Of course. Of course. What are big risks to health care organizations in general? Let's just say let me take an op an ophthalmology clinic. Yeah. Right. So what are their what are their risks and things that they're doing? Well, there's, of course, privacy risks. Let's say their electronic medical record, somebody accesses it, right, and distributes somebody's health care information, right? Or let's say there's spousal disputes and things like that or custody issues and things like that. And so how do you protect your health care, your health record? But also, you know, how do you keep your employees safe, right? How do you, as we're becoming more nimble with electronic health record, right, and want our patients to have ownership of their health, right, how do we keep that whole system from getting hijacked, right? So if you're rolling out a new technology to connect with patients, do you even understand where that information is going? If you have a point -of-care ultrasound and it's generating images, do you know where those images are going? Who else is getting those? And who else can connect to that database and all this stuff? So as we're advancing health, there's a lot of questions that come up about what we're doing. And so that's where, frankly, risk management comes in to really understand, okay, this is obviously a huge, whatever the widget is, new technology is, upside. But let's understand what the risks are, see what we can do to mitigate those risks. And if there's some risks we cannot mitigate and cannot eliminate, do we just have to accept the risk? Because whatever new product this is, it's just so great, it's going to change people's lives. Now, in doing that, I know, like here at Mayo, we have certainly a level of onboarding that new employees get to understand processes. And there's software things that monitor for protective health information pieces. And we have our fire drills or our modules we take every year to know how to handle a spill or this type of needle or that type of needle. Protective wear when we interface with certain patients. What is the biggest barrier in your sphere then? You're realizing you want to change the aura practices about the handling of a certain gown wear or the lack of mass or maybe it's fire preparedness, whatever it is. But, I mean, I imagine that, to me, the biggest barrier has got to be, in some way, getting people to change. That's exactly it. So in that, whether it's changing your password, I mean, I have to admit, how many of us have the same password on four different or 18 different accidents? We'll talk about that later. Yes, yes, give us the password test. But what about, I mean, how in an organization have you found, because listeners here are maybe in organizations that are asking them to change their practice, and they may or may not. But also, some of our ophthalmologists are leading their individual private practices. And as they think about managing the risks in their practice, they have to ask people to change. So what have you learned in people management in getting change for the purposes of protection within an institution? So, Eric, I'm a storyteller. And I'm going to tell you the story. So I've learned a lot about this change management through a friend of mine who is a cognitive scientist. And his Ph.D. dissertation was essentially that if you understand what somebody knows and understand their motivations, their actions will never surprise you. And if somebody's actions surprise you, you either don't know what they know or don't understand their motivations. This is true for children. This is true for schizophrenics. Like what a schizophrenic knows may be totally wild. And what is motivating them may be completely alien to you. But if you understood those things, their actions would make perfect sense. So as I navigate change management, if somebody is responding in a way that doesn't make sense to me, because obviously I'm trying to drive us towards something, then I don't understand what they know or I don't understand their motivations, right? And maybe I'm trying to get them to change their OR practices, and maybe they know that these OR practices have led to better patient outcomes or less utilization of resources. There's a lot of things that maybe I don't understand. So the first thing I do is, okay, I'm getting resistance. I'm not knowing something. And maybe I do know it. And then the issue is, OK, maybe they don't know something. Right. And then what is motivating them versus what's motivating me? And so if I can understand well what is what the people know and what motivates them, I can usually figure out a way to to get get them to change, frankly. um but uh i mentioned that i did improv for eight years and as i learned more and more about **** sapiens us as a species i realized the power of storytelling um have any of you been to hawaii no oh gotta go you gotta go wait for the kids to get a little bigger Although we took Lydia when she was just over a year old. Anyway, the Hawaiian Isles, so the Polynesians were the greatest explorers our species had ever known. The entire South Pacific, they explored just with their knowledge of the stars, wind, waterways, looking at birds. The Polynesians had no written language. they were able to do this over centuries through the oral tradition by telling stories and it turns out like we like to think of ourselves as physicians like we're numerate and literate but it's only the last two three generations that the majority of **** sapiens on this planet can read and write, right? It's for 200 ,000 years that we have relied on the stories of our friends and our elders to tell us about these things. And so we are innately storytellers. And I never come back with resistance with numbers, right? I always come back with a story because that's what resonates honestly if you were to buy something off amazon that your friend was like this is the lemon olive oil whatever this is the best tasting lemon olive oil and you go on there it's like three stars but you're like well my friend whom i trust is saying this is really good i'm still gonna buy it right even though the number in front of me is telling me this is terrible right but honestly if a good friend whom i trust is telling me this is the best lemon olive oil I'm going to buy that thing, right? That's because I am, frankly, we are only capable of being numerate and literate in a very narrow band. And for my band, yeah, it's health care risks or clinical infectious diseases. But I realize that outside of that band, I am very prone to storytelling. And so how do I overcome things? It's usually through storytelling, talking about, for example, I'm trying to get people to use longer passwords. Frankly, because our systems are so tight, healthcare organizations like ourselves, usually the way that bad guys get through is by people and just sort of social engineering. And so we are sadly the weak link. And it's easy to talk about these are all the that went down, patients that were impacted, and money that was lost because they didn't have secure passwords. Let's end on that because this is a big part of your recent life, too. As I understand, you've understood how bigger systems have learned to protect themselves better. But I remember you were sharing with me at a recent discussion that there are other smaller health care systems that don't have the resource to have these really strong Internet security systems that are breached and it changes the whole landscape of what we're able to do and feel protected. And you're studying that, in my understanding, to try to figure out how to communicate to others how to protect themselves. So share a little bit about what that means in your life and what advice you have for people that own their own practices. And I will get there. Okay. Another story, and I'm sorry. Do you guys remember about 10 years ago, like all these retail companies got hit? There was all these security breaches, Target, Home Depot, just on and on. You don't hear about that recently very much, not like we did 10 years ago. What happened was the credit card companies were like, enough of this. If you don't have certain basic information security backbone, we won't process your payments. Then all the retail, in order to do any business, you have to do this. right um in risk everyone it's easy to think about okay i have to be the fastest gazelle usually you just have to be the second slowest right as long as you're not the slowest gazelle you're probably fine and um so what happened was and people like to think about cyber criminals as like a you know a good a good versus evil right and that is a sort of childish cartoonish way of thinking about humans. And if you think about it in terms of these are people with skills who need to feed themselves and pay rent and maybe put their kids through college, right, and maybe some moral ambiguity, they don't see the difference between using their skills to say ransomware of a healthcare organization versus, I don't know, Best Buy or something like And so for them, suddenly all these retail stores were just faster in terms of the Gazelle is faster. So they moved away from retail to health care, right, because there's a lot of money in health care. And the information is really valuable, right, private information. and what the operations are very valuable. People's lives are at stake, especially if you're looking at a hospital, right? So this would become prime. I already told him, but do you know what of the health care organizations that get hit with ransomware, the median size in terms of employees? Give me a guess. Oh, I don't know, but I'm guessing it's going to be small. Yeah, 450. Okay. That's the median. Everyone thinks about going after the big ones. No, it's a lot easier to get a couple bucks here, a couple bucks here, there than try to go for somebody who is far more sophisticated. And so small mom-and -pop shops, single ophthalmology clinics who think, well, why would a Russian cyber goon go after my clinic, right? Well, that's exactly who they're going for, right? And popping them off, it's just one at a time. this is the slowest gazelle. And so for Mayo, for me, yes, I can think about how do we strengthen our own cybersecurity posture. But then I think about the big picture. The reason healthcare as an industry is a target is because we are the slowest gazelle. And I don't have to make the fastest gazelle in our flock any faster. I have to make the slowest gazelles just a little faster. right and um right now i i don't know what if let's say someone has ten thousand dollars to spend in a small clinic where where they should spend dollar one and where they should spend dollar ten thousand right in terms of the best bang for their buck we can always look at what their risk is and what the risk exposure is and whether it's likely to cost them if they don't do anything but that's what we're working on next is like for A-50 500 5000 50 000 employee organization where is the best bang for the buck where do you start to get diminishing returns on their cyber security investment and it is an investment and frankly i want people to make a good financial choice for themselves that it will actually save them money and then ensure the rest and so i'm working with folks i don't want to name them uh because i didn't ask them if i can be on this podcast who have that data broadly and folks who are able to to analyze that data and us who to do something with it to actually let people know this is where dollar one goes this is where dollar ten thousand hundred thousand you know ten million um so that as a industry we can strengthen our um to the healthcare industry so frankly the ransomware folks look elsewhere like they did with retail fantastic what a world you live in yeah wow i have yeah i have nothing to say i wanted to ask you some kind of private practice hacks or what would be your big kind of lowest lying fruit but you kind of just said that that it depends on how much risk you're willing to tolerate how much you have to spend how much you want to do what would you recommend to a kind of private practice small clinic owner because i imagine many of them are not involved unless unless there is a level of resources that they tap into that i'm not aware of but yeah what would be the what's the first step to do more tomorrow so one is they don't need their own cyber security person right there are groups that will you know collectively manage a bunch of people yeah right and they will tell you, okay, this is what it's going to cost to get to this level, right? But all you have to do is not be zero, right? Just don't be the slowest gazelle, right? And then that suddenly makes things a lot better. So the ophthalmologist does not have to be an information security expert, right? But they should find someone who's doing this and doing it in healthcare. And there are folks who are very willing for a small fee that will end up saving you a lot of money in the long run help you, right? And if you have software, it doesn't help that it's on the shelf. It's not shelfware, right? You need to be able to actually turn this stuff on and use it. And once your systems are secure, just being a, not to say paranoid, but very, just be cautious of the the external emails that come in, especially if they ask you to click on something. You know, if it's, you know, helpdesk.microsoft .com does not exist, right? That is, that's a scam, right? And just getting people, sort of training people to do that, but that's where, you know, having long passwords and that sort of thing is where it comes in. How about personal hacks for risk preparedness mitigation outside of work? Yeah. So the thing about cybersecurity. Besides long passwords. So it's so hard to not, because they're like, okay, I'll use this. I have one long password to remember. I'm going to use it on everything. Right? That's terrible, too. So there are these password managers. Yeah. And those are relatively cheap. And, gosh, it's been so helpful. It'll generate a random 20-character password. Is the one your phone does okay? Okay. Well, I have one. I mean, it's on my phone. So that way I literally only know two passwords. I know the password to my password manager that has all of my passwords except my Mayo password. And then I know my Mayo password. So I just know two passwords. So none of the passwords I use are the same. but I don't have to keep making new ones. I just use a password manager for all of my non-work stuff, and that's made it really easy. Outside of cybersecurity, any other risk hacks you recommend on a personal level? Should we be stockpiling masks and water? The first thing is water. Water. Actually, the first thing is safety. In your own home, do you have a place to go? yeah a place to go right and then do you have uh so in my own home i always have seven uh seven days of um basically potable water that's uh stored and then um a month of emergency rations yeah that i cycle through every five years um this stuff tastes terrible but does it that's the basic stuff and then having a radio and a way to power your phone okay um right so a solar power solar-powered charger and AI forgot what it was anyway, a way to boil water Okay. No, this is great Yeah There aren't many This is your job. How could you not? There aren't many jobs for paranoid extroverts You found your place This is it. Leadership and risk and serial killer Those are the two jobs for paranoid extroverts that I think I chose wisely. Well done. Well done. Well, Dr. Tosh, incredible. Thank you so much for all this information. Really wonderful. Learned so much. It's definitely a world that I think we can all appreciate that you are at the forefront helping to lead and certainly sharing that with our listeners today has been appreciated. Thanks, man. Thanks for all your work. Thank you. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website. thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more