The Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center created a three-part video series addressing common financial concerns people experience while receiving cancer care. These videos cover medical financial planning, common insurance concerns, and helpful employing policies and benefits. This introduction video will go over common terminology that will be used in this video series. The first term you will be introduced to is financial toxicity. Financial toxicity describes the financial stress someone diagnosed with cancer may experience. This term is often used to describe how the out-of -pocket cost can cause financial distress. It's an aspect of cancer care that's often overlooked but can have a significant impact on a patient's well-being. People receiving cancer treatment often experience personal financial changes. It is common for patients and caregivers to need time off from work during cancer care, which can reduce income for a period of time. In addition, there may be more out-of-pocket costs for medical bills, travel costs to and from treatment centers, and lodging costs. A care plan is a schedule for cancer treatment. It is a schedule that includes testing, treatment, and appointments with your provider. Some people may try to lower costs by skipping tests, appointments, or doses of medicine. Doing this will lower your ability to get the best treatment results. It's very important to keep all appointments and take the medicine you are prescribed. So if you find yourself considering skipping parts of your treatment plan, please speak to your Mayo Clinic care team as soon as possible. If you are unfamiliar with your Mayo Clinic care team, we will share more about this team now. Your Mayo Clinic care team may also be described as your Mayo Clinic support network. At Mayo Clinic, your care team and support network are led by your doctor. Members of the team can include nurse practitioners, physician assistants, nurses, social workers, patient navigators, financial navigators, spiritual care providers, and many more. The care team members are prepared and ready to listen, answer your questions, offer you support and possible resources during your treatment. Beyond your care team, the Cancer Education blog on Mayo Clinic Connect is an online resource providing free education and support to cancer patients and the support network at Mayo Clinic sites. It is also an online community connecting you with people facing all challenges. We hope you find this three video series helpful during your cancer treatment. Remember that your Mayo Clinic care team is here and ready to help you every step of the way. Thank you for trusting Mayo Clinic with your care.