Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothun. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. In today's episode, we sit down with Dr. Brittni Scruggs, our colleague and a vitre retinal specialist here at the Mayo Clinic. Dr. Scruggs has a special interest in how to help us with verbally abusive patients and highlighting certain de -escalation tools that we can all use. Dr. Brittni Scruggs is an MD, PhD, and vitreo retinal surgeon here at Mayo Clinic. Dr. Scruggs is a PI and heads the Retinal Regenerative Medicine Initiative with Gene Therapies here at Mayo Clinic as well with a special interest in inherited retinal disease. We are so excited to have her join us on the podcast today. Welcome, Dr. Scruggs. Thank you. I'm glad to be here. Thanks for inviting me. This is a topic we're going to talk about today, dealing with verbally abusive situations in the clinic i um i've i continually learn from you and i'm excited to hang around you and learn about retina but this is something that i i appreciate in in light of some sensitive topics or patient situations that have come up in the past that you have a special forte or understanding of our research and share with us how you got interested in the physician role in dealing with verbally abusive patients or staff? Yeah, I think a lot of this comes down to personal experience, right? We all deal on a daily basis with experiences that are uncomfortable. And I think you'll understand this is when you go to these workshops, it's like, what am I gonna get out of this? And then you start thinking, oh yeah, this happened to me yesterday. This happened to me last week. Oh yeah, I definitely didn't respond the way that I wanted to respond in the moment and then you perseverate over like okay what could I have said and so when you start to really learn the tools to be able to respond in the moment just makes everything more comfortable so my special interest in responding to verbal harassment really started when I was an early resident and I think that's really important to to talk about because as a trainee as a resident as a fellow you are often younger you're often with less confidence than we would have as a consultant. You don't have as much experience and maybe you don't have these tools to respond in the moment. And so as a trainee, I was verbally harassed by a patient. They threatened to touch me inappropriately. It was more like ****** harassment. And I didn't have my voice at the time. I did share this with my attendings and my colleagues and then i realized that this isn't just me it's not a personal attack this happens to so many people women men trainees consultants from patients from colleagues from technicians whoever there are uncomfortable situations and we as a residency it wasn't just me it was a joint effort across our residency at university of iowa we thought we need to change something We need to develop a workshop where people are empowered, where they can walk into the room and be ready for anything that's thrown at you. So if someone says something disrespectful or they threaten you or something's going south and a patient's really defensive, that you don't lose rapport, right? But also you protect yourself, you protect the people around you, and you make sure that the action the verbal harassment or potentially the threat of physical harassment is stopped and doesn't propagate to the next physician or the next technician who's going to be working that patient up and I think that is what started all of this is us as a department saying this is missing from the curriculum of our residency program and how can we change things I know this is a little long-winded but we thought it was really important to study it so we did a national survey of all trainees ophthalmology trainees and we asked them prevalence how often is this happening to you who is the uh the person harassing oftentimes it was patients not always but it's often the patients and clearly more trainees than staff or do having this happen um on you know a daily or weekly basis and another thing that was important to us are what are the barriers for you to respond right um so understanding like why are people not reporting because we know not only is verbal harassment like highly prevalent in medicine and specifically ophthalmology but why is it so underreported and so those are the things that we started studying and then the workshop was just this natural progression of like taking what we learned through the survey and understanding the literature out there and then trying to teach our colleagues of what are the words you say and the sentences you say so that you can have kind of like a cheat sheet like you could have this script ready to go at any time and so that that's kind of where it all started I love this initiative so much I and I really have to admit I told you this before because we've had you give this workshop to our residents and now it's part of the curriculum here at Mayo for the residency here and when I first heard about this I was so of the mindset of like oh just brush it off just you know like people say patients say things all the time you just gotta like don't let it bother you have thick skin just move on keep it light and then don't fixate on it just brush it off like that's very my personality and first of all I'm so wrong and I really learned I I think as a resident it was easier for me to just be like you know ha ha ha brush it off if a patient says something like truly disrespectful or truly aggressive or whatever and just move on but stepping into the staff role now I feel a responsibility for residents and this hit home for me if I have a patient say something or staff say something disrespectful to a resident I feel like it's my job now to stand up for them and shut it down and I learned that from you but it's so uncomfortable and you're like what do I say because you don't want to be an aggressor and so this toolkit that you have was like blew my mind and when I first sat through this workshop I was like a total 180 in how I viewed that really like that's I think I'm so glad you're talking about it now because really really I had a change of heart like this is so important and so share with us the steps of the toolkit and some of these common phrases that you can just keep in your back pocket. Because like you said, in those moments when you're really caught off guard and you're like, this was disrespectful, should I just brush it off or should I address it? Why is it important to address it? What kinds of things should you address? Take us through the give us a mini workshop. I think it's so valuable. Before you learn the skills, let me just say, and I totally agree with you, that when I first heard this topic, I thought, this doesn't happen that often. Right. And they're just one-offs that I just don't want to address. I would have been humbled, going to your last comment, about how often we are a colleague of something happening in the room. And it isn't even addressing us, a student, a resident, a staff. and I've grown more and more aware and humbled by how critical it is to step up for that patient situation but also for the patient's future situations and the staff member that just walked out of the room so I totally agree with that that awareness but so before we get to the solutions I just want to say for everybody listening that doesn't even that have let these roll off their skin right you talk about these individual attacks and verbal harassment moments but also these micro attacks and these little minutes. So before we get to solutions, can you just share what comes to mind for you as examples of things that are commonly shared? So people listening can say, oh yeah, I just heard that last week or that just happened to me. So what are the ones you witness or hear about? Like, what are we talking about and what should we be more sensitive to? Okay. So I think it's important to define things, right? So when we talk about harassment, that has a lot of emotion to it so what what harassment is is different for every one of us it's just true yeah i'm going to define that differently so if you think of harassment definition it is anything that interferes with your work performance that could be intimidation that could be you feeling uncomfortable that's making you not be the best physician you can be for that patient. If someone says something and you don't think about it, you are fine doing your job without any consequence, it's fine. That's not harassment. You don't necessarily have to respond to that. If you're just having banter and it's funny to you and you appreciate it, fine. But that same exact comment might, to someone else, make them perseverate over that, lose sleep, decrease their work performance, maybe not want to see that person again. Maybe they start to change how they look and dress because of that patient's comment. Whatever it is, it's going to be person dependent. And so for me in clinic, I have very thick skin. You know, as a retina specialist, I see a lot of patients. I see some really hard situations. Some people come in kind of hot, kind of defensive, nervous, scared. Maybe they're going blind. They're emotional. Maybe they say things that they don't mean, right? That's fine. Give people the benefit of the doubt. However, if it crosses that line where I no longer can be the best physician for that patient, it's important for me to speak up. And going back to, you know, other people in the room, we often have trainees. We also have our technicians working up the patients. There are a lot of people interacting with this patient. and that is the bystander approach if you're a bystander listening to this and you think that the person is uncomfortable it takes reading body language you can tell when someone is uncomfortable right i can look at y'all and y 'all are not nervous you're comfortable here you've been doing this podcast for a long time you're comfortable if a trainee is sitting there and they're blushing they're uncomfortable i need to give them permission to leave one i need to acknowledge that this happened which is directly inter interacting with the person who was the harasser and then I need to debrief with the person who was harassed and let them know that I care and a lot of this is not necessarily about you know making the harasser uncomfortable or even potentially changing anything about their behavior it's in that moment making sure that the person who has harassed, your trainee, your colleague, feel like you care. I think that's extremely important. But a second goal is behavior modification, right? You don't want that behavior to continue to propagate with other people, even behind closed doors. So microaggressions that are very common for me as a female surgeon, I get asked often, I don't wear a wedding ring, I get often asked about my marriage status, about children. I get called Brittni all the time. Fine, right? These are all subtle things. They build up, right? I get asked about how many cases I've done, if I've ever done one of these cases when I've done 3,000 of them. I love saying, no, you're my first one to those every time. Like, nope, you're my first one. But these are like building. They start low, and there's a scale of microaggressions where it starts by asking about age and asking what race are you, where are you from, like where are you really from, asking about marriage status. That's where it starts, kind of like the early, kind of probably doesn't affect your work performance, but you're starting to pay attention to it. And then it escalates to inappropriate comments about your body, inappropriate jokes. I got told a very inappropriate joke this week, which made me completely blush. I think I haven't blushed like that in years. And so that's kind of rising. We got through that. It's just a joke, but those jokes can lead to other things. and then it can be threat of physical either physical touch or physical violence and so knowing where you are on that scale and how you're feeling and how the people around you are feeling changes how I respond and what I use on the toolkit and that toolkit is really powerful because sometimes it's as simple as I'm sorry I didn't understand can you help me understand what you said and you make them say it again that is super simple and if i'm so powerful and if i'm like behind in clinic and i have 20 more patients to see sometimes that's all i need to say is i'm acknowledging that you said that i want you to say it again and when you say it back i want you to change what you said very direct that has been super powerful because you're not like pointing fingers the last thing you want to do when someone is sitting in the hot seat and they are either they're defensive or they're mad or they're emotional is for you to get defensive right so when this is happening to me in my clinic I now that I've I've done all of this research um I'm like ah here we go you know I'm no longer like a personal attack to Brittni it is AI am ready to use the skills that I know how to use and I'm going to do this in a way that's going to keep the rapport I'm going to be the best physician I can be I'm going to make sure this doesn't propagate and I take a deep breath. Um, I had an encounter last week where I was taking a deep breath. They were like, kind of yelling at me a little bit. Um, they were very mad that I was behind schedule. And again, any of us can understand that. Um, I had just dealt with a patient going blind who I had to take the license from them. They were still driving and it was an uncomfortable conversation that led to more time than I had allotted for my slot. And that made me 30 minutes late to the next one you know it's not uncommon if I walk into a quick post-op appointment and they have a retinal detachment that adds time to sign them up for surgery we can't predict this in medicine like it just happens so I was delayed in that moment that person being very very upset with me what I think and what I think has helped me a lot through all of this research is to take a deep breath and to say this is not a personal attack this is a system issue. What could we as a system have done better to deescalate this? And this is all about deescalation. So in that moment, I was like me telling them that I just came from this heart encounter and that this person had to lose their license. And I am, haven't gone to the bathroom all day and I haven't eaten lunch and I have seen 60 patients, whatever it is, that's not helpful, right? Being defensive is not helpful, but listening and saying, you know what? I am really sorry. I think sorry is a powerful word. I'm really sorry that you had to wait. I am also sorry that no one came in and told you that I was behind or offered you to leave or offered water or a snack. So this requires me to address a system issue, which is to send an email and say, I think that we need to do a little bit of better job of transparency of where the doctor is in the clinic and I sent that email and I do this all the time because I think it's important to not take it as a personal attack but in the moment I took a deep breath I said my apologies and then the patient was like well can we get on with the encounter now and I looked at that person and I said actually I'm human I just need a second to decompress and I just sat there and I just breathed and I said I'm gonna take I said I'm gonna take really good care of you and we will get through this and I am still very sorry that that happened but I I want to do this like without emotion I love that I'm gonna take really good care of you I use that all the time anytime somebody's upset I say I promise I will take the best care of you and I and we'll get through this together I say that all the time and then they're like oh okay we're on the same team i'm always like i'm gonna take great care of you don't worry yeah and then for that patient which just happened this happens all that i know all the time we have you know patients who are upset about being delayed it's just it's summer summers are hard um but at the end of the encounter you know i talked with my tech i brought my tech in and i said you know the next appointment we want to make sure that this person is the first patient of the afternoon I'm not behind and that we have a very smooth encounter that's not delayed that's very important to me is what I told my tech and then the patient was like laughing and happy and left I think patients really appreciate knowing that their experience could be used for the better either for them absolutely so in that I'm doing my best in that let's do it different next time I think it's why I try to acknowledge to them I went as you're recognizing that they're the clinic experience wasn't up to their standards or even your own standards just to say I'm going to take this issue forward to continue to work on you know as an example how we need to do better either in communication of wait times or scheduling our clinic and I like that comment of in the moment for their experience in the future and it helped them see that the lesson from today is going to improve the future I actually also think patients appreciate the lesson from their experience even if it's not their future clinic experience but the their experience today would help the clinic get better for other patients and that helps them yeah that you know that in that we're doing our best together and we're caring for you as well as we can we're caring for our clinic as well as again so i think it's wonderful to acknowledge the error and your summary of the you know empathy in that moment and the apology and the regrouping but also to say how do we move forward together and learn from this, you know, even if it's just a delay in the clinic, which isn't just a delay, but it just is, you know, compared to other issues that we deal with sometimes seem small, but it's not for patients. Yeah. We've got those small things that are kind of inappropriate, but not quite over the line. And then patients who are, you know, justifiably angry about delays or misscheduling or whatever, whatever. What do you do when patients are truly across the line, like flat out racist, flat out harassing, ******** inappropriate, like all the things you know when they're truly not good I'm gonna take a break distance okay and then you come back or if it's really threatening you say I I think that we're done for today but oftentimes just by taking a distance going to the bathroom coming back you've given them a little bit of time to calm down in that moment when you leave the room you can have a chaperone yeah what What do you tell them before you leave the room? Say, I need a break. I need to take a second. It's easy as that. What if they don't understand? I have a lot of patients who, they're not trying to be rude, but inadvertently say, like, really racist stuff or super inappropriate things. And I want to address it and shut it down, but I don't want to offend them. But I also want to say, like, this is not okay. Sure. So that's where the toolkit comes in. Yeah. Yeah. So where it's not escalating to physical harassment, but it's really jarring. And it's like, did they just say that? Right. Right. So that's different. So I don't separate myself. I immediately respond. And so we can get into the toolkit. Sure. So the toolkit is separated into did this just happen to me? Am I responding as the person who was just harassed? Or did this just happen to someone in the room? And I'm responding as for for them, right? To show that I care. and so the toolkit breaks it down into i respond and so you can go down so the i is like using i statements i feel disrespected when you say things like that right the i that works with marriage too instead of like you're disrespectful i feel a little disrespected when you don't do the laundry whatever it is it works really well in other situations too so i i feel i feel a little bit of emotion here um can you help me understand naming it yeah i just i feel this like i'm a human who's feeling something and i'm naming that feeling right now whatever that should be so that that's actually really powerful sometimes um and then so i actually have it right here the toolkit we're gonna link it to yeah perfect yeah we'll link it in the show notes for people if they want to refer to the toolkit yeah sounds good and so the reason I have it here is because this is not something that I have memorized I know all of these like in here somewhere and I use them all the time but you know going through this is important so I refer back to this often every few months I look at it so for those people that aren't available to see the video image walk us through each letter yeah yeah so I is use I statement so i feel uncomfortable when you comment on my physical appearance my race my religion my age right so if you're really bothered that someone just said you look like you're 12 years old you can say you know it makes me feel a little bit uncomfortable as a vitreo retinal surgeon that you're commenting on my age and then you can just move on from that repeat so that's the r repeat and clarify help me understand what you mean by that or i heard you say whatever can you help me clarify if you're busy just come again i like that yeah what'd you say i didn't hear it um e is emphasize your shared goals all right we're all in this to like have really good medicine and provide good care and so to reiterate like that's why i'm here i want to give you the best care that i personally can i want to be the best physician i'm going to take good care of you however comments like that distract me from being the best physician makes me uncomfortable i want to focus on your care so um emphasizing the shared goals there the s is share is setting boundaries So boundaries would be like policy. We don't tolerate that. We don't tolerate that language at Mayo Clinic. I like that. Our hospital policy. Yeah, we don't tolerate that. We don't tolerate that. Yeah. If you want to expand, you know, this says our hospital policy does not allow for discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, ****** orientation, whatever it is. And then this next one is if you continue, I will have to leave the room. Right. Giving them a warning. Yeah. being very direct but sounding setting boundaries can be a lot simpler than that like we just don't tolerate that like can we can we focus on why we're here today yeah right um p patient actions rather than person so you want to talk about what they said and the the action the harassment and not them as a person right most people who say these types of things are not bad people like we all misspeak and put our you know footer in our mouth especially if you're emotional and you're scared and you're having problems um so oftentimes it's just from a place of fear honestly um and so if you say things like i feel respected when you disrespected when you said whatever um is a lot better than you know you are disrespectful we kind of already talked about that one so offering an alternate so i told you you know people call me britney which some people i say that's fine you can call me britney and i've seen them a hundred thousand times i've done surgeries on both eyes and they they can call me britney um but sometimes it just in addition to all the other things that are going on with that specific encounter it feels like it's just another thing that's making me uncomfortable um especially if they've commented on my you know my nose ring or my hair links or my lack of wedding ring and then they also call me britney it's like oh that's the cherry on top that just makes it feel really not good um so then you can say you know i would prefer you to call me doctor instead of britney that's direct but like really simple that's not defensive just i would prefer i'd prefer if you call me doctor um the separate separate intent from impact is the next one i'm sure you didn't mean to be hurtful when you said that but it made me feel so taking the like you know that that person didn't mean that um but to say like it's still not appropriate i like that yeah because then it gives them an out it does oftentimes they say i'm sorry yeah and that's when i think even we talked about staff when you witness other things some of these comments go to the tech or go to and they may not feel the confidence to say it themselves but you're saying sticking up for other people making the comments of i'm sure you didn't mean to be hurtful in that situation but i you know i need to ask you to reflect on or not speak to our text in the in the with the way you did or with in that language um i it's definitely usable each of these are usable and you can find moments where it applies yeah but that's been helpful for sure the last one is use humor with caution and we a lot of it's human nature right like you you're so uncomfortable in the moment that you're like why did they say that and is this happening to me and I'm busy and I'm behind and I want to give them good care why and then you laugh it off because it makes you feel better right it allows you to move on laughter I know this is a little dramatic laughter is permission it's condoning the behavior right it just is it is no you're right I commented earlier about having to try to address the situation to help in the future. In this case, some of these are talking about trying to help inform them of appropriate conversation when we're serving them as a patient. I think what I've seen the most is some of the most inappropriate repetitive actions are almost sometimes the hardest to deal with because you have a relationship with them that goes back many, many visits that humor was part of a visit. And eventually you look back and realize this is not okay anymore. And I should have caught it in the beginning. So I like that sensitivity that in the joy and connectivity and positivity relating to patients, some people's sense of humor are inappropriate. And being able to identify it early and address it, even if you're able to brush it off, if your techs and the residents or whoever else in your environment may not be seeing it with the same level of humor and identifying it and curbing it earlier rather than when it's been there and they've been coming back for four years doing it the same way and they have a reputation in the clinic because it's never been addressed. Right. I think we should also talk that there's a line where behind the line you can just address it by responding and then that's enough. There's going to be a point where it crosses the line and you need to report it. And by reporting it, it allows things like flagging that patient, allowing support staff to be present when the patient is on the floor, potentially getting security involved, potentially discharging the patient from the practice so that other people aren't at risk. so that line being crossed is again different from everyone but if it is impacting you so much that you are in fear of your safety you're concerned from from other people that they are going to be at risk it's your responsibility right it's our duty to report it and this is very underreported and a lot of people don't even know how to report it it's as easy as sending an email to like our our team our leadership and they immediately will get you the link and you just click on it many places in situations are not as equipped as a male clinic in terms of the structure and the security systems and the documentation and that reggae so you you comment that certain situations are hostile or patients angry with you before we get to the that just happened I need to report to my manager what would be how in this how do you respond in a situation where you actually do feel physically worrisome that the escalation of anger could lead to physical harm or could lead to what's your steps of helping you and your staff be safer in that clinic room yeah having someone there is very helpful so patients who are escalating to the point of potentially being physically threatening they tend to de-escalate just by time distance and a second person so having a chaperone if you will a support staff who can even come in and listen be a second set of ears they they they tend to just de-escalate just by that should it continue to escalate despite you know leaving having distance and having someone else, then it's time to get security involved. Most practices should have some type of security that you can call and say, I need you to send someone. Might be a little bit harder in like a private practice, but even then you should have someone who can come and help and let them know that this encounter is done. Brittni and I remember sharing a patient scenario where that became a repetitive part of their practice. And in the future, security was present every time every time um and it was it was a learning process for me um you know being in the conversations with you about how to prepare for these visits but also document them afterwards and that's just as critical um because in order to if you ever are wanting to discharge a patient from their your practice or just have it be appropriately documented in the future um being very clear about the the challenges of that visit the communication the quotes and um i i learned from that and continue to learn from such experiences as hard as they are yeah so that encounter was very hard um so that uh yeah it's hard to think about that encounter because i went in new patient uh they immediately said that they would sue me if x y and z right if my surgery was too long if I had a bad outcome. And when I go into these workshops, I always ask our trainees because it's mostly to the trainees and to empower them because they haven't heard this for the most part. I ask them, what has made you uncomfortable? What comments have you heard recently? And they don't have to share. So it's only the people who feel comfortable sharing with me and at the last workshop someone said well recently they they had been told as the chief resident if they had a complication then they would be in a body bag right gosh the patient thought that was funny that's not funny no right um patients can do harm uh we know of so many scenarios that have escalated to the point of potentially death and so it's our duty to shut that down and in that situation it was really important for me from day one to have security involved outside my door every single time I also talked to legal I'm not sure if I share that with you but I talked to our legal team multiple times and had everything documented and I had our conversations recorded there's so many ways that you can help with these really scary situations I think it's so helpful but I mean even the day-to-day things like as we sit here I'm reflecting on like tough patients that I've had and not even difficult but little things that they say and then I think having these sentences prepared in your mind where you've practiced you know if somebody says something overtly ****** to me or the resident to just be able to say you know we're here to focus on your eyes let's focus on that so I can take the best care of you done it's so easy that's so easy or you know I I get things like this a lot where patients just like you said, they're not intending to be rude or racist or they're not intending to harass anyone but they'll say, you know, we're talking about doing a blepharoplasty or toaster repair oh, just don't make me look Chinese. Or something that, like, I need to shut that down. That is so inappropriate. And they don't, they might not know it. And so I think being able to say, I'm sorry, what did you say? And then sometimes that's enough to just then be like oh no I just mean don't make me look different than I look now or don't make don't change the shape of my lids like okay I hear you now we're on the same page um or say I know you didn't mean for that to mean anything but let's not say that and patients respond to that so well and I think just brushing it off like you said just saying oh haha yeah you move along is permission it really they think they're funny and they didn't intend it to be harmful and I think that's more common and then you get into these really scary situations where you have to have all the checks and balances but even these small little things that now I catch and I say you know what it is my responsibility to say something even though it's not easy and on that note I just is those happen more commonly and are part of our fabric of how we realize to advocate for our staff, ourselves. I just have to ask you, here at the Mayo Clinic, we have a large percentage of patients that are here for executive health. Some people are very notable in whatever spheres they're in. I find that the hardest. Oh, sure. If I either know the person personally. Or you know their high, high level. and then you're in the situation of this is an added dynamic to the care that affects. Any thoughts, any reflections, any perspectives on that? I mean, it's one of those things that's harder to do, but you need to step in it the same way with your toolkits and your verbiage. But any thoughts on that, especially working at a place such as this that has a higher, how would I say, frequency of those sort of situations? yeah i honestly the toolkit works for everyone back to the toolkit um but there are some that are on here that feel gentle yeah right i would probably gravitate towards the gentle one help me understand what you mean by that and maybe with a little like smirk um what like uh yeah i mean those are gentle um and then you can kind of get through the encounter but i still think it's important you know if they say something that's inappropriate help me make sense of that yeah i don't understand because then you're kind of dreading seeing that person again that's not good you don't want to ever have a patient on your clinic list that you're like i'm going to lose sleep thinking about seeing them tomorrow just because of these personal like you know dynamics that we have right no if i've spoken my mind i stop thinking about it i don't lose sleep um they've heard me i don't need to say it again um and actually i've built really really good rapport with patients a lot of patients who have had these same things they don't even they don't realize i'm using them right they're just like oh dr scruggs is sassy all right um or whatever it is like i like i love it yeah um stand up for yourself yeah she's powerful she knows what she wants it's empowering yeah yeah it only builds It builds your relationship, actually, physician. Well, I think you've helped so many of our colleagues and our residents through these situations, but also appreciate that. And so I thank you for your interest in this, your forte, your research, and your advocacy for how we can all do it better in our practices. Yeah, thank you so much. Amazing work. Thank you. Thanks for having me. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast on our website. Thank you for listening. And we definitely look forward to sharing more.