Hello, my name is um Dr. Mark Davis. I'm a consultant dermatologist at Mayo Clinic Rochester here in Minnesota. And today I want to talk about the entity of dermatitis. Dermatitis strictly speaking means um inflammation of the skin. The itis meaning inflammation and derm meaning skin. So inflammation of the skin. And it's a very common thing that I think everybody experiences at some time in their life. one can be predisposed towards getting it from birth. Um that's called attopic dermatitis and it's often associated with asthma and hay fever. But also even if you're not predisposed to it um any of us can get um dermatitis during our lifetimes. There's lots of different types of dermatitis. There's one type that affects the um central face and that's called seereetic dermatitis. That often affects the scalp too and causes dandruff and a ton of people have that. Um there's other types of dermatitis including contact dermatitis where um something coming in contact with your skin irritates your skin or um causes an allergy in the skin. So that a few days after contact you get um a um a dermatitis in that area. Dermatitis can be really bothersome. Why? Well, mainly because it can be very itchy. Some patients describe it as painful. Um and some people are just bothered by the appearance of it with some scaling on the skin. Now what um what are the things that need to be done when you have dermatitis? Well, we need to try and calm down the dermatitis and there's lots of different treatments for that. One of them is topical corticosteroids and which we tend to use a lot. But then there's also some substitutes for the um topical corticosteroids too that don't cause some of the side effects of the stronger topical cortical steroids. And then we also have light treatments that can help. Um we can um prescribe um avoidance of the things that are irritating or causing allergy of the skin. And then we can also prescribe medications that suppress the immune system in the skin um in in very complicated um dermatitis. Um dermatitis can affect very limited areas of the body or it can be all over the skin and it can be very vexing uh problem. Um many times patients go from center to center to try and find an answer for the dermatitis. While nearly everybody would like just one pill to try and get rid of it, um often it's a more complex and um ongoing um um problem to try and fix. In other words, that um one that treatment only lasts for as long as you use it and that you need to continue using that treatment over time to keep the dermatitis suppressed. In in other words, it's not a a one tablet and everything will disappear um type of problem. Now, why would you come to Mayo Clinic for this? Well, we have um um a lot of physicians that are extremely expert in this specific area of dermatitis. We have um a lot of different investigation techniques that we can use. Um not only blood tests and lab tests, but also a thing called patch testing where one patch tests um a patient to um the things that they might be allergic to, the commonest things that cause allergy. And that that's a five-day procedure which can be quite complex to do but we we're all set up to do it and that can be very helpful. It can be sometimes difficult to sort out dermatitis from other dermatologic problems. So we are experts in that. And then as regards management of dermatitis we have um a specialized center for management of dermatitis. First of all, we we use um very intensive topical treatments um with topical creams and often what we call wet dressings that are really efficient in calming down really bad dermatitis. We can do that as an outpatient or in a hospital setting if it's appropriate. We also have um all the different types of modality of light that are um available and that can be um um done um initiated here um at Mayo Clinic. We also are expert in the different systemic treatments that can be used. So overall I think um if you have very complicated dermatitis or dermatitis that's not responding to treatment I um think that coming to a center such as Mayo Clinic can be very helpful to get it under control.