So, um I'm going to focus today speaking less about the actual work that we've been doing at the Mayo Clinic and more about um some of the key insights, some of the key learnings that we've um been fortunate to make in terms of really understanding the potential for design to really impact um and contribute to complex systems, complex system design. Um so this is Mayo Clinic uh where I am right now recording this for you guys and the center for innovation has been at the clinic for almost seven years and it was the first uh design centric innovation lab to be embedded in a clinical practice and I think many of you are aware of the work that we've been doing um and there's a lot of additional um video material available on our website so I would encourage you all to kind of get to know our work a little better because I won't be able to cover everything here. So, working inside a clinical setting in a medical practice on the scale of Mayo Clinic, one thing you quickly discover is that um the values and indeed the beliefs inside this community are very very different to other ones that you might encounter in other um industries. I wanted to show you uh a little bit about complex systems. I think many of you are working in complex or super complex systems um you know we're becoming more and more drawn towards that kind of work where a lot of a lot of um complexity and multiple stakeholders and so for us at Mayo Clinic it's you know really typical of that kind of scenario we have Mayo's evolved and grown over the past 150 years and from being a relatively small practice to being a really mega system where it's remarkably fragmented and fractured. As you can see from this slide, the degree to which the specialties and subsp specialties have evolved. And so what we currently have is, as I said, a very fractured system with a a set of very loose associations. And so, you know, innovating inside this um system is becoming increasingly difficult. I I like this slide. I think about, you know, as a designer looking at environments and looking at the evolution of uh this space. The first slide is 1954. and then 60 years later and I think what's most curious about this is you start to understand the rituals and the norms that have been sustained and kind of persist in this environment and that that are basically become part of the hierarchy that is healthcare which is you know essentially about centralization. It's very institutionalized and it's also professionalized and much of that is being challenged currently by the disruptors in healthcare. What you quickly discover working in the space of health care, particularly when you're embedded in clinical practice, is that there's a lot of brutality in health care, medicine is very effective, but it's also very scary. And often the experience of the treatment is worse than the experience of the disease. And this is something that we discovered and it was kind of pretty shocking to realize this and to even be able to articulate it. I think it was really important for us to understand the degree to which the presentation of healthcare as a service is something that people really fear. Sustaining the humanity in medicine is increasingly challenging more and more. How can people trust a system that seems to value their experience so little? And this may be, you know, not as familiar to many of you because I think working in other industries, other service industries, there maybe is a kind of explicit or implicit uh value that the customer perceives, but also there's a kind of a level of engagement and a level of kind of curiosity and interest in your service. With healthcare, it's very different. When we typically connect with our customer, we do so under circumstances that are less than optimum and you know we really have this kind of tension and and kind of contradiction about being in a service industry but um connecting with people who really don't want to be connecting with us. And so it's it's a kind of a unique challenge I think that makes it even more compelling trying to figure out you know how do you sustain how do you establish um relationships with that tension in place and how do you sustain them from a design perspective you know really thinking about inside these systems what's most important is as they become more and more complex the human can really get lost inside the system and I and I I like this expression protect endangered emotions because I think more and more we're looking at the the degree to which the human is attempting to kind of push back and attempting to resist many of the things that are happening inside systems. And it's our job as designers particularly to really amplify and give that um that person a voice that those those customers a voice. As I mentioned before, you know, I think it's a really kind of a rather atypical environment to be thinking about services and yet it's essential. And I um it reminds me of years ago when I worked for the Department of Defense and I was doing um a study of a group of special operations uh um and one of them said something to me. He said, "We have extreme and extraordinary preferences and I was impressed that he was able to kind of phrase it and articulate it that way." But it also really helped me understand that I was, you know, designing for a community that didn't share the same needs and kind of preferences and values even that I did or that other, you know, more traditional customers would. And I think I found that again in healthcare is that even though there are some similarities in terms of the expectations from our customers, from our patients and their needs, there's also a pretty intense kind of skewing of that in terms of what becomes important and what becomes less important. And I think you have to really acknowledge and understand that to be effective. We see a lot of different types of patients. We've, you know, this kind of work is just to kind of give each each of the patient segmentation a kind of face and a signature. We like to um when we understand the degree to which we can segment patients and understand them, we typically make material like this graphic here and it's a way of moving away from stereotypes and moving away from generalizations about patients and you know creating like narrative around them but also creating a kind of a profile or a signature that is often quite contradictory. So we know that there is no one patient type. Something really interesting and I think important to understand when you're designing services is that humans function according to habit and not decision. And I've discovered this I think maybe the hard way in terms of there's there's definitely with more and more of this kind of consumer engagement and the consumer more in control and determining there's an expectation or some kind of assumption that people engage very actively in decision- making and what we've discovered is that people actually default much more to kind of fun to kind of um functioning according to habit and I think when you're designing systems it is to optimize them understanding that people largely will be functioning according to what's habitual rather than what they consciously choose. People normalize their disease and they do this to cope. And so this is another um maybe surprising and contradictory um insight that we had about you know we talk about disease with our patients and we talk about them being in a suboptimal state but as people um acknowledge and accept that they are maybe suffering from a disease they quickly try and normalize it. They quickly try and minimize and normalize it. And that's just a very natural human coping mechanisms. And so the degree to which they can articulate or that they share the same perspective on their disease as we do um is something we've learned really quickly that they don't have the same perspective and they don't quantify it in the same way and they don't talk about it in the same way. And so I think it's important to think about nature of how people process what's h their experiences. Um much of the work we do in patient care we don't fully understand. this work may be a waste or it might really matter to the patients. And the big finding here for us is that we don't know where we're creating value. And this is probably the most important thing that we've discovered about ourselves and less about the patients is that even though we measure a level of success usually with kind of patient outcomes and try and minimize, you know, the kind of distress to patients or minimize discomfort and we do measure their satisfaction. We don't we only really measure it at a kind of gross level and we don't really understand if we have created value where is that value and I think thinking about services and thinking about industries that are service industries you really have to understand not just if you're being effective but where you're being effective because you really don't know what where your levers are where your leverage is. Even if we deliver good patient experience and even if we deliver the right outcomes, we don't necessarily know where that happened, where that exchange happened in the bigger system, patients don't know what they don't know. This is something that we understand not because we think for a moment that patients aren't capable of knowing or smart enough or engaged enough, but I use this analogy of the iceberg. It's a pretty effective one in terms of this is the system. And this is what it's this is probably even less what is really evident and apparent and visible to patients. And so we often imagine they can ask us questions and they can navigate it and even that they want to kind of they want to explore it and they want to understand it but un realizing how little is actually accessible to them is important for us. Uh I once saw a woman uh she was with her husband who had just just at that moment being diagnosed with an im inoperable brain tumor and their surgeon was sitting with them and was asking if they had any questions and they attempted a couple of different questions I think things that they assumed they should ask and then she paused and she said what question should I be asking that I don't know to ask and I was struck by her kind of calmness ness and composure in terms of understanding that she knew the system was very complex and she knew that her husband's diagnosis was complex but she didn't understand how to question the system and how to interrogate it and what to ask and I felt that for me that was very telling the degree to which there's so much opacity in our system and people have to ask questions like that which you know is quite desperate a lot of the work we do is to try and make it less opaque and so we've done a lot of work around decision- making and kind of visualizing systems and complexities. And we do this both for the patients, but I think also it's been really effective in showing it back to the practice because what you do is you start to be able to really point to redundancies, point to levels of complexity that people don't perceive. And it's been a really valuable kind of exercise for us is to try and visualize complexity. Humans have a strong bias to link cause and effect. Our minds create a narrative to explain what happened. However, in complex systems, the cause and effect are not easily understood. And this is important again in complex systems, you know, we have this tendency to oversimplify and often diagnose a problem um in terms of like, you know, in terms of thinking that we can identify what is causing the problem that it's a very linear mapping. It's often not that way. And I think there's a danger in assuming there's or oversimplifying cause and effect. And I want to tell you a really quick story um about a study that we were involved in where was looking at what's called an EICU which is um electronic ICU so intensive care unit and it was it was this principle of being able to centralize all of the medical subsp specialties at Mayo Clinic where we would have physicians and medical experts remotely support local teams and rural hospitals in ICU units. And so we were centralizing all of the kind of all of the intelligence in the system and then we were basically kind of using that to support to kind of reach out to other to other less specialized um care teams. So it was a drive towards efficiency. It was an attempt to be able to kind of scale the expertise and make it more accessible. But it was thought it was determined that as a system it would be more effective if we kind of centralized the kind of assets that we had and figured out a way of of um connecting those with where they were most needed. What we discovered was that even though we we did create an efficiency in terms of centralizing um the distance from the physician consultant specialist to the patient there was a direct correlation between that distance and their need for additional data. And so as much as we can kind of move this move parts of the control around in the system, what we discovered was that as you create abstraction and create distance from the old model, the original model of care, you then have to you have to compensate. And so we were compensating by um asking for more radiology, more labs, more imaging. There was a kind of an anxiety around making decisions when they were remote from the patients. They wanted more data. And so even though we did optimize one part of a system, we actually created a deficit and a greater expense in another part. And I think the lesson here is to understand that everything's connected in a system and when you affect one part of it, you affect the entire system. And it's to be really aware of what you're doing when you do adjust part of the system and to look for the places where there's some kind of consequence or where there's impact. Science is too precise an activity to effectively address the challenges of complexity. By virtue of being reductive, it excludes and it isolates so as to examine and understand and it creates a false sense of control. And that's you know fundamental kind of principle I guess in in in medicine is that there needs to be a lot of confidence. I mean it's a lot about making decisions. It's a lot about using the information that's available and having confidence to act. We had this said one time when we were we were interviewing a physician about um a patient he had just seen and his recommendations around medication. and he said, "We the medical profession don't know nearly as much about human health or disease as people think we do. We don't know how it works. We just know it does." And he was talking about the medication. And what was telling to us was the degree to which there was a lot of ambiguity and and a lot of kind of um uncertainty in health care and what was considered true was less about what was understood but more what was known to have have been effective in the past. And so patients certainly perceive that physicians um and clinical teams understand their condition and their disease and their recovery um in in levels of detail that they actually don't. I'm going to talk really briefly about another uh interesting story that I think really looks at what can happen a system the system when you optimize it to mitigate risk and you're not creating value. And this story speaks directly to what can happen in complex systems in terms of really losing the humanin it. Um and I'll be brief here. I'm sorry I there's a lot more detail to the story but I'll try and um summarize it. So the standard practice I think across most of the hospitals in the US was to prescribe certain medication that helped reduce the risk of dementia in elderly patients after general anesthetic and so they were at greater risk because of the anesthetic that they would actually get dementia and so this was a preventative act in terms of giving them some medication. However, the side effect of the medication caused a dizziness and so these patients were falling more frequently and in turn were were becoming more injured and then readmitted and because of the readmitted readmission uh which is something that hospitals like to avoid because they frequently don't get compensated when a patient is readmitted the protocol shifted to not prescribing this medication because there was a sense that it was more important to mitigate the risk of the fall rather than mitigate the risk of the dementia and I think this is an example of when you look at systems in terms of how decisions are made and you know how they're optimized for things like risk and not optimized for outcome and also then the human can really get lost because there's nothing essentially wrong about this decision but when you think about consequence and decision- making it's very hard for people to really project and speculate on the consequence of any one decision it's very hard to have that kind of um meta level view of the system when something breaks in your system, don't fix it until you fully understand why it is broken. First, determine what it's trying to tell you. And I think again, there's a kind of knee-jerk or default response when things break inside systems is that, you know, the most effective response is to fix it. And it's really important. We try and encourage people to kind of pause just a little bit when something breaks and to see it as an opportunity to understand the system. It's trying to tell us something. We do a lot of reframing. So when something just you know appears to be broken, we often kind of reframe it as being an opportunity to learn more and to be more effective and to actually evolve the system. So I would encourage you as much as you're hired maybe to fix things is to really diagnose and understand fully why something's broken before you fix it. Because if you fix it too soon, you may never know what it was going to tell you about the system. Innovation that's additive is more tolerated. innovation that is subtractive also could be described as destructive as threatening. Um, this is something that probably a a more kind of general insight I've had about complex systems and innovating inside systems and attempting to affect them is that there's a there's a a great tolerance or much greater tolerance for solutions that add something to a system. And so you probably will find it not you probably won't find it terribly difficult in your work. But if you attempt to take things away to be to to kind of subtract or destroy part of a system, you're going to meet a lot of resistance. And I think that that's what we've discovered within healthcare is that there's an expectation that innovation is about adding things and making it more complex but certainly adding things and there's a sense that you know effective you know kind of functioning effectively is to create things and to contribute by creating and sometimes you have to destroy and I think this is something that we really struggle with being able to do um certainly in this environment implementation is something else that we struggle with if you're inside a system and you're the group that are looking at maybe the innovation within that system, the ideas that you come up with are going to be potentially disruptive and they're potentially going to damage or they're going to um compromise the existing system. as you hand them to the kind of the kind of um stakeholders that have to somehow integrate that concept or integrate that change or that adaption. There is a tendency for them to think about implementation as a process of convergence and so it's about figuring out a way of fitting that idea into the existing system. And so I use the analogy of a square peg round hole where if you hand someone a square peg which represents a new concept or something that's kind of disruptive, they'll probably, you know, take out their knife and start pairing down the corners until they can somehow fit it, converge it into the existing system. And for them that's an effective implementation is when they when they can when they can kind of align it and f and find a way of of it being tolerated and accepted and also to minimize its disruption. The the problem here is that a lot of innovation is explicitly intended to disrupt a system. And so when you design something you think about implementation you have to think about implementation in terms of managing the disruption but but you have to you have to figure out how to sustain the disruption. Let's talk a little bit about what we've learned in terms of how we've adapted the design process. Um I think now that you understand the complexity of kind of generally in healthcare um in terms of its complex systems I wanted to just talk a little bit. So the center for innovation as I mentioned has been six years of Mayo Clinic and it is a human- centered design led in terms of its kind of methodology as a design methodology. We talk about generative grounded theory which is a distinction between communities of interpretation which would be a scientific community and communities of appreciation which is an kind of an artistic community and we will be the latter. Design like science is a tool for understanding as well as for acting and this is um less understood perhaps by design and also less uh frequently articulated by designers themselves. It gives us a perspective and helps us understand and a way of seeing. And there's a there's a there's a huge value in being able to see things that way. And so it's becoming more like a science that like science is a tool for understanding as well as for acting. And I think that that's an important evolution, something that we should um consider more. And I think we should also adapt our practice to reflect that more. It's not about the finite and absolute solution, but more about a process by which people can move from the known to the unknown with confidence. I think an analogy of that or maybe a kind of something that is kind of a a way of thinking about it is to is to think about the kind of design as a kind of scaffold. I mean, if you think about I like this picture here in terms of you when you think about kind of building forward, building into the future, moving into the unknown and where there is like where it's kind of uncharted territory or where you're moving towards something, it's really important to have some kind of scaffold, some kind of framework to kind of move to and to know what migrates and what gets left behind. And I think design inside complex systems is about creating that scaffold where people can kind of go and experiment and explore and feel a little more confident or safe because you've created the kind of context for them to imagine things being different. And so within healthcare here is another iceberg analogy that I like to use. But I think you know we've adapted our process to be very much kind of what we call active research. It's very much experiment-based. And the reason we do that again is, you know, understanding that um as much as the system is obscure to the patient, it's also very obscure to us. And we realized how little was actually evident in terms of really understanding the complexity and understanding um what could be seen, what could be measured, what could be understood. And so there's only so much that you can look at. And if you think about the kind of ethnographic principles of design and design design research, it's really about studying what you can observe. And for us there were so many things that we couldn't observe that we just were compelled to try and understand. And so we moved more to you know running a lot of rapid experimentation. We also discovered in terms of adapting our process that it was you know we were going to have to build our own tools. I mean the existing kind of design research tools weren't sufficient and they were too general. And as I mentioned before we have such an atypical kind of environment and communities in this environment. There's a lot of things that are really invisible and there's a lot of things that are obscure and to be able to kind of capture them um and document them and somehow quantify them, we had to really think carefully about the tools that we were using. Here's an example of that. Um we were working in a surgical suite looking at communication, the kind of absence and presence of communication and you really using these these maps, these kind of visual maps of spaces and annotating into them. This is another example of that. But what's in really compelling about this piece of work was what we were actually studying was something that was very intangible and kind of invisible. And it was again this idea of communication, the absence and presence. And what we were noticing is um the degree to which there were so many different types of communication that we were tracking and we we were able to identify and some of it was spoken but not captured. Some of it was captured but not spoken. It does move a conversation away from being very subjective to being a lot more objective for teams. People collaborate in spite of the tools they're given to use, not because of them. We've discovered this so much in healthcare being a very tool inensive environment is that the kind of human uh workaround is profound and and constant. and really looking at technology that should be enabling and should be empowering people. And um re the kind of sense right now in the system is that the tools that establish and sustain and kind of perpetuate the system are often the ones that people have to work around. And so again, I think humans getting lost in the system is frequently you optimize for your tools and then you lose the human potential. So in conclusion, I'm going to pose a question to you and maybe also a bit of a challenge. There's a lot of conversation right now about the kind of increasing volume of dementia, Alzheimer patients that we're going to be caring for more and more in the system. And there's a there's a kind of a a general urgency around the health care profession mobilizing to look for a cure. And when you consider the characteristics of this disease, the characteristics of this decline, there's potentially a lot more that that design can contribute to a solution than medicine can. And I and I pose this question about is this really a healthcare problem or is it a design problem? Should we as designers be stepping forward and considering the natural aging process versus attempting to kind of inoculate them from what is a very natural process? And so for me as a designer thinking about things that are healthcare problems potentially are also design problems in terms of where that we may find the solutions.