When summer heats up, so does your risk of heat related health issues. Dehydration, heat exhaustion, or heat stroke. Paying attention to the heat is especially important if you have a chronic illness such as diabetes. Here's what diabetics need to know about staying healthy in the heat. I give you a decent pitch. To Teresa Brown, there's nothing like a family game of backyard baseball. Nice hit. Teresa has type 1 diabetes. She has to be careful when the sun soarses. If we know we're going to be doing something that's going to be fairly active, then I need to plan ahead. Diabetes patients in particular are susceptible to the heat. Not only do they have to worry about their health, they also have to worry about the impact of hot weather on their equipment, their medications, and their supplies. Mayo Clinic Dr. Curtis Cook says dehydration can happen to diabetic patients quickly in hot weather. Many times patients lose the ability to cool themselves in the heat. And high blood sugar levels also put them at risk of dehydration. And if you get really warm and you're not you're not hydrating like you need to. I think it gets blurry as to tell am I just feeling this way because I'm really warm or am I feeling this way because something's going on with my blood sugar. So Teresa stays hydrated, drink plenty of water, and checks her blood sugar before. See, it's actually high right now. It says 194. And after playing in the sun, I'm doing good right now. This is good. I'm headed in the right direction. Teresa's on an insulin pump that constantly delivers medication. It's essential that she keep her medication and equipment cool. Heat can damage the technology, even the test strips, and it can make insulin less effective. Then the insulin can start to break down, and then it's just not going to work like it needs to in my body. insulin helps Teresa's body metabolize glucose. Sugar makes it more fun when you got to work for it. So, she's vigilant and takes care to stay healthy in the heat, so she can pitch a perfect game to her family. Teresa says she checks her blood sugar levels four to five times a day, no matter what the temperature. It takes time and diligence, but she knows careful monitoring will help keep her healthy. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian Williams.