Hello everyone. My name is Dr. Kya Lara Britinger. I'm a preventive cardiologist here at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. We are having a three-part episode series on the new dietary guidelines for Americans that just came out earlier this year and we have a lot to talk about. It is my distinct honor to introduce Dr. Darius Mosafarian as our first speaker and invited guest. He is a cardiologist, public health scientist and he is a director of the food as medicine institute at Tus University. He's also distinguished professor dean emmeritis and gene mayor professor at the Freriedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy, professor of medicine at TUS School of Medicine and attending physician in the division of cardiology at TU's medical center. Dr. Mosafarian's overall goal is to create the science and translation for a food system that is nutritious, equitable, and sustainable. He is globally renowned expert in food as medicine and has authored more than 600 scientific publications on nutritional priorities for cardiomatabolic health and on evidence-based policy approaches and innovations to advance nutrition security, reduce diet related diseases, improve health equity and reduce health care costs in the US and globally. He has served in numerous advisory roles, including on the President's Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition, and his work has been featured in an array of media outlets. Thompson Ruters named him as one of the world's most influential scientific minds. He received his BS in biological sciences from Stanford, his MD from Colombia, and doctorate in public health from Harvard with his clinical training in internal medicine at Stanford and in cardiology at the University of Washington. He is married, has three children, and he actively trains as a fourth degree black belt in Taekwondo. Welcome, Dr. Mosafarian. >> Thank you so much. It's it's great to be here with you. I've had family uh uh who've come to Rochester for care at the Mayo Clinic, and I've I've gone with them and just been really really impressed with the work that you do there and and the clinical care and just all all of the staff. >> Well, thank you so much for coming to visit rural Minnesota and having family members. It's pretty cold here right now, but hopefully our conversation warmed things up. And so for the viewers out there, if you hadn't had the opportunity to read Dr. Mosafarian's Jamama perspective, he very eloquently summarizes in very simple terms what has changed and what is simply the same. And so, you know, just to start us off, I've always been a fan and somebody always watching your uh career. and I myself am very passionate in nutrition and I just really um can't underscore enough um how valuable your work has been in just my personal trajectory as a younger preventive cardiologist. So I just wanted to lead with that. But please can you tell us maybe in a 60-cond elevator pitch what's new in the dietary guidelines for the next five years? >> Well, first I want to touch on what you mentioned about how important this has been for your career. I think for any physician or really anyone listening um nutrition should be at the top of our list in healthcare. Not top five, not top 10. This has to be the number one thing we address in healthcare. Poor nutrition leads to about 45% of all cardiovascular disease. About 70% of diabetes. It kills thousands of Americans a week. A week. It kills thousands of Americans a week. 16,000 cases of diabetes a week are attributable to to poor nutrition and all the downstream consequences and at least a trillion dollars in excess healthcare spending uh every year from poor nutrition. So this is the single top issue that healthcare has to address. Um I think secondly for the dietary guidelines um first I just want to step back and explain why they matter and so you know they come out every 5 years. They are intended to inform the public and definitely some people in the public pay attention to them, but their bigger impact is really behind the scenes. Um, and so there's some other impacts of the dietary guidelines beyond kind of just informing the public. One is they're supposed to inform agency policy. And so school meals, school breakfast, school lunch, early child care, um, after school programs, uh, meals for the elderly, military nutrition, what's purchased in federal cafeterias, what's served in VA hospitals. um you know there's we're talking about billions and billions of dollars are supposed to actually be spent by the government following the guidelines. So agency action is really important. Uh and then lastly they influence industry. So even if people don't know about them if something changes in the guidelines industry might reformulate and change its product and we're already seeing that actually right now in terms of marketing around protein which we can talk about. So so that's why the dietary guidelines are important is not just what they say but but the programs they they influence. So this year the guidelines just just came out and I would say there's uh three, you know, big big changes. Uh and most everything else is actually pretty much the same. Uh and so really the the biggest single change by far is for the first time uh the guidelines are emphasizing to reduce highly processed foods, ready to eat foods, packaged foods, foods with excess added sugars, foods with excess refined grains, foods that have artificial sweeteners or colors or preservatives or dyes. No dietary guideline has ever emphasized that and and people might be surprised to hear that, but that's a fact. No dietary guidelines has ever emphasized that. And we can come back to why that is and and why it's changed now. And so if you put all those foods together, all of these highly processed and packaged foods, Kyla, we're talking about maybe twothirds of foods in the food supply now are Americans are being advised not to eat. That's new. And then, you know, the other the other two big changes, and again, we can go back over each of these in more detail, is to embrace healthy fats, including whole fat dairy with no added sugar, uh, and to increase protein from a range of sources, not just from red meat has been sort of pitched in the media, but to increase protein from a range of animal and plant sources. Those are the three big changes in the guidelines. >> Yeah. And you know those were huge headlines because as preventive cardiologists and as cardiologists you know there's this huge elephant in the room with the demonizing of saturated fats and LDL cholesterol causing atherosclerosis strokes etc. Can you give in a layman's terms to our audience what impact that will have on LDL cholesterol across the board and if we should be worried about that or do different types of proteins, different types of saturated fat affect our lipid profiles whenever we go to our doctor and get our lipid panels checked? >> Yeah. Well, first the guidelines what they said. So when they said embrace healthy fats, they did say to prioritize oils with essential fatty acids, which is plant fats. And so they do say to prioritize plant fats and they give the example of olive oil. Um that would also include soybean oil, you know, avocado oil, uh canola oil, safflower oil, peanut oil, foods with healthy fats, other other foods with essential fatty acids like um avocados and and you know uh um olives and nuts and seeds. Um also, so it did say it did say to prioritize those. Um but it did also say that whole fat dairy is okay and whole fat dairy also has saturated fat. And it also said that other uh meat sources of fats are are okay um even though it didn't say to prioritize them. Uh and it did say to increase protein and as you said protein comes comes with with fats. So the the um kind of dirty secret about saturated fat is it's really not that relevant for cardiovascular health. And I'm a cardiologist who studied dietary fats my whole career. And um you know I did not start with this with this conclusion but the science has really made clear that saturated fat as a number to follow in your diet is really a distraction and we shouldn't be be worrying about saturated fat. Instead we should be talking about foods and food sources and and so for example processed meats um like deli meats or or bacon or slam salami or sausage they're bad for health and they're bad for health regardless of saturated fat. And so getting a low-fat, you know, d turkey sausage or um low-fat, you know, bologna or or other processed meats is actually very bad for your health. Not because of the fat, but because of other preservatives and other processing things in in processed meats. On the other on the other hand, dairy dairy fats which have saturated fat are not bad for health. They don't increase cardiovascular risk. They don't increase weight gain. They don't increase diabetes risk. And in fact, some evidence suggests that whole fat dairy may be uh linked to better body composition, less body fat, less weight gain, less diabetes. That that evidence is not not conclusive, but certainly no evidence that that it's worse for you to have whole fat dairy. Uh and then, you know, saturated fat comes from other things as well, like like butter. Butter somewhere in between. Butter is not quite as good for you as as cheese or yogurt, which are fermented foods, but butter is better for you than processed meats. And so, it's really the food source that matters, not not the saturated fat. And you know, you brought up LDL cholesterol. Yes, saturated fat raises LDL cholesterol. But but let's do a thought experiment. You know, Kyle, let's let's I'm say I'm a drug company. I've developed a new drug that I want to give to the population that lowers LDL cholesterol. And I go to FDA and I say it lowers LDL cholesterol. Can I, you know, give this drug to the population. Of course, the the drug is lowering saturated fat, but but let's let's talk about a drug. And FDA says, "Well, what else what else does it the drug do? Does it do anything else?" I say yes. In addition to lowering LDL cholesterol, this drug raises triglycerides. Uh it lowers HDL cholesterol. It raises lipoprotein little A. Uh and actually it it most of its effect on lowering LDL cholesterol is by changing uh LDL particle size, not by changing apo B, which is really the problem. They say, well, you're telling me there's a drug that has mixed effects. It has different effects on lipoprotein little A, triglycerides, HCL, LDL. I believe in LDL. I know LDL is causal, but why don't you do some long-term studies? Let's look at events. Let's look at does this actually improve cardiovascular risk. And I say, "Sure." And I do a bunch of trials and I show in the trials that it doesn't improve cardiovascular risk even though it lowers LDL cholesterol because it has all these offtarget effects. Right? Would you approve the drug and say prescribe it to everybody? You'd say, "No." You'd say, "No, I'm sorry. It lowers LDL cholesterol, but it has offtarget effects." That's saturated fat. Saturated fat, yes. Eating more raises your LDL. Eating less lowers your LDL, but there's many, many offtarget effects. Saturated fat is not a drug. It has many effects on other pathways. And if you put all those effects together, it's essentially a wash. At the end of the day, saturated fat is basically a wash for for cardiovascular health. It's not the the best thing to eat. We shouldn't be going out and eating red meat for cardiovascular health, but it's also not, you know, really a problem. That is such a wonderful example and I'm glad you took a few minutes to discuss that because what it sounds like it comes down to is not focusing on one single nutrient, one single single item or food. It's really the entire pattern, right? And never in a million years will anyone ever give us the billions of dollars it would take to do a randomized clinical trial looking at somebody who eats kind of this whole whole food diet versus someone who gets all the ultrarocessed foods with the lowest amount of saturated fat to find mace outcomes in like 20 to 30 years. And really a head-to-head trial looking at that in the context of where study participants would live, right? because we know so many factors go into cardiovascular health, including your zip code, where you live can determine a lot about what types of food and opportunities you have access to. And so I just find that really interesting and important and it makes me think about the Mediterranean dietary pattern because when I go to the Mediterranean to the Mediterranean there is salami, there is pushcido, there's a ton of processed meats, but yet the AHA and most cardiologists we say the Mediterranean is diet is good in moderation. So that also kind of brings well it's an entire dietary pattern. We're not here saying that well look at this dietary pattern has other types of fat in it. I think that's really um important. And I guess my next question is is the idea with protein. In the past, the guidelines were up to 1.2 kg um per total body weight, right? 1.2 g and now we're at 1.2 to 1.6. Can you um talk about the new protein requirements and um maybe answer those skeptics who say, "Well, Americans already have enough protein. What are they even talking about?" But really with the explosion of new weight loss interventions including medications and requiring higher protein intake reducing frailty can you kind of tell us about protein and is a higher goal fine? I've talked to my friends who are nefologists who say actually even in CKD these people are in catabolic states they actually require more protein. It's not that harmful to the kidneys. >> Yeah. as you said, you know, having a single nutrient and trying to pick your diet or set up your diet around a single nutrient like saturated fat or total fat is not the right idea. It's more about the kinds of foods you eat. I think that's also true for protein. So, I think it's a little bit um the debate about whether higher protein or lower protein matters that much is actually mostly a distraction, but let's you know mostly but but not entirely. So, let's get into some of the details. So, so the um I I like to translate the the grams per kilogram of body weight into percentage of energy because it's a little bit easier for people to think about. And so, of course, while it depends on the person and their body size, on average, the previous uh target for protein was around 11 or 12% of calories from protein was kind of the the RDA. Uh these new guidelines say now it should be around 16 to 21%. They give a range around 16 to 21% rather than 11 or 12%. So, the first question is, is that a big change? Um, it's a big change from the previous uh guidelines, but it's not a big change from where Americans are today. So, Americans today on average have about 16 or 17% of calories from protein. So, they're already meeting the guidelines, actually, the new the new guidelines. So, I think my first message is um I think the higher protein intake is fine and you're already meeting it. So, you don't need to go out and get more protein, right? The the vast majority of Americans are already eating enough protein. the the groups of people that don't eat enough protein tend to be um older women um in particular tend to not have a lot of of animal products and not have a lot of calories. And so older women in particular probably aren't getting enough protein. And there's also some evidence that maybe younger women, you know, don't quite get enough protein. Um but you know, if you look at kind of the across the population, nine out of 10 Americans are already meeting the new the new guidelines, so we don't need to to worry about it. Um, in terms of the health benefits of higher protein, um, if the the most clearly established health benefit is for muscle mass, if you're strength training, and that if is really really important. If you just eat more protein, you don't build muscle. And so and so um if it were that easy, right, we'd all be muscular and and so and so if you eat protein and you're not strength training and you're eating excess calories, that protein gets turned into fat for energy storage just like starch does and just like sugar does. And so in fact, in long-term observational studies, these are observational, people who eat more protein have more body weight gain and higher risk of diabetes because they're not strength training. And so it's just extra calories and your body says what do I do with these amino acids in my bloodstream? I can't do anything with them. I'm going to turn it into fat. Uh so so what I wish the guidelines had said I have this is where I think they're a little bit imperfect. I wish it had said higher protein and combine that with strength training, right? Resistance training for that [clears throat] for those for those uh uh individuals, people with sarcopenia, women, you know, pretty much any older adult after 60. a combination of strength training, higher protein intake is a good thing. Um, what I'm worried about though is a distortion of that of that factual kind of very reasonable approach that you should be strength training and and thinking about protein with what's already happening since the guidelines came out, which is ultrarocessed food companies uh adding protein or pitching protein to highly processed unhealthy products and just saying have your protein. And so um within the last two weeks folks friends have sent me um shots of like um Dunkin Donuts has their super super sugary drinks and they say get your protein and protein for health right right there. Even though it's tons of sugar and flavorings and other things and not good for you. Um protein energy bars which are highly processed, protein drinks which are highly processed. Uh to their credit, the dietary guidelines say get your protein and get it from real food. They do say that. They say very specifically, do not get it from processed foods and protein powders and all this other stuff, but industry is having a field day and distorting that message. And so I think for the for the doctors who are watching, for any patients who might watch, first of all, you're probably getting enough protein. Um, if you want to get more protein, get it from real food. Get it from a mix of different plant and animal sources and make sure you're doing regular strength training. >> Yeah, that's a great that's a that's all great advice because that's what's happening, right? You go to any of the grocery stores and anything that says protein people are grabbing but not turning it around looking at the ingredients list. If it's a novel more than five or six lines, you know, you should be asking yourself, is this actually healthy? Can I recognize any of the ingredients? Obviously, based on the nolva classification system, you have to eat some form of processed foods. Not everything comes raw, right? And so, um, very important. And I know these aren't part of the DGA's, but I get this question asked all the time. What is your take on creatine? Creatine and holding on to that lean muscle in combination with weight training. Are you pro? Are you against? Are you neutral? Does it is it a confounding thing? Does it just make people more motivated to live healthier lifestyles? >> Yeah. So, just to go back to what you said about high protein, this reminds me of after the 1980 guidelines which said lowfat, right? Everybody started buying low-fat everything. And Snackwell's cookies made by Nabiscoco o overtook Oreos cookies also made by Nabiscoco as the top selling cookie in the United States. These fat-ree cookies, right? Fat-ree, fat-free frozen yogurt, fat-ree salad dressing. What's what's fat-ree salad dressing if it doesn't have oil, right? Fatree became the the marker for health. Now it's high protein. And so anytime you see something advertised as high protein, it's probably not good for you. If they need to advertise that it's high in protein, they're probably hiding something. So, so actually run away from products that say high protein and look for products that don't have to advertise that because it's natural whole food. Just like lowfat was was used as a marketing gimmick. Yeah, I think creatine like some other supplements, there is some evidence, not amazing evidence. There is some evidence that it helps with with um uh muscles and uh and possibly other other kind of muscularkeeletal outcomes. Not all the trials are positive. Some are, some are not. There's been meta analyses done showing modest benefits. And so I think if people um you know are interested and want to do that, I think that it's okay. It's it's probably not harmful. Um but the vast majority of people they're they're what they really should focus on on is their diet. If you have a bad diet and you're taking creatine supplements, you know, I'd rather have you stop taking the supplement and and you know, you know, switch switch your diet to kind of go to the grocery store, shop for more whole ingredients, assemble and cook yourself more often. That's going to do you better than kind of any anything you can get in a bottle. I can relate to that in my household. I have a a partner who is trying to improve his muscle and I see all this powder and everything in our pantry is looking like protein, protein, and protein. And it just kind of bring me back to this conversation that I have with patients all the time that's similar to your perspective. Can we emphasize or have a little space to talk about fruits and vegetables and whole grains and you know looking at that kind of pyramid of the new pyramid for the DGAS where the grains are at the bottom >> but maybe um what's your take on that reducing whole grains or not reducing but less emphasis on the whole grains. It's interesting because the author of the book Sapiens also has a kids version called Unstoppable Us. And I'm learning about anthropologic history where we used to be hunter gatherers. And the moment the farming revolution came, they were comparing skeletons from hunter gatherers to farmers. The the dentition was worth the people had more brittle bone disease. And so it made me think about, you know, thinking about the paleo paleolithic diet, which has some positives but some negatives. And just kind of talking more about um that, but I keep thinking about, well, I'm learning so much from my kids and like, wow, like we're looking at skeletons that differ in their lifestyle and the types of foods they consumed. And we're seeing kind of a worse off health. >> Yeah. Well, I'm so glad you brought up fruits and vegetables and whole grains because we talked about things that change in the guidelines and that's what a lot of the media has been about, but we should talk about the things that didn't change and are equally emphasized. And so fruits and vegetables are strongly encouraged or strongly emphasized in the new guidelines. And whole grains are more emphasized or at least equally emphasized as before. Um the difference uh before was that um uh so so the the the single food that Americans overeat more than anything is not sugar, it's refined grains. And so white bread, white rice, crackers, cereals, pastries, bakery goods, you know, refined corn, rice, rice, and wheat flour basically is about a third of calories in the average diet and probably higher in people who have worse diets. That's the biggest problem in the food supply. Um, previous guidelines have never strongly said to to restrict those. And this gets us back to kind of the way the guidelines uh uh uh happen every five years. And and we should talk about this. Every five years there's a scientific committee. The scientific committee puts out recommendations. That's a very public process. And then the scientific committee gives the recommendations to the government to health and human services and and US Department of Agriculture and they put out the final guidelines and they do that behind closed doors without anybody knowing what they did. That's where the sausage is made. That's where the pork is made and industry has an influence. That happens every single time. And so what's happened in the past guidelines is whenever the scientific advisory committee has said Americans should eat less of this, the final guidelines water that down. So they say Americans should have less sugar sweetened beverages. They should have less processed meats. They should have less refined grains. Almost every advisory committee has said that. The final guidelines tend to hide that behind nutrient targets. Well, you should have less sugar or less saturated fat or less fat because nutrient targets means that any food is okay. And they actually say within there's no bad foods. Any food is okay in moderation within your nutrient targets. That's what's always happened in the past. This time the government came out and said no, there's foods you should avoid and limit foods. It's not nutrients. There's foods that you shouldn't be eating less of. And refined grains is one of those. So, a big big change in these guidelines is for the first time it says in it really emphasizes, excuse me, that Americans should eat less refined grains, white bread, white rice, crackers, cereals, and so on. And it says basically Americans should have have whole grains two to four servings per day. And so, when I look at the triangle, it's kind of a triangle, not a not not a pyramid really. And they describe it, it has three pillars. Each each corner is a pillar. One of the pillars is fruits and vegetables. One of the pillars is whole grains. One of the pillars is fats, uh, dairy and protein. And if you actually look at the foods that are on in the in the new pyramid or triangle, about 60 or 70% are fruits and vegetables and whole grains and about 25 or 30% are animal foods. And it's a mix of animal foods. There's seafood, there's cheese, there's milk, there's yogurt, there's poultry, there's red meat. And so the media message has been that this guideline is encouraging red meat consumption and butter consumption. And certainly the secretary of health is is tweeting that himself. But if you actually look at the pyramid, it's a pretty balanced representation. I think it's a very balanced representation of whole grains and and fruits and vegetables. And so I don't think of whole grains as being underemphasized. I just think of three three pillars and each each point of the of the triangle is is a pillar of good health. >> I love that it's not a pyramid, it's a triangle. And so maybe redirecting our attention on being angry that there's no not an emphasis on fiber, fruits and vegetables, but rather reading everything and kind of looking to it into more detail, I think is super important. >> Fruits and vegetables are most of the image. If you look at most of the image is fruits and vegetables. >> So I just think people people read left to right and so the government by putting the stake as the very first thing you see emphasized it. But um if you actually just look at the whole base of the pyramid, if you look at the there's tons of fruits and vegetables too. It's just the way they did it left to right and the way you know we read if if if these guidelines had come out uh in the Middle East or somewhere where they read right to left, they would have seen all the fruits and vegetables first. So [laughter] >> maybe we should do a little bit of that next time. >> Well, I I I've just flipped it. I've just used AI to flip it left to right and it looks perfectly fine. Yeah. >> Well, speaking of AI and Chad GBT and other things, I want to spend the last minute or two. We know your time is sacred here to kind of I want your opinion on kind of our current culture of Tik Tok of influencers of kind of animosity towards expertise animosity towards education people who've done the research original research and then those people who criticize all the research with no scientific backing and you know we are going to get left behind if we don't figure out how to be current and how to be relevant and reach out to Americans and just globally. And I just wanted your take on what is your theory, what is your solution or advice to those people out there who are content creators, those people who do original research to get out there. Some people are like, I'm staying away from social media because it's terrible, but that's how people are receiving information. And we need to respect and revere the people who've dedicated their lives to the evidence and kind of have them take back control, but maybe having relationships with these other people who are really good at marketing, who are really good with connecting people. And then maybe your, you know, 15-second takeaway to end our discussion to give everybody the last word on the DGAS. That's a lot of questions. Sorry to put that on you. >> Yeah, no problem. So yeah, I think you know so I lead the food is medicine institute and food truly is medicine. It's biologic information that can treat disease and and take care of many many diseases. So it actually is medicine but food is other things. Food is flavor and joy and culture and dignity and taste and uh you know the earth and soil food is many things and so as opposed to other sciences nutrition and food is of course a science it's very personal and so everybody feels like they can be an expert because everybody eats right if I talk about you know the best people to do a tab in or whether you know asymptomatic corateed endardctomy what's the best treatment for that you know few people at the dinner table that aren't doctors are going to get in a heated discussion with me about about that if if you're a rocket scientist talking about the best fuel to get to Mars or how to shield shield the astronauts from the radiation, you're not going to have influencers out there saying, "No, that expert's wrong. Here's the thing." Right? But nutrition is so personal, right? We all eat that um there is this movement now that that not only um devalues um expertise and knowledge, but but almost denigrates it. And people actually say, "I'm not a scientist and I don't do the research and so trust me." And I think that's very very dangerous. I think that's very very dangerous. Right? We we expertise matters. Knowledge matters. You're not going to take your car to get repaired to somebody who has never done it before and just has a lot of clicks and likes. And you're not going to, you know, if you're you're not going to go be in a building and be feel safe that it's earthquake safe if you're uh you know, inspector was just an influencer who just came and decided to inspect the building, right? Um we we need to we need to have expertise. Uh and so it is a really challenging situation where um clicks and likes and and follows dominate not only people's um uh you know own self-gratification but actually brings dollars to them like huge amount of money in this right the more likes and follows you have you actually get paid and some people are making lots and lots of money from this and unfortunately you know simple straightforward messages don't sell right the messages that sell are conspiracy theories and extreme points and and and attacking people really sells. So I think it's very challenging and one of the positive things um is podcasts, right? Podcasts actually tend to have experts on a lot of people are listening to podcasts. It's really overtaking, you know, the nightly news as the ways to get information. So I think for the average person out there like like look for podcasts, look for books that are from experts and look at their credentials and and and and trust them. I think that's what's really important. And I guess you know the the takeaway for the for the guidelines I think big picture um this is the first guidelines we've had that really attacks kind of the ultrarocessed food industry and tells Americans it's not okay and what I'm really interested to see is is there going to be a budget for this administration to actually disseminate this to the public which no guidelines have ever had. How quickly are school meals, military meals, federal cafeterias, VA hospitals going to change because that requires the agencies to make rules and update them? And from past experience, sometimes it takes 5, 10 years or never happens. They never actually change for the guidelines. So, is this going to be just a piece of paper that's on a website uh uh or is this going to be really change for our country? And so, I think we have to see if this administration is really going to invest uh in in the implementation. But if you're a physician or if you're, you know, a member of the public thinking about the guidelines, I think the big take-h home message is to eat real food to eat a range of foods, plenty of fruits and vegetables, beans, nuts, seeds, whole whole grains. Embrace fat. We have to stop fearing fat. You know, worry more about refined starches and and refined grains. A little bit of red meat is okay. That's not that shouldn't be the center of your diet, but a little bit of red meat is okay. Uh, and I think that if we all actually eat that way, um, you know, it would be tremendous for the health of the American people. Wonderful. Thank you so much Dr. Mosafarian for your expertise. You heard it here. I'm Kyla Laura Britinger from the Mayo Clinic interview with the experts. Thank you so much again for your time. More than honored to have you visit with us and talk with us. Thank you so much. >> My pleasure, Kyla. At Mayo Clinic, [music] continuous learning fuels world-class care. I am Dr. Francisco Lopez Himenez, chair of the [music] division of preventive cardiology. If today's episode gave you a fresh insight, imagine [music] what a full course can do for your patients. Please check out the link cveducation.mme.edu [music] edu and explore our live and online [music] programs, quick on demand modules, and CME accredited master classes [music] created and thought by the very voices you trust here. Join thousands of clinicians who have already turned curiosity [music] into expertise. Level up your practice now at cveducation.mme.edu.