I'm Dr. Kevin Boland. I'm the director of the ALS Center at Mayo Clinic in Florida. Uh the ALS Center at Mayo Clinic in Florida is an ALS association certified center of excellence. We are the only center in Florida and we're dedicated to providing multid-disciplinary care for people with ALS uh in a format that includes a team approach based on the Mayo Clinic uh philosophy and standard of working together to provide the best possible care that we can for people with ALS. Uh the ALS association uh center has a as a key component our research program which is focused on therapeutic trials, translational research in ALS and basic research that is all dedicated toward developing more effective therapy for Lug Gerri's disease. ALS is a progressive neurological disorder affecting cells that control muscles and over time it causes a gradual loss of function in muscles involving speech, swallowing, breathing and control of the arms and legs and is eventually fatal in two to five years. It affects men and women. The cause is not known. Uh but there are about one out of 10 people with ALS who have a family history of the disorder. There's no effective treatment for Lou Garri's disease. The best we have is a drug that slows progression by to a very modest extent and the challenge has been that in developing therapy that the cause of the disease in people generally with ALS is not known. uh a major focus of our research program here has been on inherited forms of ALS and particularly a form that's associated with a gene called C9F72. The C9F72 gene has a repeat expansion associated with it. That's a genetic change which is linked to uh familial ALS in the large in a significant proportion of people who have familial ALS. It accounts for probably 40% of familial cases, but it's also found in six or 7% of people with ALS who have no family history of the disorder. And the effort has been to try to understand the way in which that mutation leads to ALS because it's believed that that will help in the development of focus therapy in a way that has not been possible in other forms of ALS where the cause of the disorder is less well understood. The C9 or F72 form of ALS which we refer to as C9 ALS is also uh linked to a form of dementia called front temporal dementia and this is a type of dementia which is distinct from Alzheimer disease but is uh clearly linked to this mutation and it's been seen that in people with ALS associated with this mutation that a subset of those have ALS some of them have uh ALS with front temporal dementia and some people with this mutation have FTD alone. Um, the focus of our grant has been to build on research that our center, our research group has been doing to try to gain a more clear understanding of the ways in which the mutation leads to disease because that information is going to be essential for therapeutic development. There are research groups, ours and others, that are working on therapy targeted at C9 ALS and C9 FTD. And it's expected that within 18 to 24 months, that therapy is going to get into the earliest stage human trials. In order to be able to reliably examine the effects of that treatment to know whether it works, it's going to be essential to understand what the natural course of this disorder is over time. And our research project, what we're being funded uh for with these grants is intended to help accomplish that. It's believed that this type of approach looking at an individualized type of therapy that's directed at at a specific subtype of ALS may turn out to be the future of this disorder because it's believed increasingly that people with ALS don't all have the same condition in the same sense that people with some forms of cancer have distinct forms of cancer and that uh this type of individ individualized targeted therapy is really going to get us uh much closer to effective treatment than the strategies that have been applied up to this point.