Welcome to the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology Podcast, brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host, Dr. Andrea Tooley. And I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in ophthalmology, medicine, and more. Dr. Darby Miller, MD, MPH, is a cornea and refractive surgeon at Mayo Clinic Jacksonville. He is past president of the Florida Society of Ophthalmology and current chair of the AAO Young Ophthalmology Advocacies Subcommittee. Today, we're talking all things advocacy in ophthalmology, what is advocacy, why we need it, and how these issues can influence your practice. Thank you for joining this virtual podcast. Today, we have the privilege of interviewing Dr. Darby Miller. He is an MD and an MPH and is a cornea and refractive surgeon at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida. Dr. Miller is heavily involved in the American Academy of Ophthalmology, currently serving as the chair for the Young Ophthalmology Advocacy Subcommittee. Dr. Darby is past recipient of the AAO Secretariat Award, the Achievement Award, and a graduate of the American Academy of Ophthalmology Leadership Development Program. Dr. Miller is also the past president of the Florida Society of Ophthalmology and has done significant work in advocacy for ophthalmology. Welcome, Dr. Miller. Thank you so much for having me. My pleasure. Welcome, Darby. We're so excited to talk with you today. I'm really excited to talk about advocacy and you have a great position because you've been involved in advocacy at the state level and both at the national level too. So before we kind of jump into everything, can you just give us a brief overview of what we even mean when we're talking about advocacy and then kind of your journey that's brought you here, that's gotten you involved? Yeah, absolutely. So advocacy, I guess you can term it in many different ways, but it's usually giving a voice to someone who doesn't have one. So for our role as ophthalmologists, when we're advocates, we're actually standing up for our patients, whether it's patient safety or burdensome regulation that delays medical care, but really working with our legislators, whether it's on a state level or a national level, to help improve patient care, improve patient safety. So, you know, my role, I started off as an advocacy ambassador. So I was a resident in D.C. and got to attend the academy's mid-year forum, which I think we'll touch on a little bit more later in Washington, D.C. Every year they have this wonderful advocacy ambassador program. I was one of about 100 residents who was able to attend, and it just completely opened up my eyes to a whole other world of ophthalmology that I was not aware of in the midst of training. I know that as a resident and a fellow, you're looking at the BCSC, you're studying for OCAPs, you're overwhelmed with clinic and call and surgical numbers, and you don't actually have a chance to know about this whole other world of advocacy until hopefully everyone gets to experience this mid-year forum as an advocacy ambassador. So that's where my journey started. It completely changed the trajectory of my career. As soon as I got done with fellowship, I moved down to Florida and joined the Mayo Clinic here. And thankfully, several of our faculty members are very involved with the Florida Society of Ophthalmology and the Academy and got me plugged in. And, you know, I think I would highly encourage everyone when you get asked, do you want to do X, Y, or Z, just say yes and roll with it. And that's exactly what I did. And I just am very appreciative to the leadership here at Mayo in Florida and throughout the academy and the Florida Society of Ophthalmology for allowing me to serve in many different roles. So, Dr. Miller, we're all busy in our clinical roles as surgeons or in our communities. Sometimes I think we all recognize that advocacy can fall by the wayside. What do you share with your colleagues, whether they're in Florida or nationally, on why this is something that's important, what we should care about? And how does a person who's not really giving it much attention in their clinical practice, how do they get informed on opportunities or what's being talked about? Yeah, that's a great question. We are very busy. That is, you know, one of those difficult balances in life, because there's just so much that work demands of us, but also we have our families, our spouses, our hobbies. And I think advocacy does go hand in hand with the work that we do as ophthalmologists. I mean, you can advocate for a patient on an individual level at the SLAMP or in the OR, but this just gives you a better chance to advocate for patients in a general sense. So I think making the time for this, you know, making it a priority is kind of the most important. You know, getting involved, you can do this in many different ways. You can stay informed through the academy. Every single week, the academy sends out a Washington Report Express. So everything that's going on within advocacy on a national level. They also touch on state issues. But you can get more plugged into your state issues just by joining your state society, which I would heavily encourage, you know, strongly encourage everybody to do. Get and not only become a member, but also get involved with your state society. I completely resonates with me, everything you said, because I didn't know anything about advocacy until I was an advocacy ambassador as a resident, just like you. and just like Eric said we're busy we're clinicians we're surgeons we have all kinds of other things we're worried about and so I feel like a lot of times this is the last on our list of things to care about so how do you how do we learn about the issues and let I mean really joining our state society going to mid -year forum those are the big ways but then how do we just engage more ophthalmologists in general to to know about these issues do we just talk to them in practice I know it's a hard question, but it's something I've grappled with after coming back from mid-year form or being involved in our state society. It's something I knew nothing about. Do we start at a resident level? Yeah, I think as early as possible, even medical students, I think this should be really part of our training. You look at other professions, whether it's the world of you know, laws and, you know, attorneys, advocacy is taught from day one. It's something that if you don't advocate for your profession, you know, there's that saying, right? If you're not at the table, you're on the menu. It's very true. If you aren't sitting at the table and have a vested interest in your profession and your patients, you will be on the menu. You will not be part of the discussion that basically forms laws, sets policy, things that directly affect us and our patients. So I think, you know, getting the word out, you know, as you said, the academy does a great job. Our state societies are doing a better and better job. But just talking to your colleagues at work at your academic institutions or private practices, social media is starting to take over also. So and I know, Dr. Tooley, you have a, you know, critical role in forming social media, the Yo's within the academy, within the Minnesota society. I think this is going to be extremely important going forward because the next generation may not be attending meetings in person or they may not be opening their emails, but they'll look at their Twitter account, they'll look at Instagram, they're going to look at Facebook, they're going to see what's going on through those different venues. Yeah, I love that you said that. it is so important to have lots of different avenues and different platforms to talk about this and podcasts. I tried to look and see if there were other ophthalmology advocacy related podcasts. And so I'm very excited that we're putting this out. I hope that it inspires other people to learn more and get more involved. I'm pumped about the podcast space, but also Instagram, Twitter, all that. So, so important. I like your comment that you made about the younger the better certainly advocacy whether you're getting a representative to go to mid-year forum or and having leadership sort of vested opportunities for residents I just one of the my mentors years ago when I was in residency it was a guy by the name Marty Kaplan and he's here in Minnesota and he used to come once a month to the county hospital to meet for breakfast with the residents. And it was just a wonderful way to hear about private practice, but he bled advocacy to hold up everything about our profession that we celebrate and need investing in, not just in our clinics, but on a national level. And I just remember being drawn to these conversations from a very early standpoint. So I like what you said about that. And I think those of us and academic institutions all over the country need to be very mindful about the opportunity we have to connect with residents on all levels. And then once they get out in their private practice worlds or academic worlds to draw them into community in our state societies, you had the opportunity to be the president of the Florida Ophthalmology Society. You know, Andrea and I have leadership roles up here in Minnesota in a similar fashion, But share with us, once they are launched, once they're out of our program and in private practices, what's your message on waving your flag to get people involved when you were president or even after, on why state societies are so important for individuals and our practices? They're critically important. And I didn't fully understand how important they were until I got involved. you know so a couple of different things how we can get young ophthalmologists plugged in one is once they graduate from their respective programs let's say there's someone who's graduating in Minnesota is coming down to Florida the academy does make that state society aware so they'll notify Florida and say hey listen there's someone who just graduated from Mayo in Minnesota they're coming down to Florida to practice feel free you know to reach out to them so we reach out to all new incoming young ophthalmologists coming to the state of florida we encourage them to join our state society and then we encourage them to actually attend our annual meeting every year and there are special events we have a yo program that's dedicated to young ophthalmologists we have several different social hours that you know that they can just get to know network with ophthalmologists across the state so that's one way we can you know more easily get people plugged in and the academy does do a great job of helping to facilitate that. Again, I think it does come back to just the knowledge of what's going on within your state. There are certain, you know, scope of practice issues, outreach issues, education issues that, you know, ophthalmologists, no matter what state you're in, you want to be aware of these issues, you want to be informed. So I guess, you know, encouraging people to do that, join your state society, that should be the first thing that people do right out of training obviously stay an academy member but join your state society most of these state societies florida including have heavily discounted membership rates so they're one third you know one fourth than the normal cost for the first four or five years so we encourage young ophthalmologists we need young ophthalmologists voices within the state societies we have yo representatives on our board almost every state society does because we need to hear that voice. We need to hear the input from them. They're the future of our profession. I love that Darby. I think if anybody's listening, if you're a yo, even if you're a trainee, get involved in your state society, you don't have to be in practice. And then especially if you're in your early practice and you're not involved in your state society, that's the number one thing to do. I completely agree. And I think they're critically important, but there's different issues at the state and the national level too. Right. And so being a yo involved in advocacy or state level could be really different than being a yo involved in advocacy at the national level. Do you see that? Yeah, absolutely. There are some issues, you know, that overlap, but for the most part, there are very different issues. So, you know, the federal issues that we see right now, you know, we just talked about it in your form in DC, but a lot of it has to do with, you know, reimbursement, fair reimbursement from Medicare. We were talking about prior authorizations, which delay medical care to patients step therapy, right? So the fail first that the, you know, the patient who was treated by a certain medication for macular degeneration or glaucoma, and then they change insurance plans. And that, that medication is not considered to be the first available medication for that patient. So they have to fail or try other medications first before they can get back onto their, their medication that actually show that that was helping their condition. And then this VA supremacy project on a national level. So many people, this was news to me about a year ago, but many people are not aware that at the federal level, the scope of practice for many non-physician providers is going to be defined very soon. And that includes optometrists who we work very closely with to provide excellent care for our patients. But this scope of practice would allow them to perform surgery, including lasers, potentially injections, potentially eyelid surgeries at every VA hospital throughout the country. So this federal supremacy project was one that we were trying as ophthalmologists to have input because we don't want to lower the standards of safety for these patients, for our veterans, for our heroes, right? They should receive the best care possible. So those are some of the federal issues that we are dealing with. Now, some of that does cross over into state issues. you know scope of practice obviously many people in many different states are aware of scope of practice battles that are ongoing we just had one last year in Florida would not have been possible to win that battle without the help of the academy I mean I really hats off to the American Academy of Ophthalmology for being there to support us the state affairs team really did a phenomenal job I would you know just implore each and every person no matter what state you're in whether I I know Minnesota potentially could have a battle soon. Just get involved with that state society because they work hand-in-hand with the American Academy of Ophthalmology to make sure that these scope battles, that we can win and that patient safety is preserved. There are outreach programs. We had an issue here in Florida where we noticed that kids were not getting properly screened, not having proper vision screenings by a certain age. So amblyopia, by the time we caught it, was too late. We had an amblyopia awareness project here. We passed a resolution in the Florida House and Senate so that physicians, whether pediatricians or pediatric ophthalmologists, were able to screen their kids at an earlier age so that we could pick up amblyopia at an earlier age. So there's a lot of great things that are going on, even on state levels. You can talk about Illinois. They just passed a bill that is trying to curb waste in ophthalmology. So that's another thing that I think we're working on at a national level. So there is some overlap there, but certainly, you know, different issues that are on a federal and a state level. I really celebrate the pediatric comments as a pediatric ophthalmologist myself and actually fighting a little bit of a comprehensive versus screening scope battle when I was president of the MAO. we just celebrate strong screening programs and creatively bolstering and improving how screening is done all over the country. It's interesting. Can I just ask you, amid your forum, my sense, the two of you were there. I heard that there was kind of an awareness in terms of funding and resources being cutbacks. PEDS, to me, was hit disproportionately hard compared to everybody else in terms of its reimbursement for surgical codes across the board. And in addition to that, we're facing a time where only about half of our fellowships are filling. And we're having shortages of pediatric ophthalmologists all over the place. So my question to you would be, what's your take on how much of a voice we can have and what traction we might be making, whether in a world of peds or in other areas in terms of when we see the finances going into healthcare, taking away our ability to provide healthcare? Eric, I'm so glad you asked this. Darby, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I feel like a lot of people, when they hear about advocacy, when they hear that term, they think, oh, that's scope battles. All we're talking about is scope. So I'm so glad we're going to talk about these other issues. And reimbursement is a huge one because this is the future of our profession. And if our reimbursements are so impractical that you can't become a pediatric ophthalmologist feasibly anymore, you know, that's a huge issue for our patients. So take it away, Darby, but I'm really glad we're talking about this. Yeah, it's a huge issue, particularly with pediatric ophthalmologists. So, you know, APOS and the Academy worked very hard to try and prevent those drastic cuts to pediatric ophthalmology, and they're still working on that. There's a slide that they show at almost every meeting that shows the last 20 years of reimbursement and how physician reimbursement has really basically flatlined over the last 20 years, whereas hospital and ASC and other reimbursements have really, they've kept up with inflation and more so. Each year, CMS proposes these, these cuts to, to ophthalmologists for fishes and physicians in general. And that's one of the biggest things that we fight. And I will say some of the smartest people I've ever met, whether it's David Glasser, or George Williams, Dan Brycelen, I'm just absolutely amazing, smart people that are working with the academy and pour tens of hours every week into this are trying their utmost to just establish a fair reimbursement system for physicians and ophthalmologists, because we don't want a brain drain in medicine. We don't want people saying, wow, I'm coming out with these huge, enormous student loans, and then I'm not getting paid. I can't even afford to pay a mortgage, repay my loans. So it's a constant battle. It's a constant of battle and one that we're fighting, you know, it seems like almost every week that we're talking to legislators, telling them our stories, right? Telling them that, Hey, this is going to affect patient care. There is a physician shortage coming. We can't have, we can't afford to not have the best and the brightest in medicine. We need them there. We need them to take care of patients, but in order to do that, please just reimburse us fairly. And that's, that's all we're asking. We're not asking for an exorbitant amount of money. We're just asking for fair reimbursement. so we don't lose those people that right would otherwise go into something like pediatric ophthalmologists which we desperately need yeah i love that it really is the personal stories that you can share with legislators because sometimes when you're thinking about these big bills on a large scale they seem so out of touch with your day-to-day but it's absolutely true when you're talking with the legislators they want to hear what you're seeing in clinic and what you're actually going through and it's those little tiny anecdotes that make a huge difference that can impact our entire profession. And when you're thinking it's not just scope, it's how much, it's our reimbursement, it's our future, it's our jobs. And then also how we care for our patients with prior authorization or the different regulations that we're bound to when we care for our patients is huge. And I think it's really fulfilling to be able to, like you said, have a seat at the table for that. I totally agree. I mean, I had someone tell me a couple of years ago that if you make an impact in advocacy, there's no better way to affect a huge amount of people, right? A positive way to affect, you know, tens of thousands of patients, you know, thousands of eye care providers, you know, ophthalmologists, even optometrists. We can benefit them by fighting for certain things at a federal level. So, you know, I feel very fortunate to be a part of it and part of this team. You know, the academy does an amazing job. I'm also very thankful for Mayo for being so supportive. You know, I would not be able to do this if Mayo wasn't so supportive. And I think, you know, it's no different in Minnesota or in Arizona. But, you know, the needs of the patient do come first in this instance, right? We are there fighting for our patients and our profession. And I just appreciate the opportunity to do that and the fact that Mayo is there to back us up on that. Yeah, it's a good point. Do you think there's a difference in any barrier to entry for those in private practice or in large private equity firms or in academics to getting involved with advocacy? Yeah, I think there is. I mean, certainly with private practice, because, you know, especially when it comes to scope of practice, right? because they have such a strong referral base from optometrists and they have had some backlash you know when they stand up for things that you know patient safety if there's a scope bill and they stand up for patient safety and say no you know someone who's gone to medical school who's done four years of residency training and maybe a couple years of a fellowship they should be the ones performing the lasers they should be the ones performing these injections or eyelid surgeries If they stand up like that, they do feel the backlash from optometry, which is really unfortunate. So it is it is a little bit easier to do that in an academic institution because you are somewhat protected. You know, they they they that there isn't much that they can influence as far as our patient referral base if you're protected in an academic institution. So there is a difference there. And I think that does put a little bit heavier burden on us in academia. that we do need to be the ones that, that does stand up, not only for, you know, our, our profession, our patients, but for some of these ophthalmologists who their livelihood could suffer if they speak out, which is really unfortunate, but that we can hopefully fill that void and stand up for them. Yeah. If you are in private practice and feel very constrained by your referral base, I mean, there are ways you can donate anonymously, or you could still be protected by your state society or, or whatever, but I think it is maybe more challenging in those situations. Yeah, that's a great thing. There are many different avenues, you know, the Surgical Scope Fund, for instance, is completely anonymous. That's the Academy's fund that I would encourage everyone to contribute to. Also, each state usually has a similar, you know, analogous fund, you know, the Florida Society of Ophthalmology has one called our SOS fund, and that's completely anonymous as well. um but yeah i mean it's it's part of the culture that we have to change right if we know what is right is what is right you know what is safe is what is safe and and all of us ophthalmologists should be able to stand up for what is right and what is safe for our patients and um if all of us do that then they can't you know people can't be singled out and say you know this person you know is not allowed to speak out but this person maybe is you know we should all be able to stand up for what's right when it comes to our patients. Well said. Well, I greatly appreciate this time sharing. You just talk about a burning platform of things we have to act on because we're being threatened, but also the wonderful yoking together and working together on impactful items, whether it's reimbursement or patient safety things, and simply connecting. We just had our first MAO meeting in person. It had a virtual arm, but also in person this month. It was just a wonderful way to be back in community with each other. After the season we've been in with COVID, it's just a joy to partner with each other in a fresh way and appreciate what our community in our eye care professions um are all about so i just i thank you for the community of this podcast and uh and sharing any other thoughts andre otherwise i just want to just share appreciation for everything you're doing uh for ophthalmology for mayo and for patients no that's fantastic i really appreciate you darby i think for those listening who don't know a lot about advocacy are curious to get involved just what you said get involved with your state society go to mid -year forum anything else we can do is stay informed i mean read read the emails that the academy does have they put where so many they pour so many resources into these emails and uh they're also you know part of their their facebook i think they post some of this on twitter as well but um it just keeps us informed right it keeps us um you know in the know right so so to speak about what's going on on a weekly basis within within ophthalmology within advocacy so but um really thank you all very much for for allowing me to be here, for allowing me to talk with you all. I sincerely appreciate it. Thanks so much. It was great. Thanks again. All right. Thank you all. You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Ophthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening. And we definitely look forward to sharing more.