Welcome to the Mayo Clinic opthalmology podcast brought to you by Mayo Clinic. I'm your host Dr. Andrea Tulie and I'm Dr. Eric Bothan. We're here to bring you the latest and greatest in opthalmology medicine and more. >> Today we are joined by Dr. Janice Law, a vitrietinal surgeon and a master educator and mentor. We're going to chat about medical education, curriculum development, all of her experience in education. It's going to be a great one. So stay tuned. >> Dr. Janice Law is a viter retinal surgeon, holds the Gloria Sternberg director in opthalmology and is the vice chair for education and also the director of medical student education at Vanderbilt Eye Institute. Dr. Law is widely celebrated as a retina surgeon and is internationally known for her work in education including interests in evaluating residency teaching and training, curriculum design and development and teaching and learning methods. She is a past chair of the AAO young opthalmologist committee, winner of the outstanding female leader in opthalmology for millennial eye, a past recipient of the women in opthalmology emerging leaders award and the AUPO medical student educator award. She is passionate about mentorship and women in opthalmology and leadership and we are excited to have her today on our podcast. Welcome Dr. Law. >> Thank you so much. I am excited. I'm super delighted to be here and be a part of your podcast. Dr. Booth and Dr. Tulie, thank you so much for having me. Well, we are so happy to have you here. I think it's a very apt time. We're in the fall. Mentorship, residency, medical student education is kind of on everybody's mind. So, you're the perfect guest to have here and we're just so excited to have you. Before we kind of dive into all of your work in education, could you just kind of tell us your journey and how you got to where you are, how you got to the job that you have today? Wow, that's a long period of time that you're asking me to cover, but um yeah, so I actually went into medical school not expecting to do opthalmology. I was uh planning on doing infectious disease and that's what I was interested. I really thought it was fun to do um to study microbes and how it would impact disease and people. But then I ended up finding another small thing to be in love with and that was opthalmology. It was a chance that I had a two-eek elective um over the summer. My father found me the elective at Case Western and I was able to shadow a cornea specialist and that's where I got to see the most beautiful work of art which was a full thickness corial transplant and that just opened my mind and my eyes to how I can do surgery micro surgery and I can do um lots of other procedures in the office and help people help them see give them independence and empower them. So when I went back to medical school, I realized over the summer when I returned back to medical school, I realized that um this is going to be a long journey for me to seek out an opthalmology residency since I had no home program. I had no mentors. This was just a chance opportunity that I had over the summer and now I need to discover more and more of opthalmology all on my own. So to fast forward where I am today, I am where I am today because of mentors that helped me through this but also because I know how hard it was to do it by myself to be on that journey alone to seek out what you needed to do just to match into a residency. So by paying it forward um I was able to I am able to uh serve in leadership positions and help others really be the best that they can be and help them reach their goals if they're interested in opthalmology. When I came to Vanderbilt uh for my fellowship, I found mentors like Paul Sternberg who got me involved in the academy who got me involved in AUPO which is the association for universities and professors in opthalmology and really connected me with a lot of people in education and that really just kind of was my springboard to really developing my career here in opthalmology and in education. Well, I love that you're giving back and I think the story that you share is so common with medical students who have an extremely limited exposure to opthalmology, maybe a day or nothing in medical school and then by happen stance get to see a tiny little tidbit of opthalmology and then fall in love and then realize they have a big battle up kind of climbing uphill to make those connections. exactly what you described like that's still happening today. So I love that that's informed you as a mentor now to help students going forward since it's exactly what you went through. Do you see still those same challenges in medical students today and how do we optimize opthalmology exposure so that we can get more amazing opthalmologists like you? >> H thank you. Uh no the the problem is actually even harder because now we have less and less time in the althic curriculum sorry in the we have less and less time in the medical curriculum to teach opthalmology. So now we are facing just contact hours contact time. So there was a study in 1994 that found that um about 50 58% of US medical schools had an opthalmology curriculum. That was in 1994. At the same time back then, primary care residency directors reported that there was a gap in opthalmic knowledge as their students metriculated to residency. So they saw that there was a knowledge gap and they asked for more content in the curriculum. Well, now in a study in 2018, we're now finding that only 16% of US medical schools have a required clinical clerkship and most of the teaching is happening in the pre-clinical years in that one and a one and a half years that they're getting. So now we are being squeezed down to a few hours from where it used to be maybe 20 hours of opthalmic didactics and contact time now down to barely one to maybe if we're lucky 10 hours um and depends on that school. So it's a lot harder now. >> You have a forte in curriculum development, mentoring relationships. What what's the best approach? How do we stay relevant? Um expose our medical students to opthalmology. what what works and what what way would you encourage people to explore in their medical schools? So one to stay relevant we have to make the connections for them. Help them realize that opthalmology is in almost in every systems that they are learning from thyroid eye disease to diabetes to lupus to plaquinel to cickle cell to lymphoma anemia and I could go on. We need to find a way to insert ourselves in their curriculum while they're learning it in their preclinical years and also through their clinical clerkships and help them make that connection. So we here at Vanderbilt do our best at the eye institute. We try to insert ourselves in the geriatrics uh course in the course on um health equity and social economics that kind of a course where we can just continue to kind of beat the drum. Opthalmology is still here. It still affects those types of patients. Um access to care. We also go to the pediatric residency to their ambulatory care clinic and we teach them how to use a direct opthalmoscope because we know that those residents probably didn't get the same training that we would want them to have had in their medical schools. So we go to the different departments and we offer our services, we teach and we mentor and we inspire them to use the direct opthalmoscope and to make that connection for them. But another thing is I know there's a lot of controversy with whether or not the direct opthalmoscope is even important to to learn anymore because now we have iPhone adapters. We can see the optic nerve um and well you can easily consult opthalmology. So why even learn that skill? But I really think that it's important for all directors of medical student education across all medical schools to really emphasize the direct offtheoscope as much as they can because that is that one piece or one instrument we have left that we can then say this is part of the physical diagnosis um this is the part of the physical diagnosis curriculum. This is something that's important for them to learn as they're learning just as equally the heart sound, the lung sounds, palpation um of the abdomen. Now, we need to be able to be able to teach them the pupil exam and the direct opthalmoscope. >> It's such a good point. I think there was a it might have been a tool gandi that wrote a really nice piece on the art of the physical exam and how we've really lost touch in medicine with the physical exam and how it used to be such an art. And it makes sense because we have all this amazing tech that's probably much better than we are. But opthalmology still is so much the physical exam. really that's all it is before we get all our testing and photos and I'm glad we're hanging on to that. I'm curious how you've learned how to be an educator and how to create curricula and where did you get these skills because it's not something that's taught. So I think part of it is role modeling. So um we learn from observation and what we're not seeing. So I have reflected a lot on how I learn and how I learn best. I enjoy interaction and I enjoy when someone involves me and we know that there's that phrase, you know, tell me and I only remember certain percentage, right? And you show me I can only know a certain percentage. I don't know what that percentage is. I can't remember what that quote was, but then involve me and I can remember more and I can actually participate in my own act of learning. All that to say is if we're involving our learners, then we know that we can have an engagement. We can have active learning happening and so things will click. Then they'll come back for more and they realize that that is the type of learning that they're going to want. Where did I learn that? I learned it from observation, but I have the fortune too. We have Vanderbilt's Peabody College of Education and we also have a program called educator development program inside the medical center. And I attend as many of those um professional development courses as much as I can to learn about writing learning objectives, writing learning goals, how to assess, how to design a curriculum and use instructional tools that will actually match your objectives. So that is science in itself and it's really important for us as if we're choosing to do medical education. It's really important for us to really be able to do that um do that. Well, >> I love that. Can I ask too, do you partner with medical students? Because I've found as I've become program director that some of the most engaged and excited people about education are actually students, especially medical students. They all are interested in medical education and they want to build curricula and do all this cool stuff. Can you get them involved even when they're still students? >> I think you are right on. The students who are in the curriculum themselves are the ones who give me the most feedback. They're the ones who are the who can say, you know what, I think that if we brought this eye model over or if we can practice microsurgical skills under the under the microscope, we'd be able to feel what it feels like to have that tactile sense. It's the students who are thirsty and hungry to learn so much that they're the ones who are developing a microsurgical curriculum for themselves. So, we have a few students who initiated that last year. They wanted to find a way to differentiate themselves as they go through the um through the application process >> because we recognize everything's past fail now in the medical school curriculum. >> Uh and it's harder to discern who's got what it takes. So, they actually created a microsurgical curriculum. And again, I think it's just out born out of interest, hunger, and a really desire to um to excel in the field at an early stage. So, I think students have lots of wonderful ideas. They're eager. They have a lot more time too to do a lot of the research and the writing and there's opportunities for them to present that work. And I think it does build on their um I think it helps them build up their medical education uh repertoire and portfolio and it just excites them even more when they go into residency. So Janice, I it's exciting to think about that and they're mo they're most engaged. They're wanting to improve what that what's happening at their institution and exposure and learning. When I think about residents and or even yos early in their practice, the AAO or subsp specialties have opportunities for young opthalmologists, let's say, to meet across their institutions to learn from each other. I I think most institutions probably have an interest in opthalmology medical student interest group and oftentimes at a given institution there's the leadership structure of that and they're very involved. Are you aware of whether or not any subsp specialties or even the AAO has developed curriculum a a way for young or a way for opthalmology interest groups to learn from each other because what you develop at Vanderbilt or we develop here at Mayo it seems like that's a curriculum or a connectivity opportunity to learn from and opthalmology interest groups should connect between sites but are and is that is that happening at some level or is this granular institution by institution? >> It is granular by institution. It's separate but we do have a directors of medical student education council that is an umbrella underneath AUPO like I said before the association for universities and professors in opthalmology. Uh so the MSE or the directors of medical student education do get together and share best practices. We'll share resources. We'll share links that we have designed and and um pages that are helpful education wise. Um we will share that information, but I think you you've hit something on the head there that we really need to do something more of a um kind of a consortium where we kind of bring it all together in a more organized format so that we can all benefit across the country from each other. Um I do want to say that the academy American Academy of Opthalmology has a very robust medical student education page. So if a student had no home program, had no mentors or had no place to go, if they were to go to the academy website, they'd be able to find a lot of information about opthalmology, the basics of opthalmology, how to perform an exam, and all the features of an exam to be looking for when looking at um pathology. So, I think that one um could learn a lot on their own if they're doing independent study, but also to your point, I think as medical student educators and leaders in this field, we really could do a better job sharing that knowledge and information and really kind of accelerating the the knowledge share there. >> Yeah, it's interesting that you bring that up, Eric. And Janice, I know you know about this, too, and you've spearheaded so many of these initiatives as chair of the YO committee. Um, we have just had the American Academy of Opthalmology take medical student membership and that's a new initiative and we've brought them under the YO umbrella and and welcome them into YO. But there's amazing initiatives that these medical students are doing on their own. So they've joy group, the future leaders in sight. They have over 250 medical student members who are just interested in advocacy. It's incredible. And they're connected across the country. They have webinars and mentorship. They're amazing. And then there's also a coalition of the free student outreach clinics and there's maybe 50 or 60 clinics across the country that are studentled I clinics that are all working and sharing their ideas together. And so it's a big initiative of academy and yo to help bring all those student interest groups together. But it's a new initiative. Uh and I think it's tremendous. And just like Jana said, they're hungry. They have time. They're really incredible. So, if you're a medical student and you're interested um or this resonates with you, you guys are changing the world and doing a great job. >> I just think too it's a nice, you know, people that listen to this podcast or you'll become aware of these opportunities. There's more and more am I aware that the community practitioners and opthalmologists, not always the ones in academia, are often involved in medical school education. They've been volunteering to come into their regional medical school for years and just kind of learning about bringing the interest, bringing the opportunity. Some of us like you being residency director, you're so invested in the residents or your fellows. Um it's there's you you can't invest in everyone group equally. And so having as many educators at the table informed, educated to on how to draw the interest and and and nurture these young opthalmology medical students, the better. >> That's great. Janice, I also want to ask you about how medical education has changed since the pandemic because to me it seems like the pandemic was a huge inflection point between how we educate pre- pandemic and how we educate post pandemic. And I know you've published a lot about virtual learning and opthalmology and different initiatives and you've really done a ton since co kind of changed everything. Have you noticed that change and has it um impacted opthalmology education from the medical student side for you? I that's a really interesting question. Uh it makes me first jump to thinking about what the lecture hall looks like in the medical school anymore because there were less and less people attending lectures and then once we had the pandemic and there were no inerson lectures now almost it's so hard to get people back into the seats. So I'm just, you know, as you're saying that, I'm just thinking and imagining it. Yeah, things really have changed structurally. It's much harder to get people back together again. Um, and I think we are missing out a little bit about that interconnection and that social connection. Um, when it comes to learning, active learning involves a social connectivity that is um been studied before. And so if we're not having that, then we are missing out on that. So what that means is that we have to be a lot more creative. We have to be a lot more creative if we're going to do something virtual or hybrid to create that social connectedness and that um interaction. Um I already use polls and interaction in my slides if I were to present a PowerPoint. So that hasn't changed, but it does make me have to think about how I'm going to um get someone on the other side of the screen to respond back and to really engage with the material. Um I do think it's much harder. I will say that um it really did open our eyes now. It world it opened up the whole world opened up I should say the whole world opened up when Zoom became the platform for us to share information because now uh I could broadcast something from Nashville and someone in Seattle can watch the same uh lecture session or workshop that I have recorded or that I have um that I'm broadcasting live. So that really does give us more one resources and two a bigger footprint um of how many people we can reach and the impact we can make. >> So I'm curious when you're giving a Zoom lecture and you have 25 people tuned in. How often are you mandating that their cameras are on? I think all of us like to multitask, but we also realize in education that multitasking really doesn't work. I mean, I think I hear everything my wife's telling me when I'm looking at my sports on my phone at night, but I she tells me it's not the case. So, I I just share any tips regarding educating via Zoom and what you as a master educator has have learned. How do you draw them out? How do you keep them involved? but also how to respect that people have busy lives with children and privacy issues in terms of what they're trying to multitask that you're also trying to serve. >> Yeah. Well, we mandate we do mandate now that the the cameras come on. Uh I think that over the last couple of years we accepted the fact that a lot of faculty also were trying to be at grand rounds and drive their child to school or you know like herd their children into the car. So, we understand that that that is the that is life. Uh when it comes to our residents, however, it is it is protected time. So, we do mandate that they turn their cameras on. When we do have um a good group of of learners on the other side, you know, when they're on the screen, um some techniques I like to use is use the whiteboard. I will allow someone else to engage on the whiteboard and draw. I feel that if they can draw the anatomy or they can explain it using flow diagrams, they have the ability to teach back. So that's one way we can do some peer teaching. I also use the breakout rooms. So I'll have a topic assigned to breakout room one. I'll have a topic assigned to breakout room two. We have five minutes to discuss whatever the topic might be and then we come back to the group and then we again do some peer near nearpeer teaching. We'll do some nearpeer teaching and then they'll be able to share back what they've learned. Those are just some of the small tips that I use. Mentometer is something I use. Poll Everywhere, Slido. Those are all things that are helpful to get people engaged to vote. Uh, and then we try to convince each other why one answer might be better than the other or why one journal article might be more influential than another when it comes to some of the topics that we talk about. I love that. Those are really creative ideas. That's next level. See, great. You're you're amazing education wise as we transition into the virtual interview season. little bit different. But in terms of virtual education and then virtually selecting an exceptional resident or finding your best program and your best fit, do you have any advice for either party, the applicants and the residency selection committee to break through the challenges of virtual interviews? Oh, thanks for that really hard question. Sorry, that's really hard. Um, first of all, I'll just put out there that I think that the virtual interviews are really good for the candidates from a from an equity standpoint. >> Yeah, I agree. >> Yeah, I think it helps our our candidates from East Coast get to West Coast without having to worry about plane changes, missing it uh or missing out completely because of financial reasons. So, I think that it's important. Um, but then the challenge is just like you just said, the challenge is how do we really assess the candidate and how does a candidate assess us as a program. I'm not sure I've got anything um really unique, but I I think that now again since I've said before, everything's past fail for the students at the in the school of medicine. now um what differentiates them now is research um letters of recommendation >> and um life lessons so their distance traveled or some of their journey a story behind the journeys that they've been on so what I like to ask is um I might pick a a research project or a publication and although I can read the publication and we could talk about the science behind it or the results uh what was fascinating about it what was surprising about it instead I like to ask what are the intangibles that you've learned about this particular project or what was something that you gained from being part of this three-year uh longitudinal study. A lot of times they'll talk about communication styles. They'll talk about their organization skills. So, they'll get them talking about the the life skills that they're going to now bring into my residency program. So, I want to hear about that. As for a candidate, that's really hard too because it's hard to really get a sense of culture uh of how we're going to um challenge the the resident. Uh I think that they're going to the candidates really need to be asking questions of our alumni um of um current residents go to the meet and greets. I know a lot of candidates came to our Vanderbilt um friends and alumni gathering that we had at academy. So, I think that was a really useful um time for them to meet some people there. Um, but I would say that if I were to be a candidate trying to figure out the program, one question I probably would ask is for explicit examples, for example, do you have an example of a time where um a resident needed a lot of support and how did the program handle it? I think that gives an idea of what kind of support, emotional, psychological safety there may be in that type of a learning environment. But this is really tough. Andrea. So, uh, I don't know if I have the all the all the answers for this. >> No, those are it's all great advice. It's a really tough situation for both parties, I think. >> Yeah. And if um open houses are still available, I think um the candidates should be going to the open houses if they can. >> Yeah. >> Once medical students match or even during medical students, so often we have opportunities to mentor them. I understand you have some expertise and joy regarding mentor menty relationships. You know, you gave an advice over uh Zoom interviewing, but once you have someone that's dedicated to opthalmology in medical school or a resident that you're connecting with, tips on how to be a good mentor and how to pour into them, um be responsive, be connect enough. what is what's your perspective on that role as you've taken them on in your career? >> Thank you. I love this topic. Um you know I think that a metro mentee relationship is only successful when both parties contribute to the relationship. Uh otherwise it's an advisor adise relationship where it's only unidirectional. It really needs to be multi it needs to be birectional and there should be expectations that are set. So, usually um I have a mentoring contract. I've seen multiple examples that are really complicated, some that are really simple, and you can just design a mentoring contract that fits your needs or what that mentee needs uh for that particular topic or for that particular journey. Um, I think it's important for us to meet regularly and one of my expectations of my mentees is that they contact me and they are in charge of the timing because I will probably forget whether or not it's been time for us to meet and it's up to them to make sure that we actually have that meeting and they come with an agenda. And I do this with my mentoring committee. I'm on faculty. I have AI have a mentoring committee and so I do the same thing. I bring an agenda of what I want to talk about and what are my short-term goals and my long-term goals and that gives them an idea of how to shape that conversation and to figure out what um resources I need to be tapping into. Who do I need to meet? What meetings should I be applying for? I do the same thing with my mentees. I want to hear what their goals are, five year, 10 year goals and what are they interested in? What's bothering them right now? So that gives me an opportunity to um see it in writing, have them put it in paper and so that I can see it in writing and then I can be able to um appropriately use that time wisely. I think that mentors also have a lot of bias too. So I think it's very important for us to recognize our biases, our biases and make sure that that doesn't get inserted into our relationship. Um I also disagree that there should be a supervisory type of hierarchy in the mentor mentee relationship. For example, I would not want my boss to be my mentor and I wouldn't want the residency director directly to be a mentor for a resident because there could be that hierarchy that um that can really make that relationship difficult. Good. >> I know some have said that it's good to have mentor mentee relationships >> at different layers of our professional circle and even personal. And so having being um similar learning as you're saying feedback with someone younger than you in faculty, someone at your same level and then certainly someone more senior and be sharing wisdom, be sharing creativity, be sharing joy um across, you know, each of those relationships as you've spoken to the importance of this is a two-way street to build together. And I think it's Sophie Bacher that taught me the term reverse mentoring, referring to the more junior person does have something to offer to someone more senior to them. >> Absolutely. I get such great advice from our residents and medical students. They teach me everything. It's great. Janice, can you also break down I know you're really good at these differentiations between a mentor, a sponsor, a coach, and how we need all of those things. I love how you differentiate those. I think it's really helpful. So, I think you need a board of trustees and that board of trustees should include seven people. So, the seven people are one, you need a role model, two advisor, three, a coach, four, a mentor, five, a sponsor, six, you need your peers, and seven, you need a cheerleader. And I think about the cheerleader being your family, your parents, your raas, people who are going to no matter what you do, they're going to cheer you on, right? So that's really fun to have a cheerleader in your board of trustees. When I think about adviserss, adviserss are those who talk to you and mentors are those who talk with you. They hear what goals you have and they help you sort that out and help you navigate. They invest in you. And sponsors actually talk about you. So sponsors are the ones that are putting your name out there to um committees for an award for task force to maybe consider writing a paper or a review with you. um and someone who is going to throw your name out there with nothing in return. It's not something that's transactional. And so I think that it's really important for trainees or even professionals now who have uh sponsors to be able to share with those people that things that you're interested in doing. For example, maybe I wanted to be part of the um maybe I wanted to be a board examiner, but no one will know that unless I speak about my interests and my desires. So, I should be able to have a relationship that's authentic and vulnerable with both mentors and sponsors so that um so that when that opportunity comes up, my name can come up, right? So, that's how sponsorship can happen very naturally and very um very um organically. I love this. And you can have it at all stages of your career, but it's >> something I we don't intentionally think about forming this board of trustees, but I love it. So, which one of those trustees do people miss the most? >> Good question. >> Miss as in they don't they >> meaning like they're not aware that they don't have or they are aware and there's not someone in their circle being that for them. Like when you think through people's lives and say this would be the ideal support team. How often do you see someone just lacking mentorship or lacking the sponsor or lacking, you know, which of the ones are the areas that we need to foster more? >> I I do think it's the mentorship part. Um, again, I think because the of the nuances and the uniqueness of the relationships, if we're not holding up our end of the relationship, then that mentorship uh relationship probably turns into more of a seasonal advisorship, >> for example. Um, so I think that as mentees, we probably aren't um really tapping into our mentors as much as we should on a regular basis and and really investing in our relationship for them to get to know us and for us to get to know them. I bet you that's probably the answer. Um, but then I also think that uh if we're not speaking up vulnerably about what we're interested in doing, what our goals are with others, then we don't have sponsors who are listening carefully for opportunities. So, I think that there's there's a little bit of both there. Mentor and sponsor can be um enhanced. >> This is absolutely terrific. Thank you so much, Dr. Law, for sharing your wisdom. You're so inspiring. We really appreciate it. And I think that this conversation will resonate with medical students, residents, those early in training and those in a seasoned career who need to update their board of adviserss >> or update my point to have more solid more questionnaires. >> Yes, I love it. just part of slowing down in our practices and being intentional, being communicative about how to improve as we seek to pour into others around us, whether students or residents, in this case, medical students in particular, >> um, in the richest way. >> So, thank you for helping us. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. I've enjoyed my time with you, too. Thank you. >> You can find all episodes of the Mayo Clinic Opthalmology podcast on our website. Thank you for listening and we definitely look forward to sharing more.