So the current recommendation is men should not get a woman pregnant for six months after travel to a Zika area and women should not get pregnant themselves if they've traveled to a Zika area for 8 weeks. We actually recommend that um women who might get pregnant um shortly after their trip or women who are pregnant not travel to areas where there's Zika virus infection. If there is no way you can avoid traveling, you just have to go there for whatever reason and there's a chance of pregnancy in the future, um, then you just need to do the very best you can to avoid getting bit by the mosquitoes. My favorite is a a deet containing insect spray because you can spray that all over your clothing, over your exposed skin, get some on your hands, put it up around your face, and um 30 to 35% for adults, I think, is about optimal. Reapplying that about every four to six hours, covering up light long sleeve clothing, and then you use a deed on top of that. There's some other things that you can do too, like using clothing that's been pre-treated with this insecticide peromethine, but really avoiding getting bit. If I had an adult who was asking me, oh, you know, I'm afraid to go to Brazil because I might get Zika and they're A-50-year-old woman and there's no chance of them getting pregnant. I would say, you don't really need to worry. your risk of getting something like deni or other things is much much higher that you're going to get sick from some other mosquito-born illness or other um travel related problem than Zika. Zika should not be what you worry about. However, if you were a 24 year old woman interested in getting pregnant in the next 6 months, then Zika needs to really be on your radar and you should really reconsider that thought. It's not transmitted as frequently through sex as through mosquito bites, but we do want women who have a partner who's travel to a Zika virus place to know that they can potentially get Zika through sex. So for women, we recommend if they've traveled to a Zika endemic area that they not get pregnant for eight weeks. If their partner however has um or any sex partner has traveled to Zika endemic area, we recommend they not get pregnant for six months um or use use condoms with that partner to try to avoid pregnancy and to try to avoid acquiring Zika from that partner.