Many people think that arthritis is completely unpreventable and that everyone will unfortunately require a joint replacement at some point in their life. That's not true. The fact is that most people don't need any kind of joint replacement; most people won't develop arthritis in their hip or knee. So don't worry about wear and tear on your hip and knee. Unfortunately, most causes of arthritis are anatomical problems that can't be corrected once arthritis has occurred. However, if you are very active and have pain in your hip or knee, it's important to get it checked out. First, stop doing the exercise that is causing the pain. Second, if the pain persists after appropriate conservative treatment, then contact an orthopedic surgeon so you can be evaluated. But the important thing here is not to stop exercising, don't stop being active. Because it's not only good for your heart but also for increasing your longevity. What we do know today is that the most common causes of problems that lead to requiring a joint replacement and early arthritis are anatomical problems of the hip or knee. For example...  For example, this is a patient who has had an anatomical problem at the level of the femoral neck, and this hump, when it makes contact with the acetabulum, will eventually cause degeneration and lead to joint replacement. So, these are small anatomical changes that can be corrected beforehand to try to avoid arthritis in the knee. It's very similar with patients who are bow-legged, what we call in medical terms, varus predominance. These patients can have degeneration of the inner part of the knee. So, if this is the case, and they are young patients, it's preferable to try to realign them before they develop arthritis. But again, I would say that for most people, leading a normal, active life without overdoing it with sports is important not only for overall health but also to increase longevity. If joint replacement is necessary, there is no doubt that today we can do it very precisely with the use of the latest innovations we have for hip and knee joint replacement. Obviously, in the last 10 years, the use of navigation systems has been exploited.  To place the implants correctly, we now also use robotics, and each company has its own robot to assist with the precise placement of these implants. We know that the precise and accurate placement of implants is very important to reduce early failures and increase the longevity of the implants we are placing today. In addition, the use of new plastics—I would say we are currently in the third or fourth generation of these highly cross-linked plastics—has tremendously reduced wear, especially in young patients, and today our implants are lasting more than 20 years, provided there are no other complications.