The American College of Physicians and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC have come out with a paper uh really talking about reducing antibiotic use in patients coming in with upper respiratory infections. The reason we're talking about this is because we are seeing across the country and across the world uh worsening issues of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Meaning that the antibiotics that we have uh sometimes are not effective uh against bacteria causing infection. And this has become a worsening problem to the point where occasionally we'll even see infections caused by bacteria where we wouldn't expect any antibiotics to work. And so a lot of this problem is related to antibiotic overuse and antibiotic misuse. And if you look at on the outpatient setting where antibiotics are probably most misused and that is in the treatment of upper respiratory illnesses. physicians should be giving patients antibiotics when there appears to be a bacterial process uh that the patient would otherwise not get better from on their own. Uh and so this paper is outlining a few sit situations including how long they've had a fever, how long they've have symptoms and these sort of things to give some guidance to physicians on the front lines on when should somebody get an antibiotic and when can you kind of hold back and treat the patient symptomatically because they're likely to get better on their own. The sheer amount of tonnage of antibiotics that are misused uh or overused is a really the large driver of the problem we're seeing within the communities of having antibiotic resistance. And the biggest area for this is in the treatment of upper respiratory illnesses most of which are viral and would not get better uh by using an antibacterial agent. And so by targeting the sort of the big area, these inappropriate sort of misuse of antibiotics for viral upper respiratory illnesses, that can really make a a major impact on the amount of antibiotic misuse that's going on. And so we can hopefully reverse the trend that we're seeing now.