Mosquitoes are actually the number one killer of humans in terms of animals uh causing death in humans. And we know that um that a lot of different infections uh can be transmitted through different kinds of mosquitoes uh including malaria, West Nile virus, uh a lot of different um infections that cause infection in the brain. um uh deni fever, chicken ga virus uh and then Zika virus is the more recent one that uh is is making news because of some of the infections that are caused through mosquitoes. There are many things that public health in general is doing to reduce the amount of infections related to mosquitob born illnesses and that generally is through uh mosquito control. But there are things that individuals can do to protect themselves. If you're going to a mosquito endemic area, especially those that areas that might have malaria or deni fever or perhaps even Zika virus, uh putting on insect repellent several times a day and usually we recommend having 25% de is the active ingredient. If you're really going to be sort of deep in the woods um and really unavoidable mosquito exposure, uh you can do more things. making sure you're completely covered up. Uh perhaps even having peromethine uh which is an insecticide coating your your clothing. And if you're really going to be sleeping in areas with a lot of mosquitoes, especially places that are endemic for some of these mosquitoborn illnesses, think about sleeping within a net. When we have an infection that people don't sometimes don't even feel anything from, but it can result in birth defects. This is where we really start to to to get worried uh about this infection. We saw this previously with reubella. Of course, we have a very effective vaccine against reubella. Unfortunately, because of the reduction in the uptake of MMR vaccine for what seems to be unscientific reasons, uh we may al also start to see resurgence of reubella infection. But in this case with Zika virus infections, you do have to be exposed to the vector. Um, and so things s that can prevent uh infection through mosquitoes can help to prevent this.