My name is Pablo Moreno Franco. I am an intensive care and transplant physician at the Mayo Clinic in Florida. The conversation we want to have today is about the COVID-19 virus. It is a type of coronavirus, similar to the common cold. It is a virus that circulates and has circulated many times, causing symptoms similar to the common cold. The difference between COVID-19 and SARS-CoV-2, also known as SARS-CoV-2, is that SARS-CoV-2 causes much more significant respiratory symptoms. In particular, some patients can develop pneumonia, and these are the patients who need much more attention. What we want to say is that most patients who contract SARS-CoV-2 can stay home and do not need medical attention; they recover. The problem is that approximately 20 percent of these patients can progress to more severe respiratory symptoms. That is, in addition to simply having secretions, they begin to experience shortness of breath, difficulty performing their normal activities, fever with very high temperatures, and chills. These are the patients who will need more medical attention. We would recommend that patients who begin to have respiratory symptoms and are worried about whether or not they have the virus seek medical attention.  Call your healthcare provider, your doctor, and ask if, based on your symptoms, you should seek care at a clinic or emergency room. Again, most patients won't need to go to an emergency room or office, but if your symptoms are such that your healthcare provider advises you to seek medical attention, then it's important to go to the office or the emergency room. There, based on your symptoms and Claire's question regarding potential exposures, healthcare providers will decide to run a series of tests for different types of respiratory infections and viruses circulating in the community, such as influenza, which is one of the most common viruses that will be present. However, if those viruses are not present, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC) recommends testing for COVID-19. In those cases, even if the symptoms are not very severe, patients can go home and receive their results. If they are at home and their condition worsens, such as with shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, they will be tested.  If you experience normal activities or very high fevers, you should call your healthcare provider again, and they will likely refer you to the emergency room. In the emergency room, if your oxygen levels are low, different decisions will be made. These patients may need to be hospitalized, and different levels of care will be determined depending on how low their blood oxygen level is. Another question we are often asked is what we can do as the general public to prevent or help with this situation. The most important thing is personal hygiene measures: washing your hands thoroughly for two or three minutes, avoiding touching high-contact areas in public places, and avoiding touching your face, mucous membranes, or eyes. Simply try to avoid contact with many people and crowds, such as going to churches, using public transportation, flying on airplanes, and going on cruises. These are things that should be avoided at this time due to the high risk of transmissibility of the coronavirus. For every person who has the virus, they can infect two or even three other people. So, the most important thing is to practice social distancing and try to avoid these situations.  Avoid crowds, and if you must be in a place with other people, try to maintain at least one meter of distance to prevent the transmission of the virus.