Hi, this is Chad Rehal. I have a very special guest with me here today. Dr. Joseph Deraini is chair of the division of cardiovascular surgery at Mayo Clinic Rochester and he's a specialist in pediatric and adult congenital heart surgery. Joe, welcome. Thank you, Chad. It's nice to be here. Great to have you. Listen, we're here to talk about Epstein's anomaly. This is an anomaly that we in the cardiology world have been learning about since the early days. But can you tell us refresh our memory what is Epstein's anomaly? Why is it important? So Epstein's anomaly is is an anomaly actually of the right ventricle and uh most of the attention focuses on the tricuspid valve but the tricuspid valve develops from the right ventricle and the right ventricle is the underlying abnormality and as a result we end up with a myopathy of the right ventricle. we end up with a displastic non-functional tricuspid valve and then there are other associated defects that can be related. There are arrhythmias that frequently can be associated for example wolf parkinson white and with time atrial arrhythmias there's often a hole in the heart usually atrial septile defect or patton framan valley and uh and so it's uh it and the anatomy from patient to patient is different so in contrast to other congenal defects like a standard atrial septal defect or VSSD where it's very very reproducible the anatomic finding from patient to patient with this the anatomy is different from every single patient and so this has made it very challenging for cardiologists and surgeons to get into a comfort zone because everyone is a little bit different. So Joe, typically we think of this presenting in infancy or childhood, but over the course of my career, we've stumbled I've stumbled across a couple of patients in their adult years with previously undiagnosed Epstein's anomaly. So what are the common presentations? So th this is the most fascinating congenal anomaly because you can have a presentation from a highly symptomatic newborn that is tied to a ventilator that needs urgent surgery and you can have the other end of the spectrum, the 70-year-old that has snuck through all of these adult years who then has a chest X-ray, has some cardiac enlargement which prompts a cardiac workup and it's a mild to moderate form of Epstein's anomaly and then of course everything in between. In children, the most common probably clinical presentation is cyanosis because an atrial septile defect is is very commonly present and of course they have right to left shunting and they're desaturated and this usually prompts medical attention. But when the atrial septile defect is small like Payton Fanov Valley or it's absent those are the patients that actually have a delayed presentation because we know with many other disease entities that tricuspid regurgitation can be tolerated for extended periods of time and so it it may not get picked up until arrhythmias you know become apparent or the rare patient where you actually have frank right-sided heart failure. Fortunately that's the exception not the rule. Joe, what proportion of patients with this anomaly eventually undergo surgery? Oh, I think eventually the vast majority of them will need surgery either for symptomatic tricuspid regurgitation, right-sided heart failure, uh either cyanosis or paradoxical embolism, which we may see in in in the adult patient. I think once it's identified at some point in time, the majority of them will need operation. Is it ever too late to operate on them? and what is the ideal timing of surgery? Well, you've really you've really struck a sensitive uh a sensitive question there. This has been the topic of conversation uh and still is is is frequently the buzz topic at many of our meetings. Timing of surgery with Epstein can be very very difficult. Clearly, when they're symptomatic, surgery is indicated, but many patients are not symptomatic. And if you take the cyanotic element out of it, probably the most common symptom is just fatigue. And it can be very subtle and for a parent it may be a few more naps. It may be going to bed a little bit earlier with their child. Fortunately, frank right-sided heart failure is very very rare and and that would be probably the patient where conventional surgery may be high risk or in some situations it may be too late. Um, but under most circumstances, it's really most everybody could benefit from surgery at some point in time. And Joe, in the range of operative repairs that you perform, is this on the relatively straightforward end of the spectrum or the more complex end of the spectrum? No, it's the complex end of the spectrum. I mean, I've committed my career to trying to understand and learn this diagnosis. And of course, the the the the hope is that you're going to be able to repair the valve. And this, interestingly enough, there are more valve repairs described for this anomaly than anything else in cardiac surgery. And that's because the anatomy is variable. So, you know, you you you you apply different techniques that you've learned from, you know, one one approach versus another and you adapt it to whatever anatomy you find. Now, there are certain underlying principles that you try to stick to, but at the end of the day, every repair is is is a little bit different. So, so what are those uh principles? Can you tell us about the repair that you have performed here and perhaps Dr. Danielson's role in developing? Well, Dr. Danielson was one of my mentors and it is a a signature diagnosis at Mayo. Our experience in surgery now exceeds a thousand cases and uh probably twothirds in children and about a third in adults. So we have the whole age spectrum covered and I think the cardiologists and and and the surgical teams are are are in a really good comfort zone right now. The goals of surgery are the following. Repair the valve and I think now the the the wide variety of techniques that you can apply to repair and per and preserve native tricuspid valves has gotten really good. So fortunately we can repair the vast majority. Second the right ventricle. We talked about this myopathy. there are there's a specific area of the ventricle that is very very thinned and the atrialized right ventricle we generally treat that with a plecation. Um any intraatrial shunts we typically close with rare exception there might be some situations in a in an infant where we would do a subtotal closure. Um arrhythmia surgery is is going to be dependent I mean arrhythmia surgery is a standard part of the operation in A-50-year-old. It's going to be rarely WPW or no or atrial arithmies. No, the WPW is something different that that in general is treated by your colleagues in the Kath lab with a mapping and a and a and an ablation strategy. But atrial tachi arhythmi is developed with time with this diagnosis with or without surgery. So in the in the in the middle-aged adult patient, it is very common for there to be a history of palpitations and maybe a halter shows some PAC's or transient runs of atrial tacocardia. And so May surgery is is pretty much part of the part of the whole operation in A-50-year-old where it would be very unlikely in a in a three-year-old. Um and then so what's the outlook for these patients after surgery? Yeah, it's so the outlook first the survival is excellent. Um and uh and that's the most important thing I think for the patient community. The second thing is is that while we have gotten very good with surgery, it still is one of those lesions where the the the potential need for reoperation down the road is a very real thing. And the evolution of tricuspid valve repair has gotten better and better and better. In our own experience, by 20 years, almost 50% of the patients have needed another operation. And we think with the more contemporary repair techniques that will be much better. But this is clearly a lesion where it's I think important to counsel parents andor patients themselves depending upon their age that there is there is a possibility that they might need something another reoperation or an intervention arrhythmia for example um at some point in time down the road which really emphasizes the lifelong surveillance thing with this diagnosis. It's it's critically important. This is a serious disease and and they always need to have oversight by by you and your colleagues. Joe, is this one of those diagnoses that can be made antiatally? Yes. And perhaps even treated antiatally with fetal surgery. Yeah, that one is a tough one. I think it definitely can be identified prenatally and in fact that is essentially a risk factor and when it's can be diagnosed prenatally that usually is because the size of the heart is very very large and we know that um that you know those newborns we struggle with they're they're a challenge for the intensivist in the NICU and and in the current era it still is the highest risk operation we do in the newborn period when it's required even in exper experienced hands, we're talking about a mortality rate of 20 25%. Which, you know, for a surgeon is quite a discouraging number when you can do an arterial switch procedure, which is very complex with a risk of one to two%. My guest today has been Dr. Joe Dury, chair of the division of cardiovascular surgery here at Mayo Clinic Rochester. We've been talking about Epstein's anomaly and Joe has gone through it in great detail. It's been very informative. I hope that you have found it as uh educational as I have. Thank you for listening today, Joe. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you for the invitation.