My name is Joseph Dearani, I’m a cardiovascular surgeon at Mayo Clinic, with an interest and expertise in congenital heart surgery both in children, babies, children and adults. And the Facebook page came about because patients, families, friends, everybody is on Facebook. And I’m on Facebook for my own personal Facebook page, it’s just really to stay connected with my family and keep updated with activities. But for my practice it turns out that there all these support groups on Facebook that my patients and families are members of. They may have already gone on the internet and Googled my name and Googled Mayo or Googled the lesion and they may have gotten access on a random basis to some information, but then my secretary will say are you on Facebook? And the answer is almost always yes, because just about everybody is on Facebook. And she’ll say we have a Mayo Clinic Ebstein's Anomaly Facebook page or a Facebook page on such and such a diagnosis and Dr. Dearani has sort of grouped together the things that you would probably find helpful. There are some YouTube videos on the subject matter, just general concepts, and questions to ask your doctor and so on. And then there’s some videos of the actual operation and if they’re so inclined to look at that, many are, some shy away from that. And then there’s some uh we have a handful of current articles that touch on the important you know mortalities early and late and complications, length of stay in the hospital, things that are going to be practical for them. And then she encourages them to go through some of the stuff before she gets me on the phone. So by the time we have a conversation, particularly if it’s a face to face consultation at Mayo, it’s a very very productive discussion because they’re so informed about the stuff already that we can really zoom in on their concerns, their questions, and its really I think overall they feel really well prepared for what they are about to embark on. And a lot of the videos are very patient and ley public oriented so it’s easy to understand and follow and it’s been very very effective in terms of building the practice and providing something to the patient community that’s easy to follow, and easy to understand, easy to make a list of questions that they’re going to have. Facebook has been I think a wonderful way to for me to communicate with patients and families about subject matter that usually creates anxiety, and tension and concern.