- Hello everybody. Welcome to another edition of ECG Insights. My name is Alex, I'm the host for this series and I met with Dr. Guru Kowlgi and he's an ECG expert here at Mayo Clinic. So thank you for joining us here today. It's a pleasure to meet you. Thank you so much for having me. Yes, excited to be here. Alright, so to do a little bit former, an introduction to Dr. Kowlgi. He is a consultant and electrophysiologist here at Mayo Clinic for Heart Rhythm Services. He specializes in invasive electrophysiology and has experience with catheter ablations for atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. His research focuses primarily on cardio neuroablation procedures and electroporation and radio ablations for using proton beam and photon beam therapy. He, his research also has to do with understanding the mechanisms of the, of arrhythmias and procedural innovation. And he also is heavily involved with AI in electrophysiology and cardiomyopathy with patients with frequent PVCs. And you also have a free ECG resource on Instagram if you wanna plug that. - No, yeah, I do. Thanks for including that. I started that during COVID when we weren't doing enough cases in the lab and was doing it for fun. But then there's a huge audience on Instagram who want to learn ECGs and now people want bite-sized information to something that you can digest in 30 seconds. So it serves those people and very happy to do that. - Absolutely. So if you're interested in learning more about what Dr. Kowlgi has to offer on Instagram, feel free to follow that. Follow him on Instagram and see what ECG resources that he has for everybody. Alright, good. So before we dive into some of our ECGK studies, our learning objectives are consistent with identifying key ECG features, including rate, rhythms, intervals, and waveforms apply basic and sometimes even advanced interpretation skills to recognize common arrhythmias in con their conduction abnormalities and explaining their core concepts to allied health staff and their clinical significance. And so let's go ahead and dive right in. - Perfect. So the way I like to break down ECGs because they tend to generate a lot of anxiety among, especially new readers. So when you look at an ECG, don't look at it as something that you have to get it right according to the diagnosis. So you want to be able to unravel it in layers. So each time you come back to an ECG, you pick up a new point. So there's something that all readers should get out of an ECG. And then as you get more advanced, there's more and more nuanced interpretation that you can perform. But the first thing is the golden rule of ECGs. And I don't know if you've covered this in one of the earlier podcasts or talks, but essentially what it is, is if you know where the leads are placed, any electrical activity that goes towards the lead will be a positive deflection on the lead. Anything that goes away from it is a negative deflection. So we know that lead one goes from the patient's right arm to the left arm. We'll just quickly draw all the leads. Lead two goes from the right arm to the leg. Lead three goes from the left to the leg. Okay. And these are bipolar leads that have a positive and a negative deflection. Where the arrow is, is where the positive vector is. And then we have augmented leads. AVR goes to the right, AVL goes to the left and aVF goes to the foot. And then we have precordial leads that go across the chest from the right fourth intercostal space all the way across the heart to the apex. So V one starts on the right fourth V two and then we have V three and so on, so forth to V six all the way at the apex. Okay. So now we know that, let's just start with some basic interpretation like sinus rhythm. So how do we know an ECG demonstrates sinus rhythm? All that sinus rhythm means is that the atrial activity is generating and the sinus node, which we know is at the level of the junction of the superior vena cava and the right atrium. And you have a nice yellow figure here. So now if the atrial activity is coming from there and going down to the activate the rest of the atrium, it is going towards the inferior leads. There are two, three and avf. So your inferior leads will have a positive deflection. And if you look at lead two here has a positive P wave three has a positive P wave. AVF has a positive P wave, no this is still lead three, but AVF would be here on a 12 lead ECG. And AVF is right here, positive P wave. So you know this is likely sinus. If we have aVR, we know that sinus will be going away from aVR. So right here you see mostly a negative reflection in AVR. So that's how you tell an ECG demonstrate sinus rhythm. And we can apply the same concept to ventricular activation as well. And typically ventricle activation is narrow, QRS starts in the septum and then sort of activates the left part of the septum first and then the right and then sort of branches down across these bundle branches to the right and left bundles. And typically, so this QRS that we see here is a normal activation in terms of the weight of the QRS. But then you start start seeing these other QRS complexes here that are wider that look a little bizarre. So when we see ventricular complexes that are premature ventricular complexes that are different morphology, we call them premature ventricular complexes or or PVCs. So that's what we are seeing on the ECG. And so beginners should pick up sinus rhythm. Intermediate readers should pick out that there are PVCs and a couple of different morphologies. If you look at this one versus this one, they look completely different. And then you know, if this is lead one, not sure which lead this is, but then they're different vectors so they're going in different directions. Same thing here. So one of the PVCs here is tall positive. So we know it's coming from high up and going to the foot, but this one's completely opposite. It's mostly negative. So it's coming from the inferior world and going up. So advanced reader should take a shot at localization just based on where the leads are placed. - Absolutely. And so when, when it comes to, you know, this particular ECG, you notice that, you know, we don't have all of our leads. So we have leads one through three aVR, aVL, aVF, we're missing our 12 leads 'cause this is an ambulatory monitor. Yep. So with some of the things that we're, we're doing and and assessing from an ambulatory monitoring perspective, we lose those leads. But you can still recognize your, your PVCs and kind of where they're coming - From. Absolutely. - And so when we're talking about recognition as you're going across this entire ECG, it does look a little bit busy And from a technical standpoint we want to try to figure out where our normal beats. Yep. Where our abnormal beats. And so kind of if you, if you hyperfocus on one lead, it might cause a little bit of confusion. Yeah. So you not only wanna look left to right, but you also wanna look up and down as well. So as we look at this ECG, you know, it starts out with what I would consider a pretty abnormal beat. Right. And we'll just call that a V for A PVC. And then as you look up and down, like you mentioned, we have our sinus P wave sinus P wave sinus P wave and that's what I would consider my normal beat. Yeah. So when we're using, when we're classifying, whether you're talking like inpatient telemetry, any of our mobile telemetry reports, you know this would be classified as a normal beat. - Yep. - And then we have another PVC here. If you only focus on lead one, you would maybe question Yeah. What that is. Absolutely. Because it looks very similar to the the normal complex and that's where it's important to look at all of your leads. Correct. And then as you go across normal, normal PVC, it is different. So it's a different morphology, normal PVC, normal PVC. So we're getting some BGE with three cycles now and normal. So there is a fair amount of ventricular pathy. - Perfect. That that was a fantastic point. Then this is applicable to 12 lead ECGs any rhythm strip. Typically when we see something like this, these are all obtained at the same time. So this entire beat is one heartbeat. Yep. Yeah. So try to think of these as columns as opposed to roles. So then you can see okay, this represents normal and here PVC and then, and you can go one step further, you can call that V one and V two 'cause we know there're two different morphologies and if you look at this one, this looks a lot like this, right? So this is again a V one beat and then and the V one beat. So already you have a sense, okay, there's a dominant PBC in this strip that lasts a few seconds and there's a PBC that's less dominant, which you know, we'll touch upon when we get to management of PVCs. - Yeah. And that's exactly what I wanna focus on next is just management from PVCs. So from, from your perspective or for a lot of the, the allied health staff, technical staff, our goal is to provide, you know, accurate assessment and reporting to, to provide you the reports that you need to help manage some of our, some of our patients. Yeah. What are some of the key things from, from your perspective as a ECG provider and electrophysiologist that you look for as you're getting these reports and you're seeing either high ECT counts, low ectopy counts, what are some of the things that you're looking - For? Yeah, perfect. So just, you know, going back a little bit, a lot of what we do in medicine in general and cardiology especially, is the management is based on their clinical symptoms a lot. So while these add a lot of information, the bottom line is to me, when I see a patient, are they symptomatic from the PVCs? So if they're symptomatic then the burden could be 1%, 2%. But that's still important because for a patient, an average patient who has a hundred thousand beats a day, if they have 2000 beats of PVCs, I've had patients tell me every PVC in the field that and and can be annoying way to live their life like that. So in that case, burden becomes a little less important. But let's say we have an asymptomatic patient, then I really look at this burden in great detail because that can determine how we manage the patient. And why is that? So we know that when PVC burden goes higher, like around 10, 15% or more, these patients are at risk for what we call PVC induced cardiomyopathy. So that is a dysfunction in the left ventricle, a drop in ejection fraction that happens solely because of the PVCs. And the reason that happens is I mentioned the normal activations from the septum going out. So the right and the left ventricles are beating together. So that's a synchronized activation of the ventricle. But when we have a PVC coming from the outflow tract like this one, you, you're coming from the top and then now the conduction is not happening through these bundle branches. It's happening slowly from muscle cell to muscle cell. That is why the PVC is wider and we get this dysynchronous contraction. So if it's a PVC coming from the right ventricle, the heartbeat will look like this. So the right is going first and then the left followed after a few milliseconds as opposed to a synchronized contraction. And that happens for 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 beats in a day. Over time these patients can't develop cardiomyopathy. So we look at the burden of PVCs to determine who is at more risk. Then there are some other things we look at too. So some, so some data suggests that the coupling interval of the PVCs that they're coming sooner and that can be a concern. More of a burden on the heart may be a little higher risk for cardiomyopathy. Other data suggests the wider the PVC is means the further away from the conduction system. The PVC is more chance of having cardiomyopathy. A lot of these data are weak. But then we look at some of these factors to determine how aggressive should we be for an asymptomatic patient. Absolutely. - All right, so the next few slides are gonna, we're gonna kind of look at a few case studies that have to do with some of the reports that the, the allied health staff provide. And so looking into some of these statistics, so in the rhythm strips below we're just, you know, it's you're having bigeminal pvcs, maybe some triplets, maybe some isolated PVCs here and there. So based on some of these statistics here and some of the information that you're getting throughout the day. So this is an MCT where you get up to about 30 days worth of information on pvcs. Yeah. When you look at the, the information that you see here in terms of burden percentage, - Yeah. - You mentioned coupling intervals. How would you break this down? - Yeah, a lot of information here and then this is great. So for MCTs, the nice thing is we get patients sometimes that not only have pvcs but they have other things going on. So we have to figure out, do some detective work to see other pvcs causing their symptoms is something else. They'll say, you know, July 4th was a particularly bad day. I had a terrible day. You know, and and of course they were out grilling having a good time with their friends. There were other things involved. Maybe they had a few drink, you know, one, one or two drinks too many and we don't know what, what's causing their symptoms, why did they pass out? And then we can look back and say, oh yeah, that day they had much higher PVC burden, they had some round of non-sustained VT. So then this helps like a day by day breakdown can help us figure out with symptom rhythm correlation. That's what it's most useful for. But sort of diving into the finer details, geminal, PVCs, if this is happening for a long time, then of course the burden will be pretty high. So that's one thing. But also, you know, if it's like one day when they had bigem PVCs in other days they did not, we can look back and see what did they do that day. So identify triggers because prevention's better than cure, right? So if you can identify a, a specific trigger for a patient, eliminate that, then you don't have to really do invasive procedures or medications, right? So it's important to get that data as well. Now that one is also an important example. So we see a run of three PVCs. So you know, three or more we start calling it non-sustained VT a triplet or quadruplet or more the the important thing to note here is the morphology is the same in all three. Granted we only have two leads, but let's assume it's the same in all three leads that gives us important information. So if there's one spot in the heart that is getting overactivated, yep. So that is one mechanism of pbcs we call focal automaticity. So abnormal automaticity or triggered activity. So it's basically rogue spot, a piece of muscle that is acting up. That for me is more amenable to ablation if you were to get to that point. 'cause all we have to do is find the spot and pray that it's not next to a critical structure like a coronary artery or the conduction system and we can burn it, freeze it, get rid of it. But what if we saw something like this where the first beat looks like that and the next two beat look like this or two three beats. So then that clues us into the fact that this could be reran PVCs and that is based on a scar tissue around the heart. Why would A PVC somewhere random create non-sustained VT in a different part of the heart? So then we start thinking of imaging and other things to figure out what is the underlying cause. And these patients will try some medications, but if they're having recurrent symptoms, if they're having sustained VT episodes, they'll get to an ablation. And the ablation is very different in those patients because ablating one spot will not get rid of that. We have to ablate a larger area of scar. Right. So a lot of information from like, you know, just these two slides here. - Absolutely. So I'm then moving on to the one. So something a little bit similar, however we're you're seeing an increase in the overall burden percentage and I got some strips here over on the next side. But you can see you talked about the different morphologies that some patients may have. You mentioned like V 25, V 29, this patient's having a handful of different PVC morphologies and they have an overall burden percentage of close to 7%. - Yep. So yeah, so a little more, you know, concerning in terms of PVC burden. But again we, we look at the symptoms and you can see on the spread here that some days that are 9%, yes there's less data overall but, and otherwise mostly stays normal. Here there's nine and 10% and you can look at these dates if they correlate with something the patient was doing. Again, trigger prevention is key. One important trigger I mentioned we don't think about a lot for the clinicians in the audience is when we have female patients, oftentimes it can coincide with their menstrual period. So when they start having that, if it's the same time every month and you see three, four days of the burden side, then it goes down. Think of that. And that has implications when we manage them. So there are many patients, and this is something that is will be interesting to the allied health staff who read these monitors, 30%, 40% burden on a monitor. We look at the patient's symptomatic have some drop in EF no brainer that they need the PVCs eliminated schedule their ablation get them in the lab in six weeks and lo and behold the PVCs are gone 0% that day. Two hours of monitoring isoproterenol all the stimulation techniques we have. So that's the kind of patient you want to look back at the monitor, say okay, what were the factors that drove this? And if it is, and we've done this where we have brought patients that started their cycle and then do the case that day and see an increase in PVCs. And for some of them we put a picture of their spouse on the camera. So that triggered, so whatever triggers PVCs and then the hold to monitor is what we go back to to figure that out. - Absolutely. So then going into some of the strips here and some of the examples. So once again a little bit higher burden percentage, higher active count, you have your trigeminal PVCs over here, another triplet like you see here and it is similar morphologies but they look a little bit different. - Yes. And and this is a nice example of what we call fusion beats. So, so if you look at this specific example here real quick you can identify a normal beat and then here's A PVC, right? And then we see by Gemini and then here you see the same pattern here and here normal and PVC, this looks slightly different. And then if you look at this, maybe think of this beat marrying this beat and having a baby. That's what that'll look like. Okay. So they, they kind of similar to both of them but they're not quite the same. So you can see this notching pattern is gone but the morphology is the same direction. This is slightly wide but not as wide as this, not as narrow as this. And then that's kind of how you tell fusion beats. So if you have a normal activation at the same time as the PVC, you'll get these fusion beats happen. And if we sort of pivot and talk about SVT versus VT differentiation, one of the key things we want to look at is fusion beats or capture beats, which is the same concept as two different wavefronts coming in tell us that this is likely an atrial and a ventricular activation pattern versus an SVT with aberrancy. The, the only reason it looks different is going via a different bundle branch. So when you see fusion beats, we think of ventricle in this case it is obvious but sometimes you get a tracing with wide complex tachycardia with no background, no way to know what's going on. But in that wide complex, if you start seeing some narrow beats, some wider beats, some completely narrow beadt, then think of VT over SVT because of that reason. - Absolutely. And the other thing I wanted to point out too is that you know, this might be an isolated PVC, we have another pair here. But you talked about coupling interval, this seems to be getting very close to the T wave. Yes. And could you explain the coupling interval a little bit - More? Yes. So the coupling interval is really the time it takes from the previous ventricular activation to the onset of the PVC. There are a few different definitions out there. You know, some of us in the EP lab like to look at the end of the QRS to the start of the PVC. But when you start reading about it, some others will define it as from the start of the PVC to the start of the QRS. So either way, if this interval is around 250 milliseconds or less, so maybe one like a little bigger than one big box, it should be 200 milliseconds. If it's kind of in that range, then you should be real concerned because that is the time it takes for the ventricular repolarization. And we all know when we are sleeping and a kid tries to wake us up or someone tries to wake, our dog tries to wake us up and we are not happy about that. Right? If it's the middle of deep sleep, so when the ventricle's relaxing, it doesn't want to be hit by a PVC right then. So if that happens, that is a pro rhythmic situation project, - That's okay, - That's a pro rhythmic situation for the, for the patient. So if you have a very short couple PVC like this one is trying to be, then there's reason for concern. And then even though it's shorter than what we've seen, you can see that there are at least two full big boxes between these two. So that's around 400 milliseconds is enough time for the vent to relax. But if this PVC were to come somewhere there, I'd be a little more concerned. And that is the mechanism of how patients have polymorphic. Bt you might have heard of sports stars getting a blow to the chest and then having cardiac arrest. That's what happens. So their heart was likely in a repolarization phase and early repolarization and then that blow to the chest caused A PVC and then they had a cardiac arrest. Typically has structurally normal hearts. Yeah they do very well with treatment but you know they have frequent PVCs we can manage those PVCs in that case. - Absolutely. All right, report number three here. So in terms of overall statistics, we have a higher burden percentage, but when I think a lot of what you talked about and things you need to consider, your coupling interval, your symptom and the, well, the things that we can do to try to help prevent some of these things. You mentioned a little bit in terms of burden percentage, at what point do you get concerned just when looking at the burden percentage? - Yeah, I mean there, there really isn't a number that I'll say I'll ablate them no matter what their symptoms are. So the symptoms are always important along with their LV function, see how that is doing. But typically when we see 15, 20% or more, there are, there'll be some evidence of dysfunction. It doesn't have to be a drop in ejection fraction. It could be a slight dilation of the chambers. It could be that they have some fatigue that they're sort of ignoring for years and then you cannot figure out if the PVCs are causing their symptoms or not. There's a nice segue to like how we manage some of those patients where the burden's high but they are feeling okay, they're getting by their life, they're not really that limited. So then what we do is we try maybe a trial of a medicine, we give them an anti rhythmic drug that will suppress the PVCs and oftentimes they'll come back and the PC burden's like 2% and they'll be like, doc, I feel like a new person and this, I don't realize how much the PVCs were affecting me. So then that's a clue to then we stop the medicine, consider ablation for those patients. So we do a little bit of a deeper dive when the number's high, there's no like cutoff number at which point we'll say, you know, we should just upgrade them no matter what. Yeah, that's good to - Know. All right, so these are just a few of the examples of the strips very similar to the previous ones in that that we were talking about some isolated PVCs, some couplets, some patterns of bigemini. So very similar to some of the other case studies as well. But we're, we are having some longer runs here of the, the non-sustained vt. Yeah. All right. Now getting into kind of our last case study, what's a little bit different about this one and really focusing on, you know, the, the coupling interval, but it, it's not only just the coupling interval because you mentioned that you know from the start of this QRS complex, you're talking one to two about that 250 or 300 - Milliseconds. - Yep, absolutely. And we're PVC is a ways away from that. Correct. But here it looks like our QT is fairly long here. - Yeah, so couple things that happen. So when A PVC is getting deed, and I mentioned this, that the activation is generally slower because most PVCs will be away from the conduction system. So the QT with the PVC will will be long, but what we are more concerned about is the QT of the normal beat and what happens after the PVC. All of you might have heard of this concept of compensatory pause after A-P-V-C-V-C have pause before the next speed. Now why does that happen? So when you have a PVC, the electrical activity, let's says a sinus beep comes to the AV node goes down, creates normal QRS, but then there's a PVC here that PVC goes back up to the heart as well and sometimes makes it all the way back to the sinus node. - Okay? - So you get a retrograde atrial activation and if your sinus node was just activated, it'll wait a little while before getting activated again. So that's the reason for that pause that we see. So the reason we don't see that retrograde P wave is, is because the PVC and the QT after the PVC is so long the P wave is probably somewhere there. So that creates this pause and then you have a sign of be A QRS, but because you had a longer rest period between two ventricular beads, that longer RR interval leads to a longer QT interval after that. So the longer it takes for the ventricle to depolarize, the longer it'll take for the ventricle to repolarize. So look at any of PCs, any pvcs, look at the beat right after that. And if you see in this case it's hard to know 'cause that QT is masked by another PVC, but typically the next beat will have a longer QT interval. And if you're getting germinal pvcs, that coupling interval of 250 to 300 you know goes outta the window 'cause now your QT is whatever 600, right? So if if your QT is that long then you can have a coupling interval of 400 millisecond and still be concerned about that. So post PVC beats are something we should be very concerned about for those clinicians in the audience. When we are doing drug loads where we are prolonging the QT interval, this is what we are looking for. So when they have a PVC, what happens to the next beat? Are they getting non-sustained polymorphic VT runs if so, you'll be more concerned about them. - Absolutely. So then getting into the next ECG example, this is the same patient. Yep. And some of kind of what you're talking about here, the the compensatory pause getting the normal beat afterwards and then we have a significant event, right? That happens on this particular ECG. - Yeah. And then you know when people, when beginners especially look at a tracing like this, they get overwhelmed. There's a lot going on. Absolutely. So you can try to make this into segments. So if you look at this segment, there's three PVCs, this segment, there's a likely a normal sinus beat followed by three and then you have another sinus beat followed by this run. So let's look at the worst thing first and you can do it in different orders. If I start with segment three, we see this wide complex tachycardia, it's bizarre, it's polymorphic. Every beat looks different than each other. The morph, the intensity, the amplitude is changing. There's almost this baseline undulation. So when you start seeing some of this polymorphic VT that has almost a twisting of the points kind of an appearance, we call that twisting of the point. So this is basically an a polymorphic VT that happens because of a longer QT interval that precedes that. So the, the only difference between what we call polymorphic VT and what we call torsades is that if there's QT prolongation before that, that's torsades but otherwise they're semantically, you know, it's the same thing. And you can see the PVC that starts here is a little different than how it ends up being later. Right. And the morphologies are very different. Absolutely. If you look at each of these now going back you see a normal sinus and again bigness node, sinus P wave QRS, which is a little wider than normal. And then you have A PVC followed by these two beats. Now in, in the previous beat, the initiating PVC is the same. So we'll call this, if we call this normal, we'll call this V one is the same V one everywhere that leads to this. So in this patient they could have a normal heart, likely not because of the QR is looking abnormal. But after this run the pause the QT is a little longer and was a matter of time before one of these pvcs cause the event. So we'll do a full structural assessment. But let's say this patient has structurally normal heart, otherwise completely normal, all we may need to do is target this PVC. So if we can get to that PVC, we can stop this from happening. So we call this PVC induced ventricular tachycardia or PVC induced ventricular fibrillation. And that's where the coupling interval becomes more important. So patient can have a burden of 1% but have one event like this and we'll be spending hours in the lab round to figure that out and updating that PVC. So this is how A PVC that looks benign on paper could end up being more malignant. - Yeah, and I think that's a very interesting point. 'cause this is kind of this like right, this here is kind of a result of this PBC. - Correct. - So that's the main point of emphasis from your - Standpoint. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. And then if I may add one more point for the advanced readers, PBC is going away from lead two three and AVF, if you look at the heart, I'm gonna draw these two structures, which are the papillary muscles. So along the inferior wall of the heart and this is the lateral wall of the heart. If you have ectra from the papillary muscle that has elements of conduction system tissue in it, this is some sometimes what we see. So it'll be positive in lead one 'cause lead one is here, activity is going towards lead. One activity is going away from the inferior leads. So just from these couple leads, we know this is likely A PVC coming from the inferior part of the heart, likely septal part of the heart. If we had a V one that would be positive in V one because coming posterior to anterior and then when we go to the lab, even if you have rare pvcs, we put our catheters right on that posterior papillary muscle and look for any pvcs and ablate them. - Absolutely. All right. And so as we go to the the next example, let's clear this out now. All right. And so that run, this is the same patient that we just had with this episode. It's just continued. So from the technical standpoint, you know, all this tells you is that we're, we're, we're in torsades, right? Yes. And so what's valuable information to report to the providers, and correct me if I'm wrong, is seeing the onset first and foremost. - Yes. - You know, this is great. - Yeah. - But we want to see the onset. Yeah. 'cause this will provide you much more information Absolutely. Than just this. - Yeah. With just that onset ECG, we know what the mechanism is, we know where to target in the lab. So you, the nail on the head if there's like one thing you can gather from this onset and offset arrhythmias, the transitions are gold. So we we scan pages, documents to find them if they're not separately highlighted. But most of you do a great job in sort of highlighting those and that us a lot sometimes in device tracings like implantable ICDs or pacemakers, we don't always get that morphology at the onset. So it's kind of frustrating to go back and tease it out. But these are extremely helpful. So transitions are gold. - Yeah. And so we have the onset in the very beginning, the middle of the event, which this could have lasted for however long I think based on this information down here. It was a a pretty brief episode luckily and we came out of it. But I'm sure this patient continued to have, have similar PVCs and luckily this event didn't have last very long. - Yeah, good. So I mean it's good that we caught it here. And the nice thing about some of these monitors that are live is we know when they're happening and there's a patient we are monitoring, we can give them a phone call, schedule something urgently or put them on medications. Yeah. This patient needs attention quick and if they don't have a device, likely would end up with a device even if we get rid of the PVC because you wanna prevent certain cardiac death from from this. - All right. All right. So thank you Dr. Kowlgi. That was a great conversation on PVC management and just everything from an ECG perspective. So thanks everybody for joining us for today's session. Thank you again for joining us. Dr. Kowlgi, thank you so much. If you have an opportunity, check, check out his Instagram page to to learn more. Otherwise, have a great day everybody.