- Hi everybody. Welcome back to another edition of ECG Insights. My name is Alex and I'm met back here again with Dr. Kowlgi. Thank you for joining us once again. - Thank you so much for having me here again, Alex. All right, you. - Yeah. If you're not familiar with Dr. Kowlgi, he is a consultant here at Mayo Clinic as an electrophysiologist with heart rhythm Services. He specializes in cardiac invasive therapies and electrophysiology for catheter ablations and for atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. His research focuses on cardio neural ablations for novel energy resources and includes electroporation, radio ablations and using proton and photon beam therapy. His research also is to help help better understand the mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias and procedural innervation, and also is involved with AI ECG here in electrophysiology and regarding cardiomyopathy patients with frequent PVCs. So welcome for joining back with us here today. Thank you again for having me. Absolutely. So, once again, our learning objectives for these sessions have to do with identifying key ECG features, applying basic and even advanced interpretation skills for common arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities, and as well as relating that to allied health roles and explaining their clinical significance a little bit more in detail. All right, so let's dive right into our first ECG example, - Stuart. So, and in our previous sessions I, I spent a minute early on saying that when you look at an ECG, I want someone at all levels, first time reader, I know all this a hundred thousand ECG doesn't matter. The approach should stay similar. And then each time you come back to an ECG, you'll see that you understand more and more layers of it. And for beginners, everyone should understand the golden rule of ECGs. And I always start with this because it's the most important rule is if you know where the leads are placed on the chest, then you can figure out what's happening in the ECG. So for example, lead one goes from the right arm to the left arm lead two goes from the right arm to the leg. Lead three goes from the left arm to the leg. And then we have these augmented leads, A BR, A BL, and a BF, which go to the right arm, left arm and the foot respectively. And then we have a set of precordial leads. So starting in the right fourth intercostal space all the way across the chest to the apex of the heart, which is V six. And the heart is usually a little more leftward than what I've drawn here. So when we understand this, any activity going towards a lead will be a positive deflection and any activity going away from the lead would be a negative deflection. And some of you who've seen our prior sessions can think in their head, if you have a sinus P wave that begins here, we know that activity is going in the direction of lead one. So lead one has to be positive. And then here, all those a little flat, it is a positive P wave in lead one also a sinus P wave is going down to the, from the top of the atrium to the bottom. So your lead two, three, AAV F should be positive. Okay? And the only lead where it's going against or going away from is A BR. So you, it is going in the opposite directions of when when you look at A BR, that's a negative P wave. That's all you need to call a rhythm sinus rhythm. And similarly, we can apply this to other ECGs or QRS complexes as we see them and we will get to that. But then now sort of going into some of the more important details of this ECG tracing. So you start out with a sinus bead, then the PR intervals is a little long. So anything more than 200 milliseconds would be a first degree. AB block is sort of getting there. It gets a little longer maybe on the second beat and then you have a drop. And when you have multiple leads here and then you, you're looking at a longitudinal version of what's happening. It's important to look at the rhythm strips and every ECG will be different Here, Alex has been kind to us. It's given us three rhythm strips to look at. So if you look at all of these, you have P-Q-R-S-P, a little longer QRSP and a drop. And if from those of you who were there in the previous session, a successive PR prolongation and a drop followed by a short PR interval is mobitz one AB block, second degree AV blocks are those where some of the peeves are conducted and others are not conducted. And this is a kind of second degree heart block, which is at the level of the AV node and it's a mob one or BANKY buck AV block. And then we see that again, we are prolongation, prolongation, prolongation, little longer and then drop. And the next one will be a little shorter. So a nice example of that. On average, the rate ends up being 46. The computer's good at some things, it's not so good at some other things, it's pretty good at the rate. And if you wanna practice this yourself, you can count the number of QRSs in the rhythm strips. So there's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. And then there's probably one that's right there or close to it. You multiply that by six. And why do we do that? Because this is a ten second strip. So if you multiply that by six, it'll be 42 in this case and that'll be close to the rate for the patient. And the other method you all might have heard is counting the boxes and then it's 300 divided by the number of big boxes. The problem with that method here is this is an irregular ECG. And if you take these two QRSs, the rate's very different than these two QRSs and we care about an average escape rate. So something like that rhythm strip method will work well for this. But if we have a regular ECG, and you see something like this where you have half 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and another half, that's like six big boxes. 300 divided by six is 50. So the rate was like this the whole time, then the rate average rate would be 50 beats a minute. But in this case it's a little slower because some of these are our complexes, our our intervals are longer. - Absolutely. And when you're talking about like most textbook Wenkebach you just kind of outlined a lot of the main, the main characteristics, but that's kind of in textbook world. What we're, I'm hoping to try to dive into a little bit here is non textbook world where your P two P waves don't perfectly march out. Yeah. Or your, your, your measurements don't march out as clearly as they should. - Yeah. - So that's what we're gonna be diving into here a little bit next. - Yeah, let's do it. So we, we can, we can go to the next tracing that you have and haven't talked about it there. - Alright, so go on. Nope. So we have three different tracings here. So once again, this is based off of one of our reports. So we have that what appears to be that Wenkebach bock pattern here. In our first example here, we also once again have a Wenkebach bock pattern again here in B it results in a pause 3.3 second pause. But we have something that looks like AFib. Yeah, potentially atrial flutter. And then same thing here in A, blast and cruise. So let's start with a yeah. And kind of talk about why, why this ECG example for, for Wenkebach is not your textbook example. - Yeah. So great point. And you know, give us a little clue here. So when you look at P two P intervals in a classic Wenkebach it should be normal because the level of the block is the AV node, right? So why is the sinus not getting affected? So when we see something different, so if we see, and if you put a calipers, it'll be a little more obvious. If you P two P starts lengthening from B to beat and you have the AV block at the same time, this goes to the point that two separate parts of the heart should not strike out at the same time there's something else going on outside the heart. And the most common condition there is the vagus nerve being overactive or a high vagal tone hypertonia, you'll hear different terms of the same condition, but a high vagal tone can slow down the sinus node as well as the AB node. There are some examines that be more obvious, like something like this where you can clearly see P two P lengthening, right? So, so when you see something like that where you don't have to put calipers, you can see it with naked eyes, that is a high vagal tone causing this and the management is a little different. So again, this is morbid one to begin with, but even if this is complete heart block and a vagal tone causing this, there are some other treatment modalities available for that. And, and this would be new for many of the people in the audience. And we have something called cardio neural ablation now. So back in the day when people had long AV blocks or complete heart block syncope episodes with vasovagal syndrome, we try some conservative measures, try some fluids, salt supplementation, try some compression garments. The only class one recommendation is educating them that the diagnosis is benign. But good luck telling that to someone who fell down and had a brain bleed. I've had patients working in factories where one syncope episode is too many. They're working with heavy machinery. Others that are, you know, they have a newborn and they're carrying the newborn when they had their first syncopal episode. Absolutely not fun. So for those patients, and there are special scenarios where they tried conservative measures but still passing out for these patients, the guidelines recommended putting in a pacemaker, especially they're more than 40 years of age. But now we have this modality where we can put catheters inside the heart, not too dissimilar from the way we perform AFib ablation, but we target the nerve cells as opposed to the muscle cells and we perform a vagal denervation speed up their heart rate, speed up the AV known and sinus stone and prevent a pacemaker. So we promising treatment option for a lot of these patients. We've been able to avoid pacemakers and over 60 patients at this point and excited to, you know, keep moving that field forward. - That's incredible. - That's kind of, you know, what we are seeing on this tracing. - Absolutely. So then moving into the next one just provides a little bit more detail of pretty much everything that we had talked about. Maybe just a little bit more clear measurements here. - Yeah. - Based on the drawings, but just you see the progressive lengthening of the P two P measurement, also the PR which we get a lot of questions from like an education standpoint. Well my P two P waves aren't marching out perfectly. Yeah. Is there any need for like the technicians to, to point that out or it's just you, you call it Wenkebach Bach and we just provide our interpretation and you guys take it from there. - Yeah, I think calling it Wenkebach B is sufficient because sometimes they can be, it can be confusing because we can have sinus arrhythmia as well where it can have to 10 to 15% of variation in the sinus speed even normally. So if you see some are faster, some are shorter, you know, that won't quite fit the picture. But if you see something like that example where there's clear P two P prolongation between tracings and, and you see PR prolongation or AB block, I think adding something like, you know, query vagal mechanism is great because not many people think about it, believe it or not. And this is something you guys are seeing all the time. And once you do 10 of these, it'll become second nature to find these when they're happening. And that can be the difference between someone getting a pacemaker versus not. Because some of these happen in the middle of the night and people get sent to the emergency room, there's a trigger response, they get scheduled for a pacemaker the next day and they get a pacemaker come back for follow up 0% pacing, they never needed the pacemaker to begin with and now they're living with a pacemaker for the rest of their life. So your, you know, extra 30 seconds there could make a world of difference in some of these patients. So if you see something like that and you don't have to say this is absolutely that goes, no one knows, but you can say, mention the observation that there's P two P prolongation along with the AV block, then the people can start thinking about it. And that brings me back to a general skill of ECG reading is a lot of us are pressured when you look at ECGs that we have to get the diagnosis right. If someone asks us, we have, you know, we have to know what exactly the patient has. But the truth is many of us don't know to be sure until we, you know, get the patient to the EP lab. So it's important to make observations and then the more observations you make, you start linking them to later that linking to diagnosis is actually less important. Making the observation is more important. So seeing something like the PS upright in two three AAV F when you're reading an ECG, maybe sinus, you know, could be something else. QRS looks normal, normal transition across the precordium, likely normal QRSP two P prolongation, AV block question vehicle, you know, and then that's, that's a very helpful addition to an ECG reading. I know you guys are very busy, but you know, there's something that people can do. I think it'll make a big difference in some of the patients. - Absolutely. So then this is just another example, different patient and so it might be a little bit hard for, for those where you're trying to look a little bit closer, but this is just another example where you have Wenkebach and you also have Wenkebach down here below, but you're also having somewhat appear to be non conducted PS as well. - Yeah. And then this is often misdiagnosed as morbid two AV block because what we need to do to diagnose a non-conductive PAC is you wanna look at the P wave morphology going back to our original OV triangle diagram. So we have lead two and lead one, right? The positive in both of them, so likely sinus, but this P wave here is a little shorter, is a little narrower than this P wave here. Okay. And same with this. So it is coming from a lower part of the right atrium if assuming this is a sinus node as well, and it's got this narrower width, that means it's coming from closer to the conduction system, which is on the septum. So we know it's not quite where the sinus node was. Granted the sinus node is not a point, it is an area, it's a focus of cells, cluster of cells. So you can have some slight different morphologies of the sinus rhythm, but it's, it's, it looks like a different beat. So we call that A PAC and because that doesn't conduct, and there's a couple that come in quick succession. So premature atrial contraction. And because it comes so quickly, the QRS isn't ready, it's taking a nap, it just fired like a, a few milliseconds back. It wants to wait till it goes again. So the AB is blocked in this case it's normal. So this is basically the ventricle, AV node refractory, not ready for an activation. So we call that a block PSC. And most cases this ends up being a benign finding. But if we saw instead of this a normal sinus bead that did not conduct and the next PR is shorter, that would be back to one of our previous cases that would be morbid. 180 block. We cannot call this that. - If you, if you are interested learning more about cardio neuro ablations, Dr. Kowlgi had a great conversation with Dr. Cashew, Dr. Cashew. Yeah. And if you are interested in learning more in detail of what that procedure involves, that's a great opportunity to look at that podcast as well. So if you're also interested in finding more learning resources, you can follow Dr. Kowlgi on Instagram. And thank you once again for joining us today.