- Hello everybody. Welcome back to another edition of ECG Insights. My name is Alex and I am met back again with Dr. Kowlgi. Thank you for coming back and joining us for another conversation by ECG. - Thank you so much for having me, Alex. - All right, if you're not familiar with Dr. Kowlgi, he is a consultant electrophysiologist here at Mayo Clinic for heart rhythm services. He specializes invasive procedures, specifically cardiac ablations for atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. His research focuses co focuses on cardio neural ablations, which in includes electroporation elect radio ablation and proton and photon beam therapy. And also his research has to do with be better understanding mechanisms of arrhythmias and procedural innovations. And then he is also heavily involved with AI and the management of frequent PVCs. So welcome back and thank you. Thank you for joining us. And then once again, if you are interested in free ECG resources on Instagram, you can find 'em on Instagram and we'll put that in the, in the description and whatnot. So, alright. Alright, perfect. So before we dive into a couple of our ECG case studies, once again, learning objectives have to do with key ECG features, including rate rhythm intervals and waveforms, and then also applying your basic interpretation skills, sometimes getting into a little the advanced for the more intermediate and advanced learners and then also your conduction abnormalities and explaining how that's relevant to allied health staff and their clinical significance. So let's dive right in. Let's do - It. So no, as we mentioned in some of our, in our prior session that I like to break down these ECGs and rhythm strips into what everyone should be able to digest, take the, the someone reading this for the first time in their life and then moving on to the intermediate and advanced readers. So the key rule is you want to know where the ECG leads are placed and just by the activation of the QRS complex as the P waves, you can make a sense of where they're coming from. And we just real quick, maybe take a minute to draw out the lead. So in in the heart lead one goes from the right arm to the left. So that's lead one, lead two goes from the right arm to the leg and lead three goes from the left to the leg. And then you have these augmented leads, A-V-R-A-V-L and AAV F that go to the right, left and the foot respectively. And then you have the precordial leads which start at the right fourth intercostal space and then go all the way to the apex where you find V six. With that background we look at all these ECGs and try to figure out okay where things are coming from and if they make sense with the clinical picture for the patient. So looking at this specific ECG, what we see here is we have four leads available to us. We have V three lead, two V one and lead three. So we know that the P wave here is positive in lead two and is positive in lead three. So already we know it's coming from high up and going down likely a sinus atrial activity, so sinus not being located here between the SVC and the RA junction. And if we had other lead, if we had lead one, it'll be positive in lead one as well. If we had a VR it, the P wave will be negative in a VR because of the same concepts. So we have a sinus P wave, then we have A QRS, which looks pretty narrow, looks like a normal activation of the QRS, normal QRS would be neg mostly negative in B one. And as we go across the precordium it'll be mostly positive. So V six will be tall positive and you get that transition somewhere between B three V four. Just a quick look at this looks normal, you can see B one is mostly negative and we have a B three that looks little taller than B one. So that makes sense. But as we go along you see P-Q-S-P-Q-R-S, then any transition should catch your eye. So when you look at a strip and there's something that looks a little different, if you look at it bird's eye view, you should catch that right away. And I'm not looking at this yet, just the first strip. So what we see here is you have A-P-Q-R-S, another P, there's nothing here, there's no QRS and then you see a P again. So this is a drop beat or a beat of AV block and the atria is getting activated likely in the sinus node. For some reason it's not making it down to the ventricle. It's our job to become detectives here and figure out why that's happening. So just diagnosing this a little better. So I'm just gonna erase this. It's important to look at the P two P intervals leading up to this. They likely are the same and you can put calipers there to measure that. But then the P two P interval is not changing. But what we see here is the PR interval of the return beat is a little longer than the PR interval of the beat preceding that. And if you go back to your definitions in AV block, if all beats are conducted P two QRS, but they're just longer, that's first degree AV block. Okay, so long PR and typically longer than 200, 210 milliseconds. Second I mentioned third degree AV block is when none of the P waves are making So your P waves are doing their own own thing. The QRSs are doing their own thing. So that's complete heart block. But in second degree some of the P waves are conducted and the others are not. So this would fall under second degree AV block, dividing those further. If you have a second degree AV block where the PR keeps prolonging beat to beat and then there's a drop and then there's a short PR in the return beat that is what we call Wenkebach or more bits one, clearly no one can understand my handwriting, but hopefully you can hear me okay. Second degree morbid type two is when the PR interval is long, but then with the, with the drop beat and the return beat, the PR interval does not change. This PR interval was the same as this one that we would call that mobitz type two. So it's not getting progressively longer, there's just a sudden drop and then it comes back. So in this case, looking at this, we'll call this mobitz one. And why is that differentiation important is mobitz one generally happens at the level of the AV node of the heart, the heart diagram's gone, but somewhere at this level as opposed to the infra nodal level, MORBIDS two generally happens at a lower level. So the the block's a little more concerning there. So that's the first trip. The second strip is very different. But anything else you want to talk about here or - No, I think that one of the big things you pointed out, look, so you have your missed beat here, the computer, this is an example of an inpatient telemetry strip computer did a good job of just saying it's a missed beat. Yeah. And we need to dive a little bit deeper into what you, what you were just describing. The PR is longer here we have our drop, then we have a shorter PR and so we have just a, an intermittent episode of mobs one. - Exactly. - Yep. - And then the second one is there's a lot more concerning right? When we see a lot of nothingness that concerns us. And the first thing when you look at that is you wanna see, okay, there's some artifact here, right? So is this artifact as this real and, and looks pretty real Because if you look at the P waves here, you can march these out, they look pretty consistent. There's that block beat and then if you march these out that you can see some P waves there. So if you can march on something through an artifact, it's likely not the reason why we don't have QRSs. It's, it is probably a true AB block episode. Diving a little bit deeper into artifact diagnosis, you know, you can look at the lead and figure out where it's coming from. In this case it's kind of everywhere, right? So V three, lead two V one, lead three. So it could be some external source electromagnetic interference. If you saw an artifact just on lead one, lead two and a VR, you'll think of what's the common point between this, the right arm. So they have, the right arm is shaking. So you can sound very smart and be like, hey, just fix the, fix the right arm. Or were they doing something at that time just by looking at where the artifacts are coming back to the, the bigger, you know, the more important condition. Here we have sinus rhythm and then we have a dropped beat here. So likely this is a P wave that doesn't conduct the next P wave doesn't conduct with a shorter interval. It actually conducts with a longer and maybe this QRS is slightly different as well. So let's gonna erase this. So if you look at this, QRS is different than that QRS. And if you look at lead V one, we'll get a little more nuance. So this is where the advanced readers maybe will get some of these points. The beginners don't get it, don't worry the third or the fourth time you come back to it, this will make sense. But just kind of listen to what I'm saying and then keep that in the back of your mind. V one looks a little different. It's got this rabbit air pattern, right? It's got that RSR prime pattern when we see that as not normal activation. 'cause if you remember I said B one should be mostly negative like that, it's a little wider, it's a little different morphology that's a right bundle branch block pattern. - Yeah. - And typically when we see a right bundle branch happen in a normal heart it'll be a long short meaning the, there was a a long normal R two R interval and then a PAC conducted quicker and that caused a right bundle branch block. That is normal physiology. In the EP world we call that phase three block or aberrancy and that's normal. But if you see a bundle branch block that happens after a delay, so meaning the heart has ample time to recover but for some reason the right bundle is still not active, that is not a good sign. So that tells you that there's some disease in the infra hise and in frontal conduction system. So the right bundle is disease and this is what we call a phase four block. So when we see this, that already should raise alarm bells but then to make it more obvious, the patient decided to go into a complete heart block after that. Or why is that happening? Because this activation, let's say it was a normal right bundle branch activation, it came back retrograde to the AV node and concealed in the AV node. So it's not producing a beat in the atrium, but because the AV node is getting activated now, it's not available for the next few beats. So when we see something like this where it's a different morphology QRS followed by a string of PVS not conducting, we call that paroxysmal AV block and with the clue of a phase four block in the right bundle, meaning a longer delay causing a wider QRS, that is highly concerning and this patient should be heading to the pacing lab pretty soon. - Absolutely. And that, that was kind of my next question at at what point, you know this, this patient does go into complete heart block, they have a longer pause. Luckily we, we still have P waves but when we look at the, the full disclosure of this, this was a pretty long pause. And so we have those miscellaneous dropped beat drop beats where we're kind of having some intermittent episodes of mobs one - And - Then we have our pause that starts here Yeah. And ends here and we still have only just a couple beats. So it almost just, you know, that's, that's a pretty long pause. - Yeah. - At what point do, would you just recommend that they get a device? - Yeah, so great question and and actually something that create a lot of confusion among clinicians as well because the guidelines used to define these DEF durations or three second pause or more is concerning five second pause or more in AFib is concerning but the guidelines have gotten rid of that and for good reason because just what we saw the mechanism of the pause or diving deeper into why that pause happened is more important. So if we see a concerning pause here with AV block with evidence of infra hisian block, then you will think of a pacemaker even if it's a two second pause just because you know this is an unstable conduction system. Another scenario you could have someone who's in their sleep on, on a monitor had a 15 second pause but you can see P two P slowing with their AV block and then you see junction rhythm coming in. If the pause is happening, if the block is happening at two different levels in the heart, what are the chances that the both levels, both sinus note and the AV no decided to give up at the same time they decide to strike? Right? You know that that doesn't happen. So then you think of an external cause like a high vagal tone. So in in a patient with sleep apnea or many healthy athletes overnight will will have these ten second, 15 second pauses and oftentimes you all are reading it and then rightly concerned and then tell the MD who's on call, Hey, this is what we are seeing in this patient and we call the patient, wake them up, tell them to go to the er. But, but really all of that is a VA episode. So that's where looking at these P two P flowing versus just AV block with no screwing in the P two P, they're very different things. So a long pause in the setting of a vagal high, like a high vagal tone is not concerning. Even if it's 10 seconds, 15 seconds, 20 seconds, a short pause with evidence of interest and block is very concerning. - Okay. All right. And then this was just kind of an episode where you also have some two to one conduction as well and it goes right back into normal. So now kind of getting into our next gear. So this for the audience, this is, you know, this is a lot of information but really want I wanna focus on here is that the patient upon completion of this Holter monitor, we have a left bundle branch block. We have e episodes of mobs one that progressed into two to one AB conduction and complete heart block. So very similar to almost what we just saw. We had frequent pauses with the longest being 2.4 seconds and we're also having some polymorphic VT patient did express having symptoms with a variety of these episodes. Yeah. And as we kind of get into some of the strips, whether you're talking Wenkebach complete heart block two to one conduction. So we're having a lot going on here. And then also from a ventricular ectopy standpoint, pointing out once again polymorphic VT here, there's a lot going on in the CCG on these examples. Where do you even start? - Yeah, so let's go back to page one and just start with the report and, and you're right Alex, there's a lot of information here. Sometimes it can be overwhelming. The key things I focus on, so I look at the basic rhythm so I wanna see what they're doing for the most part. So they already have, as we know, they have some conduction disease because they have an underlying left bundle branch block and then we see second degree morbid type one. So this, if you just saw this, that won't be as concerning because like I said, this is an AV node level of block, but this block in the left bundle is below the av, no that's infra hasian. So this patient has likely a multi-level block all just from the first line you can gather that then you can see okay, what is the escape rhythm doing? So if they are having block, how fast are they going? So look at the average heart rate was 40 so quite slow. And again, you know there are some elements here. We need to see how old the patient is, we need to see what their baseline vagal tone is. Are they an athlete? But let's say this is a 60-year-old patient that's still like very low and and athletic, the heart rate of 40 will not be normal. So even though the longest pause was 2.44 seconds, which doesn't sound very long, it's very concerning. Right? The other question is, when did that pause happen? So when we have patients getting that in the middle of the day when they're up and about and they're active, 2.4 seconds can be super long. So if you're on a bike and you have a two and a half second pause, that's enough to cause you to pass out 'cause your body needs high blood pressure at the time. If you're sleeping you can have a ten second pause and that's not as important. So the timing of that pause is important. - And so what what's nice kind of just going off of that point Yeah. Is when you look at the overall timeframe of when these pauses happened here in blue. - Yeah - They're all in the middle of the - Night. All in the middle of the night. So if you just saw this without the left bundle, without you know some of the other signs to tell us there they could have infant oral conduction disease, I'll be very concerned about this. But now knowing that they have left bundle and this, I wanna see what that pause look like because of that. Now the last point, you know since you mentioned this patient had polymorphic VT that's very, very concerning because when we talk about people with Brady arrhythmias dying, passing out, most people think about them passing out because their heart rate's low and their blood pressure is low. And that makes sense intuitively, but that's not what the main reason why they die. The main reason why patients with Brady arrhythmias AB blocks die is because they have this pause, they have a PVC after that and they can have a run of polymorphic VT like a torsades. We discussed this in a previous session where you had frequent PVCs in a patient but the PVCs make the next QT interval longer and that's when they can go into these to out rhythms. The same thing happens with the pause. If you have a long pause, the heart is sitting there waiting forever long depolarization, the repolarization is following that is going to be longest, the QT will be longest. So if you have a PBC that falls in a bad time there that can trigger torsades and unfortunately that's how these patients die. So when we see these, we wanna minimize those pauses, get them a pacemaker sooner than later. Absolutely. And - Then - Going - Through and this was that - Multifocal? Yeah. And we can see, so this is, we don't have all of the onset but it'll be something like this where you have a long interval and a short interval. So after this long interval you can see the QT is not even done here. The TV was about halfway done. That is the point I'm trying to make is after a long RR interval, the QT is going to be longer and if you have a PVC fall there, in this case this patient was lucky in this case not so lucky. Absolutely. And then you had one with the 2 2 1 AV block as well, right? Is that Yep, right down here. So perfect. So this is an important tracing too. So when we see 2, 2, 1 AV block, I'll spend a minute talking about this. You cannot put them in a bucket of morbid one or morbid two because you just don't have a long enough segment of normal conducted beats to tell the difference. Because how do we tell the difference? We see progressive PR prolongation, we see a PR interval coming by, that's shorter, but if you don't have like three or four beats you see that happening, then it's hard to tell. So we just put that in there. Its own bracket, it's just two to one AV block. But there are other clues. So if you have two to one AV block in a patient with a wide QRS, like in this case it's slightly atypical if this is the same patient because lead one should be tall monomorphic, it was left bundle branch block. But let's say there's some conduction disease in the ventricle and the QRS is wide, the two to one AV block is more likely in frontal, so more likely mobitz two than mobitz one. But if you have a two to one with a normal QRS, a longer PR interval. And that is counterintuitive because if we have this versus I'll be more concerned about this one. 'cause the QRS is wide. Yep. And the PR is normal. So why is a normal PR worse than the long PR is because when the AV node gets blocked, the, the PR interval can stretch a lot more. The time from the atrium to the AB node can stretch a lot more like a hundred, 200 milliseconds. The time from the his bundle to the ventricle does not need to stretch a lot before patient needs or is defined as having infra hasian disease or could be something as short as 2030 milliseconds. You see wide QRSA normal PR interval in a two to one AV block like this one that's a little more concerning than something like this. So even within two to one you had different flavors for the advanced readers out there, this one are put in the, in the most severe category or morbid two likely. - Absolutely. And the the, the whole two to one conversation is extremely interesting. Yeah because you know I think even going back, so just because it goes into two to one, like in textbook world, most two to one, like just like when people just learning two to one conduction, they automatically classify it as mobs two. Yeah. But really there's more information that you need to look into in those two to one scenarios because maybe the two to one has to do more with Wenkebach than it does mobitz two. Exactly. - But, but the way this was defined here, like when and if it's not clear, calling it two to one is just fine. And sometimes we pretend to be an EP pretend to be smarter than we are. Sometimes we don't know. And then until we put catheters in the heart and see what's going on. So I think calling it 2, 2 1 is just fine. But if you do notice a wide QRS, like here it was mentioned left bundle branch block patient has a wide QRS or other higher grades of AV block weight more than two P is not being conducted. That's important to throw in the main body of the report. - Alright, so that concludes our session today with ECG insights. Have a great day everybody.