- Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Hello, I'm Dr. Steve Kopecky, preventive cardiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. We have another segment of our interviews with the experts on preventive cardiology. Today I am very pleased and honored to introduce my colleague Dr. Amir Lerman, who's a professor of medicine here. He is, been very active in our research group, was head of research at Mayo Clinic in, in cardiovascular diseases until just recently. So welcome, Amir. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Thank you. Thank you for the invitation. I'm honored to participate. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Well, this is, I think, a very interesting segment today on the effects of social isolation and loneliness on the heart. Now, we've known for decades that that's played a role. Remember when I used to work in the, in the CICU a paper came out in the ALS of internal medicine, said, you asked one question, you know, basically, does anything or anybody care if you're alive? And if the answer from the patient was no there, risk of mortality from that heart attack went up, doubled. Right. So how did you, how did you start to think about this, this question? - Dr. Amir Lerman: So I, I was interested in the area of social interaction and isolation for quite some time. And 10, 10 thing, several thing happened. One of them knew the cardiology when they start doing a AI algorithm. One of the algorithm that came up was ECG age, which is not necessarily your chronological age. And I was curious what's the mechanism of somebody presented with a 60-year-old, but the electrocardiogram said they're 65 or 70. And the second, at the same time in the last several years, you guys in prevention started giving administrating questionnaire to all our outpatient, asking them specific question on isolation and social interaction. So my interest is that to find you have a phenomenon of the algorithm, algorithm is by definition AI doesn't reflect mechanism. It just association in link. But I was interested to see if there is any link between them or what's the mechanism why somebody will, the electrocardiogram will say that this individual is older than his chronological age. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Interesting. So we had a recent segment with Dr. Francisco Lopez-Jimenez about the ECG age as derived from the ECG. Yeah. So you used that and compared it to the questionnaire. How did you, what was your questionnaire? - Dr. Amir Lerman: So the questionnaire was the, is the 90 question that the administered to all our outpatient and essentially ask question that reflects social interaction. How many times do you talk to your friend? Do you you participate in any religious synagogue, church, any other religious activity? Are you involved in any other social activity? Are you in touch with your family? Are you married? Are you in touch with your children? So it's all created like a score of that in create a social interaction score. But then we took this individual, we have about 90,000 of them and we compared their delta ECG or what's the ECG show reflector and compared to the questionnaire, and it came out that the individuals two, two finding individuals that have high score of social isolation have higher delta ECG age. That means their biological and cardiovascular age is higher than chronological age state. The second finding is that if your electrocardiogram age is higher and you are also in the group of social isolation, your mortality is higher in follow up of several years. So me, it's not entire mechanism but association with social interaction, interaction and also associated with increased mortality. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky:Fascinating. What, what percentage of people do you find have social isolation and how does that compare with age, gender, you know, rural versus urban? - Dr. Amir Lerman: Great, great. Great question. So there, there, there is some debate about the prevalence of social isolation and also accompanying loneliness because there are two different terms. Not the usually overlap but not necessarily overlap. In the group of age above 65, more than 30% in multiple studies are defined as socially isolated. Higher or lonely reflect loneliness, but which is a more perceptive feeling. But in several studies it range between 25 to 47%. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Right - Dr. Amir Lerman:Above age of 65 interest. The Z generation, the younger people between 18 and 22 even have higher rate of social isolation based on what we judge currently social isolation, maybe they receive it, but based on the questionnaire, because of the social media and all the anti interaction, they probably have not less social isolation than about 65. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Mm. Boy that's telling us something about our current use of, of media, like digital media. The and what about rural versus urban or men? Women. - Dr. Amir Lerman: So women are less socially isolated. Their score is usually lower than men. In general, we didn't, we didn't find much of a difference in rural and area that not rural. And it does just reflect that in some of the rural area, families and groups are actually gathered together rather than in big cities. But essentially not much, not a lot of difference. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: I see. So you said it was, there are quite a few questions in the questionnaire. They're they're shorter ones now. Have you compared it using, you know, the four or five questions? Social - Dr. Amir Lerman: Yes. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Isolation. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Yes. And we did and it showed the same - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Show the same. - Dr. Amir Lerman: So we can do a short the short, - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yeah. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Social network index or something like that with our patients. That's very helpful. And what do you think the mechanism of this is? - Dr. Amir Lerman: So again, fascinating. We have the phenomenon, we need to understand the mechanism and until recently there was not much interest in the mechanism. However, in the last year or so, there are several studies that came up that reflect mechanism. One of them is the fact in the, in the British us, the British blood bank, about 40,000 individuals, they found out that biomarkers that are reflecting inflammation are higher in individuals with social isolation. Not only that in subgroup that they did a MRI, they found area in the brain that are connected to social interaction different in size between these two groups. So there is a lot, there is currently increasing evidence that there is also reflection in proteomic and, and and, and related to a social isolation. Another fascinating study came out recently in the last several months that was more reflecting the social bond retain oxy oxy three oxytosin mediated brain liver axis to reduce aro sclerosis. So in the, this was done in the animal borders that where they have social, more social interaction, they have actually mediated through the liver reduction of diffuse art sclerosis. So, and we know from other studies that the hypothalamus size also is different in individuals that are will, are exposed to chronic stress or not. So recently, you know, we, it's not only a phenomenon, it's also the reflective mechanism that associated can explain some of the cardiovascular disease. We actually find out in one of our studies that the delta age gap fits to the presence of endothelial dysfunction. So early disease of cardiovascular disease before you have any significant disease. You already see these differences in electrocardiogram age. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yes. That's been seen in other, in other areas too that we're, the ECG actually picks it up sooner than we would've otherwise thought. That's fascinating. So it really incorporates everything. It's not just the cholesterol, the blood pressure, this only loneliness. It's also what the body is seeing, what the heart is seeing. What, did you have any opportunity to look at ways to help these patients or help patients with social isolation? - Dr. Amir Lerman: So I, I think the first step is recognition. And I, we in our practice are not yet prevalence to ask our patient what is their social interaction, social social status. After they did the study, I start asking my patient, they were surprised. But I think it's important to document if somebody is socially isolated or to feel lonely as a, the same way that you ask him about cholesterol and hypertension with diabetes. Because in this study several years ago, the, the, the impact of social isolation was higher than high cholesterol and smoking in this above 65. So first of all, recognition, not only recognition in our, in our medical level, but also in higher level. For instance, in the UK five, six years ago, they appointed minister for loneliness to recognize it's a, and they have a minister that currently in Kaco. It's also very prevalent in Japan. In Japan for instance, because of the low birth rate in the distances, they actually, the government sending these elderly, lonely and social isolated people, robotic pets to, to it socially. So I, I think the first phase is recognition. I, I'm not currently think we have enough evidence to treat in any medications, but I think creating a program to have these people less socially isolated, we know that even access to supermarket and access to food easily some isolated place, it's important. We call food security is also associated with that. So I think recognition and start addressing, we need of course, like in everything in medical field we need a randomized study. But I think hopefully it'll, something will come up. I'm not proponent of treating them with medication at this point. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Now getting back to something you mentioned earlier, which was the kind of the younger, the x, y, Z generations. So we can't assume that digital media a a screen in front of you takes care of social isolation even though you're talking to people and interacting with people. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Correct. And, and we, we, when we grade them on the social isolation based on the criteria that we created in our generation, it might be that for them it's not considered social isolation. It's like when you and I grew up, a friend was a friend, not a Facebook or friend. So I mean it's a big in definition, but we do see in this generation more loneliness and isolation and you know, unfortunately we see higher rate of suicide in this group, in some countries in the us. So it it does reflect on outcome, I believe. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky:  Yes. And that generation you're speaking of is one of the most stressed generations in the history of the world. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Absolutely. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Very true. One last thing, the the roseto effect. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Okay. That, that's one of the thing that actually got my interest also many several years ago to look at that. So the Roseto effect in the 1960 there was a physician, I think his name is Dr. Schwarz, who came to one of the Aaron Pennsylvania and get a talk about cardio diseases. And they told him, I think in 1961 they told him that there is a community in Pennsylvania that they have the lowest rate of cardiovascular mortality, half of the rest, rest of the population. So he came back after you, after six, several months with the group of students and start to look at what's the mechanism that apparently this place called Roseto in Pennsylvania. It's a small town that actually came. All of the people initially came to this, were from a same name, Roseto from Italy. And They move as a community when he looked at them, and I don't want to, I'm not encouraging any other of unhealthy behavior, but this population didn't keep, their diet were not exercising a lot, they were smoking. But the main thing that he found out different and he, he compared it to small towns in Los Angeles, big town in Los Angeles, in Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania dealing, I study. The only thing is that when they move into Roseto, they move their community with them. So they move their family, they move their friends, they live the similar way that they live in Italy and, and that they found the only thing that you can found, unfortunately, when it become more modern and the effect decline, there are mortality start being equal to other places in, in the United States. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: So very similar to what we've seen with Loma Linda population. The other groups, the blue zones, et cetera. You, you need the social, - Dr. Amir Lerman: You need the social - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: That, that's great. Oh, this is fascinating. Dr. Lerman, thank you for educating us. You know, the, the social isolation has a big role to play. Our younger generation is getting more of it, unfortunately, it sounds like rather than less, the elderly are more likely more, a third of the elderly have it men more than women. If you have social isolation and you have a big increase in your, a higher increase, your ECG age, your biologic age, and those two combined lead to increased mortality after a few years. This is a fascinating area, an area we certainly need to pay more attention in to in our preventive cardiology practice and need to start incorporating it. Like you say, just ask a patient in a very non-judgmental way, how are you doing with, with your social interactions and such, - Dr. Amir Lerman: Man, how many times you go out, how many times you talk on the phone, all this little thing. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: Yeah. Yeah. And it's, it slips away from us very easily as we get busy. Well, this is a fascinating subject, the, and it's great to have, be able to get to speak to you about this. Any, any last words for us? - Dr. Amir Lerman:No, I, I, first of all, I appreciate the opportunity to, to present it. I think it's important to start having people, the medical and non-medical community be aware of this phenomenon. - Dr. Stephen Kopecky: And you've done a great job alerting us to it. Thank you very much Dr. Lerman. We hope to speak again soon. - Dr. Amir Lerman: Great. I appreciate it. Thanks.