The clinical trial journey shows how a medical intervention—whether a drug, device, or procedure—goes from an idea to patient care. The journey begins with discovery science in the lab. Researchers use computers, cells, and animal models to find answers to basic questions, such as how DNA works or how cells communicate with each other. After much work, the fruit of this effort is ready to be translated into a clinical trial. That is the first translational moment. As researchers move into Phase 1 clinical trials, they begin to look for answers with the help of volunteers. Here, researchers answer questions about safety and how well the participants tolerate the medical intervention. These trials do not include many volunteers, are short, and usually only last a few months. With the information gathered from Phase 1, they move to the next phase. In Phase 2 clinical trials, researchers ask questions such as: How effective is what I am studying for these patients? Are there side effects? How does it compare to a placebo? Phase 2 trials are usually conducted with a medium-sized group of volunteers. These types of studies last several months or years. The problem is that at this point, many Phase 1 or 2 trials...  They hit a dead end: funding disappears, the results are inconclusive, the intervention fails. When this happens, the researchers start all over again. But when it works, the researchers move on to phase 3 clinical trials. In this phase, the researchers set out to confirm the results of previous trials in a larger study and ask themselves, for example, how it compares to other treatments and how effective it is for many more people. Completing a phase 3 trial takes years. After phase 3, the next crucial stage is authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA reviews all the trial data, taking into account the intended use of the intervention, and decides if the benefits outweigh the risks. Once authorized, the research can become a treatment for patients. FDA authorization means that the clinical trial journey has reached the second translational stage. The intervention ceases to be a scientific experiment. However, the journey does not end there, as the treatment must continue to be monitored to ensure its safety and efficacy as more and more people receive it.