I'm Sam Sayed. I am the co-founder of Dayna's Footprints. I'm also a second-year emergency medicine resident in the Emergency Department. I think what separates us at Dayna's Footprints is that this is not the hand-me-down type of foundation. It got started to honor our late sister Dana. She gifted us a pair of shoes that we felt as kids gave us the confidence and enthusiasm to go back to school with a smile on our face instead of a frown. Years later, we decided to honor her by doing the same for children in underserved communities as well. For us, my brother and I, what Dayna gifted us was not just those shoes, it was the validation in our confidence and what really spoke to us about those shoes. My name is Sammy Arab, and I work as a postdoctoral research fellow in Cardiovascular Diseases at Mayo Clinic. In Dayna's Footprints, I'm the operations lead for the Rochester chapter. Today we're welcoming about 60 Rochester kids from the Boys & Girls Club and from Longfellow Elementary. During today's event, there are going to be volunteers from Mayo Fellows Association, from Mayo Clinic, from Dayna's Footprints, and there are also going to be staff from Scheels helping guide these kids, providing them with validation, providing them with support and helping them choose a pair of shoes that really speaks to them. Something as simple as a pair of shoes can really transform how a child walks into school. It gives them more confidence, less anxiety, and it helps them feel ready to learn. You can see the change in their faces. They're beaming with smiles. Shopping for shoes and not having to worry about any price tag or any limitations. They'll pick out any pair of shoes that they want. They'll try them on. Perhaps they don't like the way they feel on their feet. They'll try another pair and maybe a third, fourth, fifth pair until they find the one them. From there, they get to just go home, and they'll get ready for school and have a fresh pair of kicks. Mayo Clinic is more than just a building. They poured into us financially. They volunteered to be here. They just encouraged me to be the best I can outside the hospital. We share it with the kids. You know, we don't hide it from them. They're like, you know, who's, how are we doing this? How is it possible? We're like, oh, so Dayna's Footprints and Mayo Clinic. And why does Mayo Clinic want to do this for you? It's because they care about you, just like we do. You know, your parents are on your side, we're on your side. The whole community is coming together to support you because we care about you. We believe that no child should really walk alone, and Mayo Clinic, much like ours, believes in that mission as well. It's a moment for them to realize that there are complete strangers in this world that care about them and that they're not alone. These shoes are just a microcosm of what we truly believe is going on here. These shoes will one day wear off, but the moment and the feeling that we leave inside of them today will last an eternity.