Every winter it happens. Someone dies from exposure to the cold. Hypothermia could happen quickly in very cold weather or in cold water and it is often life-threatening. But hypothermia is a good thing for people who have a cardiac arrest. Let's go to Mayo Clinic to see how emergency department doctors are using it to help keep these people alive. A cardiac arrest essentially is when the heart stops. If after CPR patients make it to the hospital with a pulse, they have a 30% chance of survival. But Dr. Tyler Vetabonor says those chances are much better if patients are put into an induced state of hypothermia. We can increase that survival rate to about 50%. Cooling can be started early by paramedics in the field and at the hospital is typically induced by an infusion of cold saline. We bring the uh patients temperature down to approximately 33° C. Then doctors can use one of several methods to keep the body cool. Uh one would be a vascular device where you would actually put a catheter um in the groin um and there would be a cooling instrument uh that would keep the circulating blood cool. Another would be to pack the patient in ice bags and another method utilizes external cooling pads placed on the body. The cold saline will be infused through this tubing through the pad and this will essentially cool um the cardiac arrest patient down. There are a few major theories as to how hypothermia benefits cardiac arrest patients. One is that hypothermia decreases inflammation in the brain. The other is that hypothermia slows your metabolism so the body doesn't need as much oxygen rich blood flowing to the brain. Dr. Vetabankor says once the body's cool, it's important to keep it cool anywhere from 12 to 24 hours or more. If you don't administer hypothermia, um, often times these patients will eventually become hyperothermic. Um, they'll get too hot, which has, you know, adverse effects, cooling cardiac arrest patients down to help keep them alive. Dr. Vetabunker says many emergency departments are starting to use hypothermia for cardiac arrest patients. Many places are also using it to help stroke victims. For Medical Edge, I'm Vivian