Hi and welcome. Today's topic is emotional and mindful eating. My name is Dr. Lindenberg. We may have met in your initial appointments with our beriatric surgery team. As this is a recorded session, please feel free to reach out to me directly or to any of the beriatric psychologists on our beriatric team via your patient portal with any questions you may have after watching this seminar. The goals for this group are to talk about learning about the addictive nature of food, defining binge eating characteristics. We will go through different types of binge eating, understanding hunger versus cravings, defining mindful eating behaviors to review the nine types of hunger. And finally, we are going to practice a mindful eating technique with an exercise in the class today that comes from the book Mindful Eating that we recommend. So food as an addiction is basically the idea that we can become addicted to food in the same way that we become addicted to other things whether it is drugs, alcohol, sex, gambling or shopping. The same neurochemical process occurs with each of these types of addictions. I know this chart can appear a little cluttered upon first glance, but this is an example of our short versus long-term reward circuitry. The space in the middle is the short-term circuit. This is what the brain likes to rely on to build feel-good neurochemicals in an easy way. For many of us, this includes with food. Using the chart, food is seen as the synthetic driven stimulus. Let's use a bag of chips as an example. We decide to eat a chip and the chip produces endorphins which later becomes dopamine. It feels great, but it's a short burst of dopamine. We then eat another chip and another and before we know it, we have eaten the whole bag of chips and we no longer feel so good. The same process occurs with other types of addiction. It's an easy way to build those neurochemicals, which is part of what contributes to creating an addiction. An alternative is to build a bridge that creates a long-term reward circuit that creates longlasting dopamine. So instead of the dopamine from the chip dissipating rather quickly, these types of meaning centered activities like finding purpose and stimulating your brain with say for example learning a new instrument. This creates longerlasting dopamine. So this is a very basic introduction to this concept. And when it comes to addiction to food specifically, there are certain areas that we can dive further into. And all of this is relevant to learning about our own relationships with food. And today I want to talk more about binge eating. So, binge eating is defined from the American Psychiatric Association as losing control and eating within a discrete period of time, usually about 2 hours, an amount of food that is definitely larger than most people would eat in a similar period of time and under similar circumstances. So, based on that definition alone, I want you to ask yourself if you have ever had a binge eating episode before. I will be curious to know how your thoughts either stay the same or adjust based on learning more about what qualifies as binge eating in the next few minutes. So, we're going to review various types of binge eating. But first, let's cover some basics. Binge eating is actually fairly common. 2 to 5% of the general population engages in binge eating behaviors. But when it comes to individuals looking to get beriatric surgery, the number is actually much higher. It's closer to 20%. Again, characteristics include feelings of loss of control, feeling guilt or shame related to eating. The duration is usually about 2 hours, but can vary greatly. And then the type of food being consumed can vary greatly as well. So, these are some of the main characteristics. Eating really quickly and feeling like you can't stop yourself. Eating when you're not physically hungry. Eating until uncomfortably full. Eating normally around other people but gorging when alone. Eating alone to avoid embarrassment. Hiding food to eat later in secret. Feeling numb while binging or feeling disgusted with oneself after the binge. So these are some of the triggers for binge eating. Feeling hungry in itself particularly from restricting your diet. feeling anxious or tense, experiencing cravings, which we will talk more about later, eating something, and kind of breaking the seal. If you've heard that phrase, feeling judged, criticized, blamed, unappreciated, rejected, or even taken advantage of, experiencing an obsession or preoccupation with food or eating. Feeling bored from having unstructured time, having high access to privacy or a setting in which a person prefers to binge eat. Having general worries about finances, sex or family, or any kind of physical ailment or pain, fatigue, or a negative physical state, including any kind of premenstrual tension in women. The belief that food can provide a good feeling or pleasant feeling or breaking a dietary rule. similar to breaking the seal as mentioned before and then general psychological pain such as anger, anxiety or sadness. So here's a teaser for the class quiz that you will need to submit for completing this lecture. Please ask yourself now, which of the following is not a common trigger for binge eating? anxiety, eating protein with each meal, restrictive diets, cravings, preoccupation with food and eating. Try to answer this to yourself now. So, I'm going to let you know that the correct answer is number two. Eating protein with each meal. As you may already be aware, eating protein is actually a very important thing to do according to our dieticians, especially after beriatric surgery and is not a common trigger for binge eating. Whereas anxiety, restrictive diets, cravings, and preoccupation with food and eating are common triggers for binge eating. So let's talk about the different varieties of binge eating. We'll start with the hunger binge. This is typically triggered by food deprivation. If we are fasting during the day, severely restricting our calories or starving ourselves, this can lead to a hunger binge in which we end up consuming a large amount of calories and overeating at one time as a result. Again, we might feel a sense of loss of control with this eating. Then there is the stress binge. This is where we are eating due to emotional reasons. We may be trying to numb ourselves or distract ourselves from our thoughts. Then there is the grazing binge. This type of binge can look and feel different from the other types of binges as that is more or less eating continuously throughout the day. It can look like snacking, but it is large quantities and occurs all day. It still has that sense of feeling out of control, which is the hallmark and really telltale sign of a binge eating episode. Then there is the opportunity binge which is a combination of boredom and unstructured time. We hear about this often with individuals who work really hard during the day. They may binge in the evening as an opportunity to relax. Or a person on vacation who may let go of healthy, you know, typically healthy eating habits, but while on vacation they do this as a way of relaxing. This can also occur during the holidays. So really basically anytime we're outside of our regular routine, we're much more likely in those situations to create reasons to accept these behaviors. So one of the best ways to approach an opportunity binge is to plan ahead. Let's say you have plans to visit family next month. You know some of your favorite foods will be there and you may be tempted. It may be helpful to plan ahead by discussing your goals with your loved ones and explaining your challenges in these situations. You can consider bringing snacks or food that fit within your diet and lifestyle. Or you can contribute dishes to a big meal that are good for you. You can also consider just bringing your own food, eating ahead of time, or even leaving the room and creating distance when triggering food is present. We will talk more about all of that a little later, but the main thing is planning. Then there is the vengeful binge which is basically fueled by anger. This can come about from feelings that you've let yourself down again. It sometimes comes from wanting to punish oneself or sometimes there's an inner rebellious voice and a person may want to hurt themselves in some way. So how do we overcome this type of binge? We look underneath the anger. Then there is the pleasure binge. Sometimes we look for pleasure in our food. We may be seeking stimulation or entertainment or perhaps we see food as a reward that we have earned. This usually comes with a feeling of excitement about eating. And individuals that engage in pleasure binges often spend a lot of time fantasizing about what they're going to eat next. And then there is the habit binge which is when we are on automatic pilot mode and it can become habitual. This is generally seen as more or less non-stop eating with little control or consciousness of it. Sometimes it can be associated with a certain stimulus. For example, watching TV. So using our example from before, at the end of a long day, we may sit in front of the TV to wind down and relax, and we automatically want a snack to go with it. So there isn't always a lot of awareness around this kind of binge. So binge eating is often a way of coping with what we're struggling with in our everyday lives. It can provide relief from negative emotions, from physical pain, from the tough things that we're experiencing in life. It's reliable. It's pretty easy to get a hold of a snack in comparison to doing an activity and we have to eat anyway. So, we generally have easy access for the most part. This makes it both powerful and easy to rely on. Of course, binge eating is associated with less weight loss as we are then taking in more calories. And this is something important to keep in mind as if as a urine if you're an individual that has a tendency to binge eat this does not necessarily permanently go away with beriatric surgery. So as you can see there are many psychological underpinnings to binge eating and those pieces do need to be addressed or resolved um prior to the surgery. That's why we're talking about it now. So how do we address binge eating behaviors? The first thing we really need to do is to build awareness of our behaviors. First, we identify the triggers that elicit binges and plan how to change the patterns and create new desirable ones. As a clinical psychologist myself, I practice from a theoretical orientation called cognitive behavioral therapy. Within this, we often like to collect data on our thoughts and behaviors to create meaningful change. So, we use a daily thought record to help organize our experiences and to begin making sense of the information gathered. We journal our thoughts, emotions, physical sensations, and behaviors. We then look for trends and patterns within our thought logs and then we make a plan from there. This may all sound kind of familiar as we do something pretty similar with the food diaries in our program. We look for the trends to create change in the areas we struggle with the most. We start to dive in and look at what is triggering the behavior. For example, a specific type of day, a certain situation or certain stressful event or specific emotions. And then we track in a detailed way. Then we can see what the problem really is and start to address the underlying problems in the in itself. Ultimately, the binge eating is just the behavior and unhelpful coping skills that come from the trigger or a negative thought. If this is something you're interested in learning more about, please reach out to your beriatric psychologist for more information and support with this. It may be helpful to address some of these concerns in your individual therapy appointments with your beriatric psychologist or a community therapist if you have one. There are also helpful medications that can be explored with a team psychiatrist if you do not already have an established psychiatrist in the community. So, some of the other strategies that can be utilized to overcome binge eating include stress management, avoiding meal skipping, trying not to skip meals as that can lead to those hunger binges, and even if you're not actually overeating, less healthy choices are often made due to ease or convenience. Avoiding temptation, not dieting. Really focus on realistic lifestyle changes that can last for a lifetime. Knowing your triggers, exercising, fighting boredom, having really good coping skills and hobbies to utilize in those moments when you are bored, getting enough sleep. We know sleep impacts everything. So, make sure to establish good sleep hygiene techniques. Keep a food diary and get support. Whether that is a personal support system or a professional support system, just make sure you can surround yourself with as much support as you can. Cravings can be physiological or psychological. So, let's talk about hunger versus cravings. These can get mixed up or confused pretty easily. Hunger is an urgent need for food or a specific nutrient. It's an uneasy sensation occasioned by the lack of food and can bring about a weakened condition if we go a long time without food. Cravings are an intense, urgent, or abnormal desire or longing for a specific type of food. Cravings are physiological in nature. Brain chemicals can play a part in determining determining what kinds of foods we may crave at any given time. They can also be psychological. They can come from feelings of deprivation due to dieting or they can come from a trigger, particularly from those nine types of hunger like seeing a commercial on TV or smelling a favorite food cooking in the kitchen. Our memories also play a big role in this as we associate certain memories with food and we can remember what things taste like. We also associate certain types of events like birthdays or weddings with specific types of food like a birthday or wedding cake. Finally, cravings are also emotional. They can provide a sense of escape from any kind of negative emotion. Chocolate is actually the number one most great food for two main reasons. There is a childhood association with chocolate as being a special treat. We associate it with celebrating. And chocolate is also one of the foods that creates a chemical effect and makes endorphins. There's a neurochemical reason that chocolate makes us feel good. Interestingly enough, a nice thing about cravings is that they're generally not longasting. Ultimately, they are just a craving. And most cravings usually only last about 5 to 10 minutes. If we don't engage in the craving in that time, a lot of the time they'll go away. There are a lot of things you can do to help manage cravings during that time. Part of that is eating a structured meal plan. I know I'm repeating myself, but trying to avoid skipping meals as this leads to those hunger binges or just overeating in general. Try to eat a wide variety of foods. a good well-balanced diet and create distance with the foods you tend to crave. Create that barrier and don't keep them in your house. Then you won't be able to get a hold of them within the 5 to 10 minute window. So let's talk about how to challenge these cravings. Plan how you will challenge them in advance. Make a plan so in the moment it can become an automatic response. What are some alternatives that might be quick and easy that I can use in the moment to challenge that craving when it comes up? One thing is learning to avoid the temptation area, walking away, changing the physical location for a moment or using thought stopping ideas like remembering your goals and what you're trying to achieve. Remind yourself of your vision. What are you wanting your life to look like 2 weeks, 6 months, or even one year from now? Remind yourself of why you are in the beriatric surgery program. One technique I really like is depressing the sensory longing like popping a mint, brushing your teeth, doing something that takes away the desire to taste. And then tell yourself to wait 10 minutes and have several options available to keep yourself busy for those 10 minutes. Then ask yourself if you still really want it and then use positive self- statements and tell yourself you can handle this. The alternatives for those 5 to 10 minutes can be anything. It could be doing laundry, going for a walk, taking a long bath, playing music or dancing, riding a bike, cleaning out your closet, playing with your child or with your pet. It can really be anything. So, just do something. And finally, there will be times where after the 5 to 10 minutes, we're still experiencing a craving. Have a plan for that, too. You've taken all the steps and decided that you're going to indulge in the snack or dessert after all. In those situations, still have a plan. Plan to indulge in a craving with moderation and think about portion control from the get- go. Allow yourself to indulge in the craving by taking back a sense of control. With a plan in place, this changes the tune. And it is not the same as what I described with binge eating. You have control and a plan. You decide on a single scoop of ice cream instead of two. You share a meal with a friend. You make a commitment to yourself and you stay accountable to it. By doing this, there is no need for self-criticism. Eating a favorite food on occasion is not a sign of loss of control, especially if you are sticking to a predetermined plan. Finally, an important piece of all of this is learning how to make small, manageable, and realistic goals that are going to stick. If that means making these changes slowly, make them slowly. So the 7Ds is a handy way of remembering some basic techniques including to delay the urge may pass. Drink water. A lot of the time we're actually just thirsty, distract, do anything else. Take a deep breath. Take three slow deep breaths. Think about the changes you are making and why you are making them. Create distance. Leave the room. Determination. See a healthier you. What is that vision? And decide is it reasonable and appropriate. Okay. So now we are going to transition into mindful eating. Let's start with a nice quote that helps with the perspective we are trying to see. Too many people today see food as their enemy. I want them to look at food in a whole new light. It's delicious, tempting, something that adds to the richness and enjoyment of life and as something that can promote good health beyond its nutritional value. Basically, we are not trying to make food the enemy. We're just trying to see food in a different way and practice eating more mindfully. This is basically all about paying more attention to your mind, body, and everything around you. This is what we call mindfulness. Mindfulness as a whole is about being in the present moment, removing judgment or criticism. And then mindful eating is basically a subclass within that. So everything about mindfulness specific to eating. Mindlessness is the complete opposite of that. It is when we are not paying attention and we are unaware of what is happening both within ourselves and in the environment around us. I encourage you to take a moment to consider when in your day you eat mindfully and when in your day you eat mindlessly. So hopefully all of you have learned now about the nine types of hunger. If you have not yet, the title and author for the book is on the screen. This resource is recommended to all individuals in the beriatric surgery program. Chapter 2 of this book reviews the nine types of hunger. The book goes into really nice detail and has some good examples. There are hard copy e-reader and audio book versions of this, so hopefully you have a version that you like. So, the mindful eating book will help you to identify the type of hunger you're experiencing and ideas for dealing with emotional hunger. And you have a similar handout to this. Um, you should have received it in your portal messages and you should have received a hard copy on the first day of the program. Please let me know if you don't have this. So, now we are going to practice the raisin exercise from that book. I personally love this exercise as it is a great introduction to experience what mindful eating is all about. So, please go ahead and pause this video while you go get either one raisin or something equivalent to that, something that is one bite size and we'll practice with it. If it's not a raisin, it could be a dried cranberry, a single strawberry, a cherry tomato, or a small cracker. So, go ahead and pause the video now and press play when you're ready to begin. Okay. So, you'll take the object, let's say it's a raisin, and hold it in the palm of your hand or between your finger and your thumb. Focus on it. Imagine like you've just dropped in from outer space. You were on Mars, now you're here. You've never seen an object like this before in your whole life. So, take some time to really see it. Gaze at the raisin with full care and attention. Let your eyes explore every part of it, examining the highlights where the light shines, the darker hollows, the folds, the ridges, and any asymmetries or unique features. Turn the razor raisin over between your fingers. Explore its texture. Feel free to close your eyes if you want. That can enhance your sense of touch. and then hold the raisin beneath your nose. With each inhalation, drink in any smells or aromomas or fragrances that might come up. And notice that as you do that, if there's anything interesting going on in your mouth or your stomach and then slowly bring the raisin up to your lips and notice how your hand, your arm know exactly how and where to position it. And then gently place the object in your mouth. Don't chew it yet. Just notice how it gets into your mouth. And spend a few moments exploring the sensations of having it in your mouth and exploring it with your tongue. And when you are ready, prepare to chew the raisin. Notice how and where it needs to be in your mouth so you can chew it. And then very consciously take one or two little bites into it and notice what happens in the aftermath. Notice any waves of taste that emanate from it as you continue chewing. And without swallowing yet, notice the sensations of taste and texture in your mouth and how these may change over time, moment by moment, as well as any changes in the object itself. When you feel ready to swallow the raisin, see if you can first detect the intention to swallow as it comes up so that even this is experienced consciously before you actually swallow the raisin. Finally, see if you can feel what is left of the raisin moving down into your stomach and sense how the body as a whole is feeling after completing this exercise of mindful eating. If you liked this exercise and want to review it again sometime, it begins on page 11 of the mindful eating book. Some of us do a really good job incorporating our senses in all of these skills at the beginning of each meal. We tend to lose focus on our food for the remainder of the meal. So, I encourage you to attempt to bring that same attention from your first bite to all of your bites moving forward. Bring all of your senses into your full meal. I hope all of you found some benefit to this practice and bring this awareness forward with you. Again, please feel free to reach out to the beriatric psychologists on the team if you have any questions or would like additional support with our topic from today. Have a wonderful rest of your day.