Welcome to those watching this video. We hope this presentation can give you valuable information on how to care for communities, and thank you very much to everyone presenting today. Let's begin. All the panelists, please introduce yourselves and explain what you do. Starting with the doctor, hello, welcome everyone. First of all, I want to thank you, Yasica, and everyone here. Thank you very much for the invitation. It is a great honor to be here with this highly qualified panel. My name is [Name], and I am an internist and pediatrician. I work here at the Mayo Clinic here in Jacksonville, Florida, and I work at what we call the primary care level. I am a PremierCare doctor, and I love treating patients with all conditions. I also do research in the area of health communication, focusing on diabetes, and I work primarily in the area of ​​medical literacy and how it impacts health and health outcomes for Spanish-speaking people. It's a pleasure to be here. Well, welcome everyone. My name is Reverend Dr. Gabriel Salguero, and  It truly honors me to be with the Mayo Clinic and all the colleagues here. Thank you so much, Jessica. Thank you to everyone here. My role is that of president and founder of the National Evangelical Latino Coalition, a coalition that works for the common good of Latinos in the United States from an evangelical perspective. We recently launched campaigns for mental health and to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, and as always, from a religious perspective, we are here to collaborate with our colleagues in medicine. It is a great pleasure to be with you all. I am Ilan Shapié, a Mexican doctor who currently works at AltaMed, a network of community clinics that serves 400,000 patients between Los Angeles and Orange County. We know that health has been fundamental and very important for all our families, especially now after COVID-19, with all the things we did and went through. As a doctor, as a pediatrician, and very importantly as a father, these kinds of talks are very important because we have doubts and questions, and often even  We have fears and we want to resolve them, so I'm here. It's an honor to be with you. It's an honor to be able to share on this important panel, at least to give you this information so we can decide. Thank you. It's also a pleasure for me to be part of this panel and to be able to give you information. I 'm Claudia Gutiérrez. I'm currently in Bogotá, Colombia, and I'm a psychologist. I work to provide psychological tools for managing emotions, for understanding how thoughts and stressful situations affect our relationships and our daily lives. So, it's a pleasure for me to be here and to be able to offer you some of these tools through this medium. So, Jessica, it's a pleasure that you organized this, and to my colleagues as well. Thank you very much for sharing your knowledge here on this panel today. Yes, thank you very much. I feel that, as you can see, we have a very strong panel, and I'm very excited to learn from you and about what you have to say. So, I'm going to start with a question for Dr. White. Dr. White, can you please explain why another booster dose of COVID-19 is needed? Look, that's an excellent question. I think that before we answer directly, the question is important for the listeners to understand the variants and what we define as a strain. Unfortunately, the coronavirus can mutate, meaning it can change each time it's transmitted from one person to another. Because of this, the virus mutates; its RNA isn't DNA, but this virus has RNA. What happens is that each time the virus mutates, it expresses other proteins that the virus can use to evade our immune system. That's why we have what we call a strain or variant. From the beginning of the pandemic, we heard a lot about the coronavirus, but then we started hearing about the Delta form, and now what's spreading in the community is a strain of the coronavirus called Omicron. So, when the copper vaccine came out in December 2020, it was the most important and powerful weapon to protect us. But the thing is, there are different types of vaccines. For example, the Spice Girl vaccine from Moderna requires two doses. But what also happens is that when our immune system mounts a response to the injection, this response can decrease over time. That is, it loses some of its effect over time. That's why it's very important that we get a booster to stimulate our immune system again so that we can...  Raising antibody levels protects us, allowing the virus to bind to us and protecting us against the severity of the infection's side effects, which can be severe. Unfortunately, we've seen this in many people who have had very serious infections. That's why it's important that we focus on maintaining our immune system. Thank you very much for this explanation. Based on that, Dr. Shapiro, I have a question for you: What booster options are available, and how do I choose? Which is the best option for me? That's a great question, and I'm going to start with the clearest thing, and I haven't said this very often, but I'm going to say it out loud: of all the things we have, the best vaccine is the one in the shoulder. That's the best vaccine we're going to have. There are different things, and we're going to talk about having two different types: those made from messenger RNA and others as options. Right now, the ones we have as updated boosters are precisely those made from messenger RNA, and the good news is that we now have them for people five years of age and older, which makes protection much easier because we all want to celebrate. There are practically those.  There's the Pfizer vaccine and the Moderna vaccine. Both have a very important function, as Dr. White said, which is to protect us from ending up in the hospital and to protect us against complications. We're also seeing new research showing that vaccinated people have a lower chance of developing something called long COVID. So, we all have these options, and I'll tell you completely: I've already had mine, my children have had it, my wife has had it, and there's a little arm pain, a little redness, a little fever, but it's really protecting us so we can be with our families. There are many holidays coming up, many celebrations: the Day of the Virgin, the days after Thanksgiving, and before and after Christmas and New Year's, and everything starts piling up. And honestly, I don't want to let my family or my community down. Unfortunately, I spent last Christmas and New Year's at home because I had COVID, so I completely understand, and I don't want to repeat that. But one more question for you, Dr. Chapiro: you mentioned the Prolonged COVID, can you explain more about what that is and how to avoid it? With pleasure, Jessica. We've heard many people say, "Well, I had COVID- 19 and it felt like just a little flu." Unfortunately, COVID-19 is not a simple flu. Regardless of whether you ended up in intensive care or felt it was just a mild flu, COVID-19 can leave some " gifts." These "gifts" are more than 50 symptoms that last for more than a month. These range from loss of smell and taste to headaches and heart problems, including arrhythmias. These problems can worsen and persist, and there's no specific therapy to stop this long COVID phase. However, we do have a way to prevent it: by not getting sick. If we are going to be exposed, keeping our vaccinations up to date, especially with the updated vaccine that, as Dr. White mentioned, has the micron component, can make a big difference. Thank you very much for that explanation. We know that many people have n't been vaccinated for various reasons and are suffering greatly from the effects, Doctor.  Salguero, could you please explain what you would say to those who say they don't want to get vaccinated for faith-related reasons? Thank you, Jessica. Unfortunately, many people think that faith is the enemy of science. Nothing could be further from the truth. Faith and science can go hand in hand. As far as I know, no faith, no organized religion—Catholic, Protestant—has said that we shouldn't get vaccinated. On the contrary, our coalition made a public announcement, and Pope Francis also made a public announcement saying that if we love our neighbors, we love our families. Part of that love is being able to protect them by getting vaccinated against COVID-19. There are people who have said, "Well, I don't need the vaccine because God protects me." Well, God protects me, but I wear my seatbelt when I'm driving. God protects me, but I fasten my seatbelt when I'm on a plane. So science is not the enemy of faith. On the contrary, all faiths teach that one should take care of oneself and one's neighbor, and part of that is getting the necessary vaccines to protect ourselves, our families, and our neighbors. Thank you very much for that explanation. Well, thinking more from an emotional perspective, Claudia, we know that the pandemic has had many effects on mental health. Can you explain more about how you've seen that? Sure, Jessy, I also find it very interesting. Going back to what my colleagues have said, it's about how COVID has left us with this concern for mental health because we worry about providing resources for managing our emotions and uncomfortable feelings. You were talking about celebrations and about meaningful life, about how valuable others are, right? And one of those resources we can count on is tolerating short-term discomfort. That is, the vaccine and those kinds of experiences can have some minor discomforts, but sometimes we're acting more because of those short-term discomforts and not thinking about the long-term benefits. So, for that meaningful life, what can I suggest? Some strategies for tolerating discomfort, tolerating those feelings that may appear on the first day, are to also take time to take care of yourself, to be at home, to think about the future, to think about the benefits that this action, which may be a little costly, will bring.  In terms of how it disrupts my daily routine, but that in the long run it will bring a benefit, that's an emotional resource: tolerating the discomfort and thinking about the long-term consequences. I think that when we were facing the lockdown, we also had some and developed some of these strategies. So it's like putting a stop to it again and thinking about the long-term consequences. Jessica, I think that's important. Yes, thank you very much. I agree. And Dr. White, we know that many patients feel they do n't trust their providers. What practical advice would you give them on how to develop a trusting relationship with doctors so they feel they can ask questions and have that confidence? Look, thank you, Jessica, for this question. It's also a very important question. I would say that without trust and good communication between patient and doctor, we can't do what we have to do. Communication and trust are of utmost importance in the patient-doctor relationship. If that doesn't exist, then I would say that the patient has to make sure they are there, receiving from their doctor what they need. Sometimes, due to cultural factors, we see the doctor as being in an unchallengeable state, as if we can't contradict or disagree with what the doctor says.  She knows that sometimes, even when a patient has doubts or questions, we're afraid to reveal these doubts, these thoughts, and I believe this is harmful to the patient because our job as doctors is to explain the information in a way that the person can understand and, above all, so they can use this information to make the right decisions regarding their health. So, when I speak with groups of patients, I encourage them that if it's necessary to set aside this habit we sometimes have due to our culture, we have to put aside a little time to think about our well-being. Don't be afraid. If you are afraid, it's recommended that you bring a family member or a friend, someone you trust who can help you. But I encourage patients never to leave the consultation room without all their questions answered. A medical reading organization invented three important things, which they put as their motto: " Ask me three." The first is: what is my condition? You always have to understand this. The second is: what do I need to do? And the third is: how will this information affect me? So, I encourage people never to leave the consultation room without having this...  Trust is very important. Thank you very much, and Dr. Chapiro, I know you spoke about the importance of getting vaccinated so we can be with our families and enjoy all the upcoming holidays. What would you say to your family members who might not want to get vaccinated and say that the pandemic is over and we don't have to worry about it anymore? It's okay to have differences of opinion. Fear will stop, and it's okay to be tired. I think no one—not even the people who weren't listening, including ourselves—is tired of saying the word COVID. We wanted to erase it from history, we wanted to remove everything it had to do with it, but unfortunately, even if we change the laws, even if we change our way of thinking, COVID-19 doesn't speak to humans. So, the moment it doesn't speak to humans, I only see opportunities to attack us, and we can decide how easy or difficult that is. This goes from masks, which I honestly don't know anyone who says, "Yes, I love living in masks, I even sleep with mine on." I don't know anyone like that either. But what we have seen with masks is that they make a difference and create a barrier between us and the virus, and they reduce the way we infect others.  We only see it against COVID- 19 with the flu, but if it's respiratory and other things, then we already know what things we can do to overcome the barriers, ultimately, and now we have the power to decide what is actionable for us. There are certain realities that we do have, that unfortunately, between 300 and 400 people die every day in the United States directly from COVID-19. So it hasn't gone away, and in fact, to put it in context, this is probably 10 times more than the number of deaths from the flu. So we are still seeing a significant number of people being hit hard by this, and it's not just that; we're talking for a couple of minutes about long COVID, we're talking about being with family. So if we really want to take action, we have to get rid of the fear and anxiety and feeling that way because many times fear paralyzes us, it paralyzes us, what ends up happening is that we stop deciding, we don't listen to either the good or the bad. So I want to share with you and share on the panel that the way I decided to get vaccinated and take my boosters was because of the moment  I started to consider what was best for me and my family: facing COVID-19 directly, or having a barrier that could protect me. Clearly, everything in life, including water, can have side effects, but I had to see what I liked more and what the numbers were telling me. Putting fear aside— because we're all afraid when it comes to vaccinating our children, or ourselves—I don't know anyone who likes going to the doctor. So there are many things going on there. So, putting all that aside, what would best safeguard my being, my soul, my body, so I could continue serving my family and my community? Clearly, it was being up-to-date on my vaccinations. In fact, unvaccinated people have five times the chance of being hospitalized with a vaccinated person, and I won't even mention the mortality rate, which is also higher. So that's giving me, and logically, the advantage, especially this year, which will be different from 2020 and 2021. Here in 2022, we'll probably be with our whole family, some of us hugging each other, having a different kind of interaction.  I don't want to give anyone the "gift" of COVID-19, and if for some reason I get it, I want to be sure it says everything possible. Like Pastor Salguero Salguero said, I want to wear my seatbelt to be there with my family. Thank you very much. You spoke a little about the side effects, and we know that many people are afraid of them, especially the booster shots. I know you said it's worth getting vaccinated, but could you talk a little more about how long the side effects last and why it's important to get vaccinated even though there might be those effects? It's an incredible question, and I'm going to virtually take off my white coat and speak now as a father and as a human being. Everything has its risks; we have to weigh the things in front of us and really consider the probability of experiencing side effects and how many problems COVID-19 can cause. It affects both children and adults, and the most common cases are in the 90s—that's what really happens.  The unusual things are minuscule, and I'm very calm, Jessica, because we've been able to detect clusters. For example, when we had a clotting problem in Cacho almost a year ago with one of the older vaccines, we saw that out of seven million people, we detected six cases. We said, "We have to take care of these people." And guidelines were established, so I feel very confident in what they're monitoring for us. The most common side effects are arm pain, redness, a slight fever, and fatigue. Those four things are the most common. And now, because the doses are different from the updated ones, it happens a little less often than before. This lasts about 24 hours. You can use painkillers, drink water, rest, and those three things can make a big difference when you have this. And let me tell you, when I vaccinated my children, they were playing soccer half an hour later, and I was crying.  Because I got the shot and they're playing soccer, but it's really very different from what we think, and after it's over, nothing else matters. Thank you very much for that explanation; it helps a lot. And speaking more about getting vaccinated, Dr. Salguero, can you explain why you encourage your congregation to get vaccinated? Well, first, my role as a pastor is to inform and give correct information, and for me, it's several things, especially protecting vulnerable communities. In my Facebook community, I'll give you an example: my father has received two transplants, a liver transplant and a kidney transplant. His immune system is very susceptible to any disease. In our meetings, in our congregations, in our temples, in our meeting places, there are people with all kinds of immune systems, and I tell them, "Look, we have to consider the conditions. Maybe you can overcome COVID with a fever and prolonged effects, but not everyone is the same. I got COVID before the vaccine came out, and I had all the symptoms: high fever, everything. My wife also got it, and my children did too, and she has the long-term effects, what they call long-term COVID." So I tell people, we live in community, and in particular... Latino communities that like to celebrate together, go to church together, go to parks together, party together, one has to consider not only their own health status, but also the health status of the people around them. Number one, number two, I tell you, as Dr. Chapiro from AltaMed said, it's important to weigh the consequences of getting vaccinated against the consequences of getting vaccinated: a temporary discomfort, as psychologist Gutiérrez said, or possibly, God forbid, death, being hospitalized for long periods, or living with long COVID. So when we do that analysis, everyone has to decide for themselves. We have to see what the consequences and implications of not getting vaccinated are. And third, what I tell people is that there is no moral, ethical, or religious reason not to get vaccinated. At the beginning, when all the news about COVID-19 came out, and countless misinformation or bad information emerged, part of our role as community leaders, whether religious or community leaders, is to distribute and disseminate reliable information, and that's why we collaborated with clinics in our communities and distributed COVID vaccines.  In our churches, because people felt confident and used our churches as vaccination centers, and they would ask me, "But Pastor, we've heard this and we've heard that," and I would say, " Look, for religious reasons, we have no impediment. On top of that, from all the surveys, we've seen that our community—the Latino, African American, and Native American minority communities— are impacted at higher rates." I said, "We have to protect our community." I personally know several pastors who died before the vaccine was available due to the impact of copper, and because our communities are at high risk, to protect our communities we also have to respond with sobriety and responsibility. Thank you very much for this response, Doctor. As someone who is part of a faith community, it encourages me a lot to see faith leaders address this issue in the community, especially in such difficult times. But speaking more about what we were saying, about how we like to be in community, and well, obviously during the pandemic it was a little difficult to do that, and it affected us emotionally. Claudia, could you give us strategies for dealing with difficult emotions that perhaps have arisen due to the pandemic? Yes, of course. Oh, yes. And now that we were talking about...  For example, recognizing fear and knowing it's there, a little anxiety, a little worry—yes, these are emotions we experience because they alert us that something important to us is threatened with being taken away, like our health. Yes, but let's use a very simple word, "rain," to understand what we should do with difficult emotions with these four letters. First, recognize them, that is, know that the difficult emotion is there. Yes, when there's fear of going to talk to the doctor, as Dr. White said, or even as Dr. Chapiro said, "I don't want to think about COVID anymore, and I don't want to get vaccinated." Yes, there's a difficult emotion, and I can recognize that it's there. Second, allow yourself to experience that emotion, that is, allow yourself to know that going to the doctor isn't easy, that asking the questions you have isn't exactly your favorite activity, but that even though the fear is there, you can act. And then comes the third part: don't act in the direction of what's important to you. Reflect on those valuable thoughts and investigate why you're afraid, and as the doctors said, reflect and talk.  Openly, yes. And another activity is nourishing myself, doing activities that involve what is, let's say, valuable, and not necessarily identifying with what I think or what I'm told. Many times, all that we hear, and what others tell us, are stories, it's language, and it doesn't necessarily coincide with reality. So, recognizing that I do n't necessarily have to identify with those thoughts, recognizing the difficult emotion, accepting it, investigating what is important behind that notion, and not over-identifying with the thoughts or words that others tell me or that my own mind is telling me, perhaps because of stories I've heard. Thank you very much. I feel that I myself am going to apply these things. Before giving advice, and well, Dr. White and Dr. Zafiro, I would love for both of you to respond based on your experience as doctors with your patients. In what state do you think the pandemic is, and how can we protect ourselves but also take care of our communities and encourage them to take care of themselves as well? Excuse me, I can answer first. Look, I had my professional opinion looking at how the current variant of the virus is spreading. We are still in a pandemic. This summary  It's different than it was in 2020 when it started, and thank God we have better tools to protect ourselves. So I think that as a community, as a nation, we are now better equipped to fight the pandemic, but we are still in a pandemic. The variant that is spreading right now, a virus, is much more contagious than the original coronavirus, but thank God, honestly, we are not seeing diseases that can affect most of the people who are being infected. It seems like several of us have had personal experience with it, and I, being a vaccinated person who spends almost all day wearing a mask, caught COVID-19 along with my family in August, and I was surprised. But thank God, my illness was what we classify as an infection in a vaccinated person. So I know that it also helped defend my body because I had the vaccine. So I know for sure that we are still in a pandemic; we don't know exactly what is going to happen. We are already entering winter, so many experts are warning that we may see a combination with influenza. So I would say what we have mentioned several times in this talk, that  The best way we can protect ourselves is to get vaccinated and stay informed about the local spread. People can access local information from the health department to really know what's happening in their community. We should also add protective measures like wearing masks. I also want to celebrate. And as Dr. Zapiro said, I don't want to give anyone a free pass this Christmas. So that's what I would say. Yes, okay, thank you very much. I also got it at the beginning of the pandemic, and my experience with it, without the vaccine and with the vaccine, was very different. And yes, I'm very glad that there are leaders in the community who can also tell others that so they understand that it is worth getting vaccinated. But Dr. Zapiro, I don't know if you had any thoughts on that question. Also, thank God we're not in 2020 where we're asking for a miracle, asking that we really have a way to... and we're just starting to learn. We had no idea what we're getting into. We're asking for a medicine or something that can protect us, a vaccine, or simply for this to disappear. And it did n't happen until 2021, after 20 years of information, because we had already had two...  Viruses that are cousins ​​of COVID- 19, and SARS, which struck India, the Middle East, and Asia, all that technology helped us a lot to advance the vaccine process. The miracle was that we were able to create so many vaccines for everyone— not that the vaccine itself, but the formula, the idea, was created. It was already in the works, 20 years in the making. Now, in 2022, we have information about how vaccines can help us avoid complications, hospitalizations, and the number of lives that have been saved. In fact, they recently published an article stating that if we had vaccinated more people, we would have saved around 100,000 lives. So it's very clear to me that we wo n't be wearing masks anymore, we won't be using many of the things that were mandatory before, things that everyone was using. Now it's going to be different. We're in 2022, the virus has changed, we have more tools to fight it, but family, if we open the door, COVID-19 will get in.  So, right down to the kitchen, it's going to be very important that each of us consider what we want to do and take care of ourselves because we already know that this virus affects everyone equally, from little kids to big kids, whether they're bodybuilders or if they're really mistreating their bodies. So it depends on us how we can create more barriers, and the decision is how much. It's like life insurance; nobody wants to use it because it means you die when you use it, but having it can give everyone else a lot of security. So, I can create life insurance by getting that vaccine. Thank you very much. And one more question: based on that, Dr. White, you mentioned something about influenza and COVID, and I know there are many people who do n't understand what that means. Can you explain a little more? Look, influenza is a totally different virus, and the truth is that every year we see people dying from influenza, but it's not in the news as much as this global pandemic. But the flu vaccine is something we have to get a booster every year. I think the  People are getting more used to the fact that every year I have to go to the doctor and he's going to ask me about the flu, if I've had the shot. And I think that in this sense, young people are becoming accustomed to this same idea, that it's something we're going to have to have a continuous conversation about in the future, about whether next year, if another variant is spreading, we might have to have more vaccines against it. But we have to understand something that the flu and the coronavirus have in common: there are people at the extremes, as Dr. Shapiro mentioned, from the very young to the very old, who are at high risk for both viruses. So it's something we have to take seriously. People forget that it kills people every year. Yes, thank you very much. My mom already trained me that at the beginning of flu season, you have to rush to get vaccinated, and it took me about a week to do it. I was so scared, I said, 'I have to get vaccinated now!' But anyway, Dr. Salguero, I have a question for you about vaccines. We've heard that some people say that vaccines are a gift from God, while others say that God protects them and that they don't.  They need that, which is their answer. My answer is that God protects us in many ways, including medicine. I am an evangelical Christian pastor, and I remind the people of our congregation, of our parish, that one of the gospels was written by a doctor, Dr. Luke, and there he speaks to us, and in the Old Testament, the Jewish translation and other translations speak of medicine as part of a gift from God. The Lord gave humanity the intelligence to create all kinds of healing and all kinds of medicine, and that intelligence, which is a gift from God, is also for us to use to protect our communities, our children, our elderly, our people with compromised immune systems. The reality is this: if we have faith, part of this faith is that God has endowed humanity with all kinds of skills to help one another ;  When I go to the psychologist to help me with my anxiety and fears, when I go to the doctor to help me with my health, if God doesn't protect me, why do I exercise? Because there are things we have to do ourselves to take care of our cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. So, if God takes care of me, why do I have to eat? Because there are things that are human responsibility, and God gives us the intelligence to take responsibility in those areas. That's why the vaccine is a gift from God through medicine to help humanity. I love that answer, thank you very much. There's a book I recently read by Defense Counts, the director of the National Institutes of Health here in the United States, and he talks about how God can use science, and I love it. I feel that's what you're saying right now. Also, Dr. Francis, who is from our faith community and is an evangelical leader, talks about what he calls common sense. I have some colleagues who say that common sense isn't always so common. So, the reality is this: Dr. Francis Collins, who is the director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), is a person of deep faith, and he says  That their faith is not incompatible with their belief in the potential and abilities of medicine. I love that answer. Yes, thank you very much. And well, our last question is for Claudia. Claudia, we know that children have suffered a lot during the pandemic, not being able to be with their friends at school, in all of this, and we know that many parents are worried about this and how to talk about it. How do you recommend that parents talk about mental health with children who may be feeling sad or anxious after the pandemic? Are you in "yes" mode, Jessica? Thank you. I think there is a strategy in the parent- child relationship that runs through all parenting guidelines, right? And that is the validation of feelings. That is, it is important to recognize that for children, the interruption in in- person learning has caused some of them to fall behind their classmates, that there are subjects they are finding difficult, that perhaps they want to spend more time on screens and don't want to go back to school. Yes, there are fears present in them. The first tool is to validate those feelings, to recognize that those feelings are there, right? But also to help them think about  These other possibilities involve thinking about that community, thinking that it's not just me who matters, but others too, and also helping them get vaccinated, and even if it's painful or uncomfortable for them, they can start thinking as a community. Yes, another thing is promoting problem-solving, that is, sitting down with them and making plans, but those plans aren't necessarily the ones we tell them to have, but rather supporting them and helping them generate strategies to get ahead in what they're falling behind on, or to make new friends because their old group of friends before the pandemic is no longer there, or because they grew up during the pandemic, in that transition from elementary to high school, and they feel they're not as settled anymore. It's important to generate plans and strategies with them to adapt to these new circumstances. I think that, in general terms, these are measures that will help us grow as parents and help them grow, and take advantage of this pandemic situation to mature as a society, which I think is also very important, and to help others. Of course, thank you very much. I feel that something that has been mentioned a lot is the issue of  Helping others, and that we're not just doing these things for ourselves but for our community, so we don't give away the "gift" of COVID, so we can all be healthy and enjoy being together. So I really appreciate everything you've said, and well, we're running out of time. My last question is for everyone: If you had to leave a message for the world about what you want them to know about COVID, the vaccine, the pandemic, where we are in the world, what message would you give? Well, I would say that the world is very different, but we are Latinos and we know how to adapt to difficult circumstances and barriers. What I love about our culture, in our community, is that we love our families and we take care of each other. And I would say to the Hispanic/Latino community: keep doing that, protect yourselves, keep loving yourselves and your neighbors, and get vaccinated. But if you're going to do it, do it in an informal way, and may God bless you. Thank you very much, Doctor. I would say, and I echo what my colleague Dr. White and others have said, that we should embrace resilience. The most fragile human being is also resilient, and together we can overcome this, and part of that...  Resilience is about informing ourselves, taking care of ourselves, and loving ourselves. The Latino community in all its manifestations are resilient communities. We, the leaders of faith, often use one of our famous phrases: "Having faith doesn't mean we aren't afraid. We are afraid; we are fragile, and we are human beings. But let's embrace resilience." And that resilience is about taking care of ourselves and loving ourselves. I take away the message that we are no longer in the past, and we are seeing a different world where the virus has been a little kinder to us in some ways, but the moment we open the door to it, it can create a lot of havoc. And this is the moment, family, where we have the opportunity to defend ourselves through what we know because it's no longer about waiting to see what happens in the future or wondering if it will work. We truly know the difference these vaccines make, and it's within us if we really want to do that and bring that protection because we've talked about it. And just as our psychologist, Gutiérrez, is saying that we have suffered and accepted many things, we are now doing it again. Knowing what is going to happen is already on our shoulders. It means that we are practically walking into the fire, thinking that...  We're firefighters and we don't even have a fire extinguisher, and the vaccine is precisely that: the extinguisher. So, to have incredible holidays, a proper end to the year, we have to gather information. Today, it's okay to be afraid, it's okay to have doubts, but the most important thing is to act. Thank you very much. I'm taking a message for myself and also for you, those of you listening, to put into practice what happened today. I'm a psychologist, I'm a woman of faith, and I loved listening to each of you who were here. So, by talking and listening to others, we receive more, yes, and we don't keep that to ourselves; let's share this information. Yes, because what we did here today leaves us all much more fulfilled, with more information; we feel more like a team. So, what we want is for you, who are listening to this conference, to this panel, to do the same with this information, to feel more supported, and to share it with others so that together we can move forward. Well, thank you very much to everyone who studied, to everyone who watched this panel. We're very glad you were able to be a part of it and that you were able to learn something from what we said today. Thank you very much.  Thanks to the panelists, I feel like I learned a lot, and like Claudia said, I really loved learning from your experiences and hearing more about what you all do and learning from that. So thank you very much. I hope everyone is doing well, and like Claudia said, it's very important to take care of ourselves, but not only to take care of ourselves, but also to tell others, "Hey, have you done this? Because maybe you can enjoy the holidays more if you get vaccinated. You don't have to worry about giving them the Kodi gift or anything." So let's make our number one focus taking care of ourselves and our communities so we can love each other well and also enjoy ourselves together like we like to do in the Latino community. So thank you very much. I'm going to stop recording now.