Hello everyone. I'm Estefany "La Canelita" and today I'm with Laura Carlin. She's the Patient Navigator for the Cancer and Oncology service at Medio Clinic. Laura, good morning, how are you? Good morning. I'm very well, thank you very much. That's great. Tell me a little bit about the Comprehensive Cancer Center at Medio Clinic. We are a cancer center, and the center includes the three Mayo Clinic locations here in Minnesota, in Florida, and also in Arizona. The Comprehensive Cancer Center designation is a status given to us by the International Cancer Center because of our role in supporting patients receiving cancer treatment, but also with research and clinical trials to provide the best treatments and advances in cancer study and treatment. Well, Laura, thank you very much for the service you offer, of course, at Medio Clinic. And it's great that you also offer this to the Hispanic community. Tell me a little bit about the role of the Patient Navigator in supporting patients at Medio Clinic. We are a great support to both the patient and their caregivers, relatives, family members, and loved ones who want to support a patient while they come to receive their cancer care.  This paper will help them navigate their treatment experiences with the medical team, doctors, nurses, clinical trials, social workers, and the finance side of things, both at the Mayo Clinic and in the Jacksonville community. We can see resources like transportation, food assistance, and other things that will change due to their cancer treatments and care. It's great, Laura, that you dedicate time to this, which is so important, and especially not only you but the entire Clinic Media team, which is incredible, and the service is tremendous. I have another question for you: please explain some of the common barriers that cancer patients face and how navigators help patients break down those barriers. It depends on each patient and their reality, obviously. I support patients who speak Spanish, and sometimes a barrier can be language because many of the materials are in English or because they are not used to the medical process. So one of the things we focus on most—I focus with a patient and their caregivers—is how to advocate for them during their treatments and their  Care so that they feel and understand that they are part of the medical team; the patient themselves is the center of the experience. So we have to see what their needs are and how we can find the answers they need to best manage their treatment. Very good, Laura, and it's great that you mention this, the support that the clinic gives to all its cancer patients who are dealing with so much at the same time, and not only the patients but also their families because you are also a support for them. I have another question that is also very important for us, and that is why is it important to have patient navigators who serve specific patient populations with different cultures? Each community, each family, has its values ​​and its special needs, and we are not only treating the disease; we are treating a person, and that means their spiritual side, their emotional side. That is what they bring not only to the chronic illness but to their life, and that is what we want to support. So we understand that in this community, for example, there is a lot of family involvement, and we want to see how we are going to help the caregivers, who may be children, who are bilingual, who provide support, perhaps they have never had experience in the United States medical system. We also support different cultures, as they say.  We currently have support for the Native American population at our Mayo Clinic locations, as well as for the African American population and people of different African descent. We are always growing, identifying where the need is and how we can best support each patient because we always focus on the patient's needs. So, in this case, for that population, that community, how can we better serve them so they feel that we are here for them and because of them? Definitely, that's right, Laura. Well, first, thank you again for all the work you do. I'm so happy, and I'd like to ask you to please send a message to the community, a message of support and hope, as you usually do here, to those people suffering from cancer and their families. Of course, yes. Well, thank you very much for this opportunity to share the services of the Patient Navigators here at the Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center. Don't hesitate to contact us; you can call us or visit our website for more information. You can always count on us; we are here to support you and help you understand what to do during your cancer journey. Thank you very much, Laura Carlin. There was a Patient Navigator from the service.  Of course, it's an oncology and cancer clinic, and remember, friends, if you know someone, or perhaps a family member, or even you yourselves have been diagnosed with cancer, you should go to the best hospital in Florida, which offers services like these and much more. And if you don't speak English, don't worry, because they have people like Laura who will, of course, be there to support you. Thank you very much, and have a very good day. Thank you very much.