- Announcer: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's, ECG segment Making Waves Continuing Medical Education podcast. Join us for a lively discussion on the latest and greatest in the field of Electrocardiography. We'll discuss some of the exciting and innovative work happening at Mayo Clinic and beyond with the most brilliant minds in the space, and provide valuable insights that can be directly applied to your practice. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Welcome to Mayo Clinic's, ECG segment making waves. In this episode, we take a closer look at the intersection of radiation therapy and arrhythmia care. As cancer treatments continue to advance, so does our understanding of how therapies like radiation therapy can affect the heart, particularly its rhythm in the function of implanted cardiac devices. Joining us is a cardiac electrophysiologist with expertise in navigating these complex multidisciplinary challenges. Our discussion will explore the effects of radiation on the heart, the arrhythmias that may arise, and how radiation can complicate the management of pacemakers and defibrillators. Let me introduce today's guest, Dr. Nicholas Tan. He's no stranger to this, this podcast. He's a cardiac electrophysiologist at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. Dr. Tan's journey began with a biomedical engineering degree from John Hopkins University. He then earned his medical degree and master's in biomedical investigation from the Cleveland Clinic, Lerner College of Medicine. His training continued with residencies in internal medicine, his fellowship in cardiology and cardiac electrophysiology here at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. More recently, Dr. Tan completed a master's degree in medical device innovation from the University of Minnesota. He's now pushing the boundaries in heart rhythm treatment, cancer care in these patients, and we're so glad to have 'em back with us again. Dr. Tan, thanks so much for joining us. - Dr. Nicholas Tan: Thank you for having me Again. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: You know, this is almost a continuation and I'd really encourage those that have not heard your previous episodes to go and listen to them. But now looking at radiation therapy and this cancer population and how it affects the heart, how do you see it from more of a, an electrophysiologist standpoint when you come across these patients? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: So, radiation therapy is one of the cornerstones for, for cancer treatment, and it's particularly important for cancers that are typically implicated in the mediastinum in the chest. So when you think about breast cancer, lung cancer, the, the primary aim for radiation treatment is to target the tumor within, within these realms. And, and what radiation does is it causes ionizing damage, DNE strand breakage and the, the induction of reactive oxygen species, and that leads to cancer cell death. Now, obviously, there are other things that live in the chest and, and the heart is one of them, and so the heart can suffer collateral damage as a result. And and this has been known probably since the 1950s or so when they started studying survivors from the atomic bombings in in Japan, and they realized that many of them started suffering cardiac comorbidities as a result. So radiation therapy can cause the heart valves to become stiffer and, and stenosis or narrowed. They can cause coronary artery disease to accelerate, and they can also cause arrhythmias to occur either as a direct result of the radiation damage or secondary to some of these other, other hemodynamic effects from, from structural damage to the heart itself. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: You know, you mentioned rhythm issues and being a rhythm expert yourself. What are the, the types of arrhythmias that you come across, specifically radiation therapy? Do they differ from, you know, other cancer treatments that we use, or are they kind of the, the run of the mill rhythms that we're so used to? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: So, atrial fibrillation, again, is the most commonly implicated. And, and this is particularly well known in patients who have breast cancer and esophageal cancer. Now, for the latter, that's, again, it's quite intuitive. When, when you treat esophageal cancer, the esophagus sits directly behind the heart. And so, and, and the part of the heart that's against the esophagus is the left atrium. So if the left atrium's exposed to radiation therapy, when you're trying to treat the esophagal cancer, that's how atrial arrhythmias can develop. And so these patients are particularly vulnerable to developing atrial fibrillation as a result. Now, radiation damage elsewhere in the cardiac chambers can cause corresponding effects. So if you, if you irradiate the ventricles, you can have ventricle tachycardia. If you irradiate the conduction system, you're gonna get heart block. So again, all, all of these effects are intuitive in the sense that if you expose the heart and, and the corresponding structures to radiation damage, then you can have arrhythmias that arise from there as a result, - Dr. Anthony Kashou: We say run of the mill, but atrial fibrillation, very common. Something that recurs and you know, as you mentioned, the esophagus sitting right behind the left atrium with the pulmonary veins, and, you know, many that aren't, may not have some of the, the mechanisms, and it's still not fully elucidated how atrial fibrillation comes about, but you know, some of them are, the pulmonary veins have been implicated and, you know, the issues there. You know, one thing for another discussion would be if our radiation therapy in the, the lab, you know, makes a difference in a or if it from the outside has any scars that affects, but, you know, I know it can complicate a lot of the management in devices and, you know, pacemakers, ICDs, defibrillators. What do you keep in mind when you're coming across these patients and what should we keep in mind? You know, when seeing them? - Dr. Nicholas Tan: So if, if we think about it, pacemakers and defibrillators are fairly complex machines in their own right. They do wonderful things. They provide backup pacing, they help to prevent lethal arrhythmias. So there's a lot of complicated circuitry that is built into one of these devices. Now, these are actually very vulnerable to the ionizing damage from radiation therapy. And, and so this becomes important to consider when you have someone who's being treated or who's being planned for radiation therapy and they have a preexisting device in place. Will that device be exposed to, to the radiation that you're planning to deliver to the chest? Is it in close proximity to it? And do we need to think about moving the device in order to avoid that ionizing damage that that can result? The other implication that can occur is that if you have someone who has been treated with radiation, say as a child over time, again due to the acceleration in atherosclerosis and in in vessel stenosis, that can actually complicate pacemaker or defibrillator implants. And I've had a few cases where the veins become so ed or so obstructed that it becomes near impossible to implant pacemaker using a transvenous route. So that's where you have to think of alternative strategies to help support these patients, again, through their cancer survivorship journey. - Dr. Anthony Kashou: Hmm. And, and so it's really, with these devices in mind, we have to be aware of, you know, what kind of, how much radiation is being exposed in the location. It, it's a really complicated area and I, I really thank you for being here. In today's episode, we explore this impact of radiation therapy and certainly something that we don't talk a a lot about, and we're glad that we have Dr. Tan here to help us understand what the electrophysiologic effects of radiation, the types of arrhythmias we saw, atrial fibrillation that come in one the esophagus sitting there right behind or near the left atrium. And the unique challenges that, you know, clinicians face. What to keep in mind when cardiac devices come into play with radiation therapy. Dr. Tan, again, thank you for joining us. We, we keep having you back. We enjoy having you here. You're kind of a, our leader in this space, and so we look forward to having you back again soon. - De. Nicholas Tan: Yeah, thank you very much. Appreciated. - Announcer: Thank you for joining us today. We invite you to share your thoughts and suggestions about the podcast at cveducation.mayo.edu. Be sure to subscribe to a Mayo Clinic cardiovascular CME podcast on your favorite platform, and tune in every other week to explore today's most pressing electrocardiography topics with your colleagues at Mayo Clinic. This has been a Mayo Clinic podcast.