I'm Ieng Lam Lee, an assistant professor in cardiac surgery. My lab focuses on cardiac preservation and cardiac aging. The heart failure affects over 6.5 million adults in the U.S. For many of these patients, heart transplantation is the most effective treatment for long-term survival and better quality of life. But there are major challenges. The donor hearts are very limited, and even when a heart is available, we have a limit time window to preserve it and safely transplant it into the recipients. Current methods allow four to six hours of cold storage and longer times will increase the risk of primary graft dysfunction, a situation where the transplanted heart cannot be able to supply enough blood to the whole body. Primary graft dysfunction accounts for about 40% of the early post-transplant deaths. Recent technology advances such as cold perfusion and normothermic perfusion has extended these preservation times. However, even with these advances, primary graft dysfunction remains a significant problem. Our research aims to reduce primary graft dysfunction by integrating cold perfusion preservation and drug targeting specific to inhibit BRD4. BRD4 is a key epigenetic regulator. It consists of two isoforms, BRD4 short form and BRD4 long form. Each of them has distinct functions under stress. Our studies have revealed that during cold preservation, donor heart has preferential expression of BRD4 short, which drive the harmful pathways like inflammation and cell deaths. Silencing BRD4 short dramatically improved heart function in our experiments. We also find that BRD4 forms a phase -separate condensate recruiting different cofactors that reshape chromatin architect and changing gene expressions. This epigenetic remodeling was the preservation quality. Based on these findings, we hypothesis that selectively targeting BRD4 short can protect donor hearts and extend preservation times making the donor heart can be more usable and accessible to more patients. We will address these issues by three different steps. The first step is we will define the factors driving BRD4 short-up regulation during cold storage and variables like osmolality, perfusion conditions that influence this switch. And the second step, we will try to understand how BRD4 isoform remodeling the chromatin architect during preservation, linking a chromatin changes into injury -related programs. The last step we will do is to evaluate the clinical translational efficacies, testing BRD4 inhibitors like JQ1 in pig and human hearts using cold perfused systems. By combining these two systems, we would aim to open a new path to improving transplant outcomes. These strategies could reshape our understandings of organ preservations, expanding the donor pool, enhancing the survival after transplantation, and potentially extending the preservation time of other organs as well.