Research studies and diverse participation help make a difference in your community. What are research studies for and why are they done? Research studies are done to answer an important question related to a person's health and well-being. A research study may involve filling out a questionnaire, participating in a group discussion and expressing your thoughts, having a blood test or saliva sample taken, and more involved tests on medications, vaccines, and/or medical devices. Participating in research studies will help you be a voice and a representative of your community in the research study. We are all part of a community, and every community is different in its own way. It is important that a research study has the participation of everyone. This makes the results applicable to everyone. How do you find out about a study? Some of the ways you can see or hear about a study include your healthcare provider, a brochure, a member of the study team present at a community event, the internet, and friends or family. Once you hear about the study and are interested in hearing more, the study team can give you more information. How does your participation in a research study begin? If you decide to participate in a research study, you will be given a consent form.  The information on the consent form includes information about the study, its purpose, risks, and benefits, as well as contact information for the study team. You will be given a copy of the signed consent form. It is important to know about the study activities, such as how many visits the study requires, how often the study visits take place, and how much time will be needed to meet your requirements. You can ask many questions to ensure you feel comfortable and fully understand why you are participating in the study. Remember, there are no silly questions. If you have a question, feel empowered to ask it; it is your right. The study team will ensure all your questions are answered. Once all your questions have been answered, you will be asked to sign the consent form. When you sign a consent form, it means you understand the requirements, risks, and benefits of the study; the study team has answered all your questions; and you are willing to participate in the research study. Participating in a research study is entirely voluntary. Please note that signing a consent form does not mean you cannot change your mind. If you wish to leave the study at any time, you can always end your participation. Your participation in the study will be kept private and confidential. Information collected for the purposes of this study is kept separate from your name and other personal information to protect your identity. Why is it important for diverse people from our communities to participate in research studies? Underrepresentation of our diverse communities in research studies can lead to larger gaps and worse health outcomes for our communities affected by various diseases. A diverse research study will help professionals see if the research question, medication, or test applies to your community. Medications that work for someone else may not work for you. By including diverse populations like you, your friends, and family, we can ensure that all our communities experience the benefits of new advances in medicine. Why are our diverse communities sometimes unsure about participating in research studies, and how is this currently addressed? Unfortunately, research was not as well regulated historically as it is now. There were times when minority populations in our communities were exploited in studies and research, for example, the syphilis study. Various laws and regulations were then established to safeguard the rights of everyone participating in studies and research. This helps everyone participate without fear.  To combat discrimination and mistreatment, every research study in the United States is reviewed by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB. An IRB has many different people who are not part of the research study. The IRB conducts an honest review of the study, its risks, and its benefits. This helps ensure that research studies do not cause harm to the populations that will participate. Although we cannot change the past, we can positively change the future. Your participation in a research study can help you, your family members, and your community for years to come.